The aquarian naturalist. A manual for the sea-side. By Thomas Rymer
Jones...
Jones, Thomas Rymer, 1810-1880.
London, J. Van Voorst, 1858.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.b3272245
                             Public Domain, Google-digitized
                             http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                             We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                             meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                             free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                             in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                             heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                             of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                             copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                             of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                             need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                             address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                             produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                             on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                             the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                             or used commercially. The images are provided for
                             educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.




-* . 4-

PLATE I
                                 THE
AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
       A MANUAL FOR THE SEA-SIDE.
                                   BY
       THOMAS RYMER JONES, F.R.S.,
 PROFESSOR   OF NATURAL  HISTORY  AND COMPARATIVE  ANATOMY IN KING'S
                            COLLEGE^ LONDON ",
LATE VULLERIAN PROFESSOR OF PHYSIOLOGY TO THE ROYAL INSTITUTION     OF
   GREAT BRITAIN; LATE EXAMINER IN PHYSIOLOGY TO THE UNIVERSITY
           OF LONDON ; LECTURER ON NATURAL HISTORY TO THE
                   LONDON INSTITUTION, ETC. ETC. ETC.
                           LONDON:
    JOHN VAN VOORST, PATERNOSTER ROW.
                             MDCCCLVI1I.

                                •-,'
                                 -.Cl
PRINTED BY TAYLOR AlfD FRANCIS.
  RED LION COURT, FLEET STREET.

                 TO
         THE MEMBERS
                 OF
THE LONDON INSTITUTION
           THIS WOEK
    IS RESPECTFULLY DEDICATED.
                               r


                  PREFACE.
OUR lamented       friend the late Hugh Miller, in
his delightful work      " The Cruise of  the Betsy,"
surmises that some parties might have thought
the   geological    chapters  of the    volume   more
entertaining   if all the geology had been left out   ;
and yet, even with such an authority before us,
we flatter ourselves that, in a work written pro
fessedly on the subject of the Marine Aquarium,
a  sketch of the Natural History of its inmates
will be considered at least not misplaced.
   In  the following pages we have collected the
principal  facts   connected with the ascertained
habits and oeconomy of various races of animals
inhabiting our own shores, with      a view of direct
ing the attention of the amateur naturalist         to
subjects most likely to afford materials for useful
and instructive     observation, and likewise  in the

VI                        PREFACE.
hope of supplying       the student of Nature with a
manual sufficiently comprehensive to serve as the
basis and foundation of more elaborate research.
In   the treatment of our subject, we have sought,
as    far  as   possible,     to steer   a  middle  course
between the two extremes              of mere elementary
shallowness on the one hand, and scientific tech
nicality on the other      ;   omitting, it is hoped, little
that will be deemed of importance by the general
reader, and at the same time studiously avoiding
such details as might be unintelligible, except to
the initiated.     We have endeavoured, in short, to
comply as far as possible with the requisition of
our lady-friends,    — to     write as much as possible
about what they do want to know, and as little
as   possible about       what     they do not want to
know.       How far we       have succeeded in our task,
we leave to their merciful consideration.
   Athenaeum Club,
       June 1858.

                       CONTENTS.
                          CHAPTER I.
                         DJTBODUCTOBY.
A sea-side  sketch. — The calm. — The storm. — Changing aspects
  of the sea. — Use of storms. — Application of the facts ob
  servable in Nature. — Form of aquarium. — Artificial rock-
  work. — Floor of the tank. — Pestiferous deposit. — Natural
  sea- water. — Artificial sea- water — how prepared for the
  aquarium by Mr. Gosse. —Proportions recommended by
  Mr. Warington. — Salts procured by evaporation. — Specific
  gravity of sea-water. — Vegetation proper for the tank —
  Mr. Warington's coloured media. — Vegetation not always
  essential. — Scavenger department. — Overcrowding to be
  avoided. — Assortment of specimens. — Management of light
  and temperature. — Precautions to be observed. — Artificial
  aeration of the water.                                 p. 1-27
                         CHAPTER H.
                             SPONGES.
Their forms and habitat. — Currents observable in the living
   Sponge. — Propagation of Sponges. — Distribution of their
  progeny. — Ciliary action. — Gemmules of the Sponge, p. 28-37
                         CHAPTER HI.
                         FOBAMINIFEBA.
Their general appearance. — Organization     of Foraminifera. —
  Their numerical importance                            p. 38-42

V                            CONTENTS.
                          CHAPTER IV.
                            NOCTILUCA.
A ramble and    a scramble. — Luminosity     of the sea. — Explana
        ................
  tion of this phenomenon. — Structure of Noctiluca. — Multi
  tudes in which they exist — Utility of phosphorescent
  light                                                     p. 43-51
                          CHAPTER V.
                ON MEDUSA,     OB  " JELLY-FISHES."
How to catch    Medusae    and submit them to microscopic       exa
  mination. — Habits of the Medusae. — Their property of sting
  ing. — Luminosity of the Medusae. — Cause of their phospho
  rescence. — Their unfitness for manure. — Account of a mon
  ster. — Description of Turns neglecta. — Stomobrachium octo-
  costatum described by the Rev. D. Landsborough. — Sarsia
  gemmifera produces progeny from buds. — Reproduction of
  Sarsia prolifera  ...............................         p. 52-67
                         CHAPTER VL
                            HYDBA TUBA.
History of the Hydra     tuba. — Its habits and mode of catching
  prey. — Propagation by buds. — Formation of new colonies. —
  Reproduction by offshoots    .....................        p. 68-75
                         CHAPTER VH.
         HOW THE MEDUSA PBODUCES A HYDRA TUBA.
Puzzling history of Medusae. — Offspring of Medusa chrysaora.
                  ................
  — Planulw. — Origin offfydra tuba. — Most convenient method
  of observation                                            p. 76-81
                        CHAPTER
          HOW THE HYDR.S: TUB.S PBODUCE MEDUSJB.
Formation of "Strobila."— Breaking up of " Strobila " into
  Medusae. — Observations of Sir John Dalyell. — Deductions.
                                                            p. 82-89

                            CONTENTS.                             IX
                         CHAPTER IX.
                       CYDIPPK POMIFORMIS.
Graceful evolutions. — "Wonderful tentacular apparatus. — Food,
  and mode of catching it. —Insensibility to pain. — Persistence
  of vitality. — Reproduction of Beroe                      p. 90-98
                          CHAPTER X.
                       TDBULARIA HTDIVISA.
Tubularii indivisa ; its structure and habits. — Reproduction of
  lost head. — Growth of Polypary. — Propagation of Tubularia.
  — Artificial multiplication of Polyps                   p. 99-105
                         CHAPTER XI.
                      EUDENDRITTM R A MO SUM.
General description of this zoophyte. — Beautiful specimen ob
  tained by Sir J. G. Dalyell. — Reproduction of Eudendrium.
  — Structure of Planula. — Pyrulae. — Phenomena of Medusi-
  parous generation                                      p. 108-114
                         CHAPTER XH.
                     HYDRACTINIA    SQUAMATA.
Organization and general habits of Hydractinia. — Reproduction
   of Hydractinia.                                       p. 115-119
                        CHAPTER XHI.
                     SEBTULABIAN ZOOPHYTES.
Structure of the Sertularian     Polypary. — History of Sertularia
  polyzonias. — Reproduction by cuttings ; by Planulfe ; by ve
   getative growth of new branches and Polyps. . . p. 120-127
                         CHAPTER XTV.
                   CAMPANULABIAN     ZOOPHYTES.
How    distinguishable  from the Sertularian    races. — History of
   C•ampanularia dichotoma.   — Medusiparous reproduction. — Re

X                            CONTENTS.
  searches of   Sir John Dalyell. — Van Boneden's observations,
  and hypothesis      concerning the transformation  of Medusoids
  into Polyps                                           p. 128-134
                          CHAPTER XV.
                           CABYOPHYLLIA.
Zoophytes     until recently believed to be vegetables. — First
  glimpses of their real nature. — Peyssonnel. — Jussieu's specu
  lations. —Ideas of Henry Baker — Ellis. — History of Caryo-
  phyllia Smithii. — Formation of Coral islands. — Varieties of
  Coral reefs. — Elevation and subsidence of laud. — Prodigious
  extent of Coral formations. — Succession of species of Coral
  Zoophytes.                                            p. 185-149
                          CHAPTER XVI.
                               ACTINLS.
How to procure Sea- Anemones. — General habits of the Actiniae ;
  their voracity and power of fasting ; adhesive and stinging
  properties. — Senses of the Actiniae ; capability of repairing
  injuries. — Dicquemare's experiments. — Reproduction of Ac
  tinia mesembryanthemum. — Propagation of Actinia lacera and
  Actinia dianthus by spontaneous separation of fragments. —
  Precautions to be observed in rearing Actinia. — Unrefined
  habits of some species. — Actiniae used as food. . . p. 150-167
                         CHAPTER XVH.
                    LUCEBNABIA CAMPANULATA.
Description of the zoophyte.    — Habits of Lucernaria. p. 168-169
                         CHAPTER XVIH.
                      KNCRINITES   — COMATULA.
Sermons in stones.     — Encrinitic marble. — St. Cuthbert's beads.
   — Elaborate structure of fossil Encrinites. — Pentaerinus Sria-
   retts. — Pentaerinus Europ&us. — Rarity of living Encrinites. —

                            CONTENTS.                            XI
  Structure and mode of growth. —Comatula ; its organization
  and habits. —Pentacrinus the young of Comatula — a brittle
  subject for the aquarium                              p. 170-186
                         CHAPTER XIX.
  ASTEBOPHYTON       — " THE SHETLAND    ABGTTS."       p. 187-191
                          CHAPTER XX.
           OPHTUBUB — " THE PLATE-MAIL STAB-FISH."
Alarm    amongst the Cockatoos. — Illustrations of instinct ; true
   and false. — Structure of Ophiurus. — History of Pluteus para-
   doxm.   — Transformation of Pluteus. — Ophiocoma. p. 192-200
                          CHAPTER XXI.
                   ASTEBIAS — " THE CBOSS-FISH."
Habits of the Northern Sea-star. — How Star-fishes eat oysters.
   —Habit of casting off their rays. — Renovation of mutilated
   Star-fishes. — Fisherman's blunder. — A sea7side breakfast. —
   Disappointment. — Importance       of Star-fishes in creation ;
   their treatment in the aquarium; suicidal propensities. —
   "Eyes"      and  "eyelids" of the Star-fishes. — Eggs of the
    Star-fish. — Development of young Asterias           p. 201-213
                          CHAPTER XXH.
                      ECHINUS — " SEA-UBCHIN."
 Origin of name. —Shell of Echinus esculentus. — Wonderful com
    plexity of structure. — Necessity for such contrivance. — How
    the shell grows. — Ambulacral plates. — Suckers and loco
    motive spines. —Food of the Sea-urchins. — Teeth of the
    Echinus. — "Lantern of Aristotle." — Roe of the Sea-egg. —
    Le Btufe di Nerone. — A delightful bathe. — Eggs, Pluteus, and
    metamorphosis      of Echinus. — Pedicellariae. — Reparation of
    injuries                                              p. 214^233

Ill                         CONTENTS.
                       CHAPTER XXHI.
                HOLOTHTEIA — " SEA-CUCUMBEB."
A   shipwreck. — A "sea-pudding." — Description of Holothuria
  pentodes. — Locomotive suckers of Holothuria. —The "Nig
  ger" or " Cotton-spinner." — Habits of Holothuriae. — Holo-
   thuriee  used   as  food.  — Trepang-fishery. — Extraordinary
   powers of evisceration. —  Regeneration of lost parts. — Capa
   bility of spontaneous division. — Spawning and development
   of embryo                                              p.234-249
                       CHAPTER XXTV.
                            SIPUNCULUS.
Transition from radiism to annulism. — Habits of the Sipunculi.
   — Sipunculus Bernhardtts. — An entailed    estate. . . p. 250-254
                        CHAPTER XXV.
                       NEMEBTES BORLASII.
Marsden Rocks.    — Nemertes, " the Sea Long-worm ;" well en
   titled to the appellation. — Its habits and general history. —
   Precautions to be observed                             p. 255-201
                        CHAPTER XXVI.
Excursion from Whitehaven to St. Bee's Head. — The Tom
   Hurd Rock. — A pleasant walk. — A Hermit. — The Hermit's
   museum. — Difficulties in studying the Annelida. — An extem
   pore aquarium.                                         p. 262-269
                       CHAPTER XXVH.
           PONTOBDELLA     MUBICATA  — " SKATE-LEECH."
Habits of the Skate-Leech. — Egg-capsules       and mode of repro
   duction                                                 p. 270-271

                             CONTENTS.                           Xlll
                       CHAPTER XXVIH.
                     8EBPULA AND SPIROBBIS.
Tubes and habits of      SerpulaB. —Description of  Spirorbis.
                                                         p. 272-275
                        CHAPTER XXIX.
                               SABELLA.
Habits of   SabeUa alteolaria                            p. 276-279
                         CHAPTER XXX.
     AMPmTBITE VENTILABKUM — " THE FAN AMPHITRITE."
Amphitrite ventilabrum. — Amphitrite Bombyx. — Amphitrite in-
                —
  fundibulum. Amphitrite atiricoma                       p. 280-287
                        CHAPTER XXXI.
TERKBELLA LITTOBALIS,         Selt ABENARIA — " THE  SAND MASON."
Habits of Terebella — mode of constructing its tube — struc
   ture of tentacula —elegant structure of branchiae — their eggs
   —structure of embryo. — Development of young Terebella
   — progressive growth. — Terebella Jigulus, "the Potter." —
                                                 "
    Terebella conchilega, " the Shell-binder — its process of
   tube-building. — Terebella textrix, "the Weaver." — Amphi
   trite ostrearia                                       p. 288-306
                       CHAPTER XXXII.
                              NEREIDES.
Poetry fairly outdone by Nature. —General structure of the
   Nereids. — Eunice gigantea. — Habits of the Nereids. — Defen
   sive and offensive weapons. — Strangely-constructed       mouth.
   — Their means of sensation. —Remarkable mode of multipli
   cation. — Nereis fidgens, "the Iridescent Nereis." — Nereis
   (Nephthys)    margaritacea.  —Phyllodoce  laminosa,
                                                       " Laminated
                                                       b

XIV                         CONTENTS.
   Nereis." — Reproductive powers of Phyllodoce. — Nereis nocti-
   hica, "the Glow-worm Nereis." — Metamorphoses of the
   Nereids                                             p. 307-320
                      CHAPTER XXXTTI.
    CIRRATULUS   BOBEAUS — "THK NORTHERN CTRBATULUS."
Its habitat. — Condition on leaving the egg            p. 327-329
                      CHAPTER XXX fV.
                     APHRODITE    ACULEATA.
Weapons     of defence. — General description of the animal. —
   Respiration of Aphroditaceae. — Profusion of their eggs.
                                                       p. 330-334
                      CHAPTER XXXV.
             ABENICOLA PISCATORUM — " THE LUG."
Description  of Arenicola. — Ingenious mode of well-sinking. —
   Battle of the rock-pool                             p. 335-339
                      CHAPTER XXXVI.
                           CRUSTACEA.
Habits of the Crab-tribes.— The Cocoa-nut eater    . . p. 340-343
                     CHAPTER XXXVH.
            CARCINUS M .r..V\s — " THE SHOBE   CRAB."
Habits of the Shore Crab. — Exuviation     of Crabs. — How it i?
   accomplished. — Metamorphosis.   — Preparatory states.
                                                       p. 344-361
                     CHAPTER XXXVIH.
            CANCEB PAGURUS    — " THE EDIBLE CRAB."
A  happy family.  — Desperate encounter. — Reproduction    of lost
  limbs.— Habits of Cancer Pagunu. —Crab-fishery,      p. 352-358

                            CONTENTS.                                   XV
                       CHAPTER XXXIX.
            PAGUBUS BEBNHARDUS        " 1i I : !. M I ! CBAB."
Description of the animal. —Summary ejectment. — Structure of
   the Hermit Crab. —Ordinary habits of the Hermit Crab.
                                                               p. 359-364
                         CHAPTER XL.
              PAUEMON    SEBBATUS — " THE         PBAWN."
A   rhapsody on shrimps. — Mr. Warington's observations. —
   Habits of the Prawn. — Mode of exuviation. — Acquirement of
   new armour.— Metamorphoses                                  p. 365-375
                         CHAPTER XLL
          PINNOTHERES    — TALITBUS — COBOPHIUM, ETC.
Pinnotheres
                                      "
              teterum, the Pea-crab — the Pinna and her Cancer
   friend." — Habits of Pinnotheres. — Sea-spiders. — Isopod and
   Amphipod Crustaceans. —Long-horned Corophium. —Tube-
   making Crustaceans. — A word in favour of Natural History.
                                                               p. 376-388
                        CHAPTER XLH.
                    CIBBIPEDES   OB BABNACLES.
 Natural History in the sixteenth century. — Old Gerrard. —
   Supposed origin of Barnacle Geese. — Lepades and Balani. —
   Food of the Cirripedes. — Singular mode of fishing. — Propaga
   tion of Lepades. — Appearance of nascent Cirripedes. — Meta
  morphoses.   —Barnacle   neither a duck-egg nor a gosling.
                                                              p. 389-399
                       CHAPTER XLHI.
                             WHITBY.
Impends    of St. Hilda. — Whitby Abbey. — A ghost-story. —
  Zones of the ocean                                         p. 40CMOO

XVI                         CONTENTS.
                        CHAPTER XLIV.
    POLYZOA (BBYOZOA, EHRKNBEBO)        — ASCIDIAN POLYPES.
The tangle-thatched reef. — Habits of the Polyzoa. — Derivation
  of their name. — How to view Polyzoa under the microscope.
  — Mechanism of expansion and retraction. — Structure of
  tentacula.  — Internal economy. — Power of reproduction.
                                                      p. 407^17
                         CHAPTER XLV.
 FOLIACEOUS AND INCBUSTDJQ POLYZOA, FLUSTBR, ESCHARS,
                                ETC.
A delightful walk. — Flustrae, or Sea-mats. — Escharte. — Popu
   lation of Ftuxtra  membranacea, —Structure of Flustra  hispida.
   — Reproduction by gemmules. — Progressive addition of new
   cells                                              p. 418-426
                         CHAPTER XL VI.
       ALCYONIDIUM     QKLATDJOSUM   — " PTTDDINO-WEED " —
                       " SEA RAGGED-STAFF."
Philosophy of the sixteenth century. — Lord Bacon. — Ambrose
   Pare. — Unicorn's horn. — Hoolte. — Theory of pearl-diving. —
   Structure of Alcyonidium tjelatinosum. — Reproduction by
   gemmules. — Innumerable     progeny                p. 427-4-35
                        CHAPTER XLVH.
  POLYZOA continued — " AVICULABIA
                                        "— "               ETC.
                                             VTBBACULA,"
Bugula    aricularia. — Structure of " avicularium." — Probable
   office of the " Bird's-heads." — Structure and functions of
   " vibracula."— Distribution of the Polyzoa
                                                      p. 436-442
                        CHAPTER XLVUI.
                       TUNICATA  — ASCIDIANS.
A stormy day. — General description of Ascidians. — Forms of
   simple Ascidians. — Organization of simple Ascidians. — Re-

                           CONTENTS.                          XV11
  production. —Metamorphosis of " Spinula." — Cynthia aggre-
  yata. — Cynthia ampulla. —Ascidia intestinalis. .... p. 443-452
                        CHAPTER XLIX.
                      COMPOUND ASCIDIANS.
Composition of colony. — Metamorphosis. — How Compound
   Ascidiana become associated. — Pyrosoma             p. 453-460
                           CHAPTER L.
                              6ALP.S.
Alternation of generations. — Organization and habits of Salptu.
   — Phosphorescence                                   p. 461-464
                          CHAPTER LI.
       THE SCALLOP-SHELL,     THE  MtTSSEL, AND  THE LIMA.
Structure of the Scallop. —Ciliated branchiae. — Faculty of loco
   motion. — Fabrication of byssus. — Habits of JJitna tenera.
                                                       p. 405-476
                          CHAPTER LII.
             S0LEN   SILIQUA
                               " THE BAZOB-SHELL."
Excursion with Sir John Ross. —Mode of fishing for the Razor-
   shell.— Uses of the "foot."                         p. 477-484
                         CHAPTER Lm.
                         PHOLAS DACTYLUS.
Boring bivalves. — Structure of siphons. — How the rock is per
   forated. — Phosphorescence of Pholades. — Prodigious fertility
   of the Conchifera                                   p. 485-493
                          CHAPTER LIV.
                      GASTEBOPOD MOLLUSCA.
A   remonstrance. — Foot of Gasteropoda. — Aplysia, " the Sea-
   hare." — A suspicious character. — Food and habits of Aplysia.

XV111                       CONTENTS.
  — Proboscis of carnivorous       Gasteropoda. — Eggs of carni
  vorous Gasteropods. — Oothecie of Buccinum ; of /•','-«.-.• an-
  tiquus ; of Ifiissa reticulata ; of Natica ; of Purpura. — Eggs
  of    the  Cephalopods    or Cuttle-fishes. — Chitons. — Nudi-
  branchiate Gasteropods. — Doris. — Spawn of Doris tubercu-
  lata. — Metamorphoses    — " Nautilines." — Eolis. — Reproduc
  tion and habits of Eolis                             p. 494-512
                        CHAPTER LV.
      FISHKS  : — AMPHIOXUS — KCKKNEIS — SYNONATHUS. —
                           CONCLUSION.
The Lancelet, — Echeneis Remora, — its fabulous attributes. —
  Syngnathidte. — Habits of Syngnathiis Hippocampus. — Con
  clusion                                              p. 518-524


                PLATE I.        (FRONTISPIECE.)
                             SPONGE.
                                                              Page
Fig. 1. Circulation    and    gemmulcs     of   the  Sponge
          (Spongia papillaris).        a. Section    of the
          living sponge.    6. Gemmule magnified, show
          ing the cilia                                         30
Fig. 2. NONIONTNA GEBMABTCA.          a.  The    same  after
          the dissolution of its shell by means of acid     .   39
Fig. 3. NOCTILUCA                                               49
Fig. 4. MEDUSA     CHBYSAOBA   (Dalyell)                        78
Fig. 5. HYDBA TUBA                                              68
Fig. 6. TURBIS NEGLECTA                                         62
Fig. 7. SABSIA GEMMIFERA                                        65
Fig. 8. STOMOBBACHIUM       OCTOCOSTATUM.      Seen   from
          below                                                 64
Fig. 9. STOMOBBACHIUM      OCTOCOSTATUM.      Lateral view.     64
Fig. 10. CVDIPPE POSIIFOBMIS. a. Newly extruded egg.
          b, c, d,  e. Progressive    development of the
          embryo                                                07
Fig. 11. CYANEA     CHBTSAOBA.     Upper surface                57
Fig. 12. CYANEA     CHBYSAORA.     Seen from below     ....     57

                              THE
    AQUARIAN                   NATURALIST.
               MARINE ANIMALS.
                       CHAPTER I.
         Fond man ! yon glassy mirror eye —
         Go, pierce the flood, and there descry
         The miracles that float between
         The rainy leaves of watery green ;
         Old Ocean's hoary treasures scan ;
         See nations swimming round a span.    — CRABBE.
                       INTRODUCTORY.
WHO among us but remembers with pleasurable
emotion those happy days, when, with a boyish rod
and line, we caught our first minnows in the way-side
brook, and the delight with which we landed on the
grass our tiny victims — the deep regret with which
we saw them die, and all their splendid colours fade ?
 Who forgets, when, with an effort to preserve the
pretty dwellers in the stream, he next appeared, bottle
in hand filled with clear water, and essayed to take
them home alive and see them swim in their impri
sonment, gazing with rapture on their silvery hues and

2                 THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
active movements, — hoping all the time — vain hope !
— to keep them as his own ? An hour or two, and
they were floating on their backs, gasping their little
lives away in helpless agony !
   Or in maturer years, when visiting the shores of the
wide Sea        in search of health or for amusement, who
amongst us has not yearned to keep alive and make
his own the countless lovely objects that surround his
path ; and, as they woo his admiration, seem to court
his care in order to preserve their fading beauties ?
How often has he tried, in vessels filled with their
native element, to rear them           ;   but has seen them die
in spite of all his efforts, melt away before his eyes,
and,
                  "  like the baseless fabric of a vision,
          Leave not a wreck behind !"
Should he ask himself why he thus fails, the simple
answer    is,
         he did not change the water, and they died.
           lovely morning; let us stroll awhile upon
    It.   a
     is
the shingly beach and watch the ebbing tide. How
stealthily      the sea retires   !—each
                                     gently curtseying
wave, as its last ripplings sink upon the sand, leaving
a line of foam to show how far        had presumed to
                                            it
come.  The rocks are now laid bare, over whose weed-
crowned heads the gentle spray      tossed in feathery
                                            is
wreaths, which, sparkling in the sunbeams, shine
with all the rainbow's hues, until the sinking waters
leave the limpet-covered crags in silent loneliness.
We climb their slippery sides, and sit us down beside
some    rock-girt pool, whose tranquil surface, stirless as
a   glass, permits us to survey the depths below, clear
and translucent.       Sea-weeds      of roseate hues and forms

                          USE OF STORMS.
more delicate than those of earth, in rich profusion
clothe the sides and bottom ; others of varied dyes,
purple and green, hang loosely floating in the quiet
depths ; pensile Confervae wave from every stone— a
•wilderness    of vegetation.     Interspersed with these, the
jointed Corallines spread forth their stony branches,
and Sea-flowers of every colour, opening to the sun,
 unfold their living petals to entrap their food. The
 glassy shrimps and prawns are faintly seen, lost in
 their own transparency ; and little fishes darting here
 and there, or poised with quivering fins, give life and
 animation to the scene.
    The sun becomes obscured, and the breeze freshens
 from the sea ; dark clouds are gathering on the hori
 zon, and the tide begins to turn ; the heaving waves
 now tumble towards the shore, and as they break, in
 angry foam, portend a storm. The sky looks threat
 ening, and the thunder growls far in the distance.
 The sea awakens as from slumber, and the blackening
 heavens lour over its dark bosom; while the rising
 blast, impelling all the waves, drives them upon the
 rocks in sheets of feathery foam, lashing them on to
 madness,     till  at length ocean and sky seem mingled.
 The raging winds now
                   "     take the ruffian billows by the tops,
         Curling   their monstrous heads, and hanging them
         With deafening clamours in the slippery clouds ;"
 from whence they fall into the yeasty depths, where
  all is violence and roar and rage.
     Such are the changing aspects of the Sea, and such
  the efficient means whereby Nature ensures the reno
  vation of that element, the mighty deep, the grand
                                                     B2

4                     THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
antagonist of all the earth — refreshing it throughout
its broad domains, keeping its waters wholesome —
filled with air, and thus adapted to afford the means
of respiration to the living things that flourish in its
vast recesses. It is evident, that it is only by imitating
the conditions observable in Creation that we can
ever hope to succeed in our attempts at keeping alive
and in health for any lengthened period animals that
we desire to preserve in our Vivaria, and it is not
difficult for the observant mind to perceive how those
conditions are to be fulfilled. Water itself, while in a
stagnant state, affords no air such as can be respired
by any animal.     To fill it then with atmospheric air,
or oxygen, the purer element, must be the first essen
tial ; secondly, to keep it stored with food adapted to
the nourishment of those creatures that we place in                   it,
is as imperatively requisite. The storms that tempest
ocean,
        " making the sea to boil like pot," effect thea
former condition by commingling the air of the
atmosphere with the waters of the sea.      The vegeta
tion which clothes the rocks and carpets the shallows,
or floats through every region, when exposed to sun
shine, as we all well know, pours forth oxygen gas in
abundance sufficient to replace that which         con           is
sumed by respiration, and moreover yields such ample
stores of food as will supply all the vast hunger of the
mighty deep. With these two grand facts before us,
it  manifest upon what principles an Aquarium ought
    is
to be established how those principles may be put in
                              ;
practice must be the next object of our inquiry.
     It   is   easy to enunciate       a   broad fact ;    but the appli
cation of       it   is   a   very different thing.       Mankind knew

                      FORM OF AQUARIUM.                  O
 long ago the expansive force of steam ; but it required
 the united genius of many mighty minds to realize
 the steam-engine.       The facts above narrated have
 been long enough sufficiently well known ; but we are
 indebted to the patient inquiries of Mr. Warington
 and Mr. Gosse for those practical instructions, which
 introduced into our drawing-rooms the most elegant
 productions of the ocean, and enabled the student of
 Creation, at his own fireside, to carry out observa
 tions of deep importance, both to the Natural His
 torian and the Physiologist, which heretofore were
 scarcely possible even on the seashore. It is to these
 gentlemen, therefore, we must principally have re
 course for information as to the manner in which our
 Aquaria should be constructed and prepared.
    The form of aquarium which, after some years'
experience and observation on the various animated
tenants of these miniature seas, Mr. Warington has
now adopted, consists of a four-sided vessel, having the
back gradually sloping upwards from the bottom, at
an angle of 45 to 50 degrees, and the consequently
extended top sloping slightly downwards, and resting
on the upper part of the back. The bottom therefore
becomes necessarily narrow.       The front, for the pur
poses of observation, and the top, for the admission
of light, are of glass; the back, ends and bottom
being constructed of slate, the whole fixed in a stout
framework.
    The advantages of this arrangement are, —
    First, that it allows of a most extended view of the
whole interior of the aquarium.
    Secondly, that it enables the occupants to resort to

6              THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
any depth they may desire, or even to ascend the
sloping back and emerge from the water.
   Thirdly, it admits of a much larger surface being
exposed to the action of light ; and,
   Fourthly, the sloping top allows the water which
condenses on the glass to trickle off and return to
the aquarium, without first resting on the zinc or iron
framework.      It need hardly   be suggested,   that the
sloping back is to be covered with light rock-work
extending to a short distance above the water-line.
   Let it not, however,     be supposed,    that although
the form of tank above described by Mr. Warington
may be the best in its general construction, it is by
any means indispensable ; tanks of all shapes and
sizes are now to be readily procured at moderate
prices adapted to all tastes.        Yet even these are
luxuries : a common show-glass, such as we see in
confectioners' shops, a large glass gold-fish globe, or,
in default of these, a common earthenware pan will
be found    to answer every end — as far, at least, as
relates to the preservation of specimens for the pur
poses of scientific research.
   The common propagating glasses used by gardeners,
and which may be procured of almost any size, form
admirable substitutes for the more expensive plate-
glass tank ; and the broad shallow glass pans now
generally in use for holding milk, will be found in
many cases even more convenient than deeper vessels.
They say that it is only the bad workman who finds
fault with his tools, and upon the same principle the
real naturalist will never be at a loss for an appropriate
vessel as  long as a dish or a basin can be obtained.

                   ARTIFICIAL ROCK-WORK.                  i
Half-a-dozen finger-glasses,     such as are generally
placed upon the table after dinner, will be found in
valuable, and for containing small specimens, adapted
to microscopical examination, even preferable to vessels
of larger size. Let one of these be filled three-parts
full of fresh and pure sea-water — strew the bottom
with a few small stones and bits of rock, on which are
growing Confervas and young Sea-weeds in a state of
vigorous growth, and you at once have an aquarium
fitted for the reception of an infinite variety of in
teresting objects. Hydrae and Corynae, Sertularian
and Tubularian Zoophytes, Crisiae, Bowerbankiae, and
the whole host of Polyzoa, the delicate Tubularia, and
the many-polyped Anthozoa, here grow luxuriantly,
and may be kept for months under examination.
    In the arrangement of a large tank, one of the
most important features to be attended to is the in
troduction, upon a miniature scale, of rock-work,
whereby the surface for the growth of plants may be
most materially increased, and a picturesque appear
ance given to the aquarium, which could not possibly
be attained without such an expedient. A wide field
is here opened for the display of taste and ingenuity ;
it  is a piece of landscape gardening upon a small scale,
on which every amateur may exercise his talents with
advantage, always keeping in view the various uses to
which the miniature rockery ought to be subservient.
The first of these, as we have already said, is to increase
 the superficial extent of the interior of the aquarium,
 and present a larger surface for the growth of vegeta
tion, a circumstance of primary importance in the
 arrangement;      for, as we shall shortly perceive,   the

 8              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 entire superficies of these rocks speedily becomes in
 vested with a dense vegetable growth, itself sufficient
 to aerate and keep iu a healthy condition the entire
 contents of the aquarium, even without the introduc
 tion of plants of more conspicuous character ; every
 stone in time becomes covered with a thick and moss-
 like carpet, from whence, in the sunshine, bubbles of
 oxygen may be seen to stream in copious abundance,
 and almost rendering       other  care  unnecessary. A
 second important use derivable from the rock-scenery
 we are here recommending, is the provision of shelter
 and secure retreat for such animals as may require an
 asylum.    We ought always to bear in mind, that the
 more nearly we can imitate the usual habitat of our
protegees, the more successful will be our efforts to pre
 serve them in a healthy condition.      A little reflection
 will at once teach us, that to seek retirement and se
 clusion, except at certain times of the day, is with many
 animals an imperative instinct, a law of their economy
that cannot be broken without         producing injurious
 effects.  It is therefore desirable so to dispose our
materials as to leave caves and crannies and hiding-
places, whereunto animals requiring such protection
may betake themselves.
    Shade likewise is a desideratum of no trifling im
portance : constant or even prolonged exposure to the
full glare of daylight must necessarily prove pre
judicial to animals that frequent the umbrageous
pools, or delight in the seclusion of dimly-illuminated
corners of their native localities. In the construction
of our rock-work, therefore, this point should by no
means be lost sight of.

                    FLOOR OF THE TANK.                    9
    It  is always best to build up the rock-work with
 loose stones, placed upon the bottom of the tank —
 arranging them in such a manner, that not only
 shelter, shade, &c., may be afforded to the contained
 animals, but that they may be enabled to station them
 selves at any depth in the water which their habits or
 choice may lead them to select.
     The best materials for this purpose will be found to
 be pieces of granite or of limestone of various shapes
 and sizes ; but all of such weight and regularity of
form, that, when placed one upon the other, in ac
cordance with the taste or intention of the designer,
they may rest firmly and securely in their respective
places.    No cement should     be employed    in the con
struction of these mimic edifices    ;  their weight alone
and steady supraposition upon          each other should
ensure the firmness and stability of the entire fabric.
    Rude bridges of Cyclopian masonry — edifices some
what after the pattern of Stonehenge and other Celtic
piles —caverns of wave-worn rock and craggy terraces
— should    rise above each other, till the top, reaching
above the level of the water, forms a little island of
dry land.
    "We will, however, now confine our attention to the
permanent Aquarium, and the mode of its establish
ment.      We suppose the rock-work to have been ar
ranged in accordance with the shape and dimensions
of the tank, and scars and reefs, and cliffs and caves,
to be adequately represented without needlessly oc
cupying the valuable space in the interior.
   The next step, of course, is to lay down the bottom
of our miniature    sea, so as to adapt it to the comfort
                                              65

10            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
and well-being of its intended inhabitants.         Here
(and the arrangement is of considerable importance)
we must study    Nature. The floor should be composed
of smooth washed shingle, the stones resembling in
size a pea, a bean, up to a hazel-nut, as a substratum   ;
but with, here and there, a larger piece, whose bulk,
like Skiddaw or Helvellyn, so to compare great things
with small, may protrude through the alluvial plain to
be deposited above.     Upon the top of this, a stratum
of fine sand (sea-sand) should be spread to the depth
of at least three-quarters of an inch or more.
   The uses of this sea-sand are, in some measure, as
we shall find hereafter, important in relation to many
species of marine animals that hide themselves uuder
its shelter, or derive from it the materials wherewith
to build their habitations; but at present we must
regard it in its Hygeian character, in so far as it is
important to the maintenance of the health of the
entire community.
   Whoever     upon the sea-shore takes the trouble
to dig to the depth of a few inches, more or less,
 according to the peculiar circumstances of the locality,
 will find beneath the clean and wholesome sand a
layer of black, or bluish, paint-like, stinking slime,
the dregs and filth deposited, as it were, by filtration.
 Any   one who has stood upon the beach where the
 receding tide, by washing away the surface-sand,
 and laying bare this foul accumulation, has thus
stirred   up the abominable odours of the Stygian
 pool, can vouch for the deleterious effluvia that ema
 nate from this pestiferous deposit, which, were it not
 thus safely buried, would poison the entire coast, and

                    NATURAL SEA- WATER.                   11
render the shores uninhabitable.        The naturalist ought
therefore    to be very cautious how he allows the
bottom of an old-established tank to be disturbed;
still more   so in permitting the casual introduction of
any shell or stone into his aquarium that is polluted
with this noisome pestilence. We have ourselves lost
many valuable colonies owing to the imprudent zeal
of friends, who, in their anxiety to add some new
found specimen to our stock, have neglected thoroughly
to cleanse the shell, or pebble upon which it was at
tached, from the adherent filth.
   To procure      a supply of sea-water adapted to the
purposes of the Aquarium is the next consideration ;
and simple as this part of the business may appear, it
is by no means always an easy matter even to parties
resident npon the sea-shore.           On certain favoured
beaches,   it is true, nothing more is requisite than to
take a   watering-can to the water's edge, and fill it
from the brimming ocean ; but this is unfortunately
rather an exceptional privilege.           On most of our
coasts, too,  it generally happens, that during both the
advancing and receding tide, the muddy shore, stirred
up by the incessant turmoil of the waves, pollutes the
sea  to such an extent that it is quite inadmissible into
the tank. So that the naturalist, like the poor thirst-
parched mariner, with
                  "Water, water, all around,
                     And not a drop to drink ! "
eyes   the expanse of dirty waves in a state of hope
less tantalization.    In such a case, the only chance
is to   procure    a boat,  and obtain,      at a sufficient

12             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
distance from the shore, a cargo from the clear green
billow.
    The element wherein the captives are kept should
be always sweet    and quite clear; the vessels clean,
and free from tainted matter.       Some specimens fall
immediate victims to putrescence ; others can resist
it wonderfully, either endeavouring to escape by ascent
or by descent, according to their peculiar nature, or
closing themselves up, as if to avoid its deadly in
fluence.    The water for most of the Crustacea should
be free from mud, and contain eminences whereon
they may rest, at will, above the surface. But muddy
solutions are essential to most of the bivalve Testacea,
and to all the Ascidian tribes  ; a certain proportion of
mud is likewise grateful to several Amphitrites, and
to many Annelidans, as sand is to the various species
of Nereis.
    An excellent test whereby to judge of the purity
and wholesome condition of the water may be esta
 blished by the simple introduction of a few living
specimens    of the Acorn-shell or Barnacle (Lepas),
which are to be found abundantly, adherent to stones
or shells, on any part of the coast.        Whilst these
continue active and healthy, as testified by the ener
getic display and contraction of their delicate and
highly sensitive arms, we may rest quite satisfied that
 all is going on well ; but, on the other hand, their
 inactivity ought to call attention to the condition of
 the tank.
    The inconvenience, delay and expense attendant
 upon the procuring of sea-water from the coast, or
from the ocean, Mr. Gosse soon felt to be a great

                   ARTIFICIAL SEA-WATER.                13
difficulty  in the way of a general adoption of the
Marine aquarium. Even in London it is an awkward
and precarious matter; how much more in inland
towns and country places, where it must always prove,
not only a hindrance, but, to the many, an insuper
able objection ! The thought, therefore, naturally
presented itself to that gentleman, that, as the con
stituents of sea-water were known, it might be prac
ticable to manufacture it ; since all that seemed neces
sary was to bring together the salts in the right pro
portion, and add pure water till the solution was of
the proper specific gravity.
    Taking Schweitzer's analysis of the sea-water ob
tained off Brighton as his guide, and thinking that a
few unimportant ingredients found in very incon
siderable quantity might be safely omitted, the essen
tial component salts were reduced to four, which Mr.
Gosse employed in the following quantities : —
       Common table-salt
       Epsom salts
                                ...       3£ ounces.
                                            £ ounce.
       Chloride of magnesium      .   . 200   grains Troy.
       Chloride of potassium       .  .  40      „     „
 To these salts, thrown into a jar, a little less than
 four quarts of water (New River) were added, so that
 the solution was of such density that a specific-gravity
 bubble 1026 would just sink in it.
     The cost of these materials is : — Epsom salts, Irf. ;
 chloride of magnesium, 3d. ; chloride of potassium,
  l^d. ; salt, nil. Total, 5^rf. per gallon. The trouble
  is nothing, and no professional skill is required.
     " My manufacture,"      says Mr. Gosse, "   was made

14             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                                              I
on the 21st of April. The following day poured off
about half of the quantity made (filtering it through
a sponge  in a glass-funnel) into a confectioner's show-
glass. I then put in a bottom of small shore pebbles,
well- washed in fresh water, and one or two fragments
of stone with fronds of green sea- weed (Ulva lalissima)
growing thereon.      I would not at once venture upon
                                I
the admission of animals, as wished the water to be
first somewhat impregnated with the scattered spores
                    I
of the Ulva, and thought that if any subtle elements
were thrown off from growing vegetables, the water
should have the advantage of it before the introduc
tion of animal life.    This, too, is the order of Nature
— plants  first, then animals.
    "A  coating of green spores was soon deposited on
the sides of the glass, and bubbles of oxygen were
copiously thrown off every day, under the excitement
of the sun's light. After a week, specimens were in
troduced into the vivarium       thus prepared for their
reception.    These grew and flourished from day to
day, manifesting the highest health and vigour : the
plants, including one or two red sea- weeds that were
put in with the animals, looked well, and the water
continued brilliantly crystalline.    In short, the experi
ment succeeded perfectly, and we may now employ
with confidence the artificial element when real sea-
water cannot readily be procured."
    The proportions of saline materials recommended
by Mr. Warington for the formation of artificial sea-
water are somewhat different from those employed
by Mr. Gosse, and correspond more accurately with
Dr. Schweitzer's analysis.

              SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF SEA-WATER.                  15
                                 ....
     They are as follow    : —
       Chloride of sodium
       Chloride of magnesium
       Chloride of potassium
                                    ...
                                    ...
                                                43£ ounces.
                                                 6      „
                                                 1£     „
       Bromide of magnesium
       Sulphate of magnesia         ...
                                    .    .  .   21 grains.
                                                 7|  ounces.
        Sulphate of lime
       Carbonate of lime
       Water
                                 ....            2,
                                                21
                                                        „
                                                     grains.
                                   9 gallons and 5 pints.
     There cannot be a question, however, that by far
the simplest plan would be to evaporate sea-water
itself in large quantities, preserving the resulting salt
in closely stopped vessels, to prevent the absorption of
moisture, the proportion of this dry saline matter being
56£ ounces to the ten gallons of water less three
pints*.
     Another important point is the specific gravity of
the sea-waterf.         This should be very carefully regu
lated ; for it must be borne in mind,, that many of the
marine creatures are supplied with materials for their
support by a permeation of water through their tissues,
or over their different organs. The specific gravity
should not rise above 1026 at 60° Fahr., and a small
hydrometer should be at short periods introduced to
    * Such a                is in reality manufactured by Messrs.
              preparation
Brew and Schweitzer of 71 East Street, Brighton, under the
 title of " Marine Salts for the instantaneous production of Sea-
water," and may be purchased in London from Mr. William
 Bolton, Operative and Manufacturing Chemist, 146 Holborn Bars.
    The proportion ordered to be used is six ounces to the gallon
 of water ; to be stirred well until dissolved.
    t Warington, Ann. Nat Hist. 1853.

16             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
ascertain that this point is not exceeded, especially
during the hot months of summer. The reduction of
this gravity can be readily effected by the addition of
rain- or distilled water. Many of the creatures will
of themselves    afford indications  of this increase of
density.    Some of the Actiniae will remain closed, and
become    coated  with a white slimy covering, within
which they remain for a length of time ; when, if the
specific gravity be lowered, this is very soon ruptured
by their expansion, and thrown off by the movements
of the tentacula.
   The importance of the foregoing remarks will be at
once appreciated, when we remember, that while the
water of the marine aquarium is undergoing a continual
diminution by evaporation, the salt does not evaporate ;
so that the solution    of salt, becoming progressively
stronger   and stronger, would be at last converted
into brine so strong, that no animals could exist in
such a pickle.    A " specific-gravity bubble," exactly
adjusted for the purpose, and which may now be
purchased from any dealer in Aquaria, left to float in
the tank, will indicate, by rising to the top, when dilu
tion is requisite, and its faithful monitions should be
at once attended to.
   Our tank being thus prepared and filled with pure
sea-water, or its equivalent, the artificial solution of
marine salts, we next proceed to place in it appropriate
vegetation, as a necessary preliminary to the introduc
tion of animal life. The plants employed for this
purpose must of course be all natives of the sea, and
fortunately   such is the abundance and variety to be
met with on every coast, that the difficulty lies in

             VEGETATION PROPER FOR THE TANK.                   17
 the selection     of the most beautiful           and   suitable
 specimens.
    There is wide room here for consulting the pic
 turesque : some humbler forms of sea-weed clothe the
 rocks with moss-like softness, or hang like tapestry
 upon the shelving walls ;
    " Others, that like  the broad banana growing,
      Raise their long wrinkled leaves of purple hue
             Like streamers wide outflowing    ;
      Trees of the deep, and shrubs, and fruits, and flowers
             As fair  as ours,
     Wherewith the Sea-nymphs love their hair to braid."
   These are, however, only to be procured in a healthy
 and vigorous condition whilst growing in their native
haunts    ; it is useless to   pick them up upon the beach       ;
they must be gathered where they grow, and that can
only be done, generally speaking, at low-water mark,
— the lower the tide the better.          Here, in some wave-
deserted pool, whose sides are overgrown with Algae
of a hundred different kinds and varied hues, the
naturalist must take his choice among the rich pro
fusion, although he will doubtless find the following
hints thrown out by Mr. Gosse, of material assistance
whilst making this selection : —
   " The first thing to be done is to obtain the Algae
in a growing state.          As they have no proper roots,
but are in general very closely attached to the solid
rock, from which they cannot be torn without injury
by laceration,      I   have always used       a  hammer     and
chisel to cut away a small portion of the rock itself,
having ready a jar of sea-water, into which           I dropped
the fragment       with its living burden, exposing it as

18                THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
little as possible to the air.    The red sea- weeds   I have
found most successful.        Fuci and Laminariae,     besides
being unwieldy and unattractive, discharge so copious
a quantity of mucus as to thicken and vitiate the water.
The Ulvae and Enteromorphae, 011 the other hand, are
apt to lose their colour, take the appearance of wet
silver-paper or colourless membrane, aud presently
decay and slough from their attachments. The species
that     I  have found most capable     of being preserved in
a living state are, Chondrus crispus, the Deksseria,
 and Iridea edulis. The last-named is the very best of
 all, and next to it is Delesseria sanyuinea, for maintain
 ing the purity of the water, while the colours and forms
 of   these render them very beautiful objects       in a vase
 of clear water, particularly when the light, as from a
 window, is transmitted through their transparent
 fronds."
      In   a communication     made   by Mr. Warington to
 the British Association*, he stated that the result of
  his experiments to ascertain the kind of sea-weed best
  fitted for maintaining the balance with animal life in
  a vivarium, was, under ordinary circumstances,         in fa
  vour of the CHLOROSPERMS,        or green sea-weeds; and
  that the RHODOSPERMS, or red sea-weeds, submitted
  to the like conditions, did not answer the purpose de
  sired, and at the same time retain their colour and
  beauty, inasmuch as they very soon become coated
  with a growth of short and brown Confervae (Conferva
  tortuosal), which entirely mantled the whole surface
  of the fronds, and destroyed their characteristic         ap
  pearance.      During these investigations, however, it
                      •
                        Ann. Nat. Hist. 1854.

                MR. WARINGTON'S COLOURED MEDIA.                     19
occurred to him that it might be possible to obviate
such a drawback, and at length he succeeded, after a
number of experiments, in overcoming this inconve
nience, and in retaining them, in all their natural love
liness, efficient for the purposes required ; that as         is,
consumers of carbonic acid and generators of oxygen.
   The considerations on which these experiments were
founded, were based upon the circumstance that nearly
the whole of these red or pink-coloured sea-weeds are
found either in deep water or under the shade of other
Algae  whilst, from the fact that they are often also
        ;
known to occur in shallow rock-pools,  seemed fair to
                                            it
assume that the pressure of the superincumbent column
of water could not       be an important element       in the pro
duction of these coloured growths, and therefore that               it
must depend upon modification of the light. Hence,
                        a
Mr. Warington         conceived   the idea that the effects of
the depth of water might be imitated by tinting the
light through the interposition of coloured media; and
thus all the results observed in the vegetation, and
much even of the healthy animal life of deep sea- water,
could be, under this arrangement, assimilated so that     ;
by very simple means and very little trouble, we might
be enabled to grow and preserve for any length of time
these elegant and beautiful plants in all their varied
hues, as well as many of the wondrous forms of animal
life associated with them.
  In    order to obtain this desideratum,             a    medium
having      a   blue or green tint, and of such       a   nature as
merely to colour, soften, or diffuse the light without
materially diminishing its quantity, has been had re
course to.        This may be accomplished       by   the employ

 20             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 ment of thin silk gauze of a blue colour, or by layers
 of tissue-paper tinged blue and green, sometimes oiled
 to make them more transparent ; or coloured varnishes,
 blue, and blue and yellow, mixed to the required tint,
 will answer the same purpose. These materials should
 be applied to the surface of the glass, or interposed
 between the source of light and the water in such a
 way, that the whole of the light which directly illu
 minates the aquarium may be tinted of the proper
 colour.
    To such an extent has this plan succeeded, that
 portions of red sea- weed, which had become thickly
 mantled with the brown and green confervoid growths
 above   alluded to, and which had not exhibited the
least signs of vitality, on being placed in a small glass
jar, arranged with tinted and oiled tissue-paper, soon
lost the whole of this parasitic growth from its gra
dually decaying, and being then consumed by the
mollusks    ; the fronds, assuming their deep crimson
hue, becoming perfectly clear, and throwing out new
shoots and leaflets.
    Sea-water may be preserved for a long period in a
perfectly efficient and healthy state under some cir
cumstances without the introduction of growing vege
tation, and this simply by exposing a very extended
surface to the action of the air, and at the same time
limiting its depth.
   The means whereby this may be accomplished, con
sist in the employment of shallow circular stoneware
pans of about eighteen inches internal diameter by
five inches deep   ; these are filled for about two inches
with water, the bottom is supplied with sand and

                SCAVENGER DEPARTMENT.                 21
 shingle, and numerous fragments of rock-work may
 be arranged at the sides, some close below the surface
 of the water, others rising in gentle slopes above, and
 others, again, grouped to form cavities of retreat, so
 as to accord with the habits of Crabs, Blennies, &c.,
 which may be placed in them. The whole can be
covered with a sheet of common window-glass raised
 about a quarter of an inch from the edges of the pan
by means of slips of wood, so as to allow a free cur
rent of air over the surface of the water, and at the
same time impede the evaporation and prevent the
greater part of the dust and soot from settling on it.
By this arrangement a very extended surface of water
is submitted to the absorption of air, and the fish and
crabs, by their continual movements, cause sufficient
motion in the fluid to expose a fresh surface frequently
to its action, and thus keep up its aeration.     But it
must be borne in mind, that the oxygenization of
water thus effected is a very delicate equilibrium,
and the maintenance of a healthy aeration is liable
to be disturbed by very slight intervening causes;
indeed, practically, this method is only applicable to
such marine denizens as require but little aeration of
the medium they respire, or to such as the Crab tribe,
the Blennies, Cotties, Gobies, and creatures which de
light in very shallow water, or which have the power
of climbing out of their liquid element.
   Having stocked our tank with appropriate vegeta
tion in sufficient abundance, it only remains to re
present the scavenger department by introducing a
few  hungry mouths to browse upon the rank luxuri
ance of vegetable growth, and to keep in check the

22            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
production of those green slimy protophytes, with
which, without such interference, the glass sides of
the aquarium would speedily become coated over,
and the view of its contents, of course, proportionably
obscured.    In the freshwater tank we find this im
portant   duty to be efficiently performed by a few
vegetable-eating Snails, and in sea-water it is fortu
nately by no means difficult to avail ourselves of a
similar agency. The common Periwinkle, met with
abundantly on every rock, will be found most useful
for this purpose ; and if other vegetable-eating species
can be obtained of gayer colours, or more interesting
character, so much the better — only let their number
be carefully adjusted to the work required to be per
formed.
   All  things being now in readiness, it but remains
to furnish the aquarium with appropriate occupants,
and in doing this, of course everything will depend
upon the opportunities or intentions of the proprietor.
Wide is the field, ample the store from which to
choose —sometimes, indeed, too tempting.       The great
danger is in overdoing this part of the arrangement,
in being too greedy for novelties — a fatal error, which
surely brings its own punishment.       It is difficult to
lay down any precise rule for the guidance of the
young aquariist— experience will soon teach the juste
milieu, which    must be strictly kept. It is much
better to have few specimens in the tank than one
too many.     Should any specimens die, let them be
instantly removed ; and be careful not hastily to fill
up their places, unless quite sure that overcrowding is
not the cause of the mortality. A long glass tube,

               ASSORTMENT OF SPECIMENS.               23
or a pair of forceps, with which the bottom of the
tank can be easily reached, should always be at hand
wherewith to take away whatever dies, and thereby
save the rest.
   Another source of loss arises from the creatures
attacking and devouring each other, and it therefore
becomes a point of great importance, and highly
necessary to be carefully observed where their pre
servation is an object, to ascertain what varieties may
be safely associated in the same tank.    Shrimps and
Prawns attack and very soon devour all the larger
varieties of Corallines and Polyps, Sabellae, Serpulae,
Bock-borers, Cirrhipeds, and some of the Annelids,
as  well as many Bivalve and Univalve Mollusks that
are unprotected by an operculum, or have no power
of closing their valves.
   The common Crab (Cancer Manas) is a most de
structive fellow, and the tribe of Rock-fish, the
Blennies, Gobies, &c., are also awfully voracious, de
vouring   all the varieties of Cirrhipeds,   Corallines,
Polyps,   Annelids, &c. ; they will also     attack the
Shrimps and Prawns, and even seize upon the horns
of the Periwinkle, which they bite.    If the Mollusks
do not keep a very firm hold of the rock or tank-sides,
they are rapidly turned over on their backs by these
fish, and lie helplessly exposed to their attacks. It
becomes necessary, therefore, in consequence of such
ravenous propensities, to separate these various de
predators from each other ; and in one tank to place
varieties of Actiniae, Shrimps, Nudibranchs, Holo-
 thuri£e and Annelidans ; in a second, the Rock-fish,
 such as Blennies, Gobies, Cotties, &c., with Crabs and

24                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 Actiniae;    in a third, Corallines,      Annelids, Polyps,
 Rock-borers,      Sabcllae, Serpulac, Holothuriae, Actiniae,
 and so forth — classifying with care the occupants of
each tank according to their various habits.
   Temperature* is a point of great importance. The
mean temperature of the ocean is estimated to be
about 56° Fahr., and this under ordinary circum
stances does not vary more than about 12° through
out the different seasons of the year.
    Many of the inhabitants of the sea are very sensi
tive .to changes of temperature, and we find that a
few degrees       of variation will cause them rapidly to
move    their position, and seek some cooler or warmer
spot, as the case may be.           In the ocean it will be
evident that the creatures have the power readily to
effect this, under ordinary circumstances,         by seeking
deeper water, not liable to be affected by atmospheric
influences, by partially, or entirely, burying them
selves in the sand or shingle, or by shielding their
bodies under the protecting shadow of the rocks, or
growing vegetation.         In arranging the rock-work in
the interior of the aquarium, therefore, great care
should be taken to keep these points in view, and to
afford as much protection as possible to the creatures
from the cooling influences of radiation on the one
hand, and from the heat of the sun's rays upon the
other.     " From my own experience," says Mr. Wa-
rington,
           "I    find that the range of temperature should
not be below 50° Fahr., nor above 70°.          Within  these
limits all appears to progress healthily ; but beyond
these points many of the creatures are rapidly affected.
               *
                  Warinpton, Ann. Nat. Hist. 1855.

       MANAGEMENT     OF  LIGHT AND TEMPERATURE.      25
During the last long-continued      severe winter it was
found very difficult, in an ordinary sitting-room
having a south aspect, and a good fire maintained
throughout     the day, — the tanks being also screened
at night by a blind, — to prevent the powerful cooling
effects from radiation on a clear frosty night ; and on
three several occasions, marking exactly the three
severest frosts that we experienced during the winter,
the thermometer immersed in an aquarium contain
ing about thirty gallons of water fell as low as 45°
Fahr.     The Shrimp and Crab tribes, and the Crus
taceans generally, are especially affected by these
changes, and on each of the three occasions alluded
to one or two individuals perished."
    Excess of heat, and also strong sunlight, are like
wise   to be as carefully guarded against, and the expo
sure of a small tank to the direct rays of the sun on a
hot summer's day, will speedily result in the destruc
tion of every animal in it.
    Too much light has also the effect of rapidly
causing the propagation of microscopic Infusoria of
a green colour,    such as Euglena and its congeners,
which, under this influence, multiply so rapidly as to
render the whole water turbid and opaque.          These
will sometimes subside to the lower part of the tank,
as   evening approaches, and disappear in the shingle
bottom ; but immediately the morning light shines
 strongly upon the aquarium, they will rise like a thin
 green cloud, and diffuse themselves throughout the
water.     Although this Infusorial growth is not un
healthy, yet it causes the aquarium to present a very
unsightly appearance, and prevents all observation on
                                              c

26              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 the habits of its inmates.   The want of light, on the
 other hand, causes the rapid decay of the vegetation,
 and the products arising from this change are     highly
 poisonous to animal life, — the whole contents of the
 aquarium becoming of a black colour, and very soon
 of an offensive odour.
    All marine productions dislodged from considerable
 depths are liable to injury. Though casually obtained
 clean and entire, most of them are profusely invested
 with parasites, which, fatally and invisibly wounded,
speedily corrupt the circumambient fluid in their
decay.    The water also sometimes contracts a noxious
principle from causes eluding conjecture and obser
vation, and it may be fit to warn the inexperienced
naturalist against employing tall vessels with much
empty space above the water on all occasions ; for if
the air vitiated by respiration, after escaping from
the surface, be reabsorbed, it cannot be otherwise
than deleterious.    This is well illustrated by keeping
fishes  in deep vessels with a scanty proportion of
water, to prevent their leaping over the side; they
generally perish in a short time, and hence shallower
vessels nearly full are always preferable.
    It is sometimes advisable to suspend delicate or
interesting zoophytes, more especially of the Tubu-
larian or Sertularian races, by means of silken threads
attached to pieces of cork, which may be allowed to
float upon the surface of the tank.     This is a method
often to be particularly recommended, both for con
venience and security : the subject is better preserved ;
the specimens are more accessible, should they be re
quired for microscopic examination, and by immediate

           ARTIFICIAL AERATION OF THE WATER.               27
transference they can always be kept in the purest
available medium.
   Artificial    aeration of the water contained in au
aquarium      may sometimes be beneficially adopted,
provided it can be employed without danger of dis
turbing delicate productions, or injuring the more
tender inmates.       A  simple way of effecting this, and
one that we employ with excellent results, is by the
use of a small garden watering-can with a very finely
perforated
              " rose," such as is used for watering choice
flowers.    This we fill with water taken gently from
the tank, which we pour back again from a sufficient
height, like a refreshing shower sparkling with vital air.
   And now, gentle reader, let us hasten to the beach :
the tide is near its ebb, and yonder rocks, baring
their shoulders to the sunshine, seem to rest them
selves  in grim repose.
        " All the broad bosom of the   ocean keeps
          An equal motion   ; swelling as it sleeps,
          Then slowly sinking : curling to the strand,
          Faint, lazy waves o'ercreep the ridgy sand,
          Or tap the tarry boat with gentle blow,
          And back return in silence, smooth and slow."
   This is the time for work.        Come, boy ! the fishing-
basket and the muslin landing-net — a hammer and
an  iron chisel. Mind, too, you don't forget the large
glass jar with handles made of rope, wherein to put
what specimens we find.
                                                    c2

28               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                        CHAPTER II.
                " And here were coral bowers,
                  And grots of madrepores,
         And banks of sponge, as soft and fair to eye
                  As e'er was mossy bed
               Whereon the Wood-Nymphs lie
         With languid limbs in summer's sultry hours."
                            •SPONGES.
AMONG the most unobtrusive,           but by no means the
least  interesting productions       of the sea-shore, and,
moreover, obtainable abundantly            from the rocks of
every beach by any one who chooses to select these
elegant organisms to form a living carpet for the
naked rock-work of the aquarium, are the SPONGES,
a race  of beings dubiously interposed in the classifi
cation of the modern naturalist between the animal
and the vegetable departments of creation.
   It is not known under what pressure of the ocean
these delicate creatures may live*, but they are found
equally in places covered perpetually by the sea, as in
those which it leaves dry at every recess of the tide.
They adhere to, and spread over the surface of rocks,
sea-weeds, marine shells, and many other objects, to
which they are so firmly attached, that they cannot
         *
           Professor Grant, Ed. New   Phil. Journ.

                           SPONGES.                     29
be removed      without lacerating or injuring their sub
 stance.    Although they thrive best in the sheltered
 cavities of rocks, they come to maturity in situations
exposed to the unbroken fury of the surge ; but in
 the latter situations Dr. Grant observes that they
 are smaller, and firmer in their texture, like those
 inhabiting colder climates, and this whether their
 exposure be to the north or south. They cover the
naked sides of cliffs and boulders ; they line with a
variegated and downy fleece the walls of submarine
caves, or hang in living stalactites from their roofs.
 In  fact, they attach themselves indiscriminately to
bodies belonging to the mineral, vegetable, and animal
kingdoms, and the individual species seem to have no
law with regard to the particular substances to which
 they adhere.
    The branched Sponges are usually to be met with
hanging perpendicularly from the under and shel
tered surface of solid overhanging cliffs, or tabular
masses    of rock.   The flat, spreading species with pro
jecting papillae are generally found on the sides of
boulders; while flat specimens, without prominent
papillae, are more frequently seen on the under sur
faces  of stones, or else enveloping bodies which admit
of a little motion by the agitation of the sea.
    The delicate and beautiful Spongia compressa is
sometimes found hanging from the surface of Ascidiae,
or of flat sponges, as likewise from the rock itself.
The Spongia coalita is a branched species capable of
rising erect, owing to the great breadth of its base,
the firmness    of its skeleton, and the frequent anasto
moses    of its branches.

30               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
     In  their  natural state the Sponges are soft and
clastic, and some of them are tinted with lively
colours    ; but many of the species, by drying, become
•quite   friable, lose their fine shades of colour, and
grow white.       Soon after death they pass through a
bluish colour to black, in consequence of putrefac
tion ; and when this occurs, we need hardly say, the
more speedily they are removed from the aquarium
the better.
    They seem to grow best near the shore ; yet even
Aristotle speaks strongly of the injurious effects of
high temperature on these animals, and says that it
causes them to run rapidly to putrefaction, — a remark
which any of our readers who may be desirous of
keeping sponges alive will find it useful to remember,
more especially as the same remark is equally appli
cable to a vast number of the humbler zoophytes.
    It would   hardly be supposed by any casual observer,
that beings apparently motionless and inactive as the
rocks on which they grow, should possess much in
terest beyond what attaches itself to their variety of
form and delicacy of structure, and yet few creatures
exhibit phenomena more wonderful.
     " In the month of November," says   Professor Grant,
"   I put a small branch of the Spongia coalita (PI. I.
 fig. 1, a), with a little sea-water, into a watch-glass,
and placed it under the microscope; when, on re
flecting the light of a candle lip through the fluid,   I
soon perceived that there was some movement going
on among the opaque particles floating through the
water. On moving the watch-glass so as to bring
one of the apertures on the side of the sponge fully

            CURRENTS OF THE LIVING SPONGE.                31
into view,    I  beheld, for the first time, the splendid
spectacle   it presented, — a living fountain vomiting
forth from a circular cavity an impetuous torrent of
fluid, and hurling along in rapid succession opaque
masses, which it strewed everywhere around.              The
beauty and novelty of such a scene in the animal
kingdom long arrested my attention ; but after twenty-
five minutes    of constant observation,   I was  obliged to
withdraw my eye, from fatigue, without having seen
the torrent for one instant change its direction, or
diminish in the slightest degree the rapidity of its
course.    I  continued to watch the same orifice, at
short intervals, for five hours, sometimes observing it
for a quarter of an hour at a time, but still the stream
rolled on with a constant and equable velocity. About
the end of this time, however,      I observed the current
become perceptibly more languid,      — the opaque   flocculi
which were thrown out with so much impetuosity at
the beginning were now propelled to a shorter distance
from the orifice, and fell to the bottom of the fluid
within the sphere of vision, and in one hour more the
current had entirely ceased.
   " On attempting to examine some of the larger flat
species, as the Spongia panicea and Spongia cristata,
in the same manner with the microscope,          I found it
not so practicable.      The dissection necessary to re
duce them to a size suitable for examination under
that instrument, threw open their canals so much, as
to destroy their means of manifesting a concentrated
current.    But   a  single papilla, torn from a Spongia
papillaris, or other spreading sponge which has the
papillae much elevated, shows distinctly this interest

32               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
ing phenomenon when placed in a watch-glass with
sea-water under a microscope.
     " The
         Spongia panicea presents the strongest cur
             I
rent which have yet seen, and has the greatest thick
ness of body of any spreading sponge which I have met
with on the rocks of this part of the Frith of Forth.
Two entire round portions of this sponge were placed
together in a glass of sea-water, with their orifices
opposite to each other at a distance of two inches ;
they appeared, even to the naked eye, like two living
batteries, and soon covered each other with flocculent
matter.    I placed one of them in a shallow vessel,
and just covered its surface and highest orifice with
water. On strewing some powdered chalk on the
surface of the water, the currents were visible to a
great distance ; and on placing some pieces of cork or
                                        I
of dry paper over the apertures, could perceive them
moving by the force of the currents, at the distance of
ten feet from the table on which the specimen stood.
A portion of soft bread, pressed between the fingers
into a globular form, with a diameter larger than that
of the orifice, and placed over       it,
                                 was not moved away
in   amass by the stream, but was gradually worn
down by the current beating against its sides, and
thus propelled to  distance in small flakes.
                      a                      A por
tion of unburnt coal, twice the diameter of the ori
fice, was instantly   rolled    the mouth of this living
                               off"
fountain, in whatever position       attempted to make
                                      I
itrest upon it.     Aglobule of mercury of equal dia
meter with the orifice, let fall upon    through
                                            it      glass
                                                     a
tube, was not removed nor shaken, and completely
stopped the current.  now pierced with
                          I             needle a a

                 PROPAGATION OF SPONGES.                  '
thin superficial   canal in the vicinity of the closed
aperture, and established a new current, which con
tinued even after the removal of the obstruction."
   Nothing is easier than the repetition of the above
interesting experiments.      The entire surface of the
sponge    is seen   to be  perforated   by innumerable
pores and apertures, some exceedingly minute, open
ing on every part of its periphery ; while others, of
larger dimensions, are placed at intervals, and gene
rally elevated upon prominent parts of the mass.
Through the countless smaller orifices the surround
ing water is continually sucked, as it were, into the
interior of the spongy mass, and it as constantly
flows out in continuous streams through the larger
openings. Organized particles that everywhere abound
in the water of the ocean are thus introduced on all
sides, and are doubtless employed as nutriment,    whilst
the superfluous or effete matter is continually cast out
with the issuing streams as they rush through the
larger orifices.
   On examining a specimen of growing sponge during
the months of October and November, a remarkable
change may be observed to have taken place in its
internal texture. The parts which in summer were
transparent   and nearly colourless, have now become
everywhere studded with opaque yellow spots, visible
to the naked eye (PI. I. fig. 1, a), and without any
definite form, size, or distribution, save that they are
most abundant in the deeper parts of the sponge, and
are seldom observable at the surface.     By examining
thin sections with the microscope at    this period, it is
found that these bright yellow spots consist of groups
                                            c5

3 !•            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
of very minute gelatinous granules, which lie imbedded
in the soft substance.      These yellow granules are the
rudiments of the eggs, or gemmulea, of the sponge, and
when they are first perceptible by the aid of a micro
scope, they consist only of a small, round, compact
group of the same gelatinous-looking          bodies which
compose the living portion of the mass ; but as they
arrive at maturity, they assume a regular form ; and
when mature, are washed out of the body of the pa
rent by the issuing currents, ready to become dispersed
wherever the presence of the species may be made
available for the beneficent purposes of Nature.
     But here   a difficulty presents itself, which at first
sight might well be regarded as insurmountable.        The
parent sponge, deprived itself of all power of moving
from place to place, — fixed and motionless as the rock
on which it grows, — must obviously be incapable of
distributing to a distance the numerous progeny
which it furnishes      ;  and without   some special pro
vision for the purpose, they could only have accu
mulated in the immediate vicinity of their place of
birth.     The seeds of vegetables,     sometimes winged
and plumed for the purpose, are blown about by the
winds, or transported by various contrivances, to
distant localities ; but in the present instance such
a mode of proceeding is out of the question, and as
germs so soft and delicate could hardly be removed
by the agency of other animals, by what possible
means are the young sponges to become dissemi
nated through the ocean ?
     It is said that a heathen philosopher, —old Galen,
we believe, — a declared sceptic and atheist, happen-

                      CILIARY ACTION.                   35
ing one day in his travels to stumble upon       a  human
skeleton, and being induced to contemplate rather
more closely than he had ever done before the won
drous mechanism displayed in its construction, sud
                    "                        " "
denly ejaculated, Hie Dei manus videtur ! — Here
truly   I can trace the hand of God  !
                                       "  There were no
microscopes in Galen's time, neither had he ever an
opportunity of witnessing ciliary action, or he would
hardly, we think, have lived so long and gone so
far without recognizing the finger of Omnipotence.
 " Ciliary action \" exclaims our friend, "pray what is
 that ?
        "  and as some of our readers may perhaps feel
 disposed to make the same inquiry, we will pause a
 moment to explain the meaning of an expression that
 must recur continually in future pages.
    On placing a few of the gemmules of a sponge
 above mentioned, which, in size and shape, might
 not inaptly be compared to minute pins' -heads, in a
 watch-glass containing a little sea-water, it will soon
 become evident, even to the naked eye, that they are
 able to swim about      with considerable facility ; but
 how they manage to accomplish such a feat is by no
 means so easily discernible.     On examining them,
 however, with a good microscope, the machinery em
 ployed for the purpose becomes revealed to sight;
 and certainly    a spectacle more wonderful     imagina
 tion scarcely could conceive.      Millions of paddles,
 furiously at work, bestud the surface of these tiny
 atoms, — so rapid in their motion, that the eye almost
 refuses to perceive their shape; so manageable, that
 their action seems directed by one impulse    ;   and yet
 so minute, that words     in vain attempt to tell their

 36              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 almost imperceptible dimensions.        The word cilia,
 whereby these miraculous organs are now universally
 designated,   is, as we need scarcely say, derived from
 their resemblance to rows of eye-lashes (cilium, an
 eye-lash) ; but the most rapid wink will not express
 the quickness of their motion.
   The gemmules of the sponge are somewhat egg-
 shaped  (PI. I. fig. 1, b), and cilia cover every part of
 their surface, excepting their posterior tapering extre
 mity. In swimming, they always carry their broadest
 end foremost. They have a granular structure, and
in  some species minute spicula, resembling those that
 constitute  the framework      of the adult sponge, are
distinctly discernible at the time of their expulsion.
They do not change their form while swimming, like
those of many other zoophytes, but glide along with a
regular smooth motion.        After remaining some time
in the water, they generally come to the surface, and
collect round the margin of the vessel.       These gem-
mules often continue to swim about, by their own
spontaneous movements, for two or three days after
their detachment from their parent, as though in
search of a suitable locality whereon to rest ; at length
they are to be observed beginning to fix themselves on
the sides and bottom of the tank, and some of them
are found spread out     like a transparent membrane on
the surface of the water. When examined through
a microscope, while in the act of attachment to the
glass, each gemmule may be seen to extend itself
into a thin circular film ; still the cilia may be ob
served in rapid motion on the upper part, propelling
the floating particles in their neighbourhood to a

              GEMMULES OF THE SPONGE.               37
distance.   They soon, however, become languid, and
in the course of a few hours they cease to move.
Spicula now begin to make their appearance in the
transparent film ; and in a few weeks after the gem-
mule has become fixed, these spicula become aggre
gated into bundles : at particular places, towards the
centre, they soon present circular arrangements, and
distinct openings are at length perceptible by the aid
of a microscope in these enclosed spaces. The ova
now spread and enlarge in every direction, and even
before they exceed a line in diameter, evidently pre
sent  through the microscope a marked resemblance to
the parent sponge.

38                      THK. AQUARIAN        NATURALIST.
                                CHAPTER         III.
  " The majesty of God appears no less in small things than in
great     :   and as   it   exceedeth human sense in the greatness of the
universe, so also           it doth in the smallness of the parts thereof."
                                  FORAMINIFEEA.
WE will now suppose our tank to be complete, at
least as far as relates to preliminary                  arrangements ;
our sea- weeds have become                    habituated to their new
abode,          and sponges         clothe our mimic       rocks with a
soft living carpet ; the water has been left to settle
undisturbed, and is as clear and bright as crystal, so
that we are tempted more minutely to inspect our
new domain.
     In       this condition,      if,   with the assistance of
                                                mag-              a
nifying-glass, we closely examine the glass walls of
the aquarium, we shall not unfrequently find nume
rous little shells adherent to their interior, which,
although exceedingly minute, are well calculated from
the elegance of their form to arrest attention (PI.                    I.
fig. 2). They might, indeed, almost be mistaken for
the shells of little Nautili, both from their shape and
from ,the circumstance   of their being divided into
chambers; in size they are little larger than small
pins1 -heads, and hence might easily escape the notice
of the unobservant.

            ORGANIZATION OF PORAMINIFBRA.                 39
    Examined still more attentively, these elegant shells
are found (especially if examined in a dry state) to be
perforated all over with minute holes, and that to such
an extent, that the term FORAMINIFERA, by which
animals of this description are generally designated,
is perhaps as distinctive     as any other that has been
proposed for them.
    Few creatures are more simple in their structure
than these Foraminifera.       Examined in a living state,
such as they present themselves while adherent to the
sides of the aquarium, their substance seems entirely
composed of most translucent jelly, filling up the
chambers of the camerated         shell, — jelly so soft and
semi-fluid,   that it issues forth through all the aper
 tures that crowd the superficies like subtle threads
 of molten glass spreading upon the surface of the
 tank, and evidently all endowed with life and motion.
 A sight more wonderful     than these transparent beings,
 creeping with their root-like legs, can scarcely be
 imagined.
     Simple  as is their structure, the Foraminifera are
 moreover eminently voracious, and devour in great
 numbers the humbler organisms with which they
 share the drops   of water around them. On dissolving
 the shell of one of these remarkable animals by im
  mersing it in a little diluted acid, completely denuded
 of its outer covering (PI. I. fig. 2, a), its soft trans
  parent body is then seen to consist of several seg
  ments, corresponding with the compartments of the
  shell, in each of which the remains of Bacillariae,
  Desmidiae,"and similar beings, are readily distin
  guishable, proving at once both its destructive appe

40             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
tite and its capabilities of digesting food, although
how such food is swallowed is a puzzle.
   Innumerable are the forms under which these
Foraminifera   present themselves, each rivalling the
other in delicacy of structure and elegance of shape ;
and if we have selected but a single species as an
illustration of their        structure     and habits, we can
assure the reader   it   is by no means on account           of
deficiency either in the variety or the number of spe
cimens at our disposal.    True it            is,
                                        that not many
years ago the very existence of such beings was un
known even to the scientific naturalist   much less     ;
did any one suspect that these unseen, these unob
trusive agents were employed in building up the
very world on which we tread. Nay, start not,
reader; what at first may seem   rash assertion, will
                                         a
bear thorough sifting to convince yourself, take but
                         :
a handful of the sand cast up            by
                                 the retreating tide
upon the nearest beach, and, with       pocket lens,a
examine  itminutely,— count the various forms you
there encounter and,
                ;       you have sufficient patience,
                             if
count their numbers too, — no easy task sometimes.
  The sand of most sea-coasts    indeed, so filled with
                                     is,
these microscopic    Foraminifera, that        often com
                                                it      is
posed of them to the extent of one-half.          Plancus
counted 6000 in an ounce of sand from the Adriatic
Sea, and D'Orbigny, the great historiographer of these
minute organisms, reckoned 3,840,000 in an ounce of
sand from the Antilles.      If we calculate the contents
of larger quantities, as, for example, cubic yard, the
                                              a
amount surpasses all human conception, and we have
difficulty in expressing the resulting number in figures     ;

              THEIR NUMERICAL IMPORTANCE.               41
  and yet how insignificant    the sum, when we regard,
 in the same point of •view,   the enormous mass consti
  tuting the sea-coasts of the earth  ! The researches of
  D'Orbigny relative to these microscopic organisms go
  to prove that the remains of Foraminifera constitute,
  in a great measure, banks, which by their accumula
  tion interrupt the progress of the navigator, stop up
  bays and straits of the sea, fill up harbours, and, to
  gether with various corals, produce those islands that
 rise up in the warm regions of the Pacific Ocean.
     But more than this, — the almost invisible shells
  we are now contemplating       have had to do  with the
  construction of the surface of the earth, and it is easy
 to adduce facts to show that they contribute much
 to the formation, of vast geological deposits.      Take,
 for example, as a striking case, the environs of Paris.
 The calcaire grossier of that extensive basin is in
 certain places so filled with Foraminifera, that a cubic
 inch from the quarries of Gentilly contains something
 like 58,000 of their shells, and that in beds of great
  thickness and of vast extent.     This gives an average
  of about 3,000,000,000 for the cubic yard,— a number
  so great as to put a stop to all further calculation.
  Now, as all Paris, and the towns and villages of the
  neighbouring departments are built of stone quarried
 from this deposit, it is evident that, without exagge-
•
  ration, the capital of France, and all the neighbouring
  towns, are constructed     principally of the shells of
  Foraminifera.
     Again, the remains of the Foraminifera are not less
  abundant in the tertiary formations extending from
  Champagne to the sea, as also in the basins of the

42            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
Girondc, of Austria, and of Italy, &c.     The chalk of
our own country, throughout its vast thickness, con
tains myriads ; and thus have these shells, which are
from their minute size hardly perceptible to the naked
eye, not only altered the depths of the actual ocean
as  it now exists, but also, previously to our epoch,
formed mountains and filled up basins of great extent.
   We must ascribe the obscurity in which the Fora-
minifera have remained to the difficulty of observing
them ; and yet there are few branches of study more
accessible  to every one, and which afford more im
portant consequences.     Should an observer be resi
dent on any coast whatever, in any quarter of the
globe, or on any tertiary, chalk, or oolitic formation,
he will find everywhere under his feet a multitude of
Foraminifera,  for whose examination a simple lens is
sufficient, and whose study possesses equal interest
both for the geologist and the zoological student.

                           NOCTILUCA.                       43
                       CHAPTER IV.
     " See, as they float along, the entangled weeds
       Slowly approach, upborne on bladdery beads ;
       Wait till they land, and you shall then behold
       The fiery sparks those tangled fronds infold —
       Myriads of living points ; the unaided eye
       Can but the fire, and not the form, descry.
       And now your view upon the ocean turn,
       And there the splendour of the waves discern :
       Cast but a stone, or strike them with an oar,
       And you shall flames within the deep explore ;
       Or scoop the stream phosphoric as you stand,
       And the cold fire shall flash along your hand ;
       When, lost in wonder, you shall walk and gaze
       On weeds that sparkle and on waves that blaze."
                           NOCTILUCA.
READER, in thy enthusiasm for natural history, has it
ever been thy fate to lose thyself on a dark night upon
the Yorkshire coast      ?  if not, let me give thee timely
warning that such an accident is neither good for thy
comfort or thy health.
   It was a glorious morning when           I one  day started
alone from Whitby upon a naturalizing expedition,
purposing on that occasion to make my way as far as
Scarborough before night. It was only thirteen miles,
1 was  told, and an excellent road all the way. Hammer

44              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
in hand, therefore,  I set out, and with a fishing-basket
at my back and a wallet at my side, was prepared for
anything that might occur. The Lias cliffs with their
rich stores of Ammonites and Belemnites were on
one side of me; the Black- Scar with its periwinkles
 (covins they call them there) and the sparkling sea on
the other. Merrily the waves rolled in, and cheerfully
they dashed themselves in spray upon the sable crags.
Brightly shone the sun upon the venerable pile of
St. Hilda as   I passed  beneath its sculptured aisles —
a noble landmark, welcome to the eye of many a
weary sailor, and the sea-birds as they circled round
my head seemed to bear me welcome company.             On
I  went, dividing my attention pretty equally between
the present and the past — sometimes gathering living
mollusca among the sea-beaten rocks ; sometimes ex
huming Ammonites (the snake-stones of the Whitby
banner) from their awful graves; sometimes, as the
approaching tide came up, wetting my feet in the
advancing foam, and then again approaching the gi
gantic cliffs, peeping about in hopes of descrying the
tail of a Teleosaurus projecting from their wave-
beaten   front— when suddenly, as the distance between
the margin of the sea and the face of the cliff began
 sensibly to diminish, it became apparent that the
tide was rapidly coming in, and on looking forwards
 toward the next headland, against which the waves
 were already breaking, the agreeable conviction flashed
 upon    my mind that further advance was barred.
 Judge however, gentle reader, what were the feelings
                                     I
 with which, on turning to go back, saw that to retreat
 was equally out of the question, and that, moreover,

               A RAMBLE AND A SCRAMBLE.                    45
 the grim wall that towered ahove my head seemed
about as climbable as the Duke of York's column.
Matters certainly began to look serious ; — thought   I
of Sir Arthur Wardour and his daughter in the
 '
   Antiquary/ and would have given something to be
assured that another Edie Ochiltree or anybody else
had seen me enter so perilous a strait ; but there was
little chance of that, and it soon became evident that
my fate depended on my own exertions. On I pushed,
surveying now those cliffs with very altered looks, and
feelings by no means enviable. At length reached a  I
place apparently more practicable than elsewhere— at
least there was no choice    : to climb or drown were my
alternatives — and fortunately      I   at length succeeded
in scaling a height sufficient for my purpose, and
perched myself like a sea-bird upon a ledge of rock.
There was nothing for it but to sit there patiently
and thankfully, asking myself —
             " What are the wild waves saying   ?
                                                  "
until the tide receded — weary hours they were —but
at length they passed, and        I   again saw the yellow
sand beneath me, and recommenced my journey.                I
had, however, had enough of the seashore for that day,
and a few miles further on was enabled to gain the
summit of the cliff.       It was now growing towards
evening  : no house appeared      — nothing      but a bleak
expanse   of moor; it was getting dark, and to add to
my discomfort, it began to rain; on           I   trudged, as
long as the direction in which         I was going could be
seen ; but when this was no longer distinguishable,
very disagreeable anticipations       as to the future pre

46                   THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
sented themselves   on one side was a precipice some
                           :
three or four hundred feet high, and at its feet rolled
the sea, from whose rapacious waves, that seemed to
be still roaring after their prey, had so narrowlyI
escaped   upon the other side lay a wild Yorkshire
            ;
moor ; a false step in one direction would have been
instant death, and any step in the other apparently
very useless, and certainly dangerous. To lodge on
the cold ground seemed therefore the safest and wisest
plan ; hungry, tired, and moreover wet to the skin,                      I
sat me down, doubtless as melancholy and discon
solate an object as could well be imagined.
   But my destiny was not to be quite so bad as                          I
anticipated ; a glimmer of light became perceptible
at some distance directly inland —it was no will-o'-
the-wisp to tempt me over the cliff, was quite sure   I
of that — cautiously            I
                     advanced towards     gathering         it,
more courage as felt myself more remote from that
                       I
dizzy height, and at last succeeded                       in procuring   a
guide to Robin Hood's Bay.
     It         midnight when, under the safe con
          was nearly
duct of my escort, following     tortuous and steep
                                              a
descent, we reached the beach in that secluded nook,
and there beheld          a    scene not easily forgotten.
   Few visitors to the sea-side have not, at some time
or other, more especially during the summer season,
had occasion to observe, while walking by night upon
the shore, or else, while enjoying the breeze upon some
pier-head or sea-overhanging cliff,                   a   phenomenon as
beautiful       as   it   is      The waves, as they
                               astonishing.
come rolling in, seem fringed with fire and when they ;
break upon the shore, burst into liquid name which

                  LUMINOSITY OF THE SEA.                   47
glides along,   still spreading as it flows, until it laves
the sands with light, and then slowly retiring, leaves
a track of shining sparkles glittering on the strand.
If  witnessed from a boat, or from a steamer's deck,
the scene is still more wonderful : the heaving waves
around appear to burn like phosphorus, emitting pale
and ghostly splendour; the silent oars are raised
dripping with living diamonds ; or if a hand should
be immersed in the refulgent water and again with
drawn, the glowing sparks, like tiny stars, stick to its
surface, or are shaken off in brilliant scintillations.
The splashing wheels stir up a sheet of light; the
wake of the vessel flames behind as if it were the tail
of some vast rocket, and the labouring           ship appears
to wallow in a fiery foam.
   In  our own climate, however, this luminous ap
pearance is seldom witnessed in such perfection ; more
frequently, when the water is slightly agitated by the
winds and currents, it only shows itself in scattered
sparkles mingled with the spray of the sea, and in the
froth created by the way of the ship. These sparkles
or luminous points vary in magnitude, and often con
tinue to shine for some moments as they pass the
sides of the vessel or follow in its track.          The kind
of light thus exhibited is sometimes extremely bril
liant, almost emulating that of the azure, gold, and
silver rain of the pyrotechnist : —
          " Beyond the shadow of the ship
            I watch'd the  water-snakes :
            They moved in tracks of shining white  ;
            And when they rear'd, the elfish light
            Fell off in hoary flakes.

48             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
         " Within  the shadow of the ship
           I watch'd their rich attire ;
           Blue, glossy green, and velvet black,
           They coil'd and swam, and every track
           Was a flash of golden fire."
   This appearance is not unfrequently accompanied
by flashes of a paler light and momentary duration,
which often illuminate the water to the extent of
several feet ; these are more or less vivid according to
the distance of the observer and the depth at which
they make their appearance, resembling exceedingly
the lightning so often seen in tropical regions, which
presents itself in diffused flashes, now issuing from
one mass of clouds, now from another, in constant
succession over the whole face        of the heavens.
   The explanation of this phenomenon was to our
forefathers simple enough, as any one may convince
himself by referring to some of the earlier volumes of
the ' Philosophical Transactions/ where, after elabo
rate theories relative to " phlegm " and " phlogiston,"
and other elements unknown            in modern chemistry,
the sages of those times ascribe all this luminous
splendour to the
                    " saltness of the sea :" and even in
our own days, should the inquisitive passenger on
board a vessel seek for information relative to the
cause  of the wide-spread phosphorescence, he will, in
nine cases out of ten, receive a reply equally satis
factory, if not couched in precisely the same terms.
A little careful examination will, however, soon con
vince the student of nature that such is by no means
a true solution of the problem. A tumbler-glass filled
from the glowing wave and set aside for accurate

                 STRUCTURE OF NOCTILUCA.                49
inspection, will be found to swarm with little points
of most translucent jelly, requiring close examination
even to detect their presence,         and yet so numerous
that 30,000 of them have been calculated to be con
tained in a cubic foot of highly luminous sea-water.
The appearance of these living gems the reader will
find delineated in PI.   I. fig. 3, and during the summer
season   will have little difficulty in verifying the most
prominent circumstances connected with their history.
   The name Noctiluca* conferred upon these minute
organisms is indicative of the remarkable faculty that
they possess of emitting a brilliant light.         When a
vase filled with sea-water, crowded with these little
creatures, is placed in a dark chamber, the slightest
agitation is sufficient to excite their phosphorescence,
and the smallest undulations upon the surface are in
dicated by luminous circles. On examining one of
them very attentively with a powerful microscope,
it is further observable that the light given out is not
universally diffused throughout the substance of its
body, but is confined to minute shining points scat
tered here and there, which make their appearance in
rapid succession, and as suddenly vanish : so that
evidently there is no special organ to which the lumi
nous appearance can be referred, as in the case of the
glowworm      and other phosphorescent creatures. In
size, these stars of ocean are almost microscopic, the
largest of them not much exceeding the dimensions
of a pin's head    ; but the amazing numbers in which
they crowd the seas amply make up for their minute
ness; at certain seasons indeed it may be literally
               *
                  Node, by night  ; luceo, I shine.
                                                    D

50             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
said, that every drop    of every wave contains one or
more individuals belonging to the brilliant host. On
taking up at random a flask of sea- water from any
highly phosphorescent billow, and allowing the little
creatures to accumulate, as they always do when at
rest, at the top, it will be seen that their bodies will
form a stratum      equalling   in thickness from one-
seventh to one-third part of the entire contents of
the vessel  !  After such   a demonstration as this,  it is
easy   to comprehend how the entire sea, rendered
luminous by the presence of Noctilucae, seems to burn
with phosphorescent fire. When the surface of the
water is tranquil in some well-sheltered bay, these
living gems, rising from their low specific gravity to
the top of the water, form a kind of cream of liquid
light ; or if a wave disperses their myriads through
the mass of the sea, and at the same time calls forth,
by agitation, all their brightness, it is easy to imagine
how a flame is thus evoked that spreads for miles,
giving, at a distance, the appearance of a uniform
sheet of light, but when closely examined, resolvable,
like the nebulae in the firmament, into constituent
stars.
   Philosophers have been naturally anxious to dis
cover the object of this curious property of emitting
light.   " Meditating upon this subject," says Mr. J.
V. Thompson, " I think it not improbable that the
Deity, who has done nothing         in vain, and whose
omniscience extends     to every epoch, foreseeing that
man would invent the means of tempting the track
less ocean, has given it as one means of rendering his
nights less gloomy, and of diminishing the number of

          UTILITY  OF PHOSPHORESCENT     LIGHT.        51
his dangers ; especially  if we consider that this lumi
nosity is seen only in the night season, is vivid in
proportion to the darkness, disappearing even before
the feeble light of the moon ; and also that it increases
with the agitation of the sea, so that during the pre
valence of storms it greatly diminishes the dense
gloom which at such times is often impenetrable to
the moon or stars, throws such a    light about the ship
and  rigging  as to enable the sailors to execute their
allotted tasks with certainty, and at all times points
out to the cautious mariner the lurking danger of
sunken rocks, shoals,    and   unknown    coasts,  by the
phosphorescent or snowy appearance which it gives to
the breakers, so as to render them visible at a con
siderable distance, or, where certain forms  of it appear,
lets him know that he is within soundings, and pro
bably at no great distance from some fatal spot."

52                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                         CHAPTER V.
    " Awhile   to wait upon the firm fair sand,
      When all    }s calm at sea, all still at land ;
      And there the ocean's produce to explore,
      AB floating by, or rolling on the shore ;
      Those living jellies which the flesh inflame,
      Fierce as a nettle, and  from that its name ;
      Some in huge masses, some that you may bring
      In the small compass of a lady's ring ;
      Figured by hand Divine — there 's not a gem
      Wrought by man's art, to be compared to them ;
      Soft, brilliant, tender, through the wave they glow,
      And make the moonbeam brighter where they flow." —
                                                            CBABBB.
                ON   MEDUSA OR JELLY-FISHES.
FEW of our readers are unacquainted with the forlorn
appearance of those gelatinous lumps which the re
tiring waves leave behind them upon the sea-beach, and
which, under the euphonious names of
                                                      " Slobs " and
"Slobbers," or the still more appropriate appellations
of " Stingers " or " Stangers," sometimes encumber
the shore as their ice-like masses melt away before
the sunbeams.         Few, we hope, have not admired their
graceful forms, when floating freely in their native
element they could unfold their beauties to the eye,
and show themselves such as they really are, the
gayest,   frailest, loveliest wanderers of the deep.             It

                        HOW TO CATCH \U:i>l               s , .              53
is, indeed, difficult by any description at all to do
justice to the appearance of beings so elegant, and
we therefore gladly refer our readers to the accom
panying drawings, in which some of their principal
forms will be found very successfully delineated (PI.                        I.
        4,      7,   8,   9,
figs.   6,                     11    &12).
   The Medusae* are to be sought for in summer and
autumn, when the weather                   warm and dry, and the
                                            is
sea   calm and clear.             They abound within reach, mostly
in the afternoon and towards nightfall, — probably
also during the night, though not then so near the
surface of the water. A small bag of fine muslin
attached to   metal ring
                    a      the best instrument with
                                          is
which to take them, and may be used either as                                a
hand-net fixed to the end of stick or rod, or as a                           a
tow-net suspended                 over the stern of           a   boat making
very gentle way   through the water. Beautiful spe
cimens may likewise be obtained by attaching       tow-                  a
net to some buoy in a quiet bay and leaving       there                 it
during the night.     The majority being oceanic, they
are most numerous and varied on those parts of our
coast which are touched by oceanic currents.
   When the tow-net taken out of the sea,
                                    is         ought to            it
be carefully reversed, and its contents gently emptied
into    basin or glass jar filled with clear sea-water,
        a
and     in   so doing   it   is   best to plunge the net beneath the
surface      of the water,          as   thus the Medusa are enabled
to detach themselves from the threads, and swim away
without injury.              When the net            is    out of the water,
some scrutiny requisite even to detect their presence;
                        is
they appear like little, adhering, shapeless masses of
                •
                    Forbes, British Naked-eyed             Medusae.

54             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
clear jelly, and exhibit no traces of their elegant form
and ornamental appendages.
   Even when in the jar or basin, they are often, on
account of their extreme transparency, very difficult
to distinguish ; but by placing them in the sunshine,
or beside a strong artificial light, we see their shadows
floating over the sides and bottom of the vessel, like
the flitting clouds on a landscape.     These soon guide
us to the creatures themselves, and before long we
distinguish   their brilliant ocelli, and other coloured
portions of their structure.
   The next step is to secure such of the smaller spe
cies as we wish to examine closely, and transfer them
to the watch-glasses or small phiais.       To do this is
often not an easy task, for when alarmed they are
exceedingly agile and alert ; so that if we attempt to
capture them with a tea-spoon, they usually escape, or
if taken, owing to their slippery nature, slide out.
This difficulty may be got over by using a small but
deep glass spoon, with its handle set very obliquely,
from which they are easily transferred to a watch-
glass, and thus submitted to microscopic examination.
   The Medusae were known to the Greeks and Romans
by the names of irvevfia 0a\dcrcriov and Pulmo mari-
nus, which we may translate by Sea-lungs, on account
of the constant rhythmical action of their gelatinous
disc, which, alternately expanding and contracting,
reminds the spectator of the heaving and subsidence
of the bosom during respiration.
   The movements of the Medusae are slow, indicating
that these creatures possess a very feeble amount of
muscular energy ; nevertheless they must be incessant,

                   HABITS OF THE MEDUSAE.             55
seeing that the animals, their bodies being   of greater
specific   gravity than the surrounding water, would
inevitably sink were it not for the constant efforts of
contraction and expansion which they exhibit.      They
swim by means of repeated approximations of the
margins of the disc, whereby the water contained
within and beneath the umbrella-like expansion is
forcibly driven away, and the body of course impelled
in the opposite direction; these efforts are leisurely
repeated again and again, and should the back of the
Medusa be horizontal, merely tend to keep it near the
surface of the water; should, however, the convexity
of the disc be inclined obliquely, by means of these
movements the creature rows itself about with con
siderable rapidity ; nevertheless the efforts thus made
are very feeble, and the slightest current in the water
is sufficient to carry such feeble animals out of their
course.
   All   observers agree that the Medusae feed upon
small animals ; and mollusca, worms, crustaceans, and
even fishes,    are stated to constitute their ordinary
diet. We, however, advise any of our readers who
may have the opportunity of so doing, to watch very
closely this portion of their reconomy; and should
they really be fortunate enough to feed any specimen,
or even to see them seize aud swallow prey, to note
the circumstance, and thus clear up a point of no
small interest to the natural historian.
   Mr. C. W. Peach, in     a communication read before
the  Royal Institution of Cornwall, mentions the cap-
tare of a minute Acaleph, Thaumantias lucifera,
which had by some means caught hold of a Sagitta.

56             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
"Whether,"      says Mr. Peach,    "it had employed the
Sagitta to remove a bone which it had in its throat,
after one of its delicate repasts, as the Wolf did the
Crane, or not,    I am unable to say ;   if so, the Medusa
was not so honourable as the    Wolf ;   for despite all the
exertions of the Sagitta to free itself, and although
the swallower's stomach was turned outwards during
the struggle, it still refused to let the captive go;
and the only difference that   I  could see was, the lips
were pressed tighter round the head of his mouthful
than before.     No doubt the dread of separation ren
dered this tight embrace necessary, having met with
a very rough customer.       This appears to me to be
proof positive that the Medusae prey upon other ani
mals, and do not hesitate to attack those of large size
                                I
if they fall in their way ; for cannot believe this in
trusion into the stomach of the Medusa arose from
any Paul-Pry accident on the part of the Sagitta.          It
was a fearful struggle, maintained with great obsti
nacy on both sides, and which     I watched for a quarter
of an hour. I left them still locked at 2 A.M., hoping
at daylight to see the result of the affair, but found that
the vanquisher and the vanquished had both vanished,
and left only a very minute granular wreck behind.
This rapid destruction is not uncommon amongst the
minute objects that swarm in the sea ; for as soon as
the least weakness or sign of decay takes place, the
still smaller scavengers fall upon them, and in a very
short time all trace of them is lost."
    Professor Edward Forbes observes, that being kept
in a jar of salt water with small crustacea, they not
unfrequently     devour these   animals    so much    more

         MEDUSAE   THEIR PROPERTY OF STINGING.          57
highly organized than themselves, voraciously ; appa
rently
         " enjoying the destruction of the unfortunate
members of the upper classes with a truly democratic
relish;" — nay, some of them will even attack and
proceed to swallow other Medusae, in all respects quite
as good as themselves.     Yet are these ferocious crea
tures among the most delicate and graceful of the
inhabitants of the ocean, — " very models of tender
ness and elegance."
    A  very prominent feature in these animals, and
that, indeed, from which, in almost all languages,
they derive their popular designation, is their power
of nettling or stinging the hands of the incautious
experimentalist who may presume to lay hold of them,
and that sometimes in a manner which fully entitles
them to the names    " Stingers " or " Stangers "   above
alluded to, or to the more refined epithets of Sea-
nettles, Orties de mer, Urtici marini, &c., whereby
they are distinguished in different countries; even
the word ACALEPHJS, by which, zoologically, the whole
class is designated, has a similar signification.    It is
probable, however, that this offensive faculty of sting
ing is possessed by only a small minority of the sea-
jellies.   "Among them, the Cyanea capillata (PI. I.
figs. 11   & 12) of our seas is a most formidable
creature, and the terror of tender-skinned bathers.
With its broad, tawny, festooned and scalloped disc,
often a full foot, or even more, across, it flaps its way
through the yielding waters, and drags after it a long
train of riband-like arms, and seemingly interminable
tails, marking its course when the creature is far away
from us. Once tangled in its trailing hair, the unfor
                                           D5

58              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
tunate who has recklessly ventured across the monster's
path too soon writhes in prickly torture. Every struggle
but binds the poisonous threads more firmly round his
body, and then there is no escape; for when the winder
of the fatal net finds his course impeded by the terrified
human wrestling in its coils, he, seeking no combat with
the mightier biped, casts loose his envenomed       arms,
and swims away.        The amputated weapons, severed
from their parent body, vent vengeance on the cause
of their destruction, and sting as fiercely as if their
original proprietor itself gave the word of attack*."
    Another remarkable property conferred upon the
Medusae is their power of shining in the dark with
a  phosphorescent splendour, surpassing even that of
the Noctilucae, and from their superior size render
ing the jelly-fishes conspicuous objects even amid the
galaxy of ocean-stars by which they are surrounded.
   Any one who, on a dark night in the summer
time, has watched the waves whilst reclining over
the side of a steam-boat, has doubtless often noticed
the broad flakes of flame, which, kindled as it might
appear by the rude shock of the revolving paddles,
float astern, literally glowing with indignation.  These
fiery masses are, in truth, Medusae, rudely roused while
"peaceful slumbering on the ocean," and testifying
thus their flaming wrath at such disturbance.
   Even in the seas of our own climate, the phospho
rescent  light emitted by the Medusae is extremely re
fulgent, and well-calculated to elicit the admiration
of the beholder ; but its brilliancy is far surpassed in
warmer latitudes.
            •
              Forbes, British iNaked-eyed Medusae.

                 LUMINOSITY OF THE MEDUSA.                 59
     If, says Spallanzani,   in the beginning of the night
 we enter the Strait of Messina [October was the
 month in which these observations were made] in
 a  low bark or boat, coasting near the land, where
 the water is perfectly calm, the Medusae, usually very
 numerous, there begin to shine with a light which,
 as the darkness increases,      acquires intensity and ex
 tent, every Medusa resembling a bright torch, that
 may be seen for some hundreds of paces round, and
 on approaching it the brilliant phosphorescence shows
 distinctly the form of the creature's body. This light,
 when the evening twilight is extinct, is of a lively
 white, which strikes the eye even when the animal is
 five-and-thirty feet below the surface.      As the Medusa
 by its oscillation transfers itself from place to place,
 so the light is variable.     Sometimes it continues for
 a quarter    of an hour, half an hour, or more ; but at
 other times, it suddenly becomes extinguished, and
 does not reappear    till after a considerable interval.
    We    are indebted to Spallanzani    for a great number
 of curious experiments upon this part of their history.
That careful observer ascertained that the power of
emitting light seems to be limited to the large arms,
or tentacles, the muscular zone of the umbrella-like
disc, and the stomachal cavity, the rest       of the animal
only shining by transmitted light.         He then endea
voured to find out the cause of this phosphorescent
appearance,     and ascertained that it is owing to the
secretion of a peculiar glutinous fluid which exudes
from     the surface of the organs above mentioned.
This secretion, even when mingled with other fluids,
communicates to them a degree of phosphorescent

60             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
splendour.     A  single Medusa squeezed into twenty-
seven ounces of cow's milk rendered it so luminous,
that it was possible by the light which it emitted to
read a letter at the distance of three feet from the
glass containing the resplendent mixture.         Even the
living animal will communicate to the fluid in which
it is plunged its phosphorescent property, and with
much more brilliancy if placed in fresh water instead
of salt.
    Such are the wonderful attributes conferred upon
these humble jelly-fishes, — attributes so inexplicable,
that the most learned physiologists are at a loss to
explain the manner in which they are exercised.        The
body of a Medusa, when submitted to chemical ana
lysis, is found to consist almost entirely of sea- water   :
a  specimen weighing four or five pounds, when the
fluid part of its substance has been allowed to drain
away, leaves a mere     film of solid substance, the weight
of which is not as many grains ; and yet the water of
the ocean, thus imprisoned in a cobweb, we find
moulded into forms of exquisite beauty —endowed with
sense and motion     — able   to seize, to vanquish, and to
swallow prey — to glow with phosphorescent light, and
lastly, to perpetuate their race by means as extra
ordinary as any other circumstances connected with
their strange history.
   In Mr.    Patterson's very pleasing ' Introduction to
Zoology/ we find the following practical observations
upon this subject : —
    "Our    admiration     for the various functions   per
formed by the Acalephae is much increased when we
reflect upon the extremely small quantity of solid

       MEDUSA     THEIE UNFITNESS FOR MANURE.           61
matter which enters into their composition.        On one
occasion we took a dead specimen, and placing it on a
piece of glass, exposed it to the sun. As the moisture
evaporated, the different parts appeared as if confusedly
painted on the glass; and when it was become perfectly
dry, a touch removed the only vestiges of what had
been so lately a graceful and animated being.
   " We learned from an eminent naturalist
                                                (Professor
E. Forbes), that  a  few years ago he had been delivering
some zoological lectures in a seaport-town in Scotland,
in the course of which he had alluded to some of the
most remarkable points in the oeconomy of the Aca-
lephae.   After the lecture, a farmer who had been
present came forward, and inquired if he had under
stood him correctly as having stated that the Medusae
contained so little of solid material, that they might
be regarded as     little else than  a mass  of animated
sea- water?    On being answered in the affirmative,
he remarked that       it would  have saved him many a
pound had he known that sooner, for he had been
in the habit of employing his men and horses in
carting away large quantities of jelly-fishes from the
shore and using them, as manure on his farm, and he
now believed they could have been of little more real
use than an equal weight of sea-water.          Assuming
that so much as a ton-weight of Medusae, recently
thrown upon the beach, had been carted away in one
load, it will be found that the entire quantity of solid
material would be only about four pounds avoirdupois
weight, which, if compressed, the farmer might very
 easily have earned home in one of his coat-pockets."
   Some of the Acalephae are stated to attain a very

 62             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 large size : Mr. Telfair saw a Medusa cast on shore
 in the Bombay territory in 1819, which must have
 weighed many tons.
                          " went to see it," says that
                            I
 gentleman,
               " when the gale had subsided, which was
not for three days after its being cast upon the sand ;
 but it had already become offensive, and         I could not
 distinguish any shape.      The sea had thrown it high
above    the reach of the tide, and         I instructed  the
fishermen who lived in the immediate neighbourhood
to watch its decay, that if any osseous or cartila
ginous part remained it might be preserved ; it rotted,
however, entirely, and left no remains.          It could not
be less than nine mont/ts before    it entirely disappeared,
and travellers were obliged to change the direction
of their road for nearly a quarter of a mile, to avoid
the offensive and sickening stench which proceeded
from it*."
    Leaving, however, the contemplation of such mon
strosities to gentlemen who are fortunate enough to
encounter them, let us return to our native shores,
and, as examples of the lovely objects at the disposal
of our own sea-side visitors, select a few, which, al
though their lives are of ephemeral duration, may with
a little care be made the inmates of the aquarium, and
thus at least afford a passing opportunity of admiring
their evanescent beauties.
   The Tunis neglecta (PI. I. fig. 6) is an elegant little
species, which, when in its native element, is brilliant
as a bead of brightest coral.      It is not uncommon in
the Solent and around the Isle of Wight, and is thus
described by Mrs. Davis, who had excellent opportu-
             •
                Ed. New Phil. Journ. iv. p. 406.

                     TURRIS NEGLECTA.                  63
nities of watching its movements during several weeks
that she kept it in a glass of sea-water at Tenby, and
subsequently at Bath, whither it was conveyed in a
phial of the same, and lived three weeks after its ar
rival ; we will therefore give the history of this "thing
of light and life" in her own words. " One morning,
while pouring some sea-water into the vessel contain
ing my Actiniae, I observed two small objects, which I
took for the young of those animals, and as quickly
as possible raised them in a spoon out of the basin
and placed them in a tumbler of clean sea-water.
They resembled tiny bell-glasses.       Four transverse
rays were perceptible on their sides, and a minute
red body, with four white arms forming a cross, was
suspended in the water. Around the edge of the bell
or disc appeared a delicate white fringe, which was
lengthened or shortened at the pleasure of the ani
mal.    The contraction was sometimes so great as to
give the fringe the appearance      of being knotted up
to the edge of the bell or disc.    It was highly inter
esting to watch their movements in the water as they
ascended   from the bottom, the bell or disc contract
ing and dilating alternately until the animal arrived
near the surface.      This motion was particularly con
spicuous at the edge of the disc, and the fringe or
tentacula lengthened as the animals rose towards the
top; but when they descended again, the tentacula
shrank up, sometimes to a great degree ; after which
the little creatures sank gradually, and without any
visible effort. At the end of a fortnight one of my
pets turned    itself inside outwards, and remained in
this state for some time, when it died, and left only

64            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
a few floccnlent particles at the bottom  of the vessel.
The other lived more than two months longer, and
even bore a voyage to Bath in a closed phial of sea-
water, where it remained active and vigorous during
the space of three weeks, when it likewise died, and
disappeared like the former, but without the previous
eversion."
   The Stomobrachium octocostatum, another elegant
form of these lovely animals, affords, when in con
finement, a spectacle which is truly admirable, and
has elicited a graphic notice from the pen of the
Rev. David Landsborough, in his delightful volume
oil the Island of Arran.    The Stomobrachium (PI. I.
figs. 8 & 9) presents in the water the appearance of
a hazel-nut of a yellowish-brown colour ; when caught
however, and transferred to a glass filled with clear
sea-water, it will be found that the brown-coloured
melon-shaped mass by no means presents the true
outline of the animal, but forms merely the centre
of a gelatinous disc, which, though scarcely visible,
constitutes a most efficient instrument of locomotion.
Such, indeed, are the contractile powers of this trans
parent disc, that its sides nearly close at every stroke
behind the opaque centre, like the legs of a vigorous
swimmer, causing it at each effort to shoot briskly
along as it rolls about backward, forward, or athwart.
Even when placed in a tumbler of the purest water
and examined with a magnifying glass, it is not easy
to make out the true form of the animal, so exqui
sitely transparent is the bell-like disc of its pellucid
body, which rises to a considerable height above the
buff-coloured central portion, and is in shape as ele-

             STOMOBRACHIUM.             SARSIA GEMMIFERA.          65
gantly moulded as the glass shades often placed over
stuffed birds or artificial flowers. The finest crystal
vase is clumsinessitself when compared with it ; it is
as translucent as the walls of a soap-bubble, and
doubtless, when placed in the sunshine under favour
able circumstances, equally iridescent. Nevertheless,
delicate as its fabric            is,
                        the vigour of the little crea
ture    very remarkable, and may be compared to the
        is
efforts of strong swimmer, as alternately contracts
              a                              it
and expands its pellucid organization.    The margin
of its mouth    surrounded with
                        is            close fringe of
                                                  a
brownish tentacula, which, by the aid of lens, may        a
be observed to become drawn in when the body con
tracts but at every stroke made in swimming, they
        ;
are protruded like forked lightning, or like feathered
serpents darting and flashing forth till they are longer
than the entire animal.
   The Sarsia gemmifera (PI.    fig.     I.very small
                                                    7)
                                                         is
                                                         a
species of Medusa, scarcely    quarter of an inch in
                                         a
length, but an object of great interest on account of
the remarkable manner in which      produces progeny
                                               it
from buds*, or           by
                      process of gemmation from the
                              a
walls of its peduncle, which, at certain seasons, pre
sents  the curious spectacle of young individuals in
various stages of development, sprouting like so many
mushrooms from its surface.                   These are not distri
buted in any regular order according to their degree
of advancement, but at the same time there    an in           is
distinct spiral arrangement to be observed,                   and the
peduncle has   tendency to assume angular bendings
                    a
at the points from whence the buds spring.  In its
               *
                   Forbes, British Naked-eyed Meduste.

 66             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 earliest stage, one of these buds simply resembles a
 small wart, which, as it slowly increases in size, gra
 dually assumes the shape and proportions of a young
 Medusa, and at length, when fully formed, drops off
from its parent, ready to commence life on its own
account.
    Equally remarkable with the Medusa just described
is the Sarsia prolifera, which differs from all the other
members of that genus hitherto observed, in having
at the base of each tentacle a supplementary bulb or
a bunch of little tubercles, suspended like a bunch of
grapes, all of which in time prove themselves to be
young     Sarsiae, sprouting by gemmation from the
bases of the tentacula (PI. I. fig. 7).      "Fancy an
elephant,"    says Professor  Forbes,  "with   a number
of little elephants sprouting from his shoulders and
legs ; bunches of tusked monsters hanging epaulette-
fashion from his flanks in every stage of advance
ment; here a young pachyderm almost shapeless,
there one more advanced, but as yet all ears and
eyes.    On the right shoulder a youthful Chuny with
head,'  trunk, and toes, but no legs, and a shapeless
body : on the left an infant elephant better grown,
and struggling to get away, but his tail not suffi
ciently organized as yet to permit of liberty and fre>
action.'' The comparison seems grotesque and absurd,
but it really expresses what we have been describing
in these Sarsiae. It is true that the latter are minute,
but wonders are not the less wonderful for being packed
in a small compass.      " La force qui developpe, 1'in-
tclligence qui specific et co-ordonne, 1' amour qui unit
et vivifie," are revealed as clearly in our little Sarsia

              SPROUTING OF YOUNG SARSIvE.            67
 as  in the mightiest    monster of the ocean beneath
whose shadow it may swim, invisible to the unarmed
eye; and when we behold how strangely its per
petuity in that ocean is secured, we are tempted to
exclaim —
                       " Wonder it is to see
          How diversly Love doth his pageaunte play,
          And shewes his powre in variable kinds !"
    We must not, however, allow ourselves to         be
tempted too far ; we have doubtless said enough to
awaken the curiosity of the young naturalist, and
must leave him to consult Nature herself for further
illustrations of the variety of aspect under which
these lovely creatures court his notice : their further
history we reserve for another chapter.

68               THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
                         CHAPTER VI.
   " Formerly, the credulous were more ardent in quest of mar
vels than of the undisguised simplicity of truth. Nor did they
seek  those marvels which bounteous nature is alway prepared
to disclose to them, for the purpose of mental elevation, or in
adoration   of the Omnipotent Architect. Rather than pursue
knowledge for their own improvement by discovery, they de
scended to the baser objects of imposture and deception.        Had
they  been exalted  by  the purity of intellectual contemplation to
a due estimate of the religion of nature as revealed by the struc
ture of the animated universe, unspeakable sources of admira
tion would have been opened before them."
                HISTORY OF THE HYDRA TUBA.
THE naturalist whose diligent and careful researches
lead him to examine with due attention the surfaces
of stones, shells, or fuci found at low tide close to the
water's edge in some sequestered pool, will, if good
luck attends him, sometimes find adhering to them
in considerahle numbers, creatures resembling those
delineated PI.     I. fig. 5, a, and having found them, let
him lose no time in adding an acquisition so valuable
to the best of his aquarian treasures. This is the
Hydra tuba, whose romantic history (one of the most
important zoological discoveries of modern times) we
are now about to lay before the reader.
   The mouth, which is situated in the centre of the
circle of tentacula, when the animal is not disturbed,

                        HYDRA TUBA.                          69
is protruded in the shape of a four-sided tube, the
orifice of which the creature keeps continually moving
from side to side, as though in search of nourish
ment ; but on touching the little animal, this mouth,
or proboscis    as   we might    almost call   is it,   at once
retracted the oral aperture, moreover,
            ;                                     is
                                          capable of
enormous dilatation, opening when the animal  about     is
to swallow food, until    it    equals the capacity of the
stomach itself.
  The shape of the Hydra tuba,         as represented in the
figure referred to, resembles      a   hollow cone scarcely
five lines in length, attached by its apex to some fo
reign body, with thirty or more very extensile, flexible,
slender tentacula descending from the opposite mar
gin collectively, forming   beautiful silk-like pencil
                             a
waving amidst the water. The natural colour of the
animal isuniversally dingy-white, or sometimes faintly
orange, perhaps according to the season, or the quality
of the food upon which     lives.
                          it
   The tentacles, which exactly resemble so many fila
ments of spun glass, are, when fully extended, con
siderably longer than the body of the animal, and are
moveable in all directions   ;they are likewise exceed
ingly sensitive, and,    rudely touched, at once join
                        if
together into   a bundle and shrink up into      very   a
small compass   ; but they are never entirely retracted
into the interior of the body.
  The body of the Hydra tuba        issimple gelatinous
                                        a
bag, so irritable and contractile, that, when alarmed,
the creature shrinks to half its original size and yet
                                                  ;
at the same time so dilatable, that the animal swallows
prey apparently much larger than itself.          Its    move

   70            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   ments in general are remarkably slow, and its appear
   ance anything but indicative of energy or activity.
      Nevertheless, fixed and apathetic as these creatures
  seem, — helpless and inactive as they might be sup
  posed, few denizens     of the aquarium will be found
  more voracious, or better able to satisfy their craving
  appetites.   Who would believe that that transparent
  bag, hanging listlessly and   lazily in the water     as
             " The fat weed that roots itself at ease
               On Lethe's wharf,"
  is a destroyer more redoubtable than even the fabled
  Hydra after which it takes its name? Who would
 dream, that those long silken threads which wave so
 prettily around its mouth were instruments of death
 more terrible than all Medusa's snakes?              The food
 of the Hydra is by no means limited, as we might
 naturally conjecture, to vegetable particles or micro
 scopic infusoria ; on the contrary, creatures the most
 active of their kind not unfrequently fall victims to
 its rapacity, and its powers of destruction seem only
 to be restricted by the smaUness of its dimensions.
 Observe the specimen before us, with its tentacula all
expanded    — hundreds of active little beings swimming
round it — tiny shrimps of various forms disporting
 themselves in the water, any one of which appears ten
times a match for such a sluggish foe. The Hydra
seems unconscious     of their presence, and hardly deigns
to sweep the water with its lazy arms to seek its break
fast ; but now a passing shrimp has hit against one
of the outstretched tentacles, and instantly arrested
in its course, succumbs before the magic touch ; the

 HYDRA TUBA — HABITS AND MODE OF CATCHING PREY. 71
 filament    contracts   and coils    around  the scarcely-
 struggling     wretch, — arm    after arm involves it in
 repeated folds, and slowly it is dragged towards the
 Hydra's mouth, which gladly opens to receive the
prey. The trout that takes the mimic fly is not
more firmly held by the tenacious line, — the landing-
net gapes not more widely for the captive fish, —
until     at length the fatal gate is passed, and the
swallowed victim finds itself plunged in the insatiable
stomach of its destroyer, where it is ultimately di
gested and dissolved.
     Such is the voracity of the Hydra tuba, that its
real shape is only to be witnessed while the creature
is labouring under temporary abstinence from food            ;
for such is the capacity of its stomach, and so com
pletely will the creature gorge itself, that it assumes
sometimes the appearance of a round ball, and indeed,
from excessive distension, will sometimes drop from
its point of adhesion and fall to the bottom of the
vessel.     Neither is it at all nice in the selection of its
food   ; it preys readily and greedily on most animal
substances, and the quantities it devours seem alto
gether disproportioned to its dimensions.
    When sated, the Hydra remains motionless, with
the tentacula      closely contracted.     Judging by the
long-continued appearance of coloured food through
the skin, digestion is probably slow. The senses, if
such     exist, excepting that of touch, are certainly
most obtuse.       Hunger merely induces the extension
of the tentacula, but there is no evidence that the
presence     of prey is discovered otherwise than by
actual contact. No searching activity of the tentacula

72             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
is shown even when food is within their reach        ;  no
perceptions regarding it are hetrayed, unless the ac
tion of the proboscis above alluded to can be regarded
as of this character.    However, when prey is seized,
the animal is capable of raising large portions to its
mouth, and its pendent position is clearly the natural
one, affording the greatest scope for the play of its
flexible tentacula.
    This is an animal very impatient of the effects of
light. While all the organs are finely displayed in
comparative obscurity, they contract quickly on re
moval to the light, and always as if to avoid some
painful impression.
    The power of adhesion is probably spontaneous, as
with the freshwater Hydra and the Actiniae of the
seas; but the Hydra tuba       commonly    remains     sta
 tionary where it has taken a position.     If affixed at
first to the bottom of a vessel, it remains permanently
there.    If it drops from its place when attached       to
the side, or should the water be repeatedly agitated
while either adults or young are loose, they seldom
adhere afterwards, nor does the animal fix itself readily
at any time.
    A locomotive faculty, though rarely exercised, and
only in the lowest degree, is undoubtedly enjoyed by
these creatures.    The adult is never seen in the act
of progression, but the young Hydra withdraws itself
from the parent, and in the event of successive gene
rations, all the individuals constitute a colony around
its original founder.    Thus the perceptive and active
faculties of these   creatures are exceedingly obtuse,
imperfect, and limited, farther than belongs to seizing

                  PROPAGATION BY BUDS.                   73
 and ravenously devouring whatever prey they can
 master.
    The special habitation of the Trumpet- Hydra seems
to be the inner surface, and especially the upper cavity
of empty oyster- and other bivalve shells.      It diffuses
itself anywhere, however, provided the position be fa
vourable ; but certainly best when pendent and under
          "
shelter.    Notwithstanding this, it will be seen, as we
proceed, that the position of the original founder of
the colony must be accidental times out of number,
and that the dispersion of the progeny is dependent
on a great variety of circumstances.
   A  still more remarkable phenomenon in the history
of  these wonderful beings remains to be considered.
It  may be stated, as a general law of nature, that ani
mals only become capable of producing offspring when
they have arrived at a state of maturity : the cater
pillar is not permitted to lay eggs until it has attained
the form of the perfect Butterfly ; the tadpole only
acquires the power of reproducing its kind when it
has gained the    limbs and stature of the adult Frog      :
in short, it has hitherto been looked upon as an
established axiom, that no larva or immature creature
can be prolific.     Now, as the reader will perceive
further on, the Hydra tuba is not an adult animal, but
only in a preparatory or larval condition, and yet,
strange to say, it is enabled to furnish progeny and
multiply its race to an extent that seems quite in
definite.
   On watching closely one of these remarkable beings
while in a well-fed and vigorous condition, the aqua-
riist will not fail to observe, that at times little buds,
                                              E

 74             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
for such they may be called, sprout from the trans
parent walls of its gelatinous body, which at first have
the appearance of simple warts or prominences, but
which, in the course of a few hours, reveal themselves
to be young Hydrae growing from the sides of the pa
rent animal (PI. I. fig. 4,g) ; a cavity soon appears in
their transparent substance, — tentacles are seen like
slender filaments to issue from the neighbourhood of
the mouth, which, as they elongate, rapidly begin to
fish for food in the surrounding water, and the new
animal appears in all respects as perfect as the original
being from which it sprung ; — nay, sometimes two or
three young Hydrae may be seen to sprout at once
from the same parent, which in their turn give birth
to others by a similar proceeding.          After the deve
lopment of the bud has been apparently completed,
the parent and progeny are for two or three days ad
herent to each other, but at length they separate and
become quite independent individuals.
    It will easily be understood how, by a repetition of
this process, numerous colonies may be developed in
the course of a few months from a single individual,
and accordingly we might suppose that none of Na
ture's products would         be more common than the
Trumpet-polyp      ; still it is not so. In fact, it is of very
rare occurrence except under circumstances extremely
 favourable to its development.
    There is still another way in which these Hydrae
 may be multiplied, which is even more plant-like than
the last.    We all know that many vegetables are ca
pable of propagation by means of what the gardeners
call "suckers" and "runners;" offshoots, which,

             REPRODUCTION    BY OFFSHOOTS.           75
straying to a distance from the parent plant, again
take root, and thus progressively spread far and wide,
sending up other stems and giving birth to numerous
progeny.    The Hydra we are now contemplating is
sometimes propagated in a manner precisely similar,
— long filaments derived from some point of its sub
stance spread themselves upon the stone or shell
whereon    the animal is fixed, like creeping stems,
from which at intervals young Hydrae sprout, until
a numerous colony thus emanating from a single in
dividual rewards the patience of the naturalist.
   The Hydrae can endure long-protracted abstinence,
under which their size gradually diminishes ; but they
 may be speedily restored again by plentiful sustenance,
 and will survive during years.   They are likewise very
 tenacious of life, and are endowed with extraordinary
 regenerative faculties enabling them to survive the
 severest  wounds    and lacerations, and to reproduce
 mutilated parts.

 76             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                     CHAPTER VII.
      HOW THE MEDUSA PRODUCES A HYDRA TUBA.
WE    are all of us in the habit of regarding it as a law
of nature, that the offspring of any animal shall re
semble the parent that gave it birth. We are not now
speaking, gentle reader, of the never-to-be-doubted
resemblance which every gossip finds between baby
and its mama, until, as is always the case, it is
proved to have papa's eyes, and papa's nose, and
papa's mouth, — but of the more general similitude
whereby the kitten is recognized as the young of
the cat — the foal, of the mare — the calf, of the cow;
in all of which instances the paternity of the    species
is clear and undeniable     ; and yet some of us may
perhaps be startled to learn that nothing can be more
erroneous than such a supposition.          When Shak-
speare tells us that all the world is a stage, on which
Man himself plays many parts, his       acts being seven
ages, the immortal     bard did not go far enough, — he
might have said, that all the world is a stage, on which
every animal in its time performs many parts, and
that under forms so different, under disguises so dis
similar, that it is not too much to say, that every ani
mal has to be in succession several other animals
before it arrives at that condition    in which the zoo
logist is pleased to recognize it as being itself.     So

               PUZZLING HISTORY OF MEDUSJE.             77
  universal, indeed, is this metamorphosis that, we might
  almost be tempted to hold doctrine with Pythagoras,
  and think all creatures in a state of transmigration     :
  from Man himself, Creation's lord, down to the hum
  blest zoophyte in yonder tank, changes as wonderful
  as those we meet with in the insect world are wit
 nessed   by the naturalist at every step ; and perhaps
 few more interesting subjects of study can offer them
 selves than the phenomena connected with these al
 most miraculous transmutations.
     Among all the puzzles in this puzzling world, none
 have presented greater difficulties than the natural
 history of the MEDUSA.       At certain seasons they pre
 sent themselves upon our coasts in countless multi
 tudes, only to disappear again in a manner equally
 mysterious and incomprehensible.        In the year 1846,
for example, the fishermen were embarrassed in casting
their nets and sinking their lines from the multitudes
of these jelly-fishes absolutely thickening the sea, and
yet in a short time they all vanished, without any one
being able to say either from whence they came or
whither they went : in short, it may well be said of
these lovely creatures, they are
               "Indeed a beauty and a mystery."
    Equally unintelligible and inexplicable was their
mode of propagation : that they are amazingly pro
lific there could be no reasonable doubt, seeing the
immense numbers of eggs with which they seem at
times to be loaded, and which, tinted with various
brilliant hues— purple and red, yellow and brown, —
are seen arranged in broad festoons appended to their

78              THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
floating bodies   ;  still it was evident, from all observa
tions made in relation to this part of their oeconomy,
that the progeny derived from these eggs were any
thing but like Medusae, and it has only been by re
searches of a very recent date that satisfactory infor
mation relative to their growth and development has
been obtained by competent observers, among whom
we select     Sir John Dalyell      as the exponent   of this
portion of their history.
    Selecting   a specimen      of Medusa chrysaora (PI. I.
fig. 4) eight inches in diameter, says Sir John Dal
yell, I lodged it in a clear and capacious glass jar on
the 21th of August. Herein the umbrella continued
to collapse and to reach the surface by impulse on the
water, as these animals do naturally in the sea. On
gaining this position, the Medusa remained still and
motionless, as if to be carried along by the flow or the
ebbing of the tide. Nevertheless, although the spe
cimen seemed sufficiently vigorous, it could be kept
only a few days from decay.          There seems a natural
delicacy incident to the whole tribe in confinement ;
nor have    I  been able to preserve any adult individual
above a month       in activity.
    On the 25th of August, this Medusa being removed
from its vessel, a quantity of brownish matter, like
dust, remained at the bottom.           Subjected to the mi
 croscope   it proved to consist of       a multitude of ani
 mated   creatures in quick and varied motion, but to
 the naked eye        they    were  hardly perceptible — the
 merest specks, infinitely minute ; nor by an ordinary
 lens could their proportions be discovered.
    Higher powers, next resorted to, showed them to

              OFFSPRING OF MEDUSA CHRYSAORA.                    79
be white, opake, and fleshy, tending to an elliptical
form, though very mutable — one extremity generally
broader than the other, with which each individual
made      its way amongst the multitude of its fellows.
All were crawling about the bottom of the glass with
a quick, smooth, lively motion.             The body seemed
consistent aud soft, evidently yielding to pressure, as
it forced its way through the crowd. No cilia or
other external organs could be detected, for perhaps
the magnifying powers were insufficient*.                On the
whole, the animals evidently closely resembled the
Planula, hereafter to be described as the offspring of
many races of Polyps, such as the reader will find re
presented in PI. II. fig. 1, e.
    After the lapse of other forty hours these little
creatures began to appear of twofold composition, now
consisting of a lighter margin surrounding a darker
interior portion of corresponding form (PI. I. fig. 4, b)
— previously the whole had            a uniform homogeneous
aspect.      Their shape had also become considerably
modified; but whatever the outline of the exterior,
that of the interior exactly corresponded.
    In    forty-eight hours, namely on August the 27th,
the appearance of spots of scum at the surface of the
water announced the progress of certain alterations
below.
     On applying the microscope, these spots were plainly
 discovered to consist of the Planula in a state of ad
 vancing      metamorphosis.         All remained still and
 floating.      Some of the least-altered approached a
    *
       The cilia, with the aid of a good microscope, are distinctly
 visible.

80              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
shuttle-shape, with an orifice in the centre ; the ends
of the shuttle were more prolonged in others, and
several showed obvious indications of four incipient
arms in unequal          progress around       a central orifice
(PI. I. fig. 4, c).
   On the following day, August 28th, a remarkable
change had ensued.          The metamorphosis was rapidly
advancing, for the elongated arms promised to be of
a peculiar tentacular texture (PI. I. fig. 4, d).
   In three days longer this tentacular appearance was
amply     realized — the extent of        the arms equalled
some diameters of the body, the two from the ends of
the shuttle remaining always more prolonged than the
others.
   All this   was an extraordinary       exhibition in the off
spring of such parents that so lately issued in the form
of almost invisible dust from compact, massy, pon
derous animals, alike remote from their progeny in
habits, in form, and in substance.            But Nature had
an important purpose to fulfil : the apparently rude
commencement had to be carried through by wonder
ful expedients to symmetrical perfection in the end.
In   eleven or twelve days after the simple active atom,
the Planula, had been discharged from the unwieldy
Medusa, it was converted into a stationary Hydra*                I
(PI. I. fig. 4, e,f).
   '  Unless in very favourable positions, it is by no means easy
to follow the history of such minute specks as those of which
we treat.   The most convenient method of observation is when
they are affixed to watch-glasses.    The progeny of the Medusae
while yet Planulae should be transferred to a flat vessel some
inches in diameter, filled to any height with water. One or more

                    ORIGIN OF HYDRA TUBA.                       81
    This new animal was provided with            a  complement
 of eight arms, yet so immature          as  to be of unequal
 dimensions.      Different   groups under metamorphosis
 showed the utmost irregularity in respect to evolu
 tion, both in their shape and proportions ; nor was it
 until thirteen days later, or three weeks after their
 birth, that any appeared with eight regular tentacula.
    Arrived at this point, the further development of
 the nascent polyp is easily and satisfactorily traceable
 — the arms gradually become more numerous and at
 tenuated — the body more elongated and conical — the
stomachal cavity in the interior distinctly formed, and
the Hydra, now permanently fixed to some foreign
object, begins to fish for prey, and exercise all the
rapacity of its kind, until at length budding progeny
begin to sprout from its sides (PI. I. fig. 4, g), and it
becomes the founder of a colony of kindred creatures,
after the manner described in the last chapter.
    Thus was a most perplexing problem solved — the
Hydra    tuba proved to have sprung from a Medusa.
watch-glasses  may be then inverted over the Planulae, and the
whole allowed to remain perfectly quiet for some days.
   Meantime the Planulae rising from the bottom, in the course
of metamorphosis, are intercepted from the surface of the water
by the watch-glass, to which they will adhere. This will some
times happen in two days. After remaining there two or three
days longer, the watch-glasses should be removed to another
vessel of water and kept in an inclined position, the concavity
where the Planulie adhere being downwards.       In  the course of
about eight days many young Hydrae will be seen, pendent by
the prolonged apex. It is preferable to have only a few thus
adherent, as a number confuses the view.    The subjects secured
in this manner are afterwards easily accessible.
                                                  B5

82                 THE AQUARIAN                NATURALIST.
                        CHAPTER VIII.
                 " Nothing of him that doth fade,
                  But doth suffer         a sea-change
                  Into something new and strange."
          HOW    THE   1M <1.   i:   Tl    r. r.   PRODUCE MEDUSAE.
WE        have    hitherto      viewed the Hydra                    tuba   as an
animal apparently perfect in itself and sustaining an
independent life. A creature which survives for years,
which transmits its form, together with all its pecu
liarities, to its immediate progeny and to remote
descendants,                     at first sight, entitled
                    seems certainly,
to a distinct position in the zoological scries ; but we
have still to look farther, to dive deeper into the
strange history of this wonderful production,                              before
pronouncing as to its real nature.
     At
     certain seasons of the year, that as far as we           is,
know at present, during the months of February and
March, the Hydra tuba,                      if     well-fed   and vigorous,
begins to exhibit an extraordinary elongation of its
body, and gradually increases in size, until   evident              itis
that some great change       in preparation, and in
                                          is                                   a
short time numerous transverse folds begin to make
their appearance at equal distances, one below the
other, partitioning off the body into numerous rings
or segments (PI.        I.   fig.    5,    d).

                 FORMATION OF    " STROBILA."                 83
   In   the course of a short time the segments thus
formed become surrounded with marginal rays dicho-
 tomously divided at their extremities.       These arms or
rays are free, all having their apices turned in the
same direction, and disposed with such regularity,
that the once polyp-like body seems to be furnished
with eight longitudinal ribs (PI. I. fig. 5, e), and now
evidently consists of a series of discs placed one upon
the other, like a pile of soup-plates or saucers ; but as
those nearest the top of the pile grow more rapidly
than the rest, the creature          ultimately   assumes      a
conical shape,      somewhat resembling a champagne-
glass   (PI. I. fig. 5,f), or, as a lady observes of some
specimens now before us,
                               " they look exactly like the
tassels   of our dimity curtains." In this condition
the Hydra tuba is the far-famed Strobila, whose re
markable history, first discovered and described by
M. Sars in the year 1829, formed an epoch in zoo
logical science.
   And here comes the most wonderful              part of the
proceeding : the uppermost disc of the Strobila, now
nearly mature, begins to exhibit very distinctly the
form of a Medusa, and after sundry tugs and pulls, as
though impatient of restraint, breaks loose from the
top of the pile (PI. I. fig. 5, A), and escaping into the
surrounding .water, swims away, presenting all the
characters and attributes of a free Acaleph, and in this
condition assumes an independent existence under the
appearance represented      in the figure (PI. I. fig. 5,g) .
   A group of twelve individuals, just on the point
of separation, measured about one-third of an inch
in length, and when examined by the microscope,

81              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
movements of contraction       and expansion, precisely
like those exhibited by the free Acalephae, were di
stinctly visible ; in the course of about a quarter of
an hour the upper individual of the group detached
itself from the rest and swam away, an example which
was immediately followed by the rest in rapid suc
cession   ; so that in the course of an hour from the
commencement of this strange breaking-up, the whole
colony had separated, and its various members were
seen swimming about in the watch-glass under the
form of minute Medusae.
    The colour of the little Medusae, when first libe
rated from the Strobila, is a delicate red, or rather
they are perfectly transparent, but dotted with minute
red points, although occasionally they are as pellucid
as crystal.     They swim about with great vivacity,
alternately contracting and expanding the little rays
surrounding their disc ; but whether their course
through the water be in a vertical or horizontal di
rection, the convex surface of their body is always
foremost.      Sometimes they will sink motionless to
 the bottom of the water, as though to rest themselves,
resuming after a while their merry evolutions with
increased energy.     If one of them is touched while
 swimming, it immediately folds up its rays over its
 mouth and sinks, but soon recovers itself, and, if left
 undisturbed, resumes its evolutions in the water.
    Although these little creatures are more tenacious
 of life than the majority of the larger Acalephs, it has
 been found impossible to keep them for any length of
 time in confinement; for about eight or ten days
 they continue to swim about with undiminished

     BREAKING UP OF      " STROBILA"    INTO MEDUSA.         85
activity but at the end of that time they generally
begin to flag, and rarely survive more than a fortnight,
at which time their movements become very slow and
feeble, and then they vanish, leaving behind them no
perceptible trace.
    Long   ago, says  Sir John Dalyell,     I  had remarked
colonies    of minute transparent        animals    swimming
in  vessels  of sea- water during the months of Feb
ruary, March, and April. Their general aspect very
much resembled a flock of birds in distant flight,
as represented by landscape painters         (PI. I. fig. 5, b] .
After being transferred to vessels free of other sub
jects, they continued several days in activity and then
disappeared. I could not account either for their ori
gin or their transience. They occurred only at rare in
tervals, and always identically under the same form.
    More accurate inspection showed the alliance of such
 creatures to that comprehensive genus the Medusa,
both in configuration and habits. But the date of their
 appearance did not correspond with the wonted pe
 riodical ascent or arrival of that tribe to the surface
 of our seas during the summer months — indeed they
 were met with as early as the 6th of February.
    The species of Medusa to which these little beings
 belonged, is that long ago denominated by Baster
 Medusa minutissima, and being, in fact, among the
 more minute, it maybe rather considered a microscopic
 object than otherwise.      Its expansion is between one
 and two lines, nor did it present any sensible growth
 during the longest period        (sixty days)     of its sur-
 vivance.
    This creature's body (PI.     I.  fig. 5, g] consists of a

86             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
central disc with from four to twelve horizontal flat
tened, cloven arms or lobes. An organ like an obtuse-
sided cluster-column    projects from the middle of the
under surface, corresponding to the site of the pro
boscis in other Medusae.      Each lobe is cleft half-way
down. A cone in the centre at the bottom of the
cleft is surmounted by a black speck, which a powerful
magnifier shows to consist of a number of smaller
specks on a lighter ground.
   For the most part, the existence of the cloven Me
dusa is very transitory.    It appears unexpectedly, and
in a few days it decays or vanishes, though occa
sionally obtained directly from the sea. Sir J. Dalyell
was led to remark that they had been chiefly observed
in vessels containing the Hydra tuba, and that when
removed they were frequently replaced by others;
nevertheless, no visible spawn, fragments, or other
elements to which their origin could reasonably be
ascribed, were ever distinguishable.       He observed,
moreover, that they occur in the greatest abundance
in March, their appearance dating from the beginning
of February, during forty or fifty days ; and that they
are not to be seen from that season throughout         the
rest of the year.
   Eight of  these Medusae being observed on    February
6th, in a vessel containing      many specimens of the
Hydra which had been long under observation, they
were removed a day or two subsequently, as they were
conjectured to have been introduced in a replenish
ment of sea-water; but they were soon succeeded
by others appearing in the same vessel on the 14th
and 15th. Meantime Sir John had remarked a con-

           OBSERVATIONS OF SIR JOHN DALYELL.         87
vulsive motion among the tentacula of a Hydra on
the evening of the 14th, apparently from a Medusa
having been seized by its arms. The like occurred
next morning, when another Medusa was apparently
liberated from like thraldom.
    Similar convulsive movements agitating the same
Hydra during the 16th, it was brought under close
inspection, for being unable to discover the like
spasmodic demonstrations      among its companions, at
least 100 in number, it seemed surprising, that amidst
such a host of enemies, mercilessly devouring what
ever they could master, the Medusa should live with
impunity involved by the very organs of capture.
    On dislodging the subject of this observation, ap
 parently a Hydra of medium size, with scissors, and
 transferring it to a watch-glass, nothing but the
 wonted convulsion which proceeded from the clasping
 of the arms of a Medusa upon the disc or extremity
 of the Hydra was seen on the morning of the 17th.
 However, several little Medusae were swimming at
 large next day ; the size of the Hydra had diminished,
 it was visibly indented with deep corrugations, and
 when closely examined, proved to be wholly composed
 of Medusae, in various stages of development. The
 arms at the summit belonged to the animal which
 was most mature.     Many more in the lower part of
 the series soon became active, and beneath them still
 more were perceptible, as yet in a state of absolute
 quiescence and indefinite in form (PI. I. fig. 5, h).
  Seven advancing Medusae in all might be enumerated
 in the mass in the course of this day, the 18th of
  February.

88                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   Next day, the 19th, at noon, another Medusa, ne
cessarily the highest in the series, was observed to
have quitted the group, and another swam at large in
the evening ; further, a third having escaped on the
following evening, all these three were free.
   Next day, that is on February 21, after vehement
clasping at the summit of the mass, a fourth was
liberated, while new struggles to escape appeared in
the place it had left, and on the morning of the 22nd,
six in all were swimming in the water. A seventh,
freed on the 23rd, swam with the rest, and these
seven, pursuing their course or suspended in equi
libria, resembled as many minute stars.
  At   this juncture there was reason to conjecture
that the smooth slice or basis of the colony adhering
to the watch-glass was something different from the
animals that were successively quitting their position
above  it,and that   was in reality either an entire
                           it
Hydra or     a   portion of one
                             nor could any doubt upon
                                ;
the subject possibly remain, when on the 25th of
March, being entirely free of the Medusae, its long
silky-looking tentacula were seen waving in the water.
Further, its nature was subsequently unequivocally
demonstrated by the germination of a young Hydra
from its body    month later, and in May another de
                   a
scendant of one or other of the two had established
itself independently.
   From the above observations, then, and from nu
merous others of similar character, certain facts are
                       a
established which admit of no dispute.     Such are —
1st, the existence of   vigorous Hydra attached to
                            a                       a
solid substance, with long, flowing, silky tentacula;

                       DEDUCTIONS.                     89
2nd, an alteration in the figure of its body from the
 formation of a roll of embryonic Medusae on the disc ;
3rd, the gradual maturation of each Medusa, and its
liberation from the roll ; 4th, the disappearance of
the original tentacula of the Hydra ; 5th, the emer
ging of a new circle of tentacula from a smooth fleshy
bulb sustaining the embryonic roll ; and lastly, the
evolution of this fleshy bulb as a perfect Hydra, which
becomes the parent of other Hydra by gemmation,
and remains permanent as an independent animal.
    All the Medusae in the embryonic roll are separate
and distinct beings; each is in close application to
that which is next below if itself be uppermost, or
lies between two if intermediate.      The proboscis is
outermost   if the individual be uppermost in the pile    ;
thus all lie in the same direction, the proboscis outer
most, as the Medusa escapes from the next left be
hind. When the last remains adherent to the fleshy
bulb, its proboscis projects outwards also. Thus the
under-surface of the embryo is always outwards while
it forms a portion of the roll, an arrangement which
evidently shows that the maturation      of the embryos
and their liberation into active life must be successive.

90                  THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                         CHAPTER IX.
          "0    ! mourn not, that in nature, transitory
              Are all her fairest and her loveliest things."
     CYDIPPE POMIFORMIS, THE APPLE-SHAPED BEROE.
AMONGST   all the elegant forms of the Medusae none
can compete with the Beroe (Cydippe) pomiformis, or
emulate the wonderful machinery whereby it frolics in
the glassy water. In the bright sunshine, on the level
sand, just where the gentle ripples " kiss the shore,
then sleep in silence," the observant eye may some
times see a pearl — for such it looks to be— worthy of
being a pendent to the one dissolved by Cleopatra, —
but so frail, so delicate, so evanescent, that it must
be taken up         with tenderest care by those who would
survey its beauties, and at once transferred into a ves
sel filled with its own element. Its body is then seen
to be a little globe of clearest crystal (PI. I. fig. 10)
tinted with the hues of Iris, and, moreover, fringed
from pole to pole with eight transparent bands of
active cilia rapidly at work, by the aid of which it glides
along, advancing like a meteor through the water.
   It   is,however, when the Beroes* have just been
taken from the sea that they exhibit in the highest
perfection their locomotive powers, and display in the
                             *
                                 Patterson.

                  GRACEFUL EVOLUTIONS.                91
bright sunshine the splendid iridescence of colouring
caused by the action of their cilia to the greatest ad
vantage.    As they wheel onwards, rising and falling
at pleasure, and creating in their course the glory by
which they are encircled, they seem indeed
                   " gay creatures of the element
           That in the colours of the rainbow live."
    The variety of their evolutions constitutes one of
their principal charms. Sometimes they will ascend
from the bottom of the jar to the surface of the water
with a slow and regular movement, resembling that
of a balloon, and descend at the same rate of progres
sion.   Again, they will rise more rapidly, and turning
their mouth downwards descend with equal rapidity.
At other times, without rising or falling, they will
revolve on the transverse axis of their body — then,
abandoning all these modes of progression, they will
revolve on their longitudinal axis, holding the body
vertical, and in this position twirl round and round
the glass like graceful waltzers.          When the move
ments of the animal are thus varied, how great must
be the variety of motion in the cilia by which the
body is propelled ! Never for more than a second or
two do the cilia cease to vibrate. Even then it is
not a total suspension, but a slower and alternant
action that is exhibited ; the cilia on one or two con
 tiguous bands remain stationary, while the adjacent
 ones on either side are in motion — then those which
 have been   still begin to play, and those that were
 previously moving remain still : no regular succession
 of procedure is observable, but some portion of the

 92             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 bands of cilia are kept constantly in action, all seeming
 to perform their duties quite irrespective of the rest.
    The tentacula of these beautiful animals are, next
 to their cilia, the most interesting portions of their
 structure.    These organs are not always apparent,
 but remain enclosed in the creature's body. They
 are seldom displayed immediately       after the Beroes
 have been captured,    nor when the glass vessel in which
 they are kept is too much crowded. When, however,
not more than five or six are placed together, the ten
tacula may be seen developed to their fullest extent,
frequently extending above six times the length of the
body of the animal.        The tentacula are often pro
jected from their tubes to their full extent by one
impulse, and the slow uncoiling of the slender ser
pentine filaments from their margin is then very
beautiful.    Indeed, it is scarcely possible to convey
by any description an idea of the elegance and diver
sity of their forms.     They seem endowed with exqui
site sensibility, which, however, is not always equally
delicate.    At times, the slightest touch will cause a
tentaculum     to be drawn back into its sheath with a
sudden jerk ; at other times it is apparently unfelt.
The Beroes never seem to be poised or supported in
the water by the assistance of these remarkable or
gans ; but sometimes, when they are extended to the
bottom of the vessel, they seem to act as suckers, and
to form fixed points whence the animal rises and falls
at pleasure, appearing as if moored by these delicate
and novel cables.
    " Like  a  planet around its sun, or more exactly,"
says Agassiz,
                 " like the comet with its magic tail, the

         WONDERFUL TENTACULAR      APPARATUS.             93
little Cydippe moves in its element as those larger
bodies revolve in space ; but unlike them, and to our
admiration, it moves freely in all directions, and no
thing can be more attractive than to watch such a little
living comet as it darts with its tail in undetermined
ways and revolves upon itself — unfolding and bending
its appendages with equal ease and elegance ; at times
allowing them to float for their whole length, at times
shortening them in quick contractions, and causing
them to disappear suddenly — then dropping them, as
it were, from its surface, so that they seem to fall
entirely away, till, lengthened to the utmost, they
again follow the direction of the body to which they
are attached, and with which the connexion that re
gulates their movements seems as mysterious as the
changes are sudden and unexpected.
  "At   one    moment the threads, when contracted,
seem nodose;    next, the spiral, elongating, assumes
the appearance of a straight or waving line.    But it
is especially in the successive appearances of the
lateral fringes arising from the main thread that the
most extraordinary diversity is displayed.   Not only
are they stretched under all possible angles from the
main stem, at times seeming perpendicular to     or it,
bent more or less in the same direction, and again,
asif combed into one mass; but a moment after
wards every thread seems to be curled or waving —
the main thread being straight or undulating then
                                                ;
the shorter threads will be stretched straight for some
distance, and then suddenly bent at various angles
upon themselves, perhaps repeating such zigzags se
veral times then they will become coiled up from
           ;

94             THE AQUARIAN   NATURALIST.
the tip, and remain hanging like pearls suspended by a
delicate thread to the main stem ; then, like a broken
whip, become bent in an acute angle, with as stiff an
appearance as if the whole were made up of wires ;
and, to complete the wonder, a part of the length of
the main thread will assume one appearance, and
another part another, and, moreover, pass from one
into the other in the quickest possible succession.
When expanded, these threads resemble rather a de
licate fabric spun with the finest spider's thread ; at
times brought close together, combed in one direc
 tion without entangling; then becoming stretched
 apart, and preserving in this evolution the most per
 fect parallelism among themselves, and at no time
 and under no circumstances confusing the fringes of
 the two tentacula.    They may cross each other, they
 may be apparently entangled throughout their length ;
 but let the animal suddenly contract, and all these
 innumerable interwoven fringes unfold, shrink, and
 disappear, as   if made   of the most elastic India-
  rubber."
     It appears, from the observations  of Dr. Strethill
  Wright, that the surfaces of the tentacula of Cydippe
  are crowded with minute thread-cells or stinging or
  gans, and must be regarded as instruments for the
  capture of prey.    "I  had frequent opportunities of
  seeing these animals take their prey by the aid of
  their tentacles, and was delighted with the address
  they displayed in using these seemingly unmanage
  able appendages.    The food of Cydippe was easily
   ascertained, as the stomachs of many of the speci
   mens taken were packed with minute crustacea.     To

             FOOD, AND MODE OF CATCHING     IT.        95
ascertain how the latter were captured,      I  threw one
of them into a jar in which was a Cydippe which had
evidently not dined that day.    It was instantly caught
by one of the tentacles. The Acaleph at once became
very animated, and performed a series of somersaults
until it had succeeded in hitching the tentacle which
held its prey across the widely-gaping mouth as over
a pulley.     The tentacle was then contracted by suc
cessive   jerks until the morsel was hauled up and
dropped into the stomach.      This experiment was fre
quently repeated, with precisely the same results, by
myself and friends with the same and other specimens
of Cydippe."
   The Beroes, notwithstanding the excessive delicacy
and translucency of their structure, have voracious
appetites, and will eagerly devour minute crustacea
measuring from a line to a line and a half in length ;
the bright colouring of the prey so swallowed con
trasting most conspicuously with the crystalline trans
parency of the body in which they are enclosed.
   If,  however, the Beroe•s thus live upon the small
Crustacea, they in turn furnish a supply of food to
Medusae     more powerful than themselves. "On the
12th of May," writes Mr. Patterson, " took a small
                                          I
Medusa of the genus Callirhoe, and placed in the glass
vessel with it a Beroe which had been taken at the
same time.      While the latter was swimming round
the glass with that lively and graceful movement for
which    it is so remarkable, it came in contact with
the filiform tentacula    attached to the arms of its
companion. The arms instantly closed, and the Beroe
was a prisoner.     I endeavoured to separate them, and

 96            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
for this purpose moved them about by pushing them
with a camel-hair pencil, but without effect. In about
                                  I
half an hour afterwards, when again observed them,
they were asunder, the Beroe swimming about, and
the cilia of its bands vibrating as briskly as usual.
It  had not, however, escaped uninjured from its cap
tor.    The Callirhoe had taken from the body of the
Beroe    'a huge half-moon, a monstrous cantle out.'
In   fact, the portion thus removed occasioned a va
cancy which extended transversely across three of the
bands, and longitudinally for about its entire length.
The being which had suffered this     mutilation seemed,
however, quite unconscious of its     misfortune, moved
about in every respect as before,      and for four days
seemed to possess all its powers      in unimpaired    ac
tivity."
   To this instance of apparent insensibility ^o pain,
may be added one Dlustrative of the extent to which
the principle of vitality is diffused through every por
tion of the structure of these elegant Acalephs.       On
one occasion, two Beroes were taken after a storm,
with some of the cilia abraded, and other parts of the
body shattered and even torn. All the cilia, however,
which remained attached to these mutilated parts re
tained their full activity.   The most damaged of the
two was then cut, with a pair of scissors, into several
pieces, and each part continued to exhibit in its cilia
the same undiminished      rapidity of movement.      One
of these portions was again subdivided into parts so
minute as to possess only one, or at most two cilia
on each, yet no change in the ceaseless        motion   of
these extraordinary   organs took place.     Thirty-three

                 REPRODUCTION OF BEROE.                 97
hours after this minute subdivision several of them
were vibrating as usual, and at the expiration of forty-
two hours the two cilia belonging to one fragment
showed undiminished activity.
    The mode of reproduction in the Beroes has long
been a subject of interesting inquiry, and on this
point of their history Dr. Strethill Wright had the
opportunity of making the following observations*.
He found in Morecambe Bay, near Lancaster, one
day in June, swarms of the Cydippe pomiformis.
Every little creek and channel in the sand-banks was
full of them, where a day or two before or afterwards
not one was to be seen.       On examining one of these
animals confined in a jar of sea-water, a great number
of transparent vesicles were observed in the lateral
water-vascular canals.      Some of these vesicles were
floating freely in the circulating fluid, but the greater
number were attached in pairs to the inner surface of
the muscular bands, a pair between every two of the
ciliary paddles.    The constant motion of the paddles
rendered it difficult to ascertain the true nature of
these vesicles,  but the next day a considerable num
ber were seen floating freely in the jar, and were
placed under the microscope.           They consisted of a
transparent and highly refractive vitellus, containing
a germinal vesicle and germinal spot, and surrounded,
at a considerable distance, by a thin envelope or shell.
Several of these ova were placed in a small trough of
sea-water and carefully watched for some days, but
no farther development occurred in them.            In the
meantime, the water containing the parent Cydippe
                  *
                    Edin. Phil. Journ.  1856.
                                               P

98              THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
was examined every day with a single lens, and after
a few days, minute bodies about the size of rape-seeds
were detected     swimming about amongst the eggs.
These proved to be the hatched young of Cydippe.
The rest of the ova were found in all stages of ad
vance   towards full development, as represented in
PI. I.  fig. 10, a, b, c. Fig. 10, a, shows the newly
extruded egg, with yolk and shell.       In fig. 10, b, the
yolk has become       irregular in shape, granular      and
opake. In fig. 10, c, the embryo is elongated into
an irregular cylinder, and is encircled by a wreath
of long cilia, by which it is rapidly whirled round
in the shell. In fig. 10, d, the ciliary wreath is
broken up, and divided into four bundles — the upper
part of the embryo has become transparent by the
gradual absorption of the yolk, and the tentacles
have appeared as simple granular threads, and as yet
destitute of the lateral cirri which adorn those of the
adult.    In fig. 10, e (representing the newly-hatched
Cydippe), the four bundles of cilia have extended them
selves into short bands, and the tentacles have become
greatly lengthened.       At  this point, unfortunately,
Dr. Strethill Wright's observations were arrested, all
the young Acalephs having died at this stage, which
they attained in about five days ; and he was not able
to find other specimens either in the first or more
advanced stages of development.         Should a similar
opportunity    present itself to any of our aquarium-
cultivating readers, we sincerely hope that more for
tunate circumstances will enable them to complete a
series  of observations     at once so interesting      and
novel.


                           PLATE       II.
Fig. 1. TTOULARIA DTDIVISA                                        99
Fig. 2. EuDEHiRurM       BAMOSTTM.    a,b,c,d. Development
          of " Pyrulum."        e. Planulae.    /. Germ-cap
          sules,    g. Young Polyp                               106
Fig. 3. HYDRACTINIA      SQUAMATA                                115
Fig. 4. SmmnABiA ARGESTEA                                        122
Fig. 5. CAMPANTTLABIA      DICHOTOMA.        a. Reproductive
          vesicles.     6.  Reproductive      vesicle  giving
          birth to a young Medusa;            represented   at
          c and  d as it appears after its liberation        . . 130
Fig. 6. SEBTTTLABIA     POLYZOHTAS.       a.  Cells with   ex
          panded    Hydra,     b.  Reproductive vesicle, the
          contents of which         are seen escaping     at d.
          c. Planula?.     e, f, g.  Development of young
           Polyp                                                 125

PLATE II.
            i •!
            ••,


                  TUBULARIA INDIVISA.                    99
                     CHAPTER X.
              " Thy very weeds are beautiful."
  TUBULARIA INDIVISA.      THE SIMPLE TUBULARIA, OR
                 OATEN-PIPE CORALLINE.
THE Tubularia indivisa (PI.    II. fig. 1), one of the most
elegant of our native zoophytes, might easily he mis
taken by a superficial observer for a flourishing vege
table, which, although destitute of leaves and branches,
exhibits, in the rich tints of its
                                     " animal flowers, " a
spectacle  hardly to be surpassed by the gayest pro
ductions of the realms of Flora.
   This beautiful polyp, although very generally to bo
obtained on most parts of the coast, is an inhabitant
of deep water, dwelling at a depth of thirty or forty
feet below the surface of the sea, and is therefore,
under ordinary circumstances,        only procurable     by
means   of a dredge net ; but when thus obtained,       will
amply repay the Aquariist for his exertions, and afford
him an abundant supply of subjects for observation.
   A  bunch of Tubularia fresh from its native bed is
indeed not unfrequently      a  perfect garden in itself,
every stem being densely populated with other forms
of zoophytes, growing in rich profusion from its sur
face, and affording a spectacle    well calculated to im
                                               F2

 100           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
press   us  with an idea of the immense profusion of
animal life that flourishes in the recesses of the ocean.
The contemplation of such a scene under the micro
scope is overwhelming.      A cubic inch of it contains
enough of interesting materials to occupy the life
time of the most laborious naturalist.      Let MB, how
ever, confine our attention to the Tubularia itself,
and endeavour to lay before our readers the principal
features of its economy as a guide to their further
 researches.   Its body consists of a yellow horny stem
filled with mucilaginous pith, and is rooted below on
some solid substance, while above,     it is crowned by
a  living head, resembling a fine scarlet blossom with
a double row of tentacula, and often exhibiting pen
dent clusters like grapes, embellished by various hues,
wherein red and yellow predominate.
    Though perfect as a single stem, this zoophyte
seldom appears in a solitary state ; two, three, fifty,
or even a hundred and fifty stalks are sometimes
crowded together; and in such a case, their heads,
of diverse figures, shades, and dimensions, constitute
a brilliant animated group, too rich in nature to be
effectively portrayed by art. The stalks of a nu
merous colony are frequently intertwined towards the
root, which runs as a mere prolongation of the stem
on the subjacent substance, or descends over its sides
in a tortuous form in strong adhesion, but always
destitute of radicles, like those whereby vegetables
are implanted in the earth.
    The "head" or polyp is in all respects a true
Hydra, and resembles exactly in its general structure
the beings of that extraordinary race whose history

                   TUBULARIA INDIVISA.               101
we have already laid before the reader.       It consist*
of a central pouch or stomach, the orifice of which is
surrounded with a double row of tentacula, varying
in number from fifteen to thirty-five in each row,
while interposed between these two rows of larger and
of lesser feelers, and apparently originating from the
external lower part of the polyp, are seen the ovaria,
resembling minute protuberances at their first ap
pearance,   but forming pendent clusters on reaching
maturity.
   The tallest specimens sometimes rise as much as
thirteen inches high, and the stalks are about a line
in diameter where thickest, but the height and dia
meter, the general luxuriance and the fertility of the
zoophyte, have no reciprocal dependence on each other.
    The Tubularia indivisa is generally found on shells,
entire or decayed, empty or tenanted, and sometimes,
in the latter case, a brilliant group may be met with,
carried along in its course by the crawling inhabitant.
As few vegetate on stones, the calcareous matter of
shells may possibly be more favourable to their evo
lution.
    When the polyp or " head " of the Tubularia has at
tained complete maturity, the tentacula become much
curved, their wonted regularity is impaired, and their
extremities indicate approaching decay.      The pendent
ovarian clusters spread luxuriantly over them ; the cen
tral pouch, as if its faculties were exhausted, is empty
and contracted — the whole betrays a languishing and
sickly aspect.    Next, a point of intersection may be
 discovered amidst the ruddy pith near the summit of
the stalk, and the flower-like polyp, separating at thi*

102           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
point, soon falls off into the surrounding element, but
not to perish immediately; demonstrations of life
continue during many hours ; nay, they are protracted
for eight days or longer in vigorous specimens.   Some
analogy with the form of the simple Hydra may be
now recognized in this separated portion; but the
short stump under the head, which is drawn from the
stalk by separation, and represents the body of the
Hydra, has no power of adhering to foreign objects ;
nor are the feelers of that extensile nature, nor pre
hensile power, which characterize those of the Hydra
proper.
   Meantime the florid summit of the vacant stalk
becomes pale and appears to be fading; a kind of
cicatrix closes the wound.     But after the lapse of a
certain interval, it darkens again, and an internal bud
is seen advancing, which speedily ascending, bursts the
transparent skin and flourishes a new head, springing
precisely from the same point whence its precursor
had fallen, and of equally vivid hue.
   Singular to be told, the regenerative faculty is not
exhausted here ; for after continuing to nourish during
an indefinite period, this second head droops and dies,
and is dissolved like its predecessor. Then it is re
placed by a third, and the third by a successor. How
often the like may be repeated, how many successive
heads may be generated anew during the whole life
of the zoophyte, cannot be readily ascertained.
    Some remarkable facts attend this renewal of the
head  : the prolongation of the stem seems absolutely
dependent upon it : having lost its head, the stem to
all appearances remains unchanged, unless in the cir-

                 PROPAGATION OP TUBULARIA.                    103
cumstance of the wound closing ; but from the mo
ment that the rising internal bud reaches the vacant
extremity of its integument, the neck, or that portion
sustaining this young Hydra, visibly lengthens until
further prolongation is arrested by the separation and
fall of the regenerated parts. The wound cicatrizes
again. If the process of reproduction is repeated by
another polyp rising within, to issue in its turn from
the summit, a new prolongation ensues also, and so
on with a third, fourth, or more. Thus are formed as
many nodes or articulations of the stem. But the
irregular duration of the successive Hydrae or heads
produces an irregularity in the accessions to the length
of the stalk.  One shoot extending six or eight lines
may be followed by another only two or three, and
the prolongations seem scarcely sensible when the
head flourishes merely to decay.          Let   it,   however, be
remembered, that the prolongation of the neck, which
takes place at these intervals, the sole mode of ex
                                     is
tension in the stem of the zoophyte.
  The renovated shoot       at first flexible, especially
                                is
towards the head, but in time greater rigidity ensues,
and the colour fades.          In full-grown    and fertile spe
cimens of Tubularia, several florid clusters, resembling
minute bunches of grapes, with three, seven, twelve or
more berries in each, weigh down the most luxuriant
heads.  These constitute the ovarium, composed of
so many capsules or cysts, each,       in an advanced stage,
containing   a single embryo.         The greatest disparity
of size and number prevails among the cysts and the
clusters, nor are they of uniform figure. Each cluster
is   suspended   by   a   hollow stalk from the lower part of

104             THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
the polyp, and each cyst hangs by a pedicle from this
stalk (PI. II. fig. I,/). The integument of the cyst is
rather of a fleshy consistence, either opake, or so thin
and transparent as to expose its contents; each contains
a solitary embryo, which, on arriving at maturity, is
expelled slowly and gradually as a minute white solid
substance, from a dilateable orifice at the extremity.
  Soon after expulsion an irregular zone or waving
line may be recognized on the circumference of the
embryo, which within a day denotes originating ten-
tacula.    In
           earlier stages the animal resembles a star
with obtuse rays, or the spokes of a wheel. The
centre is next prolonged in opposite directions, on the
one side as extending tentacula, on the other as the
neck or stalk of the Hydra.         Meanwhile the circum
ferential tentacula     exhibit
                            enlarged extremities, by
means of which the nascent animal, sustaining itself in
a position the reverse of that which it will ultimately
assume, can voluntarily change its place.   The central
portion forming the stomach next augments in size,
the swelling extremities of the tentacula refine into
points ; the animal, still a simple Hydra endowed with
locomotive faculties, next reverses its position and
becomes permanently rooted on the plane supporting
it,   assuming the appearance       and characteristics   of   a
Tubularia (PI.   II.     g).
                       fig.   1,
   Such    the issue of this remarkable process, and
           is
that sometimes within twenty-four hours after the
expulsion of the embryo from the ovarian cyst. The
clustering ovaria are generally confined to the largest
heads, and for the most part March and April may be
held to be the chief season of propagation, though, as

          ARTIFICIAL MULTIPLICATION OF POLYPS.        105
  is the case in various other zoophytes, it is not abso
  lutely excluded from any period of the year.
     It appears from some experiments of Sir John
  Dalyell, that a greater number of polyps than are
 allotted by nature to a single individual may be ob
 tained, almost at the pleasure of the observer, by
 making artificial sections or cuttings of the zoophyte,
 and in this way twenty-two Hydrae have been made
 to originate from three sections of a single stem : the
 phenomena     attending this process are sufficiently
 remarkable to make a repetition of the experiment a
 matter of interest.    A luxuriant head having fallen
 from a specimen, the stem, previously detached from
its original site, was divided into three portions, the
lowest two inches long, and each of those above it of
the length of one inch.      Nothing resulted from the
highest segment, where growth might have been most
expected ; but in ten days a head burst from the lowest,
where it might have been least expected, and in four
teen days another sprouted from the top    of the middle
section; and in this manner the Hydriform polyps
may be artificially multiplied by a repetition of a
similar mode of proceeding, apparently to an inde
finite extent.

106            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                    CHAPTER XI.
                 EUDENDRIUM RAMOSUM.
WE heartily recommend such of our readers as may
be desirous of obtaining the marine productions of
our coasts in their full luxuriance and perfection, and,
moreover, of procuring many rare and valuable speci
mens, which would otherwise be hard to meet with,
to cultivate the good offices of the fishermen who
may be employed in their vicinity. These men, who
are busy with their nets at all seasons and in all
weathers, will often be found of invaluable assistance,
but, unfortunately, it too frequently happens that
they are rather an unpersuadeable and unmanageable
fraternity, having whims and fancies of their own,
against which eloquence and argument are equally
inefficacious.   To try to convince them that it is
worth their while to bring home anything not fish,
is to attempt to controvert one of their maxims of
life ; and to endeavour to cajole them into the belief
that the refuse of their nets— which in the North they
                                    "
designate by the general term of pushin
                                            " or " pus-
som
      " (poison) — can be of any value, is to stir up in
 their minds serious doubts as to your own sanity.
    We remember upon one occasion, whilst natural
 izing upon the Scotch coast, taking no small pains to

                  EUDENDRIUM RAMOSUM.                10"
 illustrate to a group of these worthies, by exhibiting
 to them specimens picked up upon the beach, the
 nature of the objects we wanted them to procure, and
 flattered ourselves, after bestowing upon them, as we
 thought, a very interesting lecture, that we had suc
 ceeded.     A  new-comer,   however,   who joined the
 group, happening to inquire,
                                  " What  the gentleman
 was wanting?" we were somewhat disconcerted on
 seeing   one of the bystanders significantly touch his
 forehead and inform him in an undertone, that " the
 gentleman was daft."       Still we must reiterate our
 advice to cultivate the good offices of the fishermen,
 many of whom will be found by no means so un-
 practicable as our Scotch friends, and by their assist
 ance the reader may perchance be indulged with an
 opportunity of studying the history of the EUDEN-
 DRIUM RAMOSUM, one of the most interesting zoo
phytes met with in our seas.
    The Eudendrium (PI. II. fig. 2), as its name im
ports (ev beautiful, BevBpov a tree), has much more
the appearance of being a vegetable than an animal
production, at all events until, when examined in its
native element, it is permitted to unfold its beauties
to the day, and thus reveal its proper character.
    Sometimes it resembles an aged tree, blighted
amidst the war of elements or withered by the deep
corrosions of time ; sometimes it resembles a vigorous
flowering shrub in miniature, rising with a dark brown
stem and diverging into numerous boughs, branches
and twigs, all terminating in so many Hydra-like
polyps, wherein red and yellow intermixed afford a
fine contrast to the whole.      The glowing colours of

108           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
the one, and the venerable aspect of the other, the
delicate polyps often laden with prolific fruit, and the
numerous ramifications,    all highly picturesque, are
well calculated to attract our admiration and excite
the interest of the observer.
   A   remarkably fine specimen is described by Sir
J.  Dalyell, which was obtained from among the rocks
of a cavity in the bottom of the Frith of Forth, at
about 150 feet from the surface ; it had vegetated in
such a direction that it was detached quite entire.
   Being transferred to a capacious vessel of sea- water,
this beautiful zoophyte was found to rise seven inches
and a half in height. Its stem, measuring about nine
lines in diameter near the root, soon subdivided into
several  massy boughs, besides many lesser branches ;
numberless twigs, terminated by thousands of minute
Hydrae of the palest carnation, clothed the extremities,
which were ten inches apart. The root consisted of
multitudes of moss-like fibres, extending over a circle
two inches in diameter.      The stem and the higher
rigid portions consisted of irregular bundles of tubes,
while the absolute extremities bearing the Hydrae
resolved themselves into single tubes, each with its
appropriate animal.
   Many parasites invested this splendid specimen.
Masses of the pure white and deep orange Alcyonium
diffitatum, or Lobularia, hung from the boughs ; Ser-
tularue, Sponges and Algae were profusely interspersed,
all proving by their obviously successive generations,
that the Eudendrium on which they had their growth
 had attained to a considerable age.
   The   " heads" or Hydrae of the Eudendrium are de-

          EUDENDRIUM       ITS POLYPS DECIDUOUS.      109
ciduous, like the Hydrae of Tubularia, though perhaps
for another purpose, because it is not in them that in
this case the elements of posterity are met with.       Of
eighty vigorous Hydrae which embellished the speci
men represented in the Plate when first withdrawn
from the sea, only forty subsisted on the second day,
thirty on the third, twelve on the sixth, four on the
seventh, two on the eighth, and on the tenth there
were none —the whole had fallen off.
    The head survives its fall for  a short time, or more
generally, it wastes away suddenly without falling.
Likewise its decomposition is rajid. Though many
may have wasted or fallen in the course of the night,
none are to be discovered at the bottom of the vessel
next morning.
    A  nascent bud, however, soon rises within the hol
low tube to replace the fallen polyps, precisely in the
 same manner as in Tubularia indivisa.         A beautiful
group of six or seven specimens, chiefly about 2£ inches
high, bore numerous Hydrae 011 the 12th of February.
All had fallen in three days. But after twelve days
more, many new heads were flourishing, and many
buds in different stages appeared amongst them. The
 distribution,  proportionate increment and perfection
 of the renovating parts rendered the aspect of this
group very interesting. Alike so were the subsequent
changes.      After all the heads had fallen, no germina
 tion was perceptible on the 22nd of February.        But
fifty or sixty buds appeared in forty hours, and in
 another day that number had doubled. Almost all
the twigs were flourishing vigorously on the 2nd of
 March. Above three-fourths of the heads had fallen

110                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
on the 8th, and on the 10th only one remained, which
went to speedy decay.   In the next place, a few buds
again protruded from the extremities on the 29th of
April   ;    several   nourished on the tallest stem on the
4th of May, and the reproduction of them was again
general on the 13th of June.
  In        short, from these and similar observations, it
has been proved        :   1st, that the same     twig may bear at
least six successive Hydrae ; 2nd, that the persistence
of a Hydra is from six to ten days ; and, 3rd, that the
interval required for the reproduction of the Hydrae
may vary from sixteen days to sixty.                                 «
  As regards the propagation of Eudendrium, Sir John
Dalyell gives the following interesting particulars : —
  A splendid group of above fifteen specimens occurred
on a live mussel-shell. One of these, not 18 lines high,
bore 83 Hydrae, and another, somewhat taller, above
100.  At least a thousand animated beings decorated
the group — a wonderful              assemblage    of variety and
beauty on such a scale.
  Numerous    clusters, like yellow ova, were inter
spersed among the Hydrae, not within the circuit of
the tentacula, as with the Tubulariae, but generally
around the exterior of the under surface or base of the
disc, though disjoined from            it,   and sometimes com
pressing the Hydrae            by
                         their number and position.
But they were neither confined to any particular place,
nor peculiar to the finest specimens. Subjected to
the microscope, these substances proved to be of                a
smooth, uniform surface, exactly resembling minute
ovoid plums, attached           by
                          short pedicles to some part
of the stem, but never within the Hydra. They were

             REPRODUCTION      OP EUDENDRIUM.              Ill
single, in pairs, or in clusters of seven or eight toge
ther (PI. II. fig. 2, /).
    These yellow plums proved at length to be so many
ovaria, analogous to the clustering cysts of Tubularia
already described, though differing from these latter
in various particulars ; for they neither corresponded
in position or consistence, nor in the connexion of a
number by a pedicle affixing them to one common
stalk, nor in their contents.
    Each of these minute yellow plums is a separate
and independent       pod or vesicle,   from which is dis
charged an animal intimately resembling a Planaria,
and which Sir John Dalyell designates a Planula.
    This animal, the Planula (PI.     II. fig. 2, e), is taper,
roundish,   or somewhat flattened, not half a line in
length, of smooth, uniform, fleshy aspect, and quite
destitute of external organs.         It crawls along the
bottom with considerable activity ; and on ascending
by the side of its vessel to the surface of the water, it
either descends again, or, committing itself to the
element, it swims       supine : it changes its situation
freely, testifying   evident preferences, and is of in
finitely greater activity than the nascent Hydra dis
charged from the cyst of Tubularia.
    The Planula is soft and variable in its form, and it
continues crawling about for an indefinite time. Then
its motion     relaxes,  it shortens and thickens,         and
 appears as   if composed    of two portions, a larger and
smaller, both very obtuse, and shortly afterwards it is
 found fixed to some solid substance.           In four days
more it becomes altogether metamorphosed, for now
 it is found changed into     a living Hydra, borne on a

 112            THE AQUARIAN        NATURALIST.
 tubular   stem with a diffusing           root   below   (PI.      II.
 %. 2,ff).
   A fine specimen of Eudendrium ramosum was ob
tained towards the end of September, five inches high,
and apparently very old, which was remarkable for
the profusion of pure white vesicles on the branches,
disposed in clusters of five, six or seven together.
   Within        days many Planula, all pure white,
              a few
had been discharged by the vesicles corresponding in
shape with those above described (PI. II. fig.    e),         5J,
presenting an obtuse rounded head, thick and fleshy
body, and tapering towards the tail, which was also
obtuse. The number of Planulae continued augment
ing, but in a short time their motion relaxed they        ;
became stationary and quiescent, and the alteration
of their shape announced approaching metamorphosis.
Meantime a root was diffusing below, and         stomach
                                                    a
forming above and the higher portion,
                 ;                                   by
                                                  the re
fining and improvement of the parts, began gradually
to assume the aspect of its species.
   Besides the above-described mode of increase, the
Eudendrium ramosum, wonderful to relate, gives birth,
under certain circumstances, to          race of animals
                                           a
widely different from itself both in form and attributes.
  Practical naturalists,        observes   Sir John Dalyell,
must be well-aware that numerous colonies of minute
Medusae,     and even           generations of them,
                           successive
sometimes appear in vessels containing various marine
collections. But       extremely difficult to pursue
                      it   is
the history    and  progress of such transparent, un
manageable,    and, too often, evanescent beings their    ;
sudden existence      has surprised me again and again.

              OBSERVATIONS OF SIR      J. DALYELL.       113
 I was   unable to ascertain their origin ; they have re
 mained some days in activity, and then vanished with
 out leaving the slightest trace behind.          No species
 could be preserved with facility, though but for a
 short period ; they did not seem referable to any
 particular time or subject    ;  everything regarding them
 was wrapped      in mystery.
    While a number of vigorous Hydrae still terminated
 the extremities of a specimen of Tubularia (Euden-
 drium) ramosa, I suspended various specimens by silk
 threads in vessels of sea-water. Several white specks
 among the twigs issuing from the branches then
 became perceptible by the naked eye, which, under
 the microscope, proved to be solid pear-like sub
 stances, of a bluish-grey colour.        Thence  I proposed
 to call them Pyrula. Thinking little of the matter at
 the moment,      I concluded    they might be regenerating
 Hydra, as not unusual with different zoophytes ; but
my attention was soon arrested by the position of
some,    as  if  seated on the long neck       of the living
Hydra.      I  could not doubt but that one neck sus
tained three (PI. II. fig. 2, b), and that elsewhere a
cluster of four appeared at the extremity of a twig,
then vacant, of a polyp. Further investigation ascer
tained the following facts : —
    Minute pear-shaped bodies (Pyrula), as above spe
cified, are dispersed on the stalk of different parts of
the zoophyte at considerable intervals; sometimes
three are together, sometimes two opposite to each
other, or only one terminates a twig where it might
be readily      supposed   a  regenerating Hydra.      Each
Pyrulum is affixed by its own distinct pedicle, which

114                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
is,at first, of some length, but gradually shortens as
the remainder becomes more globular in its shape,
until in  few days the Pyrulum somewhat resembles
            a
the opening bud of     white rose (PI. II. fig.
                         a                      a), in
                                                   2,
which, strange to say, alternate movements of dilata
tion and collapse are distinctly perceptible; and to
the surprise of the observer, the little rose-bud, in   a
short      time,   assumes   the elegant proportions and
transparent        structure of a young Medusa (PI. II.
fig.  c), from the margins of which four pairs of long
      2,
tentacular filaments become gradually unfolded, and,
after   few convulsive struggles, the newly-formed
        a
creature escapes from its enthralment, and appears as
a   free Medusa suspended     amidst the waters.

                      HYDRACTINIA.                  115
                    CHAPTER XII.
                      HYDRACTINIA.
 THE naturalist    who   confines his attention  to the
 larger and more conspicuous forms of marine produc
 tions, neglecting those which, from their minuteness,
require the aid of a microscope for their examination,
 would be but little able to appreciate the scene exhi
 bited upon the exterior of many ordinary shells, when,
freshly imported from their home beneath the waves,
they are perused attentively with a magnifying-glass.
The wonderful variety of animal life that crowds every
portion of the surface of some of them, affords a spec
tacle well calculated to astonish any observer, who, for
the first time, contemplates such a scene ; and when,
upon closer inspection, we perceive how actively em
ployed they all appear, how all find room for life and
for enjoyment on the little stage that forms their
world, unknowing all beyond, as if creation was con
fined to them, a reflection by no means unnatural
will sometimes steal across the mind, that we our
selves   are imaged in their condition, and in their
ignorance of what is passing in surrounding nature
beyond the sphere of their immediate neighbourhood.
    Six thousand   years have passed since man was
placed upon this sublunary scene — ages untold have

116             THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
rolled away since these little zoophytes began to live,
and toil, and die, and leave behind inscribed in every
stone the record of their industry ; and yet two cen
turies have not elapsed since man for the first time
suspected    their existence — since man first became
aware that     such things are, much less that such
tilings had been, and had perished. Surely the sage
was not far wrong who said, that science was a little
boy employed in picking up pebbles upon the shore,
as specimens of the vast wealth concealed beneath the
limitless expanse of ocean.
    The Hydractinia squamata (PI. II. fig. 3) is one of
those remarkable productions of Nature so singular in
its appearance, and so dissimilar in its structure from
the generality of the Polyp race, that the young
naturalist is at first quite at a loss what to think of it ;
and were it not for its slow and languid movements
when examined under the microscope, it would be
difficult to imagine a creature so strangely formed to
be a member of the race of Hydroid Zoophytes, to
which, on a closer study, it is found indubitably to
belong.     It is a Tubularia, in fact, but widely dif
ferent in shape from the zoophytes whose history we
have hitherto had an opportunity      of discussing.
    The Hydractinia is one of those animals after which
it  is vain to institute a special search ; nevertheless,
an auxiliary frequently comes to our assistance when
least expected, a creature most opposite in form,
nature and habits — the Hermit Crab.
    From the necessity of protecting part of its body,
as we shall see afterwards more at length, the Hermit
 Crab is obliged to take possession of an empty shell,

                  HYDRACTINIA SQUAMATA.              117
which it often brings into shallow water, or almost to
the shore. Such shells, conveyed by the new tenant
from greater depths, are often profusely invested with
the animal in question ; therefore, the capture of a
number of Hermit Crabs, thus sheltered, will give the
observer a fair chance of finding specimens of these
creatures.
  The Hydractinia      squamata dwells in numerous
colonies, which are always implanted on empty shells,
such as those   of the Nerita, Murex, Tritonium, &c.
  The animals themselves are single, though nume
rously associated : a portion of the largest whorl of
a decaying shell is sometimes invested by many hun
dreds of them, resembling a snow-white fleece.
  The colony seems to be originally founded on the
epidermis of the shell, to which the animal is attached
by a slender stalk, enlarging above, so as to present
somewhat of a club-shape, whence it has commonly
obtained the somewhat inappropriate name of Coryne
(icopvvT), a club). This enlargement or head is envi
roned by from four to about twenty-five tentacula,
arranged in successive stages. They are all, together
with the summit, very extensile and flexible, and en
dowed with an adhesive property. Their resemblance
to the human fingers is such, that Sir JohnDalyell was
led to confer upon this zoophyte the name of Hydra
diyitata.
   The stomach of the polyp is confined to the dilated
portion or head, which is more opake and solid than
the medulla in the stalk, and distinctly separated
from it behind.     Apparently the horny sheath or skin
entirely encloses   it,   but at intervals the paler apex

118             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
opens wide    for the admission of food.   The tentacula
are comparatively very short.       They sometimes ap
pear to consist of a stout stalk and globular head,
which form, however, is merely the result of con
traction, for there is no appearance of this globosity
in the active and vigorous polyps. The stalk is solid
and colourless, tapered gently upwards, and coated
with a very thin and faintly wrinkled skin, while the
head is white or faintly coloured, and muricated      or
roughened with sharp points.        Mr. Lister says that
it is covered with short projections like blunt hairs,
and it seems to be by their means that the polyps
attach with a touch, or release at will, substances that
drift within their reach. According to Mr. Hassall, the
murications seem to be "minute cups, similar to those
of the cuttle-fish." This discrepancy Dr. Thompson
ascribes to the different manner in which probably
the observations upon the organs in question have
been made.       Lister's description accords well with
what is observed when the head is seen at freedom,
and the appearance of cups is only produced when
the animal is viewed compressed between plates of
glass.   The granules or blunt hairs appear to be of a
glandular nature, secreting a tenacious mucus. When
brought in contact with a foreign body, the tentacula
instantly adhere to it with sensible firmness, and the
act is too instantaneous to be the result of the appli
cation of suckers, or of any power dependent on mus
cular action.     But sometimes    a film or line may be
seen   stretched between the foreign object and the
head of the tentaculum, when this is naturally with
drawn by the animal itself.

             REPRODUCTION    OF HYDEACTINIA.         119
    On a first glance, we are apt to imagine that the
 tentacula could be of little service to the polyp, for
 even when they have fixed the errant prey, their
 shortness must prevent them from conveying it to the
 mouth.    This is true ; but the difficulty is obviated
 by the mobility of the head, which can not only be
 shortened and lengthened at will, but can be turned
 in any direction, so that its extremity may be applied
 to whatever tentaculum the prey is adherent to.
    Colonies of these Hydractiniae in a contracted state,
 when first taken from the sea, resemble a gelatinous
crust investing the shell. They are liable to become
covered   with a kind of mouldiness in still water;
whence it is probably a provision of nature to ensure
constant washing, that they frequent shells occupied
by so restless an animal as the Hermit Crab.
   The mode of reproduction in the Hydractinia re
sembles in some respects that of the Tubularia above
described. Clusters of ovarian capsules are produced
immediately below the inferior row of tentacles (PI. II.
fig. 3). These capsules are observable in all stages of
development, each being supported upon a very short
pedicle, and in their interior may be perceived one,
two, or even four embryonic corpuscles, each con
tained in its own compartment : these, as they be
come mature, escape into the surrounding water, at
which time they present the appearance of minute
Hydrae, and    if placed in a watch-glass, these little.
corpuscles soon become adherent thereunto, and gra
dually assume the form of their parent.

120              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                       CHAPTER XIII.
                    SERTULARIAN  ZOOPHYTES.
FEW amongst our lady readers but have amused
themselves during the leisure hours of their visits to
the sea-side      in collecting  upon the shore,        selected
from among the thousand elegances which, known
by the general name of sea- weeds, strew the beach in
rich profusion,       those  branching, horny corallines,
whose slender stems and spreading plumes, arranged
after various graceful patterns, at once attract the
eye and extort expressions       of delight from lips best
adapted      to criticise   what is beautiful in creation
(PI.  II.  fig. 4).
   Occasionally we are indulged with a sight of simi
lar delicate arborescences spread out on cards, and
grouped in tasteful combinations, or, more favoured
still, enshrined in albums, with an appended poetical
appeal to our feelings (quite irresistible in our case)
to
          "Call them not weeds, but flowers of the sea."
   Admirable certainly are these pretty objects, thus
embalmed by roseate fingers, even in the dried and
shriveled state in which they are thus presented to our
notice, but infinitely more worthy of our admiration

                SERTULA.R1AN ZOOPHYTES.              121
when, in fall health and vigour, they unfold before
us, as they flourish luxuriantly in their native element,
their wondrous attributes, and teach us how objects,
apparently so insignificant,    may surpass our highest
imaginings.
    It is not however upon the beach that the SERTU-
LARIAN ZOOPHYTES (for by that name we must now
introduce    these exquisite productions of the ocean to
the non-scientific) are to be obtained, if we wish to
observe    them in a living state : they must be sought
for in their native haunts, in some deep pool, for in
stance, when the tide is out, wherein they will be
found growing on shells or stones.         They must be
handled tenderly, and cautiously brought home, to
gether with the shell or stone to which they are
attached, and carefully located in their new abode,
where, after a little time, they will begin to manifest
their real nature, and reveal the countless polyps,
which, lodged in appropriate cells, are the inhabitants
 of every branch.
    Truly it is   a glorious  spectacle to watch one of
 these corallines   when in full life and activity, and
astounding     to reflect upon the scene thus exhibited,
 to estimate the numbers of the little busy polyps that
 are there so silently employed, so actively engaged,
 so busily and yet so    blindly cooperating in the con
 struction and support of their numerous colony !
    Each plume, says Mr. Lister, in reference to a
 specimen of one of these zoophytes (the Plumularia
 cristata),  might comprise from 400 to 500 polyps,
 and a specimen of no unusual size before me has
 twelve plumes, with certainly not fewer cells on each
                                                o

122            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                                 •
than the larger number mentioned, thus giving 6000
polyps as the tenantry of a single polypidom ! Now,
many such specimens, all united too by one common
fibre, and all the oflshoots of one common parent, are
often located on one sea-weed       — the   site then of a
population which neither London nor Pekin can rival.
But Plumularia cristata is a small species, and there
are single specimens    of Plumularia falcata or Sertu-
laria argentea to be met with in equal abundance, of
which the family may consist of 80,000 or 100,000
individuals. Such are the " insect millions peopling
every wave."
   The extremities of the stems        of the TUBULARLE
described in a preceding chapter are simply cylin
drical, and unprovided with any cavity into which the
terminal Hydne can be withdrawn. But the extremi
ties of the SERTULARI/E present cup-like cells, and a
multitude of similar cells are implanted on the stem,
boughs and branches, of various configuration in dif
ferent species, into which the hydriform polyps can
retreat for shelter. Some of these cells are little more
than a simple orifice; some resemble a tooth, a cup,
a flask or a bell with a smooth or serrated lip.      Some
are armed    with a longer or shorter spine, or the
margin of others is guarded by several extraordinary
processes, extending in straight lines, or in curvatures
of inordinate length. These cells, with their tenants,
stand on one or both sides, or are arranged around
the central stems.      They may be placed singly, at
distant intervals, in pairs or in clusters, either crowded
together or far apart. Sometimes they are seated on
stalks or branches, or twigs, jointed, whorled or frilled ;

          STRUCTURE OF SERTULARIAN POLYPARY.           123
in short, the greatest variety is exhibited throughout
the principal and subordinate parts of these elegant
zoophytes, which nothing but a copious series of ac
curate delineations from luxuriant specimens could
illustrate, but which the reader may easily become
acquainted with by the assistance of a pocket lens,
while strolling upon the shore.
    The vigour and disposition of the tenant polyps
are sensibly modified by these provisions for security.
 Instead of exhibiting the inactive languor of the naked
 Hydrae, each little Sertularian polyp is seen to be
 quick and lively in its motions.      As if conscious of
 danger, it lurks at the bottom of its receptacle ; it is
 cautious of advance and precipitate in retreat. While
 completely unfolded, all its organs suddenly collapse ;
 it sinks within the cell in a moment, and crouching
 still lower and lower, lies quiescent, until, the dreaded
 peril over, it rises slowly as before, again to expand
 itself. Now the whole is still, and apparently lifeless,
 like a plant shorn of its flowers and foliage in the
 winter-season — it seems hastening to decay.       Let it
 remain undisturbed, and in a few moments it will be
 covered by innumerable animated blossoms, issuing
 forth from their cavities and spreading themselves out
 in the light, and then, after seeking their enjoyments
 in the plenitude of evolution, they again vanish in
 instant retreat.
     The food of the Sertularian zoophytes seems to be
  entirely derived from the microscopic organisms which
  are contained in the surrounding water. Neverthe
 less   this is a question which, simple as it might ap
 pear, is by no means satisfactorily determined, and it
                                             o 2

124           THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
is more than possible that these polyps may be en
dowed with a power of seizing and devouring prey of
a higher description, as is known to be the case with
their great prototypes, the Hydrae properly so called.
We at least invite the attention of the observer to
this part of their history, about which naturalists are
at present much in the dark.
   Whilst experimenting on a specimen of Sertularia
(Plumularia) falcata, Sir John Dalyell observed a
very remarkable circumstance in the economy of these
zoophytes.   Having cut some specimens near the
root during the month of December, and subdivided
the severed stalk of each into several portions, he was
surprised to observe vigorous reproduction ensue from
both extremities  of each of the separated fragments ;
all the new stems thus produced becoming in the
course of a few days furnished with numerous hydri-
form polyps, and evidently capable of continuing this
mode of increase to an indefinite extent.     Every part
of the zoophyte would therefore seem to be endowed
with vital energy quite irrespective of the rest.
   The life of the specimen is dependent on the sub
sistence of the pith : the life of each individual polyp
on its connexion with the common stem.        The life of
each of a thousand Hydrae, though all supported on
the same polypary, and rising from the same root,     is,
however, quite independent of that which animates
all the rest, and the death of no one individual seems
to aflect its neighbour.  While the parts above and
below are in absolute decay, an intermediate branch
may exhibit all its vigour in luxuriant florescence.
In the natural state the decay commences with the

             HISTORY OF SERTULARIA POLYZONIAS.         125
  lower ramifications;   nevertheless, the persistence of
  vigorous animated extremities may be long, and their
  reproductions numerous, while all the lower ramifica
  tions are quite dead.
      Let us, however, illustrate the economy of these
  beautiful organisms by an example.
     SERTULARIA POLYZONIAS.      The Hoop Sertularia.
     Specimens of this zoophyte rise to about 4 inches
 high, by a stem which is slightly waved, and scantily
 provided with boughs and branches diverging to right
 and left.     The cells are ranged alternately on both
 sides   of the stem, the subordinate parts always ori
 ginating from the convexities by which these are
 distinguished (PI. II. fig. 6).
     Each cell is occupied by a Hydra furnished with
 about twenty-four or twenty-six tentacula (PI. II.
 fig. 6, a). The Hydra is large in proportion to the
 size of the cell, from which it protrudes by means of
 a long neck or body ; and, when disturbed,      retreats
completely within the cavity. The whole zoophyte is
of a green colour, of various shades and intensities,
this colour being derived from the pith, as the horny
sheath is perfectly transparent.     The stem of adults
or older specimens is occasionally yellowish or brown.
     The ovaria or reproductive vesicles of this Sertu-
larian are large in comparison with the cells, and of
singular structure, appearing as if they were composed
of hoops or belts united together (PI. II. fig. 6, b).
     Specimens with lively Hydne, and bearing repro
ductive vesicles, were obtained by Sir John Dalyell in
July. Only one vesicle appeared among twenty cells.

126              THK AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
Those     that were prolific extended about a line in
length, and were filled with yellow, globular corpus
cles, about    twenty-four in each (PI. II. fig. 6, b, d).
    About fifty Planula issued from the different vesi
cles on the 8th of July.      These were about a third of
a line in length ; the body plump, nearly round, but
somewhat flattened below; of a smooth, uniform
aspect, and darker in colour than straw-yellow.           In
the course of their escape they were evidently sus
pended from various parts of the specimen by an
invisible thread ; but, on reaching any solid surface,
they advanced with an equal gliding motion, re
sembling Planaria (PI. II. fig. 6, c) .
    Many Planula continued quitting the vesicles from
 the 8th to the 12th of       July.   They spread on the
 bottom, and crowded together on the sides of their
 vessels.    Numerous dark green, thick, obtuse spines
 were observed rising from spots on the bottom of the
 glasses (PI. II. fig. 6, g) ; and, on the 14th of the
 month, several of these had evidently enlarged as
 buds (PI. II. fig. 6, /), which, next day, and on the
 day following, had in many instances become deve
 loped into Hydrae (PI. II. fig. 6, g).    The spine is at
 first dark green, thick and obtuse ; when further ad
 vanced, the summit enlarging exhibits the Hydra as
 a green bud      within its cell, the "spine" becoming
 the sustaining stalk.      Also the green colour of the
 stem demonstrates the existence of a central pith.
     Illustrations of the process of progressive growth
 may likewise be witnessed in this Sertularia in its
 earliest stages. An enlargement appears at the summit
 of a stalk, which is found to be invested by a deli-

           VARIOUS MODES OF REPRODUCTION.            127
cate  thin film, including twin buds.    These are un
equally advanced; but as the lower one becomes
matured, its higher companion forks off, and then
another is developed from this latter in the same
manner.     The buds are nascent Hydrae in their re
spective cells, each having apparently its own peculiar
integument within the common filmy involucrum.
   Rapid   growth    ensues.  A   young specimen with
only a single head on the 4th of October, had ac
quired six on the 20th, besides a seventh in embryo ;
and of course, as the extent of the zoophyte increases,
and the branches become more numerous, the evolu
tion of additional polyps becomes proportionably more
rapid.
   The multiplication of these elegant zoophytes ap
pears therefore to take place in three different modes :
1st, by cuttings, as in plants; 2ndly, by offshoots, or
the formation of new branches bearing polyps; and
•Srdly, by Planula, capable of locomotion.
   The first mode strikingly resembles what is ob
served in the vegetable kingdom ; for as every branch
of the plant-like body contains all the parts necessary
for independent existence, it can hardly be a matter
of surprise, that any portion separated from the rest
will continue to grow and thrive as well as the entire
colony.
   The second mode of increase, namely, by the for
mation of new branches and polyps, seems more like
the growth of a plant than the development of an
animal ; while the third is evidently specially intended
for the diffusion of the species.

128            THE AQUARIAN     NATURALIST.
                    CHAPTER XIV.
               CAMPANULARIAN     ZOOPHYTES.
THERE is a great resemblance between these Zoophytes
and the Sertularians    described in the preceding
chapter, insomuch indeed that the reader will find it
difficult to distinguish them.
   The CAMPANULARIJE may, however, be recognized
by the following characters. The polyp-stems, which
are  plant-like and horny, are rooted by a creeping
tubular fibre, either branched or simple. The polyp-
cells are thin and campanulate, that          is,
                                          bell-shaped,
and, moreover (instead of being, as in the Sertu-
lariaus, sessile upon the sides of the stem and
branches), are in the Campanulariae terminal and
elevated     on foot-stalks,   which    are   disposed either
alternately or in an irregular manner. The germs of
progeny are developed, as in the Sertularians, in
                             "
horny, deciduous capsules, or reproductive vesicles,"
as they are termed but the young, instead of pre
                       ;
senting the form of Planulae, or resembling young
Planariae, make their appearance as Medusa, thus
affording     another remarkable       example of Medusi-
parous birth.
      We   have already found among the       Hydroid Zoo
phytes, that the Medusiparous          mode of reproduction

                CAMPANULARIAN ZOOPHYTES.                    129
is by no means a phenomenon of unfrequent occur
rence in this remarkable class, and yet, until a very
few years ago, such a circumstance in their history was
not only entirely unknown, but, when first announced
to exist, the discovery was received by naturalists with
as much      hesitation   and jealous caution, as if some
visionary enthusiast had endeavoured to impose upon
their credulity.
    Animal magnetism and table-turning found ready
advocates ; the upholders of clairvoyance and spirit-
rapping had no difficulty in making converts to their
mysteries; but to believe that a polyp could give
origin to a jelly-fish, or a jelly-fish to a polyp, was
esteemed to be an assertion so incredible, that nothing
but the well-known simple truthfulness              of its first
discoverers could have obtained a hearing in support
of statements apparently so monstrous and absurd.
   " If, in a picture, Piso, you should see a horse's body
with a fish's tail, and limbs of beasts of the most
different kinds covered with feathers of all sorts of
birds, would you not laugh, and think the painter
mad*?" was a question easily propounded, and still
more readily answered, until at length the notion
of these alternations of form in the Hydrozoa might
have been scouted as incredible and preposterous, had
not the evidence      of our own senses, the aquarium
and the microscope, asserted the reality of the fact,
and compelled the belief of the most sceptical :
         " Serpentes avibus geminentur, tigribus agni."
   The subject of the present chapter affords us an
other opportunity of elucidating this wonderful pro-
        •
           Horace, De Arte Poetica, — freely translated.
                                                 o5

130             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
cess ; and from the circumstance         of its being exceed
ingly manageable, and easily examined in a watch-
glass under the microscope, will frequently be found
a favourite inmate of the marine vivarium.              Cam-
panulariae of various kinds are, moreover, to be met
 with on every coast ; so that, with a little industrious
 searching, the student of Nature will find no diffi
 culty in procuring specimens wherewith to verify the
 following circumstances connected with their history.
    The CAMPANULAEIA DICHOTOMA, or Sea-thread Co
 ralline (PI. II. fig. 5), is one of the most delicate, ele
 gant, and interesting among the numerous race of ar
 borescent zoophytes.        It is invariably found attached
 to some foreign object, from the surface of which it
 rises erect by a dark brown tubular stem, extremely
 slender, being truly no thicker than a silken thread,
 but tough and clastic.        The polypary, as in the rest
 of this Order, is occupied by an internal pith, and in
 each of the little bells or cups which terminate the
 individual branches is lodged a hydriform polyp, in
 all respects of the same nature as those we have
 already described.       This coralline is of great luxu
 riance : before a specimen has attained the height of
 an inch, it may bear from 50 to 60 Hydrae, and on a
 specimen nine inches high, upwards of 1200 little
 polyps have been counted.
    The mode       of propagation      in the Campanularia
 dichotoma constitutes, however, the most interesting
 part of its history, and will furnish abundant matter
 of research to every student in this department of the
 domain of Nature.
     At  certain seasons numerous egg-shaped vesicles

                MEDUSIPAROUS  REPRODUCTION.             131
  (PI. II. fig. 5, v) may be detected amongst the usual
 polyp-bearing cells, in the proportion of about one of
 the former to thirty of the latter.      Their position is
 no farther peculiar than in being seated on the upper
 side of the branches, and they are generally empty,
 as  if they had fulfilled the purpose for which they
 were intended.       When present, their number on a
 branch sometimes amounts to eight or ten.
    These vesicles are of a grey, or a greenish colour.
 When prolific, they contain twelve or more dull grey
 corpuscula, each having a dark central nucleus, and
 all appearing as if compressed together (PI. II. fig.5, a).
 These little bodies, be it remarked, present no re
 semblance to the contents of the vesicles of the Ser-
 tularue, which, as we have seen, make their escape
 under the form of active Planula, but are evidently of
 a  very different nature, and well calculated to rivet
 the attention of the most incurious who may be for
tunate enough to procure them under circumstances
favourable for observing their strange history.
    When the contents of the reproductive vesicles of
the Campanularia approach maturity, some internal
movement becomes perceptible towards the upper part,
and at length the tips of the tentacula of an included
animal make their appearance, gradually protruding
from the summit of the vesicle, and these stretch
ing further outwards, soon (PI.     II. fig. 5, b) begin to
contract convulsively, as if   to free the body within.
After much apparent exertion this is at last accom
plished, and we behold, to our astonishment, a Me
dusa, which has escaped from its prison ! (PI. II.
fig- 5,  c,d).

132              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   At  first, says Sir J. Dalyell,  I could scarcely credit
the truth of so unusual an occurrence, presenting such
a remarkable deviation from the nature of the pro
geny discharged by the vesicles of the various Sertu-
larian tribes, but     I was unable to recognize any error
either in the previous existence of the Medusa within
the vesicle, or in its liberation from it.    I have since,
however, seen the same repeated many times, though
at distant intervals.
   When originally observing similar minute Medusae
before ascertaining their origin, Sir John Dalyell had
no doubt that they were little Acalephae, and had not
inaptly bestowed on the young creature the name
tintinnabulum, from its resemblance to a hand- bell
 (PI. II.  fig. 5, d) . The body in fact might be com
pared to a minute watch-glass, half a line in diameter,
bordered by a pendent marginal fringe of about
twenty-three tentacula, each of which issues from an
enlarged root, and is nearly as long as the diameter
of the disc.        A central prolongation below corre
sponds to the proboscis of the Medusa, while the ani
mal suspends itself in equilibrio in the water; but
 when reversed, this proboscis appears like a crest upon
 a  convex surface (fig. 5, d) : four lines with enlarged
 extremities diverge from the base of this proboscis.
 The animal is whitish, or almost transparent. It
 swims by jerks, like the various species of Medusae,
 pursuing all directions, rising, falling, or remaining
 stationary   ;  and,  like the Medusa bifida, a group of
 these little creatures closely resembles a flock of mi
 nute birds wending their course through the expanse
 of the firmament.

                                                        133
   The   astonishment of Prof. Van Beneden on first
discovering the Medusiparous character of the Cam-
panularife seems to have fully equalled that of Sir
John Dalyell,    and his account    of the phenomenon is
very similar to that given above.
   Happening to have in his aquarium sundry speci
mens of these zoophytes, he was occupied one morn
ing, as usual, in examining them with a lens, when he
perceived the water to be crowded with hundreds of
minute Medusae,       some   of which he caught for the
purpose of examining them under the microscope, and
then proceeded to make an accurate drawing of one
of them, preparatory to writing a description of its
appearance.     In    about an hour afterwards, on again
looking at this specimen, he was amazed to find its
shape altogether changed, and the animal apparently
turned inside out.      The marginal tentacles seemed to
be reversed in their position, the umbrella-like disc
from being convex had become concave, and the cen
tral pedicle of the Medusa seemed converted into the
stem   of  a solitary polyp ; here, however, his obser
vations ceased, and we commend to the special atten
tion of our sea-side naturalists his further notions
relative to the history of the Medusa-like polyp, in
order that they may be either verified or disproved by
actual examination of what really takes place.
    " My  observations,"    says  Professor Van Beneden,
 " go  no further   ;  but, although  I  have not seen the
 polyp (Medusa) give origin to a polyp-stem,          I  ob
 served it up to the moment when it was about to form
 a new colony ; and without fear     of deceiving ourselves,
 we may form by analogy some idea of the changes

134            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
which must necessarily occur. The Campanularia in
its Medusa-state has only a single aperture, situated
at the extremity of its central pedicle. We have
already seen that its body becomes inverted like the
finger of a glove, and that the marginal filaments be
come converted into true tentacles.     The polyp fixes
itself by the extremity of its central appendage, that
is, by what was previously its mouth. The back of
the umbrella    becomes   depressed   at the same time
that the tentacles change their direction, and in the
centre of the disc a new aperture     isformed, which
communicates with the central cavity, and becomes
the permanent mouth, which    situated directly op
                                is
posite to the original one.   Being now fixed     by
                                                  its
base, the body of the polyp begins to grow and as its
                                           ;
external sheath becomes hardened, buds sprout at
regular intervals from its surface. In     word, the
                                           a
growth   of the polyp resembles that of the Hydrae,
with this difference, that in the latter there    is no
polyp-stem, and their buds sprout from another part
of the body."
   Such  is Van Beneden's " idea derived from ana
logy." We shall be delighted     if any of our readers
should fortunately have   a  favourable opportunity of
putting science in possession of the real proceeding of
Nature in this matter.


                              PLATE HI.
                                                               Page
 Fig. 1. PENNATULA        SPINOSA.
Fig. 2. CABYOPHYLLIA                                           141
Fig. 3. V 1 l;r. r I. M:M MIRABILIS.
Fig. 4. Isis NOBILIS — Coral of commerce.
           The above         figures, illustrative  of various
        forms of cortical zoophytes, are, with the ex
        ception of Caryophyllia, only generally referred
        to in the text.
Fig. 5. ACTINIA MESEMBRYANTITEMUM.               From a speci
           men which had been twenty years in con
           finement                                            152
Fig. 6. ACTINIA LACERA                                         163
Fig. 7. LUCERNABIA CAMPANULATA                                 168
Fig. 8. PEHTACMNUS EUBOPJEUS                                   176
Fig. 9. COMATULA                                               183
Fig. 10. ASTEBOPHTTON                                          187



                      CARYOPHYLLIA.                  135
                    CHAPTER XV.
                      CAEYOPHYLLIA.
THE natural productions which have so long occupied
our attention were denominated Zoophytes, because
by some physiologists they were thought to partake of
the nature both of vegetables and animals, and con
nected the two kingdoms of organized nature ; or, as
the term is now understood, because, having the out
ward semblance of sea-plants, they are in reality the
formations of little animals that nestle in the tubes
of the zoophyte to which they are organically and in-
dissolubly connected.
    Little more than a century has elapsed since the
first discoveries were made upon which this last view
of their economy originated.   Previously to that time,
zoophytes were considered the undoubted subjects of
the vegetable kingdom, naturalists being obviously
led to this allocation of them by their arborescent
appearance, in which it were vain to attempt to trace
a resemblance to the more usual forms exhibited by
animals, and by their permanent fixedness to the ob
jects upon which they grow ; for zoophytes are at
tached to foreign bodies much in the same way that
 marine plants are, while the capability of moving from
place    to place was deemed to be the principal    cha

 136            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 racter of distinction   between the two classes of ani
 mated beings. The zoologist claimed none of them,
 if we except the Actinia, for his province and study,
 but left them, without dispute, to botanical writers ;
 and   if any of these, in reference to a very few zoo
 phytes of the less arborescent character than the rest,
 hazarded a whispered conjecture that they were
wrongly classed, it died away in the utterance, and
raised no echo to awaken further inquiry.
    The only opposition to the botanical theory came
from the mineralogists, who, some of them, questioned
the vegetability of such of these productions as were
of   a hard and     stony nature, contending that they
were rather rocks or stones formed by the sediment
or agglutination     of a submarine general compost of
calcareous and argillaceous materials, moulded into
the figure of trees and mosses by the action of the
waves, by crystallization,    by the incrustation    of real
fuci, or by some imagined vegetative         power in brute
matter*.
    It was  only somewhere about the year 1730 that
Peyssonnel, a physician residing at Marseilles, whose
opportunities of observing these organisms entitled
him to give an opinion upon the subject, first ventured
to maintain, that what had previously been described
as the " blossoms" of the coral, were true animals
(" insects,"  he thought proper to call them), analogous
to the Actiniae or Sea-Anemones ; that the coral was
secreted   in a fluid form by the inhabitant Actiniae,
and became      afterwards fixed, hard, and changed to
stone ; and    that all other stony plants, and even
                 *
                   Johnston, Brit Zoophytes.

                JUSSIEU'S SPECULATIONS.              137
sponges, are the   work of different "insects" peculiar
to each species of these marine productions, which
labour uniformly according to their nature, and as
the Supreme Being has ordered and determined.
   Jussieu, whose eyes had been opened to the real
nature of the zoophytic races by the arguments of
Peyssonnel, although, truth to say, he seems to have
been convinced sorely against his will, at last declared
his complete faith in the animality of these creatures,
and his conviction that a numerous list of productions,
hitherto unexamined, would be found to be of the
same nature ; in fact, he seems to have revelled in the
enjoyment of the prospect thus revealed before him.
" All that we have said," he thus concludes, " of the
polyps of the sea is merely a sort of advertisement,
which, however, cannot fail to produce the effect
which we promise ourselves from it ; it will doubtless
direct the curiosity of naturalists who reside by the
sea to animals so worthy  of being better known. They
will seek out different species; they will delight to
describe to us the varieties presented in their forms,
which are never but remarkable ; they will study the
figure and disposition of the cells of various species,
their manner of growth and reproduction, and where
withal they are nourished ; they will place in a clear
light everything   that has reference   to the different
polypidoms and their formation, so that a department
of natural history so interesting, so new, and as yet
only sketched in outline, may be rendered as perfect
as it merits to be."    They will ; — but here we must
fancy the enthusiastic old gentleman, in the exube
rance of his delightful anticipations, flinging his hat

138              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
and spectacles      into the air;  and could he but have
added,
          " they will  have aquaria wherein to keep them
alive/' his well-powdered peruke would, as we may
imagine, have speedily followed them in his frantic
exultation.
     It is wonderful with what difficulty the plainest
truths are admitted by those whose minds are pre
judiced against them. The researches of Peyssoimel
and the enthusiasm of Jussieu met with a reception
 equally repulsive among their contemporaries, at least
 in this country, and the mineral theory still found
 advocates.      Even in the year 17iJ3 we find no less
 a personage      than Henry Baker, the author of the
 celebrated work,     " Employment for   the Microscope,"
 gravely    writing as follows : —
      "The rocks in the     sea on which these corals are
  produced are undoubtedly replete with mineral salts,
  some whereof, near their surface, being dissolved by
  the sea-water, must consequently saturate with their
  saline particles    the water around them to a small
  distance, where, blending with the stony matter with
  which sea-water always abounds, little masses will be
  constituted here and there, and attached to the rocks.
  Such adhering       masses may be termed roots, which
  roots attracting the saline and stony particles accord
  ing to certain laws in nature, may produce branched
  or other figures, and increase gradually by apposition
  of particles, becoming thicker near the bottom, where
   the saline matter is more abounding, but tapering or
   diminishing towards the extremities, where the mine
   ral salts must be fewer in proportion to their distance
   from the rock whence they originally proceed ; and

                PEYSSONNEL AND BAKER.                 139
the different proportions of mineral saline particles of
the stony or other matter with which they are blended,
and of marine salt, which must have a considerable
share in such formations, may occasion all the variety
we see.    Nor  does it seem more    difficult to imagine
that the radiated, starry, or cellular figures along the
sides of these corals, or at the extremities of their
branches,  may derive their production from salts in
corporated with stony matter, than that the curious
delineations   and appearances of minute shrubs and
mosses on slates, stones, &c. are owing to the shoot
ings of salts intermixed with mineral particles ; and
yet these are generally allowed to be the work of
mineral steams and exhalations, by which must,           I
think, be meant the finest particles of some metal or
mineral   incorporated with, and brought into action
by, a volatile penetrating acid, which, carrying them
along with it into the fissures at least, if not into the
solid substance, of such stones or slates, there deter
mines them to shoot into these elegant branchings,
after the same manner, and frequently in the same
figures, as the particles of mercury, copper, &c. are
disposed and brought together by the salts in aqua
fortis*."
    Such was the murky atmosphere of Nature's labo
 ratory, in which our countryman, John Ellis, found
 himself plunged when he first undertook his work on
 British Zoophytes — such was the Stygian gloom his
 labours dissipated.    We ought, indeed, to apologize
 to our readers for detaining them so long from the
   * "
       Employment for the Microscope," pp. 218-220. Lond.
 1753.

 140            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
pure light of day, more especially as a few sunshiny
hours, devoted to the contemplation of the animals
that next invite our notice, will do more in the way of
enlightening     us concerning the real nature of the
Madreporic rocks than whole volumes of learned dis
quisitions.
   We must not, however, in this climate, expect to
find the "coral-fields" exhibiting their full luxu
riance ; it is in regions where the sun " showers triple
heat  "  that they appear in all their glory, rivalling,
if not surpassing, the gay charms of their terrestrial
sisterhood.    Beneath the tropics they abound in rich
profusion, and trees and shrubs, and plants of various
kinds, have each their representatives beneath the
wave.     The choicest garden does not offer flowers
more graceful in their form, or ornamented with more
beautiful colours, than those of the coral-reef; and
we may add, too, that the birds of the groves do not
excel, in the richness of their hues, the fishes that
sport amongst the coral branches.     The coral-tree, it
is true, is without verdure, but there is full compen
sation in its perpetual bloom.
   The masses of Madrepore that enrich the cabinets
of the curious are familiar to every one ; but it is the
privilege of few to study these as they grow upon
their native beds. Their calcareous skeletons present
a vast variety of form, branched or in rounded masses,
or spread out in broad expansions, but at once recog
nizable by the concentric laminae, variously disposed,
whereon the living polyps rest ; for, when alive, the
stony substance is incrusted with a living flesh, from
which arise at intervals rosettes of tentacles resem-

              HISTORY OF CARYOPHYLLIA      SMITHII.      141
  bling flowers, which are, in fact, Actiniae, in all essen
  tial points, allied to the Sea- Anemones, to be de
  scribed in a succeeding chapter.
     The visitor to our southern coasts, while dreamily
  reclining over the side of his boat, to peer into the
  transparent sea, will sometimes notice, as he glides
  along over the rocks, in shallow water, the Caryo-
phyllia Smithii (PI.   III. fig. 2), one of our few native
 specimens belonging to the race of Madreporic Zoo
 phytes, the history of which its habits will well serve
 to illustrate.
     When the soft parts of Caryophyllia are fully ex
 panded, the appearance of the whole animal resem
 bles very closely that of an Actinia.      When shrunk,
 they are almost entirely hid among the radiating
 plates. Specimens rarely occur above an inch in dia
 meter.     They are found at Torquay pendent from
 large boulders of sandstone, just at low-water mark ;
 sometimes they are dredged from the middle of the
 bay.    Their colour varies considerably; the living
crust may be white, yellowish, orange-brown, reddish,
or apple-green.      The tentacula are usually paler.
During expansion, the soft parts rise above the level
of the disc to about twice its height. The tentacula
are pushed forth very slowly, but sometimes are
as long as the whole height of the body ; they are
nearly transparent, except at their termination, which
is dilated into a little ball, white and opake.        The
mouth has the appearance of an elongated slit in the
centre of the disc ; it is prominent, and the lips are
marked with transverse striae of a white colour. When
a solid body is brought gently into contact with the

142            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
tentacles, they adhere pretty strongly to just as         it,
the Actiniae do but when they are rudely touched,
                 ;
they contract very quickly and,   ; the irritation be
                                           if
continued, the whole soft parts sink within the cal
careous cup.
   Expanding its delicately tinted arms in the quiet
recesses of an aquarium, the Caryophyllia         truly
                                                          is
                                                          a
beautiful object, and, as  seems to be lazily enjoying
                             it
the sunshine, few would suspect the importance of its
labours — few would dream that these apparently in
significant animals, by the accumulations of their
calcareous skeletons, form the reefs and coral islands
of tropical seas — the dread of the navigator — the ad
miration of the lover of the picturesque — the subjects
of the closest aud most interesting speculations to the
naturalist and geologist.
   That masses of rock, many leagues in extent, should
be founded in the depths of the ocean, and built up
to the height of hundreds of feet, by minute, frail,
gelatinous     creatures    such      as   these,    is    indeed   a
phenomenon       calculated    to     astonish      the     unversed
in zoological science,     —  a   fact which        has demanded
the repeated observation of the most accomplished
naturalists and enlightened voyagers to render                      it
intelligible, and the language of poetry to describe
the result of their united labours.
      " Millions of millions thus, from age to age,
        With simplest skill and toil umveariable,
       No moment and no movement unimproved,
       Laid line on line —on terrace terrace spread,
       To swell the heightening, brightening gradual mound,
        By marvellous structure climbing toward the day.

                 VARIETIES OF CORAL REEFS.                    143
        Each wrought alone, yet all together wrought
        Unconscious, not unworthy instrumenta,
        By which a hand invisible was rearing
        A new creation in the secret deep.
        Omnipotence wrought in them, with them, by them        :
        Hence, what Omnipotence alone could do,
        Worms did.    I saw the living pile ascend,
        The mausoleum of its architects,
        Still dying upwards as their labours closed :
        Slime the material, but the slime was turn'd
        To adamant by their petrific touch :
        Frail were their frames, ephemeral their lives,
        Their masonry imperishable."
                               MONTGOMEBY,      Pelican Islands.
   These zoophytic productions present themselves
under three principal forms, " atolls," " barrier-reefs,"
and "fringing reefs*."
   The term " atoll is the name given to the coral
                         "
islands, or lagoon islands, in the Indian Ocean, by their
inhabitants.      An atoll consists of     a wall or mound       of
coral-rock rising in the ocean from a considerable depth,
and forming a ring, or circular island, with a lagoon or
sheet of water in its interior. The outer wall is gene
rally breached in one or more places, and, when the
 breach is deep enough to admit a ship, the atoll affords
 a convenient and safe harbour. The outer side of the
 atoll usually sinks to      a  depth of from two to three
 hundred fathoms, shelving at an angle of forty-five
 degrees or more; the inner side slopes gradually
 towards the centre of the lagoon, forming a saucer-
 shaped cavity, the depth of which varies from one
    *
       Darwin, Structure and Distribution of Coral Reefs.       8vo,
 1842.

144            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
fathom to fifty.    The summit of the exterior margin
of the reef or wall is usually composed of various
species of living Ponies and Millepora.      The Porites
form irregular rounded masses of from four to eight
feet broad, and of nearly equal thickness : other parts
of the reef consist of thick, vertical plates of the
Millepora    complanata, intersecting each other at
various angles, and forming an exceedingly strong
honeycombed mass.       The dead parts of these cal
careous skeletons are often incrustcd over with a
layer of the marine vegetable called Nullipora, which
can better bear exposure to the air.
   This strong barrier is well fitted to receive the first
shock of the heavy waves of the fathomless ocean
without, and, what at first appears surprising, in
stead   of wearing away at its outer edge, it is only
here that the solid wall increases.   The coral animals
thrive best in the surf occasioned by the breakers.
Through their agitation, an ever-changing and aerated
body of water washes over their surface, and their
respiration is maintained in the highest state of
activity. Abundant animalcules, and the like objects
of food, are thus constantly brought within the
sphere of the tentacula of the hungry polyps.       Their
reproductive    gemmules are rapidly and extensively
dispersed amongst the crevices of the calcareous
mass, and thus rising colonies are planted wherever
fit situations occur for their support and protection.
   By the force of unusual storms, this outer reef is
occasionally breached, and huge masses are torn off
 and driven towards the lagoon, where they form an
 inner barrier or reef. The broken surface becomes

                 GROWTH     OF CORAL-ISLANDS.              145
the seat of attachment of the young of the neigh
bouring corals, the successive generations of which,
by their rapid growth, and development of their cal
careous skeletons, soon repair the damage caused by
the storm.       The masses of broken coral, thus driven
inwards towards the lagoon, accumulate in time to
the height of some feet above high water. These
fragments are mixed with sand and shells, and form
a favourable soil for the growth of vegetables, such as
the cocoa-palms, the large nuts of which may be borne
hither by currents of the ocean from very distant
shores.     Turtles likewise float to the nascent island,
browse on the sea- weeds that grow in the lagoon, and
 breed there.      Numerous species of fishes and shell
fish nourish in the same still water, which abounds
 with animal life. Man comes at last and takes pos
 session of the island, and the cocoa-nut, the turtle,
 and the fish, afford him abundant and wholesome
 food  : —
       " The turf looks green where the breakers roll'd,
         O'er the whirlpool ripens the rind of gold ;
         The sea-snatch'd isle is the home of men,
         And mountains exult where the waves have been."
    But it may      be asked,    how does he supply himself
 with that necessary of life, fresh water ? This is ob
 tained in a very simple and unexpected manner, from
 shallow wells dug in the calcareous soil, which ebb
 and flow with the tides, and yet are almost wholly free
 from the saline particles of the ocean.              Some have
 supposed that the sea-water loses its peculiar salts by
 infiltration through the calcareous mass. Mr. Darwin
 thinks that it is derived from the rain-water, which,
                                                      H

146            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
being specifically lighter than the salt, keeps floating on
the surface, and is subject to the same movements ;
howsoever this .may be, the fact is certain. A fit and
convenient abode is thus fabricated by the action of
the feeble, gelatinous polyps, and a wild and almost
boundless waste of waters becomes enlivened by oases
which navigators have described as earthly paradises.
    A barrier-reef    is essentially similar to the atoll
or coral-island.    It runs parallel with the shores of
some larger island     or continent, separated, however,
from the land by a broad and deep lagoon-channel,
and having the outer side as deep and steep as in the
lagoon island.     Here likewise the skeletons of the
zoophytes of which the reef is composed are found
on the outer precipitous wall as deep as sounding-
line can reach.
   The third class of coral productions, called by Mr.
Darwin " fringing-reefs," differ from the barrier-reefs
in having a comparatively small depth of water on the
outer side,   and a narrower       and shallower    lagoon
between them and the mainland.
   These differences in the characters of the wonderful
fabrications of the coral-producing polyps are expli
cable by the following facts in their history.         The
animals of the Porties and Millepora cannot exist at a
greater depth than twenty or thirty fathoms ; beyond
this, the stimuli of light and heat derived from the
solar beams become too feeble to excite and maintain
their vital powers.     On the other hand, their tissues
are so delicate, that a brief direct exposure to the
sun's rays kills them; and unless they are constantly
immersed in water or beaten by the surf, they cannot

            ELEVATION     AND SUBSIDENCE OF LAND.      147
live.      Thus, in whatever situation the skeleton of   a
Madrepore or Millepore may be found, it is certain
that it must have grown within thirty fathoms of the
surface of the ocean.  When it coats the summit of
the lofty mountain of Tahiti, where Mr. Stutchbury
found a regular stratum of semi-fossil coral at 5000
and 7000 feet above the level of the sea, it must have
been lifted up by the elevation of the rock on which
it     originally deposited.
     was                     If it is brought up from
the depth of 200 or 300 fathoms, as at Cardoo Atoll,
or Keeling Atoll, it must have been dragged down to
that depth by a gradual subsidence of the foundation
on which the living Madrepore once flourished. It is
by these movements of upheaval and subsidence of the
earth's crust that Mr. Darwin explains the different
forms which the coral reefs assume. Elizabeth Island,
which is eighty feet high, is entirely composed of
coral rock.    The coral animals, thus progressively
lifted up above their element, are compelled to carry
on their operations more and more remote from the
former theatre of their constructive energies, but can
not extend deeper than their allotted thirty fathoms ;
the direction of their submarine masonry is therefore
centrifugal and descending. Where the land that
supports them     on the contrary, in
                    is,                state of sub
                                            a
mergence, they are compelled to build their edifices
progressively higher, and in   narrower circuit; in
                                     a
other words, their growth    centripetal and ascend
                                is
ing; — the terms 'ascending' and 'descending/ of
course, only applying       in this case to the relation of
the coral builders to the unstable land, not to the level
of the unchanging sea.

 148           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   The prodigious extent of the combined and uninter-
mitting labours of these little world-architects must
 be witnessed in order to be adequately conceived.
They have built up a barrier-reef along the shores of
New Caledonia for a length of four hundred miles,
and another which runs along the north-east coast of
Australia 1000 miles in extent. Now, assuming this
latter to be only a quarter of a mile in breadth and
 150 feet deep, here is a mound compared with which
the walls of Babylon, the great wall of China, or the
 Pyramids of Egypt are but children's toys ; and built
too amidst the waves of ocean and in defiance of its
storms, which sweep away the solid works of man.
   " The geologist," says Professor Owen, " in con
templating these stupendous operations, appreciates
the conditions and powers by which were deposited in
ancient times, and under other atmospheric influences
than now characterize our climate, those downs of
chalk which give fertility to the south coast, and many
other parts of our native island. The remains of corals
in these masses, though allied in their general nature,
are specifically distinct from the living polyps which
are now actively engaged in forming similar fertile
deposits on the undulating and half-submerged crust
of the earth washed by the Indian and Pacific Oceans.
Again, those masses of limestone rocks which form a
large part of the older secondary formations, give evi
dence by their organic remains that they too are due
to the labours of polyps, the species of which perished
before those that formed the cretaceous strata were
created.   As the polyps of the secondary epochs have
been superseded by the Forties, Millepora, Madre-

      SUCCESSION  OF SPECIES OF CORAL ZOOPHYTES.    149
ports, and other genera of calcareous Anthozoa of the
present day, so.these, in all probability, are destined
to give way in their turn to new forms of essentially
analogous Zoophytes, to which in time to come the
same great office   will be assigned, of clothing with
fertile limestone future rising continents."

 150            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                      CHAPTER XVI.
                            ACTINIA.
" THE   works of Nature far exceed what we know, or
are able to know      of them.      Convinced of this truth,
and in order to improve my customary walks by the
sea-side to some useful purpose,              I bestowed par
ticular attention, in the month of November 1771,
upon the Sea-Anemones.             My   first success in these
discoveries soon turned         these   amusements of mine
into a long study, much more laborious than that
made in a library."        Thus writes the venerable Abbe
Dicquemare in the Philosophical Transactions for 1773,
and doubtless there is many a naturalist of the present
day who will sympathetically            appreciate the senti
ments he expresses.
   Certainly among all the beauteous objects upon the
sea-beach that woo our admiration, as though in
emulation of each other's charms, none can bear com
parison with the subject of the present chapter.
        " The living flower  that, rooted to the rock,
            Late from the thinner element,
          Shrunk down within its purple stem to     sleep,
            Now feels the water, and again
              Awakening, blossoms out
              All its green anther-necks."

                   HOW TO PROCURE SEA-ANEMONES.                  151
   We must, however, for the present, lay poetry
aside, and, entering at once upon the practical part of
our duties, proceed to give a few instructions relative
to the best modes of procuring and preserving these
roses of the Zoophyte creation.
   On an excursion in search of Sea-Anemones, the
sea-side naturalist will find it advisable to be pro
vided with a double-headed hammer, a long iron
chisel, an oyster-knife, an old ivory paper-knife, and
a small net made by twisting a piece of strong wire
into the shape of a circle with a tail to        it,
                                          and fasten
ing bag of muslin round the edge of the ring. As
         a
to the hammer and chisel, these are indispensable.
A  great number of the Actiniae delight in rock-holes,
and      impossible to get them out without chiseling
         it   is
away    portion of the rock to which they adhere.
          a                                           It
isnecessary, moreover, to be very careful in separating
them from the rock          ;      general rule,
                                for, as   a        they     if
are at all lacerated, they mortify, corrupt the water in
which they are placed, and finally die.
     It   is   also desirable to be provided   with   a   stout iron
crow-bar,   with which to turn over the large weed-
covered angular rocks that lie at the verge of the ebb
tide — those stones which are never moved, even in the
roughest weather, and under whose sure protection
lie all the rarest and most delicate specimens*.
  The difficulty of removing specimens from their
native site    great obstruction to the study of many,
                   is
                   a
which the observer would select in preference. In
     *
     Vide   Manual of Sea-Anemones commonly found on the
               a
English Coast, by the Rev. George Tugwell, Oriel College,
Oxford. Van Voorst.

152                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
confinement, some will quit their hold, if left dry for
a considerable time, or detach themselves, if the water
be rendered very impure.                 But no      effect is thus pro
duced on many ;   nor does anything whatever induce
them to move, or to abandon their fixture ; they remain
to perish. The only practicable mode of obtaining a
coveted object under such circumstances,                    is,  if possible,
to chisel offportion of the hard rock below
                  a                          —                           it,   a
tedious and precarious alternative, but one which
nevertheless will often repay the naturalist                            for his
trouble.
    On finding   specimen which the collector may be
                     a
anxious to preserve,   may be wrapped in moist sea
                             it
weed,    or in     a    handkerchief         wetted with          sea-water,
where    it   will                 for many hours and,
                        be quite safe                              ;           if
wanting     a   sufficient vessel for its deposition, he may
first use     a   small saucer,          which      can be afterwards
lodged in     a                          A
                             small quantity of water
                  larger vessel.
suffices for  in case of necessity, wherein
                  it,                          may be             it
kept uninjured for    long period in
                            a           vessel of verya
moderate capacity, but entirely covered by the ele
ment, or frequently washed with it. There       no                       is
difficulty either in feeding or preserving                        it,   such   is
the variety of substances    devours.
                                   it
    The Actinia must be deemed   long-lived animal.
                                                 a
A    specimen of Actinia mesembryanthemum, whose
portrait    we reproduce          (PI.   III.    fig. 5),   is    figured      by
Sir J.   Dalyell, which he had kept in               a   state   of captivity
for twenty years, and which could not have been under
thirty years old and another, apparently of equal age
                        ;
witli the former when taken, had lived for thirteen or
ourtcen years in his possession                 ;    nevertheless, both

                 HABITS OF THE ACTINIA.                 153
 these patriarchal  specimens    were in full vigour, and
 likely to survive for years longer, at the time when
  Sir John recorded their longevity.
    The Actinia is endowed with a very slow locomotive
 faculty ; but this is rarely exercised, and then accom
 plished only by extending one edge of the base im
 perceptibly over the adjacent surface, and withdraw
 ing the other ; thus is a most languid and tardy kind
 of progression effected.    But a specimen adhering to
 the open surface of the rocks will remain a long time
 stationary, only showing itself when incited to swell
 by the flowing tide, and again closing up as the sea
 recedes.   Nevertheless, under certain circumstances,
 these creatures can detach     themselves   entirely from
their station, and are then floated away to a new, and,
perhaps, distant locality.
    An Actinia in the possession     of the late lamented
Professor E. Forbes walked up the sides of a glass, by
alternately adhering with its disc and base, in the
leech fashion : he likewise observed that a Mediter
ranean species which is habitually free, swims by con
tractions in the manner of a Medusa — although, when
confined in a glass, it attaches itself by its base just
like a shore- Actinia.
    Helpless as it generally seems to be, the Sea-
Anemone is a powerful, fearless, and voracious crea
ture.    Having chosen a spot for firm adhesion, it
spreads abroad its numerous tentacula to the utmost
stretch in quest of prey. Nothing can escape their
deadly touch.     Every animated thing that comes in
contact with them is instantly caught, retained, and
mercilessly devoured.      Neither strength nor size, nor
                                             H 5

154           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
the resistance of the victim, can daunt the ravenous
captor.    It will readily grasp an animal, which, if
endowed with similar strength, advantage, and reso
lution, could certainly rend its body asunder. It will
endeavour to gorge itself with thrice the quantity of
food that its most capacious stomach is capable of re
ceiving.    Nothing is refused, provided it be of animal
substance.
    All the varieties of the smaller fishes, the fiercest of
 the Crustacea, the most active• Annelidans, and the
 soft tenants of shells among the Mollusca, all fall a
 prey to the Actinia.     The flesh of terrestrial animals
 is also greedily swallowed ; but   this proves  a less con
 genial aliment, for it is sometimes rejected.
     The remarkable voracity of this creature warns the
 naturalist to beware of its presence among his collec
 tions, otherwise his most precious treasures will as
 suredly perish.    Simple contact with the tentacula of
 the Actinia is enough to seal their doom ; nay, some
  animals, as if conscious of their inevitable fate, seem
 paralysed by the touch, and yield without a struggle.
  Others, whose size and strength should ensure in
  demnity, are held in its relentless grasp, the Briarean
  arms crowding faster and faster around, until the
  victim is ultimately swallowed alive.
     Dr. Johnston remarks, that he had once brought to
  him a specimen of Actinia crassicornis, that might
  have been originally two inches in diameter, and that
  had somehow contrived to swallow a valve of Pecten
  maximus of the size of an ordinary saucer. The shell,
  fixed within the stomach, was so placed as to divide it
  completely into two halves, so that the body, stretched

    ACTINIA     :     VORACITY AND POWER OF FASTING.                155
tensely over        it,   had' become thin and flattened like          a
pancake.    All           communication       between       the inferior
portion of the stomach and the mouth was of course
prevented, yet, instead of emaciating and dying of an
atrophy, the animal had availed itself of what un
doubtedly had been     very untoward accident, to in
                               a
crease its enjoyments and chances of double fare.  A
new mouth, furnished with two rows of numerous
tentacula, was opened up on what had been the base,
and led to the under stomach — the individual had
                                          ;
indeed become             of Siamese twin, but with
                           a sort
greater intimacy and extent in its union                !
   On the other hand, the Actinia      able to endure
                                                is
protracted fasting with impunity, plainly indicating
the precariousness of its supplies but under such cir
                                          ;
cumstances the animal wastes away in       remarkable   a
manner.     Li this condition the smallest portions of
food prove restorative, and by abundance its dimen
sions are speedily enlarged and its strength reno
vated, so that   would seem never to have suffered
                     it
from the prolonged starvation.    Yet these creatures
are capable of surviving one or two, perhaps three
years, without further sustenance than the water can
afford.
   The whole exterior of the body in some species                      is
endowed with    remarkable adhesive faculty, so that
                     a
the skin    often covered by sand, or fragments of
           is
shells. The tentacula constantly retain everything
that comes in contact with them. But this power of
adhesion    the exercise of
           is                  peculiar faculty;
                                      a                           it   is
optionally put in requisition, since substances are
sometimes allowed to pass over, or to fall from, the

156            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
tentacula at will  ;  nor is it at first obvious how ad
hesion, either there or to the rest of the body, is
effected.   Microscopic examination, however, shows
this faculty to reside in a special prehensile apparatus,
extensively distributed over the skin, consisting of
innumerable     capsules,  which at the slightest touch
appear to burst, and project long adhesive filaments,
that stick to foreign bodies with as much pertinacity
as burs to a lady's dress.
   If one  of these animals, when recently taken out of
the water, be placed with the tentacula in contact with
the human skin, and allowed to remain there for a
few seconds, a smarting pain     will sometimes be expe
rienced, and the surface of the skin touched by the
zoophyte will occasionally exhibit an inflammatory
blush, speedily followed by a sort of nettle-rash, with
a sense of burning and tingling, which will last for
more than an hour.
   A still  more decisive method of appreciating this
irritating power of the Actiniae is, to bite one of the
tentacula between the fore teeth, applying at the same
time the extremity of the tongue to the part bitten :
the sensation produced is almost precisely similar to
that caused by biting, as schoolboys sometimes do,
the acrimonious      spadix of the Arum maculatum, — a
taste something between that of a capsicum and that
of a red-hot poker.
   The senses of the Actinia seem to be extremely ob
tuse, and its perceptions alike obscure and imperfect.
The creature neither seems sensible of the presence of
its favourite prey even when in its immediate vicinity,
nor does it resort to the quickest and easiest means

          CAPABILITY Of REPAIRING INJURIES.           157
of preservation when it is itself in peril. The prey
may be within a hair's breadth, yet it is seized only
on actual contact.    There is no spontaneous extension
of the numerous tentacula, although they are capable
of all kinds of inflexion, nor any apparent effort made
to reach it. More singular still, should the vessel be
gradually emptied, or the water evaporate, so as to
leave the Actiniae totally or partially dry, they will
never move from their position in order to immerse
themselves,    not even when their tentacula can reach
the surface.
  The Actiniae are very patient of injuries, and rival
the Hydra in their reproductive powers.    If the ten
tacula are clipped off, they soon begin to bud anew ;
and if again cut away, they grow again. Nay, more, it
seems that
            " these reproductions might extend as far,
or be as often repeated, as patience or curiosity would
admit."    If cuttransversely through the middle, the
lower portion of the body will, after a time, produce
new tentacula, " pretty nearly as they were before the
operation," while the upper portion swallows food as if
nothing had happened — permitting     it,
                                       indeed, at first
to come out at the opposite end, "just as     a man's
head being cut  off would let out at the neck the bit
taken in at the mouth," but which      soon learns to
                                      it
retain and digest in a proper manner.   In an experi
ment of this kind, the upper half, instead of healing
up into a new basis, actually produced another mouth
and tentacula, so that an animal was formed which
caught its prey and fed at both ends at the same time.
If, again, the section of the body   ismade in    aper
pendicular direction, so as almost to divideitinto two

158                  THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
halves, these halves unite  again in a few days.                         If
the section be complete, two perfect animals is the
result ; and even if the body is torn away, and only a
portion of the base remains, from this fragment a new
offspring will sometimes rise up to occupy the place of
its parent — at least so says Dicquemare* ; and yet,
according to the same authority, a wound or rent of
the basis of an Actinia often proves fatal.
    On November 9th, 1772, writes the Abbe Dicque
mare,      I
         clipped a brown Anemone (by a horizontal
section) through the body; the basis, together with
that part of the stump that was left to   shrunk up          it,
and remained motionless, where      was attached till
                                                 it
January 13th, when      shifted its place.
                            it               On the 15th
I very distinctly perceived two rows of limbs growing
out of the part where the section was made, and the
animal moved along. The next day           offeredI  bits           it
of mussels, which       laid hold of and ate. These
                            it
growing limbs were at first of       sullied white they
                                             a                      ;
grew browner            and browner       every       day,    and are at
present of the same colour as the coat of the animal.
They are pretty near as large as they were before the
operation, but   have not perceived as yet the beau
                     I
tiful blue globes which surround the disc of the per
fect animal.
    As to the part cut off, consisting of about half
the body, and wherein the limbs and mouth are placed,
I offered      it,
             after the operation was performed, that
brown part of mussel, by the help of which
                     a                         moves               it
along, and whence the beard spreads out. This bit,
which    not easily digested
          is                            by
                             Sea-Anemones, was at
      •
          Dicquemare,    Phil. Trans., Abridg. volfl. xii. and xiv.

                    DICQUEMARE'S    EXPERIMENTS.                159
once snapped           up by the arms.        They drew it to the
mouth, which lengthened itself out to catch    and        it,
swallowed    down.it But as the body was wanting
that ought to have received    the bit came out at
                                        it,
the opposite end, just as   man's head, being cut off,
                                a
would let out at the neck the morsel swallowed by
the mouth.      still keep this part of the Anemone,
                   I
which daily grows stronger and stronger.
  In May 1772 clipped off all the limbs (tentacles)
                       I
of purple Anemone. Soon after, these limbs began
     a
to bud out again.          On the 30th of July they were
clipped      a   second time, and grew again in less than         a
month.           Having cut them    third time, they had
                                    a                            a
third shooting out.
   Some people may be inclined, says Dicquemare, to
accuse me of cruelty towards these creatures; but
I   think that, on taking into the account the results
of my experiments, the animals ought rather to con
gratulate each other upon having been the subjects of
them for, not only have succeeded in extending the
         ;                     I
duration of their lives, but have made them young
again into the bargain,
                          " ce qui n'est pas un petit
avantage."
  The propagation of the Actiniae       not less remark
                                               is
able than that of many of the preceding tribes of Zoo
phytes. We select, for the purpose of elucidating this
part of their history, the Actinia mesembryanthemum,
the subject of the observations of Sir John Dalyell,
to whom science       indebted for pretty nearly all that
                         is
is known concerning this portion of their economy.
   The Actinia mesembryanthemum                is
                                         always disposed
to fix itself to the sides of its vessel, preserving the

 160            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 body in a horizontal position. In this condition, while
 the tentacula are vigorously displayed, a number of
 dark substances may be occasionally seen in the ten
 tacula, forming the lower half of the circle, but none
 are found  in the distended tentacula of the upper half.
 The observer having counted ten, fifteen or twenty
 occupying the tentacula, may miss a portion of them,
 or even the whole, on returning to inspect them after
 a brief interval — all have disappeared — nor may he
 ever see them again. Under favourable circumstances,
 however, minute     corpuscula, as well as larger and
 denser substances, are found in the distended ten
tacula, one or more in each, the corpuscula in motion,
the others at rest. The latter are so many young
Actiniae in different    stages of growth,   some  appa
rently so mature as to be ready for production, others
in a less advanced condition.       At first sight the
observer will be disposed to class the animals before
him with the numerous parasites infesting so many
living creatures, and he may naturally enough look
for them in the vessels containing Actiniae. But his
search will be in vain ; for, unless on the rarest occa
sions, they are never seen at large. Instead of await
ing such an uncertain event, a more ready expedient
can be resorted to, in amputating the gravid tentacula
for the sake of obtaining their contents ; and the ap
pearance of these corpuscles, not being confined to any
particular period of the year, allows greater scope for
the experiment.
   Sir John Dalyell, having inspected   a distended ten-
taculum towards the end of October, severed it from
the Actinia with sharp scissors,     receiving  the ten-

 REPRODUCTION      OF  ACTINIA MESEMBRYANTHEMUM. 161
 tacle and its contents in a watch-glass.     Scarcely had
it fallen there when      a large embryo was discharged,
 and immediately afterwards two active corpuscula
 also escaped from the section ; the former laid still ;
but the latter, of a reddish colour and globular figure,
exhibited much activity in rotatory and progressive
 motion, describing     an orbit,  and revolving   as  if on
an axis.
    These corpuscula      are the embryo Actiniae     in an
early stage.    Nothing can be so unlike the race : their
form is such as almost to defy description.
    All are red, opake, solid, some flattened, some elon
gated,   some   with irregular prominences, as if com
posed of two or more unequal spheres. Their motions
are no less diversified,      being evidently affected by
considerable specific gravity, and regulated by cilia
that surround their circumference, whatever be its
outline.
    A satisfactory  view of the embryonic corpuscula may
be obtained by amputating the tentacula; but they
generally perish in a few days, whereby the purpose of
lengthened observation is defeated.       In order satis
factorily to trace their progress, it is necessary to wait
for their escape from the body of the parent animal
in a more natural manner.
    This species of Actinia is viviparous.     It produces
its young alive through its mouth ;      and as the half-
digested food is disgorged by the mouth— not with
out effort — we might presume that, in consequence,
the young' are sometimes disgorged with it.        In   fact,
a specimen figured      by Sir John Dalyell, having had     a
copious meal of an embryo skate, retained the food

162             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
twenty-four hours, when it was rejected, together with
a numerous brood of thirty-eight young Actiniae, some
of them very large.
   On a similar occurrence, rejecting the undigested
food, a different specimen disgorged fourteen animated
beings, after being ten months in confinement.         Six
of the fourteen proved to be corpuscula, like those
above described     ; and these were carefully separated,
committed to various vessels, and set apart for more
attentive investigation.
   They differed in nothing of importance from those
extracted artificially from the tentacula: all were
very minute, and they continued so for some time.
Four were spherical; two consisted of two spheres
united, exhibiting motions according to their form.
Sometimes      they reposed, sometimes they moved ;
their excursions were longer or shorter, though always
laboured, as   if the power  of their natatory organs were
inadequate to overcome the resistance.
   The motion of these embryonic corpuscles con
tinued eight days ; but the shape of some was chan
ging, and elongating prominences were rising on
others. Their form improved, and it was evident
that they would certainly become Actiniae.
   In ten days more the rudiments of tentacula be
came visible    in the largest, and in other two days the
tentacles were six in number ; the movements of the
rest had now relaxed, and they also exhibited obscure
indications of tentacula; they resembled elongated
 caps with a convex base.        Some were still devoid of
 any perceptible prominences ; an internal organization
could be discerned through the sides of others.

            PROPAGATION OF ACTINIA LACERA.             163
   Nineteen   days subsequent to production,     eight or
nine tentacula appeared on one which had fixed itself
by the base, as did others shortly afterwards ; their
shape   was   cylindrical, with originating tentacula,
irregular in number        and  dimensions — the   largest
having about twelve, the smallest about seven; — in
short, the conversion of the corpuscle into a young
Actinia was complete.
   A  remarkable deviation from the mode of propaga
tion described above sometimes occurs among the
zoophytes we are now considering, of which the
Actinia lacera furnished Sir John Dalyell with an in
teresting example.
   Whether,   as  in some other Actiniae, the young be
ever produced by the mouth, says Sir John, with
characteristic caution,   I cannot affirm. The observer,
without ocular demonstration of the fact, might here
be led into error ; but during a large portion of the
year, particularly in August and September, not per
haps excluding any month, the great irregularity of
the base of adult individuals of the Actinia lacera
cannot escape his notice ; it is unequal and ragged
to the eye, though all the other parts be regular,
smooth and even.
   This irregularity, at first hardly sensible, gradually
increases until it becomes such as is delineated in the
figure (PI. III. fig. 6, a). Next, we behold diminutive
fragments of the margin separating from the parent
animal (PI. III. fig. 6, b), which consist of the ele
ments of embryo Actinias consolidated there, and soon
to be developed into independent existence.      So rapid
is the progress of this development, that in a single

164            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
day two originating Actiniae unfolded their external
organs ; and besides these, a multitude of fragments
were advancing to perfection.       Thus an uncommon
mode of propagation is in this case effected by the
spontaneous separation of fragments from the margin
of the base of the parent Actinia, each containing
the elements of its progeny, and by progressive evo
lution unfolding a new animal. This mode of repro
duction is prolific : the specimen figured in our Plate
produced twenty young ones in this way within a
mouth, and as many more in three months ; therefore
probably at least seventy young ones were evolved
and detached from this specimen in the course of the
year. Nor is this remarkable mode of propagation
confined to a solitary species.
    An Actinia dianthus, in the vivarium of Mr. Jabez
 Hogg, became so firmly adherent to the side of the
glass, that after having vainly endeavoured to detach
itself, with an apparent degree of violence, it posi
 tively tore itself away, leaving behind six small pieces
 of the outer margin of its circular foot.        Firmly
 glued to the side, these portions served for many days
 merely to mark the spot ; at the end of a week, on
 attempting to clean them off with a piece of stick,
 Mr. Hogg saw, to his surprise, that they retracted on
 being touched ; and in a few days more his surprise
 was still greater, to behold a row of tentacles growing
 around the upper part of each of them, and that they
 soon became every one of them developed into per
 fectly formed Actiniae, the wounds of the parent ani
 mal being completely healed, and the creature quite
 as lively as before the occurrence.

              PRECAUTIONS TO BE OBSERVED.            165
    Nothing, says Mr. Tugwell, is so grateful to the
Actinia, so salubrious aud invigorating, as frequent
and abundant supplies of fresh sea-water. It is infi
nitely enfeebled, and at length the adhesive power
becomes lost, by remaining in what is unchanged for
mouths.      But, although pining away to a tenth of
its natural size, and remaining      pertinaciously con
tracted by neglect, it speedily expands again on re
ceiving a fresh supply from the sea, and gradually
recovers its pristine beauty and vigour. The size and
appearance of the Actinia may be therefore considered
as absolutely dependent on the supply       of renovated
element, on sustenance and heat.        In common with
most soft-bodied animals,     it contracts   during cold
weather, and expands under a genial temperature.
 Farther than this, there is no reason to admit its
 susceptibility of atmospherical or meteorological in
 fluence — far less, that it prognosticates changes to
 ensue.
    The skin of these zoophytes is cast very often,
 especially after feeding greedily, as well as from con
 tinued abstinence. This exuviation extends in some
 species  to the tentacula, the skin coming off from
 them in rings or belts. In the natural state, the
 Actinia is freed of the slough by the washing of the
 waves, but in confinement the body becomes encircled
 as with a girdle.    This should be cut asunder with
 scissors, or brushed off by means of a feather, which
 will induce the expansion and promote the beauty of
 the specimen. All putrescent matter, or excess of
 food or rejecta of the Actiniae, should be carefully re
  moved, as the noxious gaseous compounds generated

 166           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 by the decay of such matters appear to diffuse them
 selves rapidly through the water, act as a virulent
 poison, and speedily destroy the vitality of the occu
 pants. Nevertheless, as there are exceptions to every
 rule, we are not surprised at finding some Anemones
 whose habits are by no means so refined.              The
 Actinia bellis is a littoral species, and the common
 est of its genus on the coast of Cornwall, where it
is generally found in crevices in pools, the bottom
 of which is covered with Corallinae and Nullipores.
 Yet it will sometimes forsake these "wells of pure
 water " for what is little better than a Stygian bog.
    " March 14, 1846. This morning," writes Mr. Cox,
 "I  visited the beach   L. W. M." — (low- water     mark,
 we presume)   — "back of Mr.     Sulley's hotel, Green
 Bank. It is composed of mud, sand, and decomposed
 algae ; many of the stones when lifted presented a face
as black as the skin of an African, and sent forth a
rich aroma of sulphuretted hydrogen. It is thickly
studded with stones, varying from two ounces to
thirty pounds. There are a few remnants of stunted
rocks thinly scattered, from four to eight inches high ;
these are covered with Fucus vesiculosus and serratus.
In turning   the stones over, I was   surprised to find in
this Pandorian locality herds of the Actinia bellis in
prime condition — jackets as red as a Kentish cherry
— so pugnacious, that when touched, water issued in
full streams from nearly all the tentacula ; the ground
is nearly covered with them," &c.
    In some countries the Actinia is occasionally used
as an article of food.
    Speaking of the Actinia crassicornis, Dicqucmare

                    ACTINIA tJSED  AS FOOD.           167
says, —
          " Of all  the kinds of Sea- Anemones,  I would
prefer this for the table ; being boiled some time in
sea-water, they acquire a firm and palatable con
sistence, and may be eaten       with any kind of sauce.
They are of an inviting appearance, of a light shiver
ing texture, and of a soft white or reddish hue. Their
smell is not unlike that of warm crab or lobster."
Rondeletius, probably having the same Actinia cras-
sicomis in view, tells us that it brings a good price at
Bordeaux : — " ilz la lauent fort e souuent puis la fri-
cassent legierement en la poele."        Actinia dianthus
also  " is   good to eat," according to Dicquemare ; and
Plancus directs the cook to dress this after the man
ner of dressing oysters, with which it is frequently
eaten.      Even the hot and peppery Anthea has its
praise  ;  from it they prepare the dish called Rastegna,
 which is a favourite in Provence.

168            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                   CHAPTER XVII.
                LUCERNARIA CAMPANULATA.
THIS beautiful zoophyte is about an inch in height,
of a uniform liver-brown colour, and is usually found
upon sea-weed near low- water mark, to which it ad
heres by a circular disc, above which there is a deep
stricture or short peduncle.         The disc or basis is
strengthened internally by a delicate cartilaginous
lamina.     The margin of the oral expansion is some
what thickened, and divided into eight equal arms,
furnished with a tuft of numerous short tentacula,
each  of which terminates in      a glandular extremity of
a brighter colour than the rest of the body. The in
terior is hollowed like the blossom of a flower, and in
the   centre is a square, extensible, and projecting
mouth, which opens into a loose, thin, plaited, ex
tensible bag, constituting the stomach of this elegant
production.
   The Lucernaria is very hardy, and consequently not
difficult to preserve alive ; it is seen to be almost con
stantly in a state of expansion, and does not contract
except when very rudely handled.           Although gene
rally found adherent to sea-weeds, the Lucernariae
can swim with some rapidity in the water by alternate
dilatations and contractions of the body. When in a

                    HABITS OF LUCERNARIA.                 169
  state  of expansion, they are sufficiently conspicuous
  from the beauty and singularity of form, but when
  contracted they are easily overlooked.        They feed on
  small crustaceous animals brought within their reach
  by the tide or their own destiny, and, to arrest these
  more certainly, the tentacula are widely displayed ;
  but no sooner do they feel their prey, than they in
  stantly contract, envelope it in their joint embrace,
  and carry it to the mouth by an involution of the
  whole marginal circumference.
     Their mode of progression, as we learn from
  Mr. R.Q. Couch, differs under different circumstances.
  If intending to move     to any great distance, they do so
  by loosening their attachments, and then by various
 and active contortions they waft themselves away till
 they meet with some obstruction, where they rest,
 and if the situation suits them, they fix themselves ;
 if  not, they move on in the same manner to some
 other spot.     If  the journey be only for a short di
 stance, as from one part       of the leaf to another, they
 bend their bell-shaped rims, and bringing their tenta
 cula in contact with the fucus, adhere to it by their
 assistance.    The footstalk is then loosened, thrown
 forward, and twirled about till it meets with a place
 to suit it ; it is then  fixed, and the tentacula are dis
 engaged ; so that     in this way the polyps move from
one spot to another.       Sometimes they walk about like
 the Actiniae by a gliding movement of the stalk.
    In taking their prey they remain fixed, with their
tentacula     expanded; and if any minute substance
comes in contact with one of the tufts, that tuft con
tracts and is turned to the mouth, while the others
remain expanded, watching for food.
                                                 I

170           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                  CHAPTER XVIII.
                ENCRINITES — COMATULA.
THE contemplative mind need never be in want either
of instruction or amusement, if it will only con
descend to read the records of the past, so legibly
inscribed on the imperishable pages of creation, and
moreover will find the handwriting upon the rocky
walls which everywhere surround us by no means
difficult of interpretation.  They possess, indeed, a
wonderful advantage over the most enduring legends
of what we call antiquity ; they are written for all
time, and in a language equally intelligible to all the
sons and daughters of Adam. No lexicons are here
required, for the Almighty himself is his own in
terpreter.
   To any of our readers who thus, like ourselves, are
fond of finding sermons in stones, we heartily re
commend a marble chimney-piece as a preacher of
matchless eloquence and most convincing argument ;
nay, more (and that quite independently of the fire
which usually warms such discourses), a most en
livening and cheerful companion.    It  is true that all
marble chimney-pieces are not equally communicative
and conversationable : that, however, is common to
all sorts of society. Our friend and special fire-side
companion is that chimney-piece of Encrinitic lime
stone hewn from some mountain-side     in Derbyshire   ;

                     ENCRINITIC MARBLE.                    171
every inch of it inscribed with hieroglyphics far more
readable than those of Egypt, far more beautiful than
sculpture or mosaic could have made them.
    The history it speaks of stretches back through
countless ages, and relates to scenes that passed away
before antiquity began : its every fragment is a
monument whereon we read            I AM.
    The polished surface of the marble shows that its
whole substance is composed of animal remains, the
jointed stems of creatures that in shape somewhat
resembled plants and flowers, and hence are named
 "stone lilies," "lily-stones," and " lily-encrinites."
 It  is indeed difficult, from a smooth section of such
 marble, to make out precisely what have been the
 forms of these elaborate structures — still more difficult
 by any industry to extricate them from the stony
 matrix in which they lie imbedded ; so that we might
 have   still remained in ignorance as to their real con
 formation     had not an unexpected agent come to the
 assistance of the naturalist, and performed this labour
 for him —
        " Quid  magia est saxo durum — quid mollius unda ?
             Dura tamen molli saxa cavantur aqua."
          Water^ia soft, and marble hard ; but yet
          We see soft water through hard marble eat.
 and the surface of the weather-beaten cliff's, dissected,
  as it were, by the continual peltings of the pitiless
  storm, display, in the shape of " screw-stones," count
  less myriads of these exhumed relics.
     We may judge,       says Dr. Buckland, of the extent to
  which these Encrinites multiplied among the first

172               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
inhabitants of the sea, from the countless myriads of
their petrified remains, which fill so many limestone-
beds, and compose vast strata            of marble, extending
over large tracts of country both in Northern Europe
and in North America. The substance of this marble
is almost as entirely made up of the petrified remains
of Encrinites, as a corn-rick ia composed of straws.
 Man applies it to construct his palace and adorn his
 sepulchre ; but there arc few who know, and fewer
 still who duly appreciate, the surprising fact, that
 much of this marble is composed of the skeletons
 of millions of organized beings once endowed with
 life and susceptible of enjoyment, which, after per
 forming for a time the part that was assigned to them
 in living nature, have contribnted their remains to
 wards the composition of the mountain masses of the
 earth.
     Thanks to the unwearied            labours    of geologists,
 there is no longer        any doubt concerning the real
 nature of these admirably constructed organisms.
     The stem of the Encrinite was formed of innume
 rable joints, piled upon each other like the masonry
 of a slender Gothic pillar. The name of Entrochi,
 or wheel-stones, has with much propriety been applied
 to these insulated joints, and the perforations in the
 centre of each affording a facility for stringing them
  as beads, caused them in ancient times to be used as
  rosaries. In the northern parts of England, indeed, they
  still retain the appellation of " St. Cuthbert's beads":
                 " On a rock by Landisfara
              St. Cuthbert sits, and toils to frame
              The sea-born beads that bear his name.''

    ELABORATE   STRUCTURE OF FOSSIL ENCRINITES.       173
   Each of these individual pieces, observes Dr. Buck-
land, presents a similar series of articulations, varying
in minute particulars as we ascend upwards through
the body of the animal, so that every joint is exactly
adjusted to give the requisite amount of flexibility
and strength.     From one extremity of the series to
the other, and throughout all the rays and pinnules
of the flower-like head, the surface of each joint arti
culates with that adjacent to it with the most perfect
regularity and nicety of adjustment.       So exact and
methodical is this arrangement, even to the extremity
of the minutest tentacula, that it is just as improbable
that the metals which compose the wheels of a chro
nometer should for themselves have calculated and
arranged the form and number of the teeth of each
respective wheel, and that these wheels should have
placed   themselves in the precise position fitted to
attain the end resulting from the combined action of
them all, as for the successive hundreds and thousands
of little pieces that compose an Encrinite to have
arranged themselves in a position subservient to the
end produced by the combined effect of their united
mechanism ; each acting its peculiar part in har
monious subordination to the rest, and all conjointly
producing a result which no single series of them,
acting separately, could possibly have effected.
   The physiological history of the family of En-
crinites is very important : their species were nume
rous among the most ancient orders of created beings,
and in this early state their construction exhibits at
least an equal, if not a higher degree of perfection,
than is retained in the existing Pentacrinites ; and

174             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
although the place which, as zoophytes, they occupied
in the animal kingdom was low, yet they were con
structed with a perfect adaptation to that low estate ;
and in this primaeval perfection they afford another
example at variance with the doctrine of the progres
sion of animal life from simple rudiments through
a   series of gradually improving and more perfect
forms to its fullest development in existing species.
   The multiplicity of parts entering into the com
position of the framework of one of these now almost
extinct    productions would indeed be incredible had
we not ocular demonstration of the fact in every
geological cabinet.
    Mr. Parkinson    states that, after a careful examina
tion,   he has    ascertained that, independently of the
number      of pieces in the stem, and which from its
length are undoubtedly very numerous, the fossil
skeleton of the flower-like head of the Lily-encrinite
 (Encrinites moniliformis)    consists of at least 26,000
pieces   ; and if  we were to take   into the account the
minute calcareous plates interwoven with the integu
 ment covering the abdominal cavity, and spreading
 over the inner surface of the rays and pinnules, this
 number must be surprisingly increased ; and yet even
 this unheard-of multiplication is simplicity itself
 when compared to what is met with in other species
now lying before us.
    The number of joints in the arms and tentacula of
the fossil Briarean Pentacrinite (Pentacrinus Bri-
areus) amounts to at least a hundred thousand ; and
if to these we add fifty thousand more for the ossicula
of the side arms, which is much too little, the total

                   PENTACRINUS   BRIAREUS.           175
number     of pieces will exceed a hundred and fifty
thousand.     Now, as each joint was furnished with
at least two fasciculi of fibres, one for contraction,
the other for expansion, we have a hundred and fifty
thousand bones and three hundred thousand fasciculi
of fibres equivalent to muscles in the body of a single
Pentacrinite, — an amount of muscular apparatus con
cerned in regulating the movements of the skeleton
infinitely exceeding any that has been yet observed
throughout the entire animal creation.
    When we consider, continues Dr. Buckland, the
profusion of care and exquisite contrivance that per
vades the frame of every individual of this species of
Pentacrinite  — forming but     one of many members of
the almost extinct family of the Crinoideans, — and
when we add to this the amount of analogous me
chanisms that characterize the other genera and spe
cies of this curious family, we are almost lost in
astonishment      at the microscopic attention that has
been paid to the welfare of creatures holding so low a
place among the inhabitants of the ancient deep, and
we feel an      irresistible conviction  of the universal
presence    and eternal agency of creative care in the
lower regions of organic life.
    As the   base    or root of the ancient Pentacrinite
 (Pentacrinus Briarevs) was undoubtedly fixed to the
 bottom of the sea, or to some extraneous floating
 substance,  the flexibility of the jointed column which
 forms the stem was subservient to the double office,
 first of varying in every direction the position of the
 body and arms in search of food, and secondly, of
 yielding with facility to the course of the current, or

  176            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 fury of the storm, swinging like a vessel held by her
 cable with equal ease in all directions around her
 moorings.
     The root of the Briarean Pentacrinite,          Dr. Buck-
 land thinks, was probably slight, and capable of being
 withdrawn from its attachments ; and the further fact
of its being frequently found in contact with masses
of drifted wood, now converted into jet, led him to
infer that the Briarean Pentacrinus was a locomotive
animal, having the power of attaching itself tempo
rarily either to extraneous floating bodies, or to rocks
at the bottom of the sea, either by its side arms, or by
a moveable articulated small root*.
     In the year 1823 Mr. J. V. Thompson discovered
in the bay of Cork a singular little pedunculated
animal, which he called Pentacrinus Europaus, which
immediately gave rise to much interesting discussion
both at home and abroad, for it was the first animal
    •
      The beautiful specimen of this Pentacrinus, figured by
Dr. Buckland, and taken from the Lias at Lyme Regis, adheres
laterally to a portion of imperfect jet, which forms part of a
thin bed of Lignite, or fossilized wood, met with in the Lias
marl between Lyme and Charmouth.          Throughout nearly its
whole extent,    Miss  Anning   has constantly observed in this
lignite the following curious appearances. The lower surface
only is covered by a stratum entirely composed of Pentacrinites,
and varying from one to three inches in thickness: they lie
nearly in a horizontal position, with the foot-stalks uppermost
next to the lignite. The greater number of these Pentacrinites
are preserved in such a high state of perfection, that they must
have been buried in the clay that now invests them before
decomposition of their bodies had taken place. It is not un
common    to find large   slabs several feet long,  whose   loicer

                  RARITY OF LIVING ENCRINITES.                     177
   of the Encrinite kind which had been seen in the seas
   of Europe, and the first recent Encrinite that had
   ever been examined by a competent observer in the
   living state.
      The history of this creature, says Professor Forbes,
  is one of those little romances in which Natural
   History abounds ; one of those narrations                  which,
  while   believing, we almost doubt, and yet, while
  doubting, we must believe — it being the only crinoid
  animal at present inhabiting our seas, at one time so
  full of those beautiful and wonderful creatures, and
  consequently presenting points of great interest, not
  to the zoologist only, but to the geologist.
      Such is the rarity of living Encriuites, that many
 years elapsed from the first discovery of the fossil
  Crinoidea before any living species presented itself;
 and during the last half-century, although Natural
  History and Geology have been pursued with zeal
 and ardour, and       with advantages        too heretofore un
 surface only presents the arms and fingers of these fossil animals
 expanded, like plants in a hortus siccus ; while the upper surface
 exhibits only a congeries of stems in contact with the under
 surface of the lignite. The greater number of these stems are
 usually parallel to one another, as if drifted in the same direction
 by the current in which they floated.
     The mode in which these animal remains are thus collected
immediately beneath the lignite, and never on its upper surface,
seems to show that the creatures had attached themselves in
large groups (like modern barnacles) to the masses of floating
wood, which, together with them, were suddenly buried in the
mud, whose accumulation gave origin to the marl wherein this
curious compound stratum of animal and vegetable remains
is imbedded. — Sueklands Bridgewater Treatise.
                                                      i 5

178              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
known,     not above half a dozen in the whole have
found their way to Europe : of these, one is in the
National Museum at Paris, from Martinique ; one in
the British Museum,         taken off Nevis ; one in the
 Hunterian Museum in the Glasgow College, from
 Barbadoes ; one in the Museum of the Royal College
of Surgeons in London ; and one in that of the Geo
logical Society.
    The West Indian species (Pentacrinus Caput Me
dusa), and that described by Mr. Thompson, are, in
fact, the only existing species hitherto discovered ;
the first of these is an animal of considerable size, its
jointed stem thicker than a swan's quill, rising to the
height of several feet, and the spread of its arms being
equal to a span*.        The latter, on the contrary, is
 probably the smallest of the tribe, not exceeding,
when full-grown, three-quarters of an inch in height,
and slender in proportion ; and doubtless it was owing
to this minute size that it so long escaped the prying
eyes of the most industrious naturalists.
    The pedicle or stem of this little zoophyte is not
 thicker than a piece of sewing- silk, being but slightly
 enlarged towards its upper end. It is composed of a
 variable number of joints (about twenty-four in full-
 grown specimens), which are shorter as they approach
 its upper part, until, immediately adjoining the body,
    *
       The dimensions of the largest recent Pentacrinus Caput
 Medusce  are very humble when compared with some of their
 fossil congeners.  We have before us at the present moment
 some dozens of specimens from the limestone rocks of Derby
 shire, whose stems measure at least an inch in diameter, and
 which when complete were perhaps ten or twelve feet high.

                 PENTACRINUS   EUROPjEUS.             179
they present the appearance of mere rings or plates ;
so that it is probably here that successive articulations
are formed, which add to the increasing length     of the
stem as the animal advances in its growth.
    The exterior of the stern, as well as of the pieces
composing the body and rays, is invested by a con
tinuous delicate membrane which        binds them toge
ther, and furnishes the requisite support to the mus
cular system, which their motions lead us to suppose
they must necessarily possess, and which is probably
no other than what presents itself under the appear
 ance  of a gelatinous translucent substance interposed
between this membrane and the ossicula. The animal
possesses the power of bending or inclining the stem
freely in every direction, and, what is more remark
 able, of twisting it up in a short spiral, and that with
 a considerable degree of vivacity.
    The arms or rays surrounding the flower-like body
 are five in number, but at the second joint each of
 them divides into two, so as to represent a star with
 ten rays. These branches or divisions of the arms
 are each composed of a single series of solid calcareous
joints, about twenty-four in number, diminishing
 gradually in thickness from their origin upwards ; at
 either side they are fringed with soft tentacula, which
 are  jointed, and capable of considerable contraction
 and extension.     These tentacula, which are moved
 in every direction, arise from the opposite sides of the
 rays in an alternate order, and when highly magnified
 appear to be themselves furnished with cilia, placed
 alternately along their sides.   It is these arms, com
 posed of numerous joints, and fringed with tentacula,

180            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
that give to the Crinoidea such a beautiful appear
ance ; at one time spreading outwards like the petals
of a flower, at another rolled inwards over the mouth
of the animal like an unexpanded bud. From their
structure and movements, it can hardly be doubted
that they serve to seize upon and convey to the mouth
whatever has been destined for its food, and which
probably consists of every minute animal its powers
enable it to overcome.
    The body, situated in the centre of the rays, pre
sents a central opening or mouth, formed by five
petal-like valves, which possess the power of expand
ing or of folding down closely, so as to shut up the
mouth; within these valves, when expanded, several
soft tentacula present themselves, similar in structure
to the tentacula of the arms. The most remarkable
part of its structure, however, consists in the existence
of a distinct termination to the alimentary canal,
which, perforating     the side of the body, ends in a
tubular opening of considerable size, and capable of a
remarkable degree of elongation, being at times as
conspicuous in this respect as at others it is difficult
to discern. This unlooked-for peculiarity, quite dif
ferent from what is met with in the generality of star
fishes, subsequently led to the detection    of a similar
arrangement in. the genus Comatula, — a discovery, the
importance of which the reader will immediately ap
preciate.
   The smallest specimens of Pentacrinus observed by
Mr. Thompson did not exceed one eighth of an inch
in height. In this stage the animal resembles a little
club, fixed by an expanded     basis, and giving exit at

           STRUCTURE AND MODE OF GROWTH.            181
its apex to a few pellucid tentacula : no other part of
the solid fabric is as yet observable. In specimens
that have made a little more progress, together with
the elongation of the pedicle or stem, its joints begin
to make their appearance ; the body acquires a larger
size and brownish tint from a grosser food ; the ten
 tacula of the mouth protrude in a greater degree, and
 move   slowly in various directions.    In others still
 more advanced, the joints of the stem become quite
 obvious from their opacity and white colour, and the
 base of the future arms, as well as the auxiliary side
 arms, are rendered palpable.      The arms from this
 period lengthen apace from their bifurcation, and
 have superadded to them     a double range    of trans
 parent jointed tentacula ; so that the animal begins to
 put on a more perfect appearance, and now for some
 time merely acquires a somewhat greater size and an
 extension of its arms, which, although they solidify
 from their origin upwards, remain pellucid and thick
 at their apices, where elongation, evolution, and the
 secretion of calcareous matter are gradually going on.
  Here, then, we have the form, the structure, and the
 mode   of growth of the Encrinite exemplified before
 us, and can see with our own eyes what, until the
 discovery of this little animal — doubtless common
 enough on our own coast —remained involved in im
 penetrable mystery, viz. the nature, habits and attri
 butes of the millions of extinct Crinoideans whose
 remains constitute our limestone cliffs and encrinitic
 marbles.
    But the interest which attaches itself to the grow

 182          THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
ing Pentacrinus by no means terminates here     ; it has
yet another history, which we must proceed to deve-
lope, and which, embracing, as it does, one of the
most remarkable discoveries in modern Zoology, claims
our notice.
   If we were told by any traveller, that he had visited
an unknown region where the animals dropped their
eggs on trees and shrubs, and that the eggs there
fixed themselves, and shot up, like parasitic plants,
with a long stem, gradually evolving at their extreme
end limb after limb and function after function, until
the young animals thus formed became so perfect as
to resemble their parents in every essential point, and
that then their attachment with the connecting foot
stalk was dissolved, that they became locomotive, and
betook themselves to the free and wandering life of
the parent stock, few could be got to believe facts so
incredible, and so much at variance with the usual
course of nature.
   It is no uncommon   thing, in the inferior classes of
the animal kingdom, to find animals permanently at
tached from the period of their birth and during the
whole of their existence.   Familiar examples of this
occur in the Oyster and various other bivalve shell
fish, as well as in numerous compound Zoophytes.
We shall in the following     pages likewise meet   with
races   which are free and locomotive     in their first
stages, and afterwards become permanently fixed;
but an animal growing for a period in the similitude
of a flower on its stem, and then dropping from its
pedicel, and becoming during the remainder of its

                              COMATULA.                        183
life free and peripatetic, is not only new, but without
any parallel in the whole range of the organized
creation.
     When therefore Mr.        J. V.
                           Thompson first described
the Pentacrinus Europ&us, no person could have sus
pected so anomalous and unexpected a result, as that
it   was the young state       of   a   Star-fish, the Comatula, an
animal easily procurable upon many parts of our
coast ; and to the structure of which we must next
turn our attention.
   The body of the Comatula (PI. III. fig. 9) consists
of a small, circular, flattish disc, from the circum
ference of which issue ten long pinnate rays, the ex
panse of which, in a full-grown specimen, is at least
five inches, measuring from tip to tip of the opposite
extremities.
     The dorsal surface of the disc is provided with ten
or twelve slender organs, each terminated by a claw,
which from their action and use may be described as
claspers,   as   it   is by means       of these that the animal
fixesitself to foreign substances.
   The Comatula         is,
                      in fact,  star-fish, not only free,
                                        a
but leading the most vagrant life of any of its tribe             ;
at one time crawling about by means of its flexible
arms  among submarine plants, at others floating to
and fro, adhering to their fragments by means of its
dorsal claspers, or even swimming about after the
manner of the Acalephae.  In swimming, indeed, the
movements of the arms of the Comatulae exactly re
semble the alternating  stroke given    the Medusae by
to the water, and has the same effect, causing the
animal to rise from the bottom and to advance back

  184           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 foremost   with considerable rapidity.       Upon their
 under surface the rays of the Comatula are furnished
 with multitudes of vibratile cilia, which by their
 action produce strong currents in the water, and hurry
 along towards the mouth whatever floating particles
 may happen to be in the vicinity, thus continually
 affording an abundant supply of food.
     The evidence of Pentacrinus being the young of
 Comatula rests upon a comparison of the most ad
 vanced state   of the former with the youngest Coma
 tula procured by dredging.        In the adult Penta
 crinus it will be observed, that the arms are just be
 ginning to form pinnae or lateral leaflets towards their
 extremities, that they have a sulphur-yellow colour
 and dark marginal spots.     In the very young Coma
 tula these pinnae are but slightly further advanced,
 and others may be observed      sprouting in a manner
precisely similar.    Individuals a little older are com
paratively common, in which the pinnae are complete ;
and from this period they appear to be formed regu
larly at the base of the arm, as this goes on extend
ing in length. These small Comatulae, moreover, still
retain the original sulphur-yellow colour towards the
apices of the arms, while the lower part and body
gradually assume the rosy hue characteristic        of the
adult animal.
     From observations repeatedly made, Mr. J. V.
Thompson thinks it probable that the young Coma
tulae attain their full growth in one year, so as to be
in a condition to propagate their kind in the summer
following that of their birth.
    In May  and June the full-grown Comatulae may be

           PENTACRINUS   THE YOtJNG OF COMATULA.          185
found, having the membranous expansions inside each
of the pinnae considerably extended, at least as far as
the fifteenth or twentieth pair ; these, called concepta-
cula, at length show themselves distended with ova,
which in July, and even earlier, make their exit
through a round aperture on the side of each con-
ceptaculum, still however adhering together in a
roundish cluster, consisting of about a hundred eggs.
By what      means   these ova are dispersed, or how they
become      attached to the stems and branches of coral
lines, remains to be discovered ; but it is strongly to
be suspected that the animal is gifted with the power
of placing them in appropriate situations, otherwise
we should find them on fuci, shells, stones and other
foreign bodies, which does not appear to be the case*.
   However this may be, the ovum from which the
Pentacrinus is developed is first met with in the form
of a flattened oval disc, by which it is permanently
fixed to the point selected, and giving origin to an
obscurely jointed stem that ends in a club-shaped
head (PI.    III.
               fig. 8), whereon may be observed the
incipient formation of the arms and the mouth with
its tentacula.   At d in the same figure is another,
somewhat more advanced, in which the jointings of
the arms become more obvious ; whilst at c, the head
of the Pentacrinus, completely formed, is ready to
separate from the stem that supports       it,   and thus be
come   a   detached and roving Comatula.
 *
    The stalked young are not found only on corallines, as
Mr.J.  V. Thompson supposed. Mr. W. Thompson finds them
on the leaves of Fuci, and remarks that they are very active
animals on their pedicles. — Forbes's British Star-Jwhes.

186           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   The Comatula, like other Star-fishes, is liable to
fall to pieces in the aquarium.     Indeed this is the
way in which they all seem to perish. Part after part
drops off, until only the naked disc remains, the water
becoming slightly tinged by their decay.

                       ASTEROPHYTON.                    187
                    CHAPTER XIX.
         ASTEROPHYTON        THE SHETLAND AEGUS.
  " The heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament
sheweth hia handy-work."
WHO is there that can read these words of the Psalmist
without joining in the glorious      paean ?  Who is there
that does not appreciate, to some extent at least, their
solemn import ? To acknowledge, however, the ge
neral truth of such a proposition, and adequately to
feel its import, are two very different things ; and the
appreciation of the sublimity of expression used by
the inspired writer must always be in exact proportion
with our ability to trace the scope of his meaning.
   It is an easy matter for a child to sing about
            " The spacious firmament on high,
              And all the blue ethereal sky,"
without having much conception of the real nature of
                " Those argent fields ahove,"
among which the genius of a Herschel is lost in
wonder and admiration.          It is the astronomer only,
— whose    powerful telescope, and still more far-seeing
calculations, enable him to fathom the blue profound,
and there to contemplate the amazing spectacle ; —

188              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
          " Tosee where system into system runs,
           "Where other planets circle other suns ;"
— who   feelingly, but, even then, inadequately, can
understand the value of the words and the truthfulness
of their import.
   It is easy for any one to acknowledge in general
terms the power of the Creator, and to allow that His
providence is over all His works ; but it is the micro-
Bcopist only, who, by reversing the Galilean tube, is
enabled to explore nature in the opposite direction, —
to penetrate beyond our unassisted vision, and survey
the worlds contained within the boundaries of a drop
of water, can tell how deeply that Providence ex
tends, how awful that Almighty power, who " spake
and it was done, who commanded and it stood fast."
  If      the heavens    have their stars, so has the sea.
" Non      coelo tantum sed et mari suae stellae sunt, opera
quidem unius Dei artificis sed diversae prorsus fabricae
et naturae. Coelestes ubique locorum vulgus conspicit,
marinas ne physicorum quidem omnes intuentur."
  The Asterophyton, or Shetland Argus, called also
the Medusa's head (PI.       III.
                          fig. 10), is occasionally met
with on our northern coasts.    " As he swims," says
Grew*, "he spreads and stretches out alihis branches
to their full length, and, as soon as he perceives his
prey within his reach, he hooks them all in, and takes
it,as   were, in
          it        net," — description which perhaps
                     a           a
some of our readers may think to be rather too quaint
and laconic for an animal so strange and so remark
able, and upon which we shall, we hope, be pardoned          if
we amplify    little. Or perhaps the following account,
                 a
          Vide Account of the Museum of the Royal Society.
      •

                    HABITS OF ASTEROPHYTON.                     189
written almost      century ago, will best answer our
                      a
purpose.      We like the graphic eloquence of a first
description; it comes smacking off the lips, true and
racy ; there is no retailing it at second-hand, and no
chance  of foisting off a copy for the genuine portrait.
It would be as easy to retail a pun, or carry a kiss
into the next room on a salver, as to attempt to
imitate the enthusiasm of an original describer.
  " I understand by the fisherman who brought me
this fish, that he never saw nor heard of any but six
or seven that were taken by himself not far from the
shoals of Nantucket, when he was fishing for cod.
This Stellar-fish, when it was alive, and first pulled
out of the water, was like a basket, and had gathered
itself round like a wicker-basket, having taken fast
hold upon the bait, which he had sunk down to the
bottom to catch other fish, and, having hold of that
with its arms, would not let it go, though drawn up
into the boat, until, by lying a while on the deck, it
felt the want of its natural element, and then volun
tarily it extended itself into a flat, round form. The
only use that could be discerned of all that curious
composure with which Nature has adorned           seems   it,
 to be to make       itpurse-net to catch other fishes,
                          as   a
 or any other thing fit for its food, and as   basket of
                                                      a
 store to keep some of    for its future supply.
                                   it
     " He   told me that every one of its smallest parts,
 when    it was alive, had motion and tenacious strength          ;
 but after    it   was dead, and extended to      a flat round,   it
 was so     brittle that       it   could not be handled without
 breaking some parts of   but by carefully hanging
                                        it
                                         ;
it  to dry,  was somewhat hardened.
              it                       think, till a
                                                 I

190           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
fitter English name can be found for        that    it,
                                                   may         it
be called a     Basket-fish, or a Purse-net-fish.  This
elaborate piece of nature we may call Piscis Echino-
stellaris visciformis ;  its body resembling an Echinus
or Egg-fish — the      main     branches       a    star — and the
dividing of the branches the plant Misseltoe.       It
spreads itself from    pentagonal root into five main
                       a
limbs or branches, each of which, just at the issuing
out from the body, subdivides itself into two; and
each of the ten branches thus formed does again
divide into two parts, making twenty lesser branches                 ;
and each of these doth again divide into two smaller
branches, making in all forty these again divide into
                                     ;
80, and those into 160, and they again into 320.
The division  is  again repeated, making 640 after             ;
wards 1:280, 2560, 5120, 10,240, 20,480, 40,960; and
at the fourteenth division, beyond which the farther
expansion could not be certainly traced, there were
81,920   small     tendrils     or   threads,        in which       the
branches of this star-fish terminate."
   The shell of the Asterophyton, which    harder than
                                                     is
that of the Echinus,     entirely covered with
                           is                    thick         a
fleshy envelope.   From the circumference of the disc
proceed five strong rays, each of which soon divides
into two secondary trunks, and these, subdividing
again and again, always by binary division, soon be
come multiplied into innumerable branches, which,
like living ropes, spread out all around the body of
the animal.    Every one of these rays      made up       is
of an immense number of jointed pieces, so that they
are as flexible    as whip-cord,         and  manageable as
                                               as
the legs of   a   spider;     and each of these innumerable

             AMAZING COMPLEXITY OF STRUCTURE.           191
cords is in the living animal terminated by a minute
yellowish fleshy ball something resembling a little
foot   ;  so that the whole creature, as    it walks along,
resembles       a conglomeration     of serpents strangely
linked together, whence it has, not inappropriately,
received its mythological          cognomen of Gorgono-
cephaltis.
     These Star-fishes inhabit the deep parts of the sea,
and seem principally to frequent coral-beds, and
 localities where marine plants are abundant, around
the stems of which they intertwine their arms, and
 climb about in search of sustenance.
     It  is rather difficult to imagine that so many thou
 sand pieces, so precise in form, and so artistically
 conjoined, managed to put themselves together of
 their own accord, without the counsel of superior
 wisdom ; — to become distributed thus widely, without
 an agency more powerful than their own. And yet
  these wonderful organisms have been repeated again
  and again, age after age, in countless multitudes.
      Surely the Epicurean fool or atheist, who would
  prate about the fortuitous concaurse of atoms, or even
  more modern        dreamers about genera and species
  formed by chance, had better look again at one of
   these despised   "  Sea-baskets."

 192           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                    CHAPTER XX.
          OPHIURUS   — PLATE-MAIL    STAR-FISH.
WE remember,      some years    ago,  strolling into the
parrot-house in the gardens of the Zoological Society,
in a very quiet and inoffensive manner as we thought,
certainly without the remotest idea of giving umbrage
to any of its pretty feathered occupants, when, to our
great surprise, our entrance seemed to be the signal
for a wild and general disturbance — the sound of the
tocsin could not have roused an insurrection        more
uproarious   than that produced by the appearance of
our (pardon us, gentle reader, if we flatter ourselves)
by no means repulsive physiognomy; dire was the
screaming, fierce the gesticulation of every scansorial
biped among them.      Parrots, macaws, and cockatoos
seemed equally   indignant at our intrusion ; and such
a clamour as they raised, such a whirlwind of dis
cordant sounds, would certainly have done credit to
Babel.    Overwhelmed with the noise, deafened with
the horrible cacophony, we beat a retreat, and right
gladly escaped into the quiet glades of the gardens.
   On our return, after the lapse of an hour or so,
finding that all was tranquil within, we again entered
the parrot-house, and again were greeted with a


                           PLATE IV.
Fig. 1. STHUCTCBE      OP   OPHIURDS.          a, b, e.  PLUTEUS
          PARADOXUS                                              194
Fig. 2. OPHIOCOHA                                                199
Fig. 3. ASTERIAS.     a, b, c,  d,  e,f, g. Phases of develop
          ment of young                                          •201
Fig. 4. SOLEASTEB, or TWELVE-RAYED STAB-FISH.
Fig. 5. SPAIANGTTS   PUBPTTBEUS                                  214
Fig. 6. ECHINUS ESCULENTUS.            b.  Pedicellaria.
          c, d. Structure of mouth of Echinus                    215
Fig. 7. HOLOTHURIA.        a,  b.  Larva condition               237
Fig. 8. HOLOTHURIA otcifus.          6, c.  The animal in pro
          cess  of spontaneous division                          246

                  PLATE         IV.
WfenW-n Ktik Lcndcn. John Van Tociret,lS5o . WVfet


             ALARM AMONGST    THE COCKATOOS.           193
concert, beating marrow-bones       and cleavers, and all
rough music imaginable.
    Wondering what could be the cause of       a reception
so uncourteous, where before we had always been a
welcome visitor, we      approached     an old favourite
cockatoo, and, reproachfully holding up a little walk
ing-cane before her face, began to expostulate with
her upon such behaviour.        We could scarcely have
imagined the picture of rage and terror that the
bird presented : with crest erected to the uttermost,
staring eyes, and limbs trembling all over, she re
treated to the extreme limits of her chain, and struck
with her wings at my cane, as if fighting for very life ;
— and    so indeed she was, or thought she was, for, on
my attention being thus directed to my little cane,       I
 appreciated at once the cause of her fury — the head
 of the walking-stick was carved in imitation of that of
 a serpent, with brilliant eyes, and a most grim and
 threatening aspect : the supposed appearance of so
 terrible a foe amongst their peaceful party had, by an
 instinct true and natural, roused them to self-defence,
 affording at once a proof of the carver's skill who
 had so ornamented my rattan, and an illustration of
 instinctive horror of a very interesting character.
    But we can by no means say it was with the same
 feelings of admiration that we, on a subsequent occa
 sion, witnessed an exhibition of sham terror upon a
 somewhat similar pretence. Net in hand, we were
 climbing over the scars, and making our way among
 the slippery sea- weeds in search of specimens for the
  aquarium of a friend, when we happened to light upon
  an Ophiurus, a very fine little fellow, full of life and
                                               K

194         THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
vigour, which we hastened to offer to the inspection
of some ladies, our companions upon the beach.
Judge of our mortification, when, instead of express
ing the slightest interest or curiosity upon the occa
sion, they began to scream and shriek very much
after the same fashion as the cockatoos, interlarding
their screams every now and then with — Oh, the
horrid thing! What is it? Will it bite? — until at
length one of them, more valorous than the rest,
stamping upon my poor Ophiurus, liberated her friends
from their assumed fear, and with the air of a second
Judith after despatching another Holofernes,           stood
triumphing in the act.
   The Ophiurus in question      is,need hardly be
                                       it
said, astar-fish, in shape somewhat resembling the
impress upon   a  Manx halfpenny — only, instead of
three legs surrounding nothing, and the motto Quo-
cunque jeceris stabit,     consists apparently of five
                          it
serpents' tails implanted around   acentral disc, and     is
quite unable to stand at all.
  This very elegant animal      (PI.   IV.
                                       fig.  1) to be
                                                  is
met with on almost every coast; and from the varieties
that   presents,
      it         it somewhat perplexing to say what
                     is
shall be assumed as the type of the species.    Some
are remarkably  beautiful on account of the profusion
and distribution of the colours wherewith they are
decorated, yellow,  blue, green and red being agree
ably interspersed in  asingle specimen, so as to render
them at once both showy and interesting occupants
of the vivarium.
   The Ophiuri are characterized       by
                                  having   centrala
disc, from the circumference of which proceed five

                STRUCTURE OF OPHIURUS.               195
slender rays, which, both in their general appearance
and in their movements, strikingly remind the spec
tator of the tail of a serpent, from which circum
stance these creatures have in fact derived their
scientific designation (6i<;, a serpent ; oZpoy, a tail).
   The disc is circular or sub-angular, and the mouth,
which is situated in the centre of the under surface,
pentagonal and very dilatable.     The upper surface is
in some species nearly smooth, in others clothed with
very minute scales or spines ; but its chief variety is
in colour, and in the distribution of the colours, some
of them being exceedingly beautiful.
   Instead of the elaborate apparatus of suckers spe
cially serving for the movements and adhesion of the
Asterias, the rays of the Ophiurus consist of jointed
segments, and are provided with an infinity of spiny
processes arranged along their sides, which, together
with their accessory parts, are very different in differ
ent species.    The rays also are covered by scales,
which present great diversity of form, arrangement,
and distribution.
   The rays of the Ophiuri are extremely liable to
mutilation, partly owing to their length and slender-
ness, and   partly because they so easily become en
tangled among foreign      substances;   they are, how
ever,   speedily renewed,   although   the reproductive
faculties seem less energetic in these creatures than
in some of the preceding races of Star-fish.
   The vigour and the dimensions       01  the Ophiurus
seem to depend very much        on the places where it
dwells,   and the facility of obtaining subsistence.
Some live in deep water ; multitudes are met with
                                            K2

196             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
on oyster-beds, and some frequent the sand nearer to
the shore. On the whole they are extremely nume
rous, and from the vast multitudes      continually de
stroyed, their race would seem to he inexhaustible.
    Some of the Ophiuri will feed voraciously on the
flesh of the mussel, which they seem to prefer to
the oyster, although   the latter is by no means re
jected ; nay, sometimes, so voracious is their appetite,
 that, after a full meal, the centre of their disc may
be observedstuffed out like a cushion by repletion.
They have not, however, been observed to swallow
the shells of bivalves, although their mouth is suscep
tible of considerable dilatation, and the capacity of
the stomach sufficient for their reception ; but when
ever a part of the flesh of the mussel is within reach,
the extremity      of one of the rays is soon twined
around    it,
          and    it   carried to the mouth and greedily
                      is
devoured.       However ravenous at times, they will
occasionally pass many days without food.
  Mutilation      inevitably concomitant on impurity
                 is
of the water; but without any obvious cause we
witness   it continually, and that to the most de
structive extent.   Piece by piece falls off from the
rays, until nothing but the disc remains, and yet the
animal still lives. After a specimen had been pre
served some time, only      very short fragment of the
                               a
rays continued entire    still the animal fed greedily,
                           ;
nor was motion utterly extinct even when the disc
itself was partly decomposed.
   Early in April, the disc   seen remarkably full,
                                   is
plump and round in the margin — the space inter
mediate between the rays being occupied       by   spawn,

             HISTORY OF PLUTEUS PARADOXUS.               197
and on separating a portion of the under surface, the
eggs, of a vivid red, are seen adherent to it.          The
colour is so bright, that the under surface of the disc
is sensibly affected, and the space between the rays
occupied by the spawn becomes ruddy.            The spawn
is composed of ovoidal capsules coufusedly huddled
together.
    But the most interesting part of the history of the
 Ophiuri is the wonderful metamorphosis through
 which they have to pass, during their progress from
the egg to their mature condition.
    The young Ophiurus on leaving the egg presents
itself under a most grotesque aspect, in which con
dition it has long been known to naturalists, and de
scribed under the name of the Pluteus paradoxus, or
Easel-animalcule,    from its resemblance to a painter's
easel, without however the slightest idea being enter
tained of its ultimate destiny.
    The Pluteus paradoxus       (PI. IV. fig. 1, a, b, c) is
exceedingly minute, being not more than           f ths of a
line in length.     When highly magnified, its body is
seen to have somewhat     of a conical shape, terminating
above    in a  point, but dividing inferiorly into eight
long processes or appendages of various dimensions,
to which it owes its peculiar figure.        Each of these
processes    is  supported   by an internal calcareous
framework, which, branching in different directions,
forms a basis whereon the soft parts are spread out.
    The whole animal is perfectly transparent, its sub
stance resembling     dull glass — the apex of the body
and the extremities of the arms or processes being
 slightly tinged with orange.

 198            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
    These singularly formed larva (for such they are)
 are to be found abundantly during the months of
 August and September, sometimes crowding the sur
 face of the sea in rich profusion, swimming freely
 about by the aid of rows of cilia, with which their
 arms and the apex of their bodies are plentifully
 furnished.
    The first appearance that presents itself indicating
the commencement of metamorphosis, is the develop
ment of a number of projections around the stomach
of the Pluteus, which soon increase so much in number
that they form a series of rows surrounding the
stomachal cavity.      At first these projections do not
extend beyond the body of the Pluteus, remaining, as
it were, concealed beneath its disc ; but soon acqui
ring greater development, they make their appear
ance externally, and begin to assume some regularity
of arrangement, in which the rudimentary         form of
the future star-fish begins to be perceptible, and the
points whence the arms are to proceed become ap
parent.
    In carrying out this part of the proceeding, it will
be observed that the original arms or processes of the
 Pluteus have had no share.       The Pluteus,   in fact,
stands just in the same relation to the young Ophiurus
as the frame docs to a piece of embroidery.      Neither
has the structure     of its arms anything in common
with that of the rays of the future star-fish, which
lies, as it were, protected by their shelter.
   In   the condition which it has now attained, the
young Ophiurus is much smaller than the rest of the
Pluteus ; but as its growth increases from this point,

              TRANSFORMATION     OF PLUTEUS.           199
the body and processes of the latter assume more
and more the appearance of being only appendages
to the newly developed animal, until by degrees they
entirely disappear, the only part of the Pluteus re
maining as a part of the Ophiurus being the stomach.
Before, however, the arms of the Pluteus have entirely
disappeared,   the feet or retractile suckers have begun
to show themselves arranged in a circle around the
circumference of the shield-like disc, so that it is able
to creep about freely in the sea.
   Shortly before the disappearance      of the last rem
nants of the Pluteus, the arms or rays of the Ophiurus
are already visible, projecting     prominently   from the
margin of the shield, but consisting as yet only of
the outer or terminal joint of the future ray; the
moveable spines likewise gradually show themselves,
and the characters of the future star-fish begin to be
recognizable.     Ultimately new segments are slowly
added to the rays, making      their appearance between
the first-formed segment and the margin of the disc.
The places where all new segments are formed are in
the shield itself, and each successive     segment being
formed at the base of the ray, is of course, owing to
the progressive growth of the animal, larger than all
that preceded it.
   Such is the remarkable mode in which the Ophiurus
is promoted from its egg condition to its perfect
state, after witnessing which, the reader     will scarcely
be surprised at    anything which he may encounter in
the way of transmutations of form among the lower
animals.
   The Brittle-stars    (Ophiocoma, PI.   IV.  fig. 2)  are

200           THE AQUARIAN NATURAilST.
much more active animals than the Ophiuri, which
in many respects they closely resemble. They seldom
remain   quiet for a moment, but are continually
twisting about their arms ; and, if laid hold of, they
break into little pieces with wonderful facility, each
fragment of an arm also breaking itself up into smaller
pieces; indeed, frequently, when we seize one of
these  creatures, we find nothing but     the disc re
maining.

                           STAR-FISHES.                        201
                        CHAPTER XXI.
                 ASTERIAS      THE CROSS-FISH.
   " Non ccelo tantum, sed et man suae stellae aunt, opera quidem
unius Dei artificis, sed diverse prorsus fabricae et nature. Coe-
lestes ubique locorum vulgus conspicit,   marinas ne physicorum
quidem omnea intuentur." — LINCKIUS.
AMONGST the most interesting decorative and charac
teristic occupants of the marine vivarium must be
enumerated the various species of Star-fishes properly
so called, constituting the great genus Asterias of
 modern zoology, — a race of animals so beautiful in
colour, so elegant in shape, so wonderful in structure,
 and so peculiar in their habits, that they are at once
 ornamental and instructive.
    The Star-fishes, as a race, may emphatically be
 designated marine animals.            There is nothing at all
 resembling them to be met with throughout the fresh
 waters of the globe; they stand unique and aloof
 from all other creatures ; while, from the complexity
 of their organization and their inexplicable attributes,
 they defy alike       the skill of the anatomist and the
 acuteness    of physiological research.
    And yet, who would suppose, at the first aspect
                                                   K5

202            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
of one of these creatures lying helpless upon the
beach —
   " Like the corpse of an outcast abandon'd to weather
                                                        "—
that there was anything attractive about it ? Who
would dream, on seeing them heaped in cartloads and
carried off for manure, as we have sometimes done,
that they possessed a delicacy of sense and a perfec
tion of movement almost unparalleled in creation?
We must examine          these Star-fishes under more fa
vourable circumstances       if we  would appreciate them
properly.
   The Asterias is provided with long rays, which
issue immediately from the parts round the mouth,
for there is no definite central         disc, although   the
body is thick and compact ; the rays, indeed, may be
said rather to fork from each other than to issue from
a centre.     They are stout and taper, convex above
and flattened beneath, terminating by many slender
suckers at their extremities ; besides which, there is a
channel in the under surface, with rows of suckers,
stronger, more numerous, and of larger dimensions,
serving as feet, both in progression and for fixture.
   The Northern Sea-star, the species most common
upon some of our coasts, is among the largest, the
most powerful and ravenous of its kind, sometimes
measuring, when completely expanded, twelve inches
between the tips of the opposite rays. The colour is
extremely variable, but usually purplish or greyish.
Purple seems to be the natural colour, although when
very young      it is met with cream-coloured, or even
white.

               HABITS OF THE NORTHERN        SEA-STAR.       203
   When inactive, the animal is greatly contracted,
crouching closely in some cavity, as if for conceal
ment, or occupying a corner of the tank, apparently
quite helpless and incapable of resistance. When
roused, however, by heat or hunger, it advances as
if half-swimming, with a quickness such as could
scarcely be ascribed to its nature, its rays extended,
and the numerous suckers in action.     It never really
swims, nor does it spontaneously leave the water,
though   frequently met with left behind by the re
ceding tide.
  No creature is more rapacious. Its prey is de
voured alive whenever it can be overpowered.      Let a
moderate-sized mussel be presented, and it is straight
way covered by the body of the Star-fish, while, the
rays closing around          it,
                      the animal sustains itself on
them as on feet, contracting            more and more as the
food   gradually swallowed.
         is                             If  the portion of food
be too large        for the mouth,      the stomach begins to
protrude, and      applied around it.
                      is                  In this way
shell-fishes, whether univalves or bivalves, become an
easy prey       :   the Turbo and the Pholas        fall victims
alike.        As the prey
                       brought under the mouth,
                            is                              it   is
hemmed in on all sides             by
                          the rays, and either crushed
asunder        or swallowed entire:       small   fishes,   small
Echini, and even some of its own race, are all sacri
ficed to its merciless voracity.
   Though much exceeding the specific gravity of the
water, Star-fishes of various kinds are capable of               a
swift, gliding motion, as nearly buoyant — a circum
                                 if
stance that may be accounted for by   quantity of the
                                             a
surrounding element being absorbed into their inte

204              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
rior, whereby the bulk of these creatures is consider
ably increased, and their specific gravity consequently
diminished in the same proportion.
    However      firmly a Star-fish may be adherent by
 means    of its suckers to  a foreign body, its hold is im
 mediately loosed on depriving it of the surrounding
 water, so that if any of the vessels containing them
 be   emptied, they soon fall from the sides to the
 bottom.       In this way, without using the slightest
 violence, which is always productive of injury, the ani
 mals are brought under the readiest control, for when
 deprived of their native element they are helpless.
     In their natural  state, these Star-fishes are disposed
 to crawl into fissures in the rocks for protection during
 the ebb of the tide, or they creep underneath stones
 or into shells, anywhere where         a  little water may
 chance to be retained.
     The fishermen of some districts entertain        an  in
 veterate    antipathy to the Star-fishes, from a rooted
 belief that they are particularly destructive to oysters.
 They find them, they say, in the very fact — actually
 within the shells devouring the contents ; — an accusa
 tion leading to indiscriminate vengeance against the
 imagined offenders.        The ancients indeed tell us
 dreadful tales concerning the destruction of oysters
 by these rapacious gormandizers, and nevertheless
 their truth still remains problematical, for certainly it
  is by no means evident at first sight how the alleged
  warfare can be carried on, or how the inhabitants of
 such    large shells can be either reached or extracted.
  Sir John Dalyell seems inclined to question the reality
 of such    a proceeding, arguing, that though the fisher-

              HOW STAR-FISHES    EAT OYSTERS.          205
men assert that they have seen the enemy flagrante
delicto, they are by no means either close or accurate
observers.
    " I have   not heard it suggested," says Sir John,
"  that the Star-fish possesses any kind of solvent
compelling the bivalves to sunder.        Neither can its
hostility be very deadly to the larger univalves, from
the distance to which       they are enabled to retreat
within their portable dwellings.      Their general habits
are, to force the shells of smaller bivalves asunder,
and to devour the contents ; they likewise consume
the substance of ordinary fishes entire ; nevertheless,
as far as   I am yet aware,   their destruction of oysters
is destitute of evidence.       The Star-fish sometimes
shows an eversion of the stomach, or of some mem
brane resembling it. Whether this may be the means
of affecting their prey merits investigation."
    In  this latter suggestion, Sir John Dalyell has very
nearly hit upon the true solution of the problem.
There     are more ways than one even         of eating an
oyster, and the method adopted by the Asterias is
peculiar. It is quite evident, from the small size and
undilatable structure of the mouth of the Star-fish,
that it can never introduce an oyster, shells and all,
into its stomach, more especially as the edible mol-
lusk is always firmly fixed upon its bed ; but that is
no reason why it should not put its stomach into the
oyster, and thus effect its purpose in a different
 manner.      Its mode of proceeding is      as follows : —
 Grasping its shell-clad prey between its rays, and
 firmly fixing it by means of its prehensile suckers, it
 proceeds deliberately to turn its stomach inside out,

206            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
embracing in its ample folds the helpless bivalve, and
perhaps at the same time instilling some torpifying
fluid ; for the shells of the poor victim seized soon
open, and   it then becomes an easy prey.
   All  the race of Star-fishes are extremely subject to
mutilation of their rays; of their full complement,
many have four, others three, two, and some only one
remaining.      Such mutilation does not appear to be
incident either to size or age, but takes place alike in
old and in young specimens, and, what is more, it is
in both equally succeeded by complete reproduction
of the lost parts.
    On the 10th of June a single ray was picked up
by Sir John Dalyell, which had either separated from
an entire specimen or was the residue of one that had
lost all the other parts. It showed no symptoms of
reproduction at the time, but, on the 15th, the rudi
ments of four additional rays were indicated by four
nipple-like prominences projecting about the sixteenth
of an inch from the broader end. Next evening one
of   these  had acquired nearly double the size; the
others were less advanced ; but a small orifice — a new
 mouth — was forming in the centre of the group : the
 work of reproduction now proceeded vigorously, and,
 after   two or three days longer, the animal again
 consisted of five rays, four of which were of pigmy
 dimensions when compared with their giant associate.
 After the lapse of another month, the original ray
 fell to pieces, leaving the newly formed body sur
 rounded only by the four newly developed rays. This
 was a singular accident, as by    it the animal became
 once more symmetrical and all young again ; nothing

         RENOVATION OF MUTILATED STAR-FISHES.          207
remained disproportionate or offensive to the eye, and
the renovated Star-fish entered vigorously upon its
new career.
    From the aversion of the fishermen to all sorts of
star-fish, both large and small, they were formerly
wont to rend them asunder, and commit their lace
rated bodies to the waves — with what result the reader
can easily imagine.        It is said that they are now
grown wiser, and on discovering their purpose to be
defeated by the extraordinary reproductive energies
 of their victims,    are content   to cast them on the
shore, and leave them there to perish. Certainly their
 old plan of tearing every Cross-fish they got hold of
 into two or three pieces, each capable of regenerating
 all its missing parts, was anything but a way to dimi
 nish their numbers.
     And here, methinks, the reader will expect us to
 write a vehement philippic against such wanton de
 struction of Star-fishes, and such a puerile display of
 impotent vengeance on the part of the fishermen :
 assuredly our pen, ever ready in defence of the per
 secuted victims of ignorance, was just preparing itself
 for the task, but — will it be credited? — we really
 sympathize with the fisherman, and scarcely have the
 heart to censure a man for losing his temper, at last,
  after patiently enduring reiterated insult and provo
 cation ; — yes, it would have tried the patience of Job
 to have been plagued as those poor fishermen are by
  the ubiquitous
                   " five fingers " or " devil fingers," as
  some   of them are pleased to call them.        It is not
  about the oysters that fishermen trouble themselves
 — that is a mere excuse — it is a downright personal

208                    THE AQUARIAN        NATURALIST.
quarrel with the Star-fishes                themselves, and certes
they have         some      cause    for the animosity they bear
these quinquefid nuisances.
  It is our invariable practice when at the sea-side —
that    in fine weather — to catch our own breakfast
       is,                                                                       ;
— we    make      it   a   point of conscience     — whiting,
                                                   ;                          deli
cious fresh-caught whiting             !— plain butter — shrimp-
sauce  !  Shade of Apicius             !— but we must keep to
our text.
   Now,      it our opinion, that man who
                  is                         a    fishing        is
for his own breakfast has an interest in success, second
only to that of the poor fisherman who fishes for his
livelihood, and must almost equally feel the pangs of
disappointment in case of failure.    Let us fancy our
selves therefore seated in our boat, and, after      glo                  a
rious pull just half mile out to sea, preparing for the
                            a
sport — the laughing water, sparkling in the morn
       :
ing sun, dances around us as we cast the heavy stone
—our  anchor — amidst the gently swelling waves, and,
eager for the sport, prepare our lines — we feel         :                       a
tugging at our hook, and, hauling up the lengthened
string, expect    prize when, lo 'tis but
                       a         ;          villainous
                                              !              a
star-fish that has seized our bait, gorging  deep and        it
fast.   Again we try, and with the same result.    Bait
after bait     thus devoured, till you begin to thiuk
                  is
that shoals of cross-fishes are waiting there on purpose
to annoy you.              Let   me see the man,             hungry and
tired, with every prospect of being breakfastless to
boot, who keeps his temper under such   trial          a              !
    But, however inimical to the fisherman, the Star
fishes must always be regarded                by
                                   the naturalist with
unmitigated wonder, and their importance in the

       IMPORTANCE   OF STAR-FISHES     IN CREATION.    209
 grand (Economy of Creation       at once acknowledged.
 Their appetite is for carrion.     Their restless and un
 ceasing industry is constantly employed in hunting
out and swallowing all dead, all tainted matters that
approach the shore, which, if permitted to accumu
late, would soon pollute the very ocean, and convert
the wave-washed beach into a charnel-house, defile
the air, and render earth itself an uninhabitable waste.
All  silently and quietly the work is done by these
unwearying agents.       Cleanliness and health attend
their gentle footsteps ; while, to crown the whole, each,
like a living granary, pours forth innumerable eggs,
and thus supplies abundant food for countless hungry
and expectant mouths, peopling the sea with life, and
adding to the already boundless store of Nature's
provender.
   The natural enemies of the Asterias are innume
rable as the hungry maws of cod-fishes, and many
others of the larger and more rapacious tenants of the
deep abundantly testify ; nay, cannibal-like— as the
aquariist will doubtless soon discover to his cost—
certain races do not spare each other.
   Most species of Star-fish,    if taken strong and vi
gorous from the sea, are sufficiently hardy to be easily
preserved in the vivarium of the practical naturalist,
and with due precaution will survive a long time.
Several species feed copiously and grow rapidly, some
of them attaining dimensions which seem extraordi
nary.    They are very impatient of heat, whence it is
necessary to keep them in a cool place ; and frequent
renovation of the water is absolutely indispensable
during hot weather.

210            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   In   confinement   these   creatures  are   almost in
variably subject to frightful mutilations.   Not only do
they lose large portions of their body, or even entire
rays, but the whole animal sometimes literally falls to
pieces ; nay, although to-day you may possess a com
plete and beautiful specimen, which has behaved itself
in a manner perfectly correct and satisfactory, there
is no saying but that to-morrow morning you will
find nothing left of it but a heap of fragments di
spersed through the water.       This kind of suicide is a
casualty apparently incidental to the whole race, and
with some species, amongst which Luidia fragi-
lissima stands pre-eminently conspicuous, it is so
generally put in practice, and that upon the slightest
occasions, that to procure one in an entire state is
almost impossible.
    Prof. E. Forbes, often baffled by this suicidal habit,
upon one occasion was induced to take special pre
cautions against it ; he accordingly provided a bucket
of fresh water to receive and kill instantaneously any
that might be caught by the dredge, and a very
 amusing account he gives of the ill-success of the
 experiment.
                 " As I expected,   a Luidia  came up — a
 gorgeous specimen. As it does not generally break
up before it is raised above the surface of the sea,
 cautiously and anxiously   I  sank my bucket to a level
 with the dredge's mouth, and proceeded, in the most
 gentle manner, to introduce Luidia to the purer ele
 ment.    Whether the cold element was too much for
 him, or the sight of the bucket too terrific,     I know
 not, but in a moment he proceeded to dissolve his
 corporation, and at every mesh of the dredge bis frag

     " EYES
            "  AND  " EYELIDS"     OF  THE STAR-FISH.       211
 ments were seen escaping. In despair           I grasped the
 largest, and brought up the extremity of an arm with
 its terminating eye, the spinous eyelid of which
 opened and closed    with something exceedingly like a
 wink of derision*."
    We are reminded by the concluding sentence of
 the preceding facetious quotation, that, in order to
 explain the allusion made by our late lamented friend
to the " terminating eye and spinous eyelid " of the
 Star-fish, it will be necessary to say a few words con
cerning    the senses    of these    extraordinarily     gifted
creatures. That they do perceive what is going on
in the world around them, at least in so far as their
own business is concerned, there cannot exist a doubt          ;
nay, that their perceptions are acute and rapid, any
one who has witnessed the facility with which they
find   and devour     a  bait, or a morsel of food, will
readily allow ; but how they are enabled to eflect this
is by no means so easily explained.           That it must be
by some sense analogous either to smell or vision,
seems pretty evident ; but where we are to            look for
their noses or eyes is    a problem not of very easy solu
tion.    In many species, however, there are found,
situated at the extremity of each ray, certain bright
red spots, very conspicuous in the living animal,
around which the terminal spines cluster, as though
for their protection.       These red spots are by many
eminent naturalists regarded as the eyes of the Star
fish, and the surrounding spines constitute the eye
lid above alluded to. How far they are or are not
instruments of vision, is a matter still open to dispute,
and a question well worthy of solution by any of our
                 *
                   Forbes, British Star-fishes.

212             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
readers, whose opportunities enable them to make
experiments upon this interesting subject.
    The eggs of the Star-fish come to perfection in the
months of April and May, at which time the roe,
which consists of large bundles of tubes occupying
the angles between the rays, is very much distended.
The eggs indeed are incredibly numerous, so that
 all surprise at the multitudes of these creatures met
 with upon our coast at once ceases on beholding their
 prodigious fertility. When first deposited, the ova are
 not at once abandoned by the parent animals, but
 are retained in a kind of cavity formed by incur
 ving the body and rays of the mother, until they
 make a sort of chamber, beneath which the eggs are
 protected during the earlier part of their development
 (PI.  IV. fig. 3). The young animal, at the moment
 of its escape from the egg, is of an ovoid or sub-
 spherical shape (PI. IV. fig. 3, a), completely unpro
 vided with limbs, but enabled to swim vivaciously
 about in the surrounding water by means of the cilia
 with which its body is profusely covered, giving it
 exactly the appearance of an infusorial animalcule ; —
 indeed this may be called the first, or infusorial con
 dition of the young Asterias.         After the lapse of a
 few days, certain appendages         begin to make their
  appearance,    sprouting,   as it were, from the anterior
  part of the body, and ultimately appearing as forming
  four club-shaped processes, whereby the little crea
  ture fixes itself to the sides of the incubatory cavity
  (PI. IV. fig. 3 b, c, d, e). The body of the little embryo
  now becomes      gradually flattened into a minute cir
  cular disc, upon one surface of which — hence at onoe
  distinguished     as   the   ventral — the  rudiments    of

         DEVELOPMENT      OF THE YOUNG ASTERIAS.       213
suckers    begin   to be apparent      under  the form of
globular    protuberances,    disposed   in ten concentric
rows (PI. IV. fig. 3, d,f).      If  in this condition the
little being is detached from the spot where it has
fixed itself, it is still able to swim about in the sur
rounding water by means of its ciliated surface, always
keeping the organs of attachment directed forwards ;
but if left undisturbed, it remains perfectly still and
motionless, presenting what M. Sars calls the crinoid
state of development, considering that in this con
 dition it corresponds to the state of the fixed Encrinite.
 At this stage, the body of the young Star-fish may
 still be said to be bilateral ; for in all its movements
 the organs of attachment are directed forwards, and
 both sides of the body correspond exactly to each
 other; but by degrees this bilateral condition is con
 verted into the radiated form that characterizes the
 third or perfect state of the Asterias ; the body begins
 to assume a pentagonal outline, from the angles of
 which, short, blunt rays begin to project (PI. IV.
 fig. 3, g), and the tentacula, now presenting the form
 of retractile cylinders, and completely furnished with
 their terminal suckers, become efficient instruments
  of locomotion.     The red spots, regarded as the eyes,
  are visible at the extremities of the nascent rays ;
  the mouth shows itself in the centre of the ventral
  aspect of the body, and numerous spines make their
  appearance.     Lastly, the apparatus for attachment
  begins to diminish in size, and soon completely
  disappears ; so that the young Asterias, having at
  tained its perfect form, is ready to enter upon the
  duties of its station.

214           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                  CHAPTER XXII.
                ECHINUS — SEA-URCHIN.
THE subjects of the present chapter are popularly
known by the name of Sea-urchins, or Sea-hedgehogs,
from the circumstance of their shells being covered
with moveable prickles, like the skins of those qua-
drupeds ; but when the prickles have fallen off, the
shells are more    commonly    called   Sea-eggs, partly
from a conformity in figure between the objects com
pared, and more so from a similarity in their cal
careous composition and texture.      From their forms,
certain genera have been called turbans, diadems,
mermaid's skulls, or hearts, or fairy stones ; a nomen
clature doubtless more pleasing to our readers than
the Greek compounds of science, and not less poetical
than useful, since they aptly convey a portraiture of
those varieties of form into which Nature has, with
her usual sportiveness, moulded these productions.
   Few objects in the animal creation are better cal-
culated to impress the mind of the student of Nature
with feelings of reverential awe towards the Divine
Artificer, than one of these, at first sight despicable
animals. Consider them from whatever point of view
we choose, the elegance of their shapes, the elaborate

              SHELL OF ECHINUS ESCULENTUS.          215
complexity of their structure, the diversity of their
forms, their incalculable numbers in existing races,
the still more innumerable series of extinct genera,
or the wonderful attributes with which they are indi
vidually endowed, they will always furnish materials
for interesting contemplation.
    How shall we commence our description of an
Echinus?       We have heard of the journals of conti
nental tourists, in which it is gravely chronicled, that
"in this princely collection of pictures there is a
 Guido measuring 3ft. by 3ft. 5 ." We have heard
the Thames Tunnel described as having required so
 many millions of bricks for its construction.       We
have heard the mosaics in St. Peter's admired on
 account of the innumerable pieces of various-coloured
 stones required for the composition of those per
 durable monuments — but we cannot say that we were
 much enlightened by such connoisseurship.       Let the
reader examine for himself with due attention one of
 these wondrously    constructed  beings, and then pro
 nounce whether among the works of man he has ever
 seen anything more mathematical in design or more
 artificial in execution.
    The shell of an Echinus esculentus of moderate size
 is composed of at least ten thousand distinct pieces,
 so accurately conjoined that the whole fabric seems a
 single shell.    Upon the exterior of this amazingly
 constructed dome may be reckoned not fewer than
 three thousand spines of various sizes, all capable of
 independent movement.         Add to these at least a
 thousand tubular sucking-discs, instinct with life and
 motion, not to mention innumerable appendages which

216            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
stud the exterior of the body, and we have indeed a
microcosm alike worthy the contemplation of the
philosopher and the admiration         of the student.
Surely, exclaims an old writer, the hand that made a
Sea-urchin was well able to build up a world !
   The calcareous plates entering into the composition
of this extraordinary shell may be divided into two
distinct sets, which differ materially in size as well as
in the uses to which they are subservient. The larger
pieces are recognizable by hemispherical tubercles of
considerable size attached to their external surface,
adapted, as we shall afterwards see, to articulate   with
the moveable locomotive spines. Each of these larger
plates has somewhat of a pentagonal form; those
which are situated in the neighbourhood of the mouth
and   of the opposite aperture being considerably the
smallest, and every succeeding plate becoming pro
gressively larger as they approximate the central
portion of the shell. The entire series of pieces in
each row resembles in figure the shape of the space
included between two of the lines which mark the
degrees  of longitude on a terrestrial globe, broad at
the equator, but gradually narrowing as it approaches
the poles ; an arrangement of course rendered neces
sary by the spherical form   of the creature.
   The reader must not, however, conclude that the
large central tubercles above mentioned are the only
parts of the shell to which spines are affixed ; hun
dreds of similar elevations are disseminated over the
surface, to which    smaller spiculae  are appended,   al
though, from     their diminutive size, these     are   of
secondary importance in locomotion.

        WONDERFUL     COMPLEXITY OF STRUCTURE.        217
   It is impossible, by any verbal description at all
commensurate with our present undertaking, ade
quately to explain the more minute contrivances visi
ble in the disposition of every portion of these won
derfully constructed coverings. It is sufficient for
our present purpose to observe, that the globular crust
of an Echinus is made up of several hundred poly
gonal pieces of different sizes, and, although pre
senting every variety of outline, generally approxi
mating more or less to a pentagonal form; — that these
pieces are so accurately and completely fitted to each
other, that the lines which unite them can scarcely be
distinguished, even upon the most minute examina
tion ; and that from the union of so many distinct
and dissimilar plates results a firm, compact and
beautiful box, the shell of the " Sea-Egg."
   The first question that naturally suggests itself on
examining a shell of this description, is concerning
the object to be attained by such remarkable com
plexity. It would appear, at first sight, that a simple
calcareous crust, like the integument of a lobster, had
it been   allowed to exude from the entire surface of
the Echinus, would       gradually   have  moulded  itself
upon the body of the creature, and thus have formed
a globular shell, composed of but a single piece, but
answering every purpose connected either with sup
port or defence.
   A very little investigation, however, will serve to
show the necessity for the elaborate arrangement
here exhibited.    In  the first place, the earthy matter
is not deposited upon the surface of the body, but
within the soft external integument by which it is

218            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
 secreted,  the interior of the shell being filled with
sea- water, in which the viscera arc loosely suspended.
    But  a second and more important        reason  for the
 employment of so many pieces in the construction of
this wonderful fabric is to be derived from examining
the mode in which the animal grows. Were it to
retain the same      dimensions   throughout the whole
period of its life, or could it at stated intervals cast
off its old investment and secrete a new and more
capacious covering      as growth    rendered the change
necessary, a simple earthy crust would have been
sufficient, without the presence of such an immense
number     of joinings and sutures.        The calcareous
plates of the Echinus, it must be remembered, are
merely secreted from the soft parts, having no vital
action going on within them, whereby, as in the bones
forming the skeletons of the higher animals, a con
tinued deposition of fresh particles could be effected,
allowing of extension by interstitial deposit. How
therefore is the gradual expansion of the entire shell,
thus composed of a dense, dead crust, to be effected,
and that without ever deranging the proportions of
the whole fabric or necessitating a loosening of its
parts  ?   No other contrivance could apparently      have
been adequate     to the purpose   ;  nevertheless, by the
structure adopted, we see how admirably the growth
of the Echinus proceeds in all directions; for the
living and vascular membrane which covers the whole
external surface of the body, and dips down between
the edges of the various calcareous pieces, continually
deposits around the margin of each individual plate
successive layers   of earthy particles, which, assuming

                   HOW THE    SHELL GROWS.                    219
a semicrystalline    arrangement, progressively increase
its dimensions.      But the continual augmentation in
size which    is thus going on simultaneously in all
parts, is attended with no change in the mathematical
figure of any given piece of the shell, so that the
whole fabric gradually expands without in any degree
altering its form or relative proportions, until it has
acquired     the   mature    dimensions     belonging       to its
species.
     If weremove the spines of a young specimen re
cently dead, we shall then observe, that amongst the
plates situated near the opposite orifices of the shell
and the plates that bear spines, there are some less
fully developed, irregular in form, and taking their
place amongst the perfectly formed plates only in
proportion as they gradually attain to a larger size.
In  that region of the body where this increase takes
place, the membrane which unites all the plates, and
spreads    itself over their surface, is softer and more
spongy than it is in those parts where the plates are
consolidated and immoveable. It         in fact, this spongy
                                      is,
mass that deposits the calcareous matter of which the
plates are composed, and the spines shoot out in the
centre, almost in the same manner as the horns of               a
stag.    They do not become moveable until they have
attained a certain degree of development, and there
is   aperiod in their growth after which their size does
not increase. Those, moreover, which drop off acci
dentally are replaced by others, formed as the pre
ceding ones had been, by the membrane which covers
the plates. We may always indeed observe in    single   a
specimen all the gradations of increase, from that of
                                                L2

220            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
the plates which have completed their growth and
bear fully formed spines, down to the smallest com
mencement of plates as yet unfurnished with spines.
    Passing from pole to pole of the globular shell, the
reader will next observe ten rows of plates, disposed
in pairs, avenues   as they are fancifully called ; these
are at once recognizable by innumerable minute per
forations, the ambulacral orifices, disposed with great
regularity.     The ambulacral orifices in the living
Echinus give passage to numerous tentacular-looking
organs, each of which is terminated by a minute
sucker, and endowed with a truly wonderful power of
 contraction   and extension ; insomuch that when un
 employed they are retracted, something like the horns
 of a snail, until they quite disappear ; but when ac
 tively employed, they are protruded until their sucker-
 like extremities reach beyond the points of the longest
 spines, and thus are enabled to lay    hold on foreign
 objects.
    The number of these suckers is very great.       In  a
 moderate sized Sea-urchin Professor Forbes reckoned
 sixty-two rows of pores in each of the ten avenues.
 Now, as there are three pairs of pores in each row,
 their number multiplied by six, and again by ten,
 would give the great number of 3720 pores ; but, as
 each sucker occupies a pair of pores, the number of
  suckers would be half that amount, or 1860. Imagine
  therefore the complicated mechanism wielded by one
  of these animals even for the simple purpose of taking
  a walk.
     In  order to understand the manner in which the
  Sea-urchin employs these remarkable organs, let us

            SUCKERS AND LOCOMOTIVE SPINES.           221
suppose    a specimen at rest. All the suckers are re
tracted within, or close to, the shell, and the spine
remains motionless.      A  few of the suckers now pro
trude  ; they search    around for a solid foundation ;
others follow them, until at length many of these
adhesive discs are at work, and the animal is fixed
securely by their assistance.        Should the Echinus
wish to change its place, the suckers behind are seen
to relax their hold, while the contraction of others in
front brings forward the shell. The suckers therefore
in this case are the principal instruments of pro
gression, wherein they are but feebly aided by the
spines, and thus the creature advances in its course
with surprising expedition. If a portion of food be
 now dropped into the vessel, the Echinus speedily be
 comes sensible of its presence.      Should the creature
 be above, the suckers are soon seen to be put into
 active requisition, and its descent commences imme
 diately as it hastens to the repast.
    The most striking feature in the construction       of
 the Sea-urchin, from which indeed the animal de
 rives its name, is found in the prickles or spines which
 stud the exterior of its shelly box, and which form a
 very important     part   of its locomotive machinery.
 Each of these spines is in fact a kind of leg, articu
 lated to the exterior of the shell by a beautifully con
 structed ball-and-socket joint, and moved by a special
 apparatus ; so that by means of these numerous legs
 the creature is enabled to roll itself about upon the
 beach, or, if danger threaten, to bury itself in the
 sand, and thus escape from observation.       This latter
 feat the  Echini are  in the habit of putting in practice

 222            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 whenever, having wandered too far, they are left be
 hind by the retreating tide ; still, however, it is not
 impossible for the practised eye to detect their place
 of concealment, which is recognizable by a kind of
 funnel-shaped depression observable in the surface of
 the sand immediately over their retreat.        The fisher
 men even pretend to judge of the probability of a
 storm by the urchin burying itself more or less deeply
 beneath the surface.
    The Sea-urchins    are stated to be carnivorous, and
 are said to feed upon crustaceous and bivalve mol-
 lusca.    How far this may be true it is difficult to
 say ; their stomachs — and we have examined numbers
 of them — are generally found filled with nothing but
 the debris of Algae, Zoophytes, Desmideae and similar
 materials.    M. Bosc, however,   states   positively, that
 he has seen one eating a crab which     it had  seized with
 its tentacular suckers, and was busily employed in
 breaking up by means of its formidable teeth.
     According to the account of another writer, —
 " The Sea-urchin is a most voracious and promiscuous
 feeder, always ready to eat ; nor is any animal better
 qualified for the destruction of others with impunity
to itself.   The strength of the teeth is marvellous ;
and, as if to prove auxiliary, the principal power for
the capture of prey seems to reside in the suckers
near the mouth.        The Echinus is, in fact, a bold,
fierce, and destructive creature, the inveterate enemy
of whatever it can overcome, and greedily devouring
all that comes in its way, even what seems secure
from assault. Nothing has any chance of escape;
fish, flesh, Zoophytes, Algae and Fuci, all are accepted ;

                 FOOD OF   TEE SEA-URCHINS.               223
 and it will even make a hearty meal of pure shell.
 An Echinus of moderate size having seized a small
 living crab, the victim seemed to be paralysed by
 simple contact ; nor did it offer any resistance to its
 ferocious foe.     Another Echinus, not more than fif
teen lines in diameter, fastened its extended suckers
on a small lobster, a Galathea ; but the latter, fortu
nately for itself, directing one of its claws with suffi
cient dexterity, cut the suckers asunder, and thus
freed itself from its assailant's deadly grasp. Indeed,
these animals seem to have a natural propensity to
destroy.      Specimens not a quarter of an inch in dia
meter will tear sea-weeds into fragments."
    Cavolini assures us that the Echini live upon sea
weeds.       Dr. Monro, on the contrary, tells us that
they live upon living shell-fish, which they seize and
secure by means of their suctorial ambulacral tubes.
"   I  therefore   directed  the   fishermen to bring me
along with the Echini some living Buccina, to which,
as   I  supposed they would do, they attached them
selves    so effectually, that when    I lifted the Echinus
out of the water,      I found  it could support with ease
a   Buccinum which weighed nearly a quarter of a
         "
pound — rather an odd proof of the nature of their
diet certainly; for the same might be said of them
with respect to any stone of similar weight with
which they may happen to be brought in contact.
    " The Echinidans," says Mr. Kirby, " whose station
appears to be often near the shore upon submerged
ledges    of rocks, feed upon whatever animal they can
seize.     "We have seen that they sometimes turn upon
their back and sides, as well as move           horizontally.

224            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
This enables them more readily to secure their food
with the aid of the numerous suckers in the vicinity
of their mouth, which, when once they are fixed, never
let go their hold till the animal is brought within the
action of their powerful jaws."
   We really should be glad if some of our readers
could throw a little light upon this part of the eco
nomy of the Sea-urchins; it is a very interesting
subject for investigation.
   The jaws of the Echinus, indeed, are as curiously
formed as any other part of their structure.      Their
mouth is a simple orifice through which the points of
five sharp teeth are seen to protrude.      These teeth
obviously perform the duty of incisors, and from their
sharpness and extreme density are well calculated to
break the hard substances said to be employed as
food. The points of such incisor teeth, although of
enamel-like hardness, would nevertheless be speedily
worn away by the constant attrition to which they
are necessarily subjected, were there not some pro
vision made to ensure their perpetual renewal : like
the incisor teeth of rodent quadrupeds, they are there
fore continually growing up behind as fast as they are
worn away in front, and are thus always preserved
 sharp and fit for use.    In order to allow of such an
arrangement, as well as to provide for the movements
 of the teeth, jaws are provided, which are situated in
 the interior of the shell, and these jaws, from their
 great complexity and unique structure, form perhaps
 the most admirable masticating instrument met with
 in the animal kingdom.       The entire apparatus, re
 moved from the shell, consists of the following parts.

                   LANTERN OF ARISTOTLE.                225
 There are five long teeth, each of which is enclosed
 in a triangular bony piece (fig. 6 c, d), that, for the
 sake  of brevity, we will call jaws. The five jaws are
 united together by various muscles, so as to form
 a pentagonal pyramid, having its apex in contact
 with the oral orifice of the shell ; while its base is
 connected with several bony levers by means of
 numerous muscles provided for the movements of
 the whole.    When the five jaws are fixed together in
 their natural position, they form a five-sided conical
 mass, aptly enough compared by Aristotle to a
lantern, and frequently described by modern writers
 under the name of the " lantern of Aristotle."        The
whole of this complicated machinery is suspended by
 muscles from a framework fixed in the interior of the
 shell, and may often be picked up upon the beach, or,
still better, exposed in situ in a dead Echinus, by
those who would examine closely this wonderful piece
of mechanism.
   The Echini, in the structure of their ovarian appa
ratus, exhibit, if possible, greater simplicity of ar
rangement than even the Star-fishes described in a
preceding chapter. The ovaria are five delicate mem
branous bags, quite distinct from each other, which
open externally by as many delicate tubes, or oviducts,
as we may term them. The apertures through which
the eggs escape are easily seen upon the outer surface
of the shell, placed around the opening opposite to
that of the mouth, and are at once recognizable, not
merely by their size, but from the circumstance of
each perforation being situated   in a distinct oval plate
of the shell, distinguished by zoological writers as the
                                            L5

226            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
ovarian pieces.     The membranous sacs in which the
ova are secreted vary in size in proportion to the
maturity of the eggs contained within them, and at
certain times of the year are enormously distended.
It is in this state that the " roe of the Sea-egg," as
the ovaria are commonly called, is used as an article
of food, and in some countries they are eagerly sought
after, when in season, by divers employed to procure
them.
   In  ancient times, indeed, they seem to have been
regarded as delicacies, "when dressed with honied-
wine, parsley and mint;" nay, it is recorded that
they composed the principal dish at the famous supper
of Lentulus, when he was made Flamen Martialis, or
Priest of Mars, a circumstance which, seeing their
abundance upon the shores of the Mediterranean, is
by no means a matter of surprise to any one who has
visited those enchanting regions.
   We remember upon one occasion being not a little
amused at witnessing the grotesque employment of
sea-egg fishing near the bay     of Naples. After a hard
day's walking along the coast in the vicinity of Baiae,
we were taking our siesta beneath the shade of some
vineyards within the classic precincts of the Elysian
fields, eating delicious grapes purchased at the rate of
about a penny a hatful, and literally
                    " Lapp'd in Elysium,"
were enjoying the delightful prospect, when it was
proposed by our cicerone to visit the Baths of Nero,
as he was pleased     to call them, situated at no great
distance.   Now in Italy, after a day's pedestrian exer
cise under a burning sun, the very name of a bath has

                   LE STUFE DI NE11ONE.             227
something refreshing in it ; and, allured by the anti
cipation of a plunge in some cool fountain, perhaps
received in marble basins under vaulted roofs worthy
of imperial magnificence, we were tempted from our
shady seclusion, and set forth in quest of the pro
mised indulgence.      The day was blazing hot, and
anxiously did we look forward to what we hoped
would be some gelid refuge from the burning sun
shine.     The reader will therefore appreciate our
feelings, when, on reaching our destination, the so-
called " Baths of Nero " (Le stufe di Nerone is their
proper designation) were boiling waters somewhere
in the bowels of the earth, which we were called upon
to visit.   A low-browed cavern opening on the shore
steamed    like a laundry upon washing-day, and, cer
tainly, anything but realized our pleasurable anticipa
tions.    However, there we were   ; and, as the stoves
of Nero were declared well worthy of inspection, we
prepared for the exploit.
   We entered first a sort of ante-cave exceedingly
like the entrance to some of the caverns about Mat-
lock in Derbyshire, and there we found our guide,
that was to be, into the realms below — a strange old
 man — a very Charon in his looks — a sort of Charon
parboiled. Here we were told to strip ourselves quite
naked to the waist, and, after obeying this direction,
were furnished with a candle in one hand, and a
basket containing a couple of eggs in the other, and
thus accoutred were ready for our subterranean ex
plorations.    On opening an inner door, the steam
burst forth as if from the spout of a teakettle.    Our
guide went first, assuring us that if we stooped so as
to avoid the upper stratum of vapour, we should suffer

228              THE AQUAEIAN NATURALIST.
no inconvenience;         and, with something like the feel
ings of Dandie Diumont when about to enter Hat-
teraick's cave, we followed.
   We have heard, gentle reader, of a man who went
into an oven in company with a leg of mutton, and
stayed there until it was cooked ; but to have imagined
ourselves voluntarily submitting to the fate of a
 potato, was a stretch of fancy of which we were not
previously capable. However, we did it ; yes, on we
 went, deeper and deeper, hotter and hotter.               O ye
Tartarean shades, we expected to see some of you
then  !    At  length we reached the margin of a stream,
a boiling, hissing, bubbling, scalding stream.               Co-
 cytus ? — Phlegethou ? —       I  know not which it was ;
 how could we tell, by the light of a single farthing
candle, what might be around us in those regions of
black darkness ? We expected Cerberus to catch us
 by the trowsers every moment ; however, we dipped
 our baskets of eggs into the dreadful caldron, and
 held them there till they were boiled. In doing so,           I
 put the tips of the fingers of one hand to the ground
 to steady myself, and scalded them every one till they
 were blistered — it was         hot work.     I  began  to fear
 I  should faint, and my heart beat against my ribs
 very unpleasantly.         It was high time to be getting
 back again, and      I  believe Dante himself was not more
 pleased to see the stars appear, after his journey in
 the realms below, than         I was to inhale another gasp
 of upper air.      My first impulse     was to rush    into the
 Mediterranean,         which lay gently      heaving   close at
 hand   :
          —
          " There shrinks no ebb in that tidelesa sea,
            Which changeless rolls eternally :

                   A  DELIGHTFUL BATHE.                        229
         So that wildest of waves     in their angriest mood
         Scarce break on the bounds of the land for a rood      ;
         And the powerless moon beholds them flow,
         Heedless  if she come or go ;
         Calm or high, in main or bay,
         On their course she hath no sway.
         The rock unworn its base doth bare,
         And looks o'er the surf, but it comes not there    ;
         And the fringe of the foam may be seen below,
         On the line that it left long ages ago, —
         A smooth short space of yellow sand
         Between it and the greener land."
   I had not swum very far from the beach before                  I
found myself surrounded by some fifty or sixty human
heads, the bodies belonging to which were invisible,
and interspersed among these perhaps an equal number
of pairs of feet sticking out of the water.              As   I ap
proached the spot, the entire scene became sufficiently
ludicrous and bewildering, more especially to one so
lately
                  " 'scaped the Stygian pool,"
and whose head was        still filled with visions of Dante's
Inferno. Down went a head, up came a pair of heels
— down went a pair of heels, up came a head ; and as
something like a hundred people were all diligently
practising the same manffiuvre, the strange vicissi
tude from heels to heads, and heads to heels, going
on simultaneously, was rather a puzzling spectacle.
   On returning to the beach, after a most delicious
bathe,   we were,      of course, curious to inquire the
meaning of such unintelligible gambols, and soon
found out the cause of proceedings so mysterious.
It was the   " sea-egg "     fishery, and these were fisher

230                  THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
men, all busily employed in tearing from the rocks
the valued edible. Yes, the villas of Cicero and of
Lucullus, the Brighton of Imperial Rome, had occu
pied that strand, or been          submerged beneath these
waves     ;   and over tessellated pavements and sculptured
columns,          plainly visible,    now crawled   Echini   and
Star-fishes.
   The eggs of the Echinus, when first hatched, give
birth to creatures exactly resembling infusorial ani
malcules, or perhaps we ought rather to say, the newly-
born ciliated offspring of the Medusae, described in a
preceding chapter; but they soon change their ap
pearance, and are then found swimming about as
Plutei, very much resembling those from which the
Ophiuri derive their origin (PI. IV. fig. 1 b). The
form of the Pluteus of an Echinus     however, of
                                              is,             a
slightly different shape its body :  composed of a
                                             is
colourless transparent jelly, dome-shaped behind, ex
panded and slightly hollowed out in front, and pro
longed inferiorly into straight slender legs, in which
delicate rods of calcareous matter are perceptible,
forming   kind of framework.
              a                 Were the creature to
stand upon these,    would in fact almost exactly re
                             it
semble French clock, such as we see on our chimney-
              a
pieces,  the pendulum being represented by      pro     a
boscis-like mouth and its appendages nothing indeed
                                              :
could be more remote in appearance from the Echinus
into which     will be ultimately transformed. The
                   it
little creature   in this stage of its existence free-
                        is                              a
swimming animalcule, and propels itself, with its base
and processes directed forwards, by means of powerful
cilia grouped in two bunches on the sides of its

       PLUTEUS AND METAMORPHOSIS OF ECHINUS.          231
vaulted body, resembling epaulettes.       It is also pro
vided with a fringe of cilia encircling the dome, and
continued upon all the columns up one side and down
the other.
    The first evidence of the approaching change of
this Pluteus into an Echinus is the formation of a
round disc like a clock-face, with five double lines
like pointers radiating from its centre, and at their
extremities expanding into circles, having a double
outline, which may be soon seen to form the bases of
tentacles like those that traverse the ambulacral
pores of the adult Echinus, but which are as yet
single, not in pairs. The disc or clock-face progress
ively expands, extending over the gelatinous mass to
which it owes its origin, and developes tubercles
which push through the transparent dome of the
 Pluteus, and are transformed into spines and ten
 tacles that soon manifest   their characteristic motions,
 combining their apparently voluntary actions with
 the continued vibrations of the ciliated epaulettes of
 the Pluteus ; so that it can now both swim and creep.
 Gradually, however, as the growth of the Echinus
 advances,   the Pluteus   disappears, and even by the
 time    the disc has expanded half over its surface,
 little of the latter remains except a few of the calca
 reous rods which formed its framework; while the
 nascent shell of the Echinus, covered now with spines
 and locomotive     tentacles, plainly indicates the ap
 proaching completion of this wonderful, and, until re
 cently, unheard-of transmutation.
     The attention of naturalists has long been directed
 to a peculiar animated organization met with upon

 232             THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
 the Echini, of which no satisfactory explanation has
 been as yet given.       Numerous short, hair-like ap
 pendages, each having a peculiarly constructed sum
 mit or extremity, are interspersed amidst the spines
 of the Echinus, and apparently implanted on the epi
 dermis of the shell ; to these structures Miiller, who
 deemed them parasitical animals, gave the name of
 Pedicellaria. The Pedicellariae are, in truth, void of
 any resemblance in form, action, or substance, to the
spines   or suckers.     They present themselves under
two different aspects ; but whether these are merely
different stages in the growth of the same object, still
requires investigation.       In one set of these organs,
the hair-like stem is crowned with a globular struc
ture of solid appearance ; in the other, the summit is
divided into three leaf-like blades, which are capable
of opening and closing like a three-bladed forceps, so
as to    clasp   and retain    minute   fragments between
them.    The hair-like stem is cylindrical, and contains
in its centre  a  jointed calcareous framework somewhat
resembling the stem of an Encrinite (PI. IV. fig. 6 b).
   These Pedicellariae cover the Echinus by thousands.
They are of various dimensions, in large specimens
some of them being half an inch in length.          When
seen rising from the fine red epidermis of the living
Echinus, the movements of these remarkable append
ages are very conspicuous, as they bend from side to
side, the head of each describing nearly a circle, and
the pincers opening and shutting with great vivacity.
   From the nature of the localities they frequent,
the Echini are necessarily much exposed to bruises
and other injuries; their foes likewise, both in the

                REPARATION  OF INJURIES.           233
shape   of fish and worm, are numerous.      From the
latter they endeavour to protect themselves by means
of their spinous panoply, which they can erect and
stiffen, presenting a thousand spears on every side,
leaving no point unguarded; the bruises they bear
with impunity, and it must be a very severe wound
from which they cannot recover, if they are endowed
with the same reparative powers as other Echino-
dermata. Monro even mentions that he has seen the
pieces  of an Echinus when broken up walk off in dif
ferent directions ; but what became of them subse
quently he does not tell us, neither are we acquainted
with any direct observations concerning the extent to
which these creatures are able to resist or repair
mutilation.

234            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                   CHAPTER XXIII.
              HOLOTHURIA      SEA-CUCUMBER.
" WHO    has been meddling     with the barometer  ?
                                                     " ex
claimed an old friend, as he raised his eyes from a
chicken that he was in the act of carving, and acci
dentally   took   a glance    at that  useful instrument
hanging against the wall. It was a wheel barometer,
and was pointing steadily to " Set-fair."        Now, as
there was nothing in the state of the weather to indi
cate the realization   of so agreeable a promise, it natu
rally excited suspicion that the weather-glass had
been tampered with ; but such was not the case, the
fact being, that the index, having exhausted the entire
gamut of its lower notes, "Rainy," "Much rain,"
" Stormy,"    &c., had positively encroached upon the
scale in alt., and had entered upon the fair-weather
prophecies in an inverse direction.
   That evening there arose     a storm, and such a storm
as we shall not easily forget.      The wind, roused to a
perfect hurricane, blew right on shore ; the sea, one
broad expanse of foam, rolled mountains high, and,
as the billows    thundered on the beach, their spray
was driven inland in blinding sheets.         The streets
were all deserted   ; every house was tenantless, for all
had hurried to the cliffs, and every eye was strained

                           A SHIPWRECK..                   235
upon the offing, where a ship was dimly seen battling
the raging elements.           It seemed a fearful struggle.
Up   she rose     into full view, and then she disappeared
behind the waves        ;
                          — again   she rises, as the seas  lift
her on high ; — again she vanishes from sight, or but
her reeling masts are visible ; — she is evidently driving
rapidly on shore.
   It  is by no means our intention, gentle reader, to
lay before you in detail the horrors of a shipwreck ;
too frequently, alas ! does the sad reality of such a
terrible episode break in upon the tranquillity of a re
sidence upon the sea-coast.             But oh ! the agony, the
prayers, the breathless silence, and the stifled groans
of the spectators, as that ill-fated vessel nears her
doom, and yields to the audacious waves, that seem
to triumph in their victory ! —
      " High o'er the ship they throw a horrid shade,
        And o'er her burst in terrible cascade.
        Uplifted on the surge, to heaven she flies,
        Her shatter'd top half-buried in the skies ;
        Then headlong plunging, thunders on the ground —
        Earth groans, air trembles, and the deeps resound.
        Her giant bulk the dread concussion feels,
        And quivering with the wound, in torment reels !
        Again she plunges ! — Hark    !—a  second shock
        Tears her strong bottom on the marble rock.
        Down on the vale of death with dismal cries
        The fated victims, shuddering, roll their eyes
        In wild despair ; while yet another stroke
        With deep convulsion rends the solid oak     :
        Till like  the mine, in whose infernal cell
        The lurking demons of destruction dwell,
        At  length asunder torn, her frame divides,
        And, crashing, spreads the ruin o'er the tides."

236           THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST,
   It was on the day following     such a scene that we
visited the beach, and witnessed for ourselves the wild
havoc caused by the storm. The shore was strewn
with fragments of the wreck, some of which told too
well what Ocean can be in her angry mood. Huge
beams of oak lay snapped, as though they had been
willow-wands ; thick iron bolts, wrenched and con
torted, looked like writhing snakes, and masts and
spars and boxes lay around in terrible confusion. The
sea, however, was now tranquil, and as it glittered in
the sunshine seemed as innocent as any playful child.
   Let not the reader suppose, however, that these
alone remained to tell how violent had been the fury
of the tempest.    On visiting the scar where we were
wont to pass the hours of the ebb-tide in search of
specimens, we found a harvest, such as only similar
occasions offer to the most enterprising naturalist.
Scattered in rich profusion on the sand, or huddled
together in heaps among the rocks, involved in rolls
of sea-weed, or ensconced within the holes and cran
nies of the ragged barrier of stones that kept them
prisoners, Fishes and Zoophytes, Mollusks and Aca-
lephs lay stranded by the surge in most bewildering
plenty ; for, unfortunately, it is with the naturalist as
with the angler, too abundant sport is less appreciated
than one good fish.
   In the midst of this chaos, however, we were not
long in discovering something that fixed our notice ;
and a shapeless lump it seemed, about as unattractive
to the eye as anything could be. We picked it up,
and consigning it to our jar, felt we had got a prize.
   As we were returning home with a rich cargo for

                      A SEA-PUDDING.                    237
our vivarium, we encountered an old fisherman, our
companion in many a hard day's work.
                                          " Fine time
for you, sir, after last nighf s storm. Weel, and what
hae ye got   ?"      "A
                     splendid Holothuria, John," was
our reply, at the same time displaying our captive
treasure.  " Eh ? — a what ? — a what d'ye call it ? —
why it 's naught but a sea-pudding !
                                       "
  Now we are quite aware that with a certain class
of naturalists it is laid down as an axiom, that all the
productions of the laud have their representatives in
the ocean ; but, verily, a sea-pudding we could not
help thinking to be rather stretching the analogy so
pointed out as a law of creation.   However, leaving
John to chuckle over his superior knowledge, we pro
ceeded forthwith to introduce our Holothuria, for so
we must persist in calling          it,
                               to its new domicile,
wherein we might observe   at leisure.
                               it
  The hard name Holothuria, which puzzled our
fisherman,   is   derived from      a    Greek word of uncer
tain   application    (oKodovpiov)   ,    and is employed to
designate    group of animals very nearly related in
             a
their internal structure to the Sea-urchins, although
widely differing from them in outward appearance.
In  common language they are generally known by
the appellation of
                   " Sea-cucumbers," or " Sea-gher
kins/' and in fact, to   casual observer, the resem
                           a
blance which some of them bear to those productions
of the vegetable kingdom       is
                          sufficiently striking.
   The exterior integument of the Holothuria              is
tough and muscular, and constitutes   capacious bag,
                                              a
wherein are contained the respiratory and intestinal
organs, and the ovarium. The head    also contracted
                                             is

238             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
within it when the animal is at rest ; but when in
action, it is protruded, unfolding a luxuriant flower, or
arborescence, composed of a circlet of branching ten-
tacula.    The body of many specimens, when in its
most natural position, assumes the form of a horse
shoe or crescent, and a stream of water, playing like
a fountain, is at intervals  forcibly discharged from its
posterior extremity.
   Few animals are apparently more helpless than a
Holothuria when found cast up upon the beach, as
was the case    with the specimen in our vivarium ; and
yet, with the exception of the Echini, few have been
more liberally provided with locomotive organs. On
placing one of them in a tank of sea-water, down it
sinks to the bottom, and there it lies, to all appear
ance as limbless and incapable of progression as a
Bologna sausage, and in this condition it will probably
remain for hours, without the slightest promise of
activity.    At length, to the amazement of the be
holder, it begins to stir ; nay, it begins to creep along
until it reaches the transparent side of the tank, and
then, amazement on amazement          ! it soon proceeds
to climb, like a great slug, up its perpendicular sur
face, gliding onwards with a slow and measured
movement in a manner that seems at first perfectly
incomprehensible.      Close inspection, however, espe
cially if aided by     a  magnifying-glass,   reveals the
astonishing machinery employed for this purpose.
The whole surface of the body of the animal is found
to be covered with innumerable locomotive suckers,
which, both in their structure and mode of action,
exactly resemble those of the Echinus described in

          LOCOMOTIVE SUCKERS OF HOLOTHURIA.           239
the last chapter, and which are protruded through
innumerable orifices that perforate the integument.
In some    cases, as in Holothuriafrondosa, these suckers
are arranged in five series, disposed like the ambu
lacra of the Sea-egg ; in other genera they are only
found upon the middle of the ventral surface of the
body, that forms a flattened disc wherewith the animal
creeps, somewhat in the manner of a snail.
    In Holothuria    pentactes five longitudinal rows of
suckers traverse the skin, extending the length of the
whole body, commencing near the root of the ten-
tacula, and terminating at the posterior orifice ; and
it is by the adhesion of these suckers that the animal
is enabled to attach itself firmly to any solid sub
 stance. About a hundred suckers may, in a moderate-
sized specimen, be counted      in each stripe. In some,
 five or six or seven suckers are placed in a row, near
 the middle of the creature's body, the number gra
 dually decreasing towards the extremities, while in
young specimens only a double row of these suckers
is met with.     Thus the number of suckers appears to
augment with the age of the animal.         These suckers
can be wholly retracted and sunk in the flesh, so that
the animal then seems entirely divested of external
organs.
    We learn from      a paper by  Mr. C. W. Peach, read
before the Royal Polytechnic Institution of Cornwall,
that a species of Holothuria, called the " Nigger/' or
" Cotton-spinner," by      the Cornish fishermen, is very
common in deep water off that coast, and is held by
them in great detestation, from its throwing out
what they call
                   " cotton," and also because where the

240           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
" niggers " are numerous, and get into the
                                               crab-pots,
it is very rarely that either crabs or lobsters are
caught.    Their appearance, when closed up, very
much resembles a small cucumber, their back being
dark, almost black at times, and the under part light
yellowish green.    Around the base of the tentacula
is a border of spines very much resembling the thorns
of the brier, and similar spines are distributed over
the creature's back.   The under side of the body is
furnished   with very numerous suckers, which they
can stretch out to a great length, and by their
means attach themselves firmly to foreign objects ; so
much so, indeed, that in trying to detach the animal,
its suckers are not unfrequently left behind.       Each
sucker is provided at its tip with a small round calca
reous plate, which, under the microscope, forms a
very beautiful object.
   This species of Holothuria is extremely irritable,
and, on being touched or disturbed, throws out a
bunch of white taper threads about an inch in length.
These soon become attenuated, either by the agitation
of the water, or by coming into contact with extra
neous substances,   until they are drawn out into long
threads of great tenacity, which stick to everything
                                     "
they touch, and hence the name of cotton-spinners
                                                        "
applied to these creatures by the fishermen.
   Night  appears to be the  chief season for enjoyment
and activity in these strange animals.      Whatever be
their contracted state during the day, they expand
themselves at night, and display their beautiful arbo
rescent tentacula at their utmost dimensions.     Never
theless, sometimes they   will remain  expanded through

                HOLOTHURI.*       USED AS FOOD.          241
the day, and even seem to become more erect on the
approach of light. This, however, is certainly an ex
ception to the general rule, for both light and heat
seem to be prejudicial to their welfare.
  When expanded, each tentaculum is apparently in
dependent of its fellows, and each snbordinate branch
or twig of which the teutacula are composed, is free
of all the rest. But so timid is the creature, that
amidst the fullest display, and the most ample exer
cise of its arborescent organs, whilst sweeping them
through the water in obvious enjoyment, the slightest
shock, or an approaching taper, though the creature
— as far as we know — possesses no eyes, interrupts
the tentacular              the cylinder recedes, the
                     evolutions   ;
branches contract, and the whole apparatus is quickly
withdrawn, the shaggy coat closing over           it,
                                           so as to
leave not even trace of the opening whence
                 a                          issued; it
and then the animal will remain in pertinacious re
treat, not only for the coming night, but for several
ensuing.
   According to Professor Delle Chiaje, the aliment of
the Holothuriae       principally composed of vegetable
                     is
and miscellaneous substances " Le Oloturie cibansi
                                      :
di figli di coralline, di alghe, di arena  di altre im-
                                              e
mondezze di mare."
  Uninviting     as    is   the appearance   of these
                                                 slimy
creatures, the flesh of some species     used very ex
                                             is
tensively by the Chinese for culinary purposes. They
make of    it
            avery rich and palatable soup, and dress       it
in different kinds of stews. There are various modes
of curing it. It    first opened and cleaned, and then
                     is
laid in dry lime afterwards, according to the circum-
                  ;
                                                    M

 242             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
stances   of the fishing-station, it is dried in the sun
 or on stages by means of fires made of wood, placed
 under them.       It is a most important article of com
 merce.    There are fisheries, as they are called, of
 Trepang    (the name by which         this edible is distin
guished) in every island of the Eastern Archipelago,
from Sumatra to New Guinea.              The whole quantity
sent to China from Macassar and other parts may be
estimated at 14,000 piculs, or in money at about
 £119,000, an estimate from which the reader may
learn how numerously these creatures occur in tro
pical seas.
    " On  a reef    of rocks near the island Raiatea is a
huge, unshapely, black or brown slug, here called
'
  Biche,' from six to seven inches long and five to six
broad. It is caught in vast quantities, and not only
regarded as a great delicacy by the natives, but, being
cured, has become a valuable article of commerce to
the China market, whither it is carried from many
insular coasts of the Pacific by American ships. We
have seen a number         of lads fill three canoes in two
hours with these 'Sea-snails'*."
    Mr. Beale    speaks  of the " Be'che de Mer," found at
Oahoo, one of the Sandwich Islands, being considered
as a great delicacy, though "almost as tough as
caoutchouc    t •"
    It would be beyond our province upon the present
occasion to describe the complicated anatomy of the
interior of these remarkable creatures       ; whoever wishes
   •                         " Voy. and Trav. in the South Sea
     Tyerman and Bennet,
Islands."
   t « Natural History of the Sperm Whale," p. 261.

THEIR EXTRAORDINARY         POWER OF EVISCERATION.       243
to study more minutely this part of their economy,
will find it described at length in another work*, or
may easily satisfy himself by careful dissection, how
elaborately arranged, and at the same time how deli
cate, is their internal structure ; or indeed he need
hardly take that trouble, as the complaisant creatures
will not unfrequently dissect themselves in his pre
sence, as though       determined that, coute que coute,
they will convince him concerning their wondrous
organization.      It is difficult, in truth, to keep some
of them entire, for on the slightest insult or provoca
tion many specimens will at once proceed coolly to
disembowel themselves, as though out of sheer spite,
and, by what seems to be an act of voluntary suicide,
of which our reading furnishes no parallel, except in
Jack the Giant-killer, defy alike the anatomist and
his scalpel.
     Dr. Johnston gives the following account of this
voluntary ejection of the viscera in a common species,
                          "
 Thy one papillosa : — The animal having been kept in
sea- water unchanged for two or three days, sickened,
 and by the more frequent involutions and evolutions
of its oral end, evinced its uneasiness. Being left
                                                  I
unobserved in this state for an hour or so, found on
my return that it had vomited up its tentacula, its
oral apparatus, its intestinal tube entire, and a large
 cluster of ovaries which lay about the plate.           The
 muscular convulsion must have been very great, which
 thus so completely embowelled the creature ; and yet
 life was not extinct, for the tentacula contracted
    * "A   General  Outline of the Organization of the Animal
 Kingdom," by the Author.
                                                  M2

 244             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 themselves on being touched, and the empty skin
 appeared by its motions to have lost little of its irri
 tability."
     Lost little of its irritability, forsooth ! Had Dr.
 Johnston only waited long enough, he would have
 found that the animal was all the better for the gentle
 depletion, and having got rid of such troublesome
 trifles as its old viscera, was quite ready to begin the
 world again with a new set !
                      " The times have been
        That when the brains were out the man would die,
        And there an end I"
 Not    so, however,    with our Holothuria.       We have
 at this moment before us, in a jar of spirits of wine,
 wherein they have been quietly inurncd during the
last six months, the entire inside of one of these crea
tures — mouth, tentacles, alimentary canal, respiratory
tree, ovarian tubes and all— and yet, in yonder tank,
the animal itself, to which        they once belonged, is
creeping leisurely about his mimic rockery, apparently
as well and active as if they still formed an integrant
part of his economy, and brandishing a new set of
tentacula quite as complete as their predecessors.
    At   the meeting of the British Association in Glas
gow, Sir J. G. Dalyell first stated that he had wit
nessed    in a Holothuria this wonderful power of repro
ducing, not only trifling portions of its body, but
absolutely all its viscera.     I have observed, says Sir
John, the tentacula with the cylinder (dental circle),
mouth, ojsophagus, lower intestinal parts, and the
ovarium separating within, and leaving the body an
empty sac behind. Yet it does not perish.           In three

               REGENEEATION      OF LOST PAETS.             245
  or four months all the lost parts are regenerated,
  and the animal continues to live as if nothing had
 happened.     The details of this process the reader will
 find in the following graphic narrative.
     Between a fortnight and three weeks after the
 acquisition of a specimen of Holothuria fusus, says
  Sir J. G. Dalyell*, the tentacular apparatus, imper
 fectly expanded, protruded for the first time along
 with the cylinder upon which they are supported ;
 from the upper part of the body next day a large por
 tion of the intestine descending from it came forth
 also, and the animal, having crawled up the side of the
 vessel, allowed most of the shelly fragments adherent
 to its skin to fall off. No external symptoms of
 suffering were demonstrated, yet it was reasonable to
 apprehend that these and some other marks of weak
 ness were the prelude     of decay ; and this apprehen
 sion was increased on witnessing the separation of
 all the organs thus protruded from the body, which
 dropped off on emptying the vessel for replenishment.
 Still the Holothuria seemed no more affected than
before   : assuming an oblique position, it mounted up
the side of the glass as far as the edge of the water,
where it remained immoveably fixed.
    The detached organs perished and decomposed in a
few days ; not so, however, the rest of the animal,
which survived for a length of time quite unaltered,
and indeed soon gave signs that Nature had some
thing in preparation.
    The mutilation had occurred on the 4th of De-
   *
     The Powers of the Creator displayed in the Creation, vol. i.
p. 50.

246            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
cember.     From the 14th of that month the body of
the decapitated Holothuria remained stationary, rather
lower than the surface of the water.
    On the 25th of February, or eleven weeks sub
sequent to the date of mutilation, symptoms of the
reproduction of the missing parts began to be appa
rent, and in a little time short, transparent, regene
rated teutacula were displayed, still however very im
perfect in comparison with their predecessors.        On
the 27th of the month the new tentacula were fully
exhibited. In another week they exceeded an inch in
length, and in fifteen weeks they were found to be
complete in every point, sweeping the water, and per
forming all their natural functions, with as much
 activity as their predecessors !
    The Holothuria cecnus (Dalyell) exhibits a still
more remarkable phenomenon in the spontaneous
division of its body into two or even a greater number
of parts. Neither does this violent proceeding, as it
 might appear, prove fatal to the specimen. On the
 contrary indeed, the defective organs are regenerated
 complete in each of the portions, thus speedily reno
 vating them into entire animals ! Two individuals of
 the  Holothuria  cecnus were  obtained by Sir J. Dalyell
 from the Mar Bank; both were active. While at
 rest they adhered by their peduncles or suckers to the
 glass near the surface of the water : each of these,
 after a short confinement, having apparently quarrelled
 with itself, broke itself into two nearly equal halves—
 an act which,   in ordinary cases, might have been re
 garded as suicidal.    Instead, however, of having ren
 dered themselves liable to a verdict of felo de se, Sir

         CAPABILITY OF SPONTANEOUS DIVISION.         247
 J. Dalyell witnessed with considerable surprise, after
the lapse of three or four weeks, the regeneration of a
complete set of arborescent tentacula in each posterior
half of the two specimens, and all four parts were
moving gaily about in their tank, completely fur
nished with their tentacular apparatus. This, how
ever, was not all : in another week the anterior portion
of the Holothuria sundered again near the middle, so
that what originally constituted one entire animal
now consisted of three parts. Afterwards another
portion separated from one of the five parts at that
time in the vessel, but from which was uncertain — if
from the smaller, each of the original Holothuriae had
divided into three.      All continued shifting their
places, and some   of them occasionally displaying their
tentacula until May 27th of the following year, when
the whole six were complete and perfect animals.
    The remarkable subdivision of these creatures, Sir
J.  Dalyell observes, does not appear to result either
from constraint or from injury ; nay, there is nothing
to show that the Holothuria undergoing such disrup
tion suffers very much during the process.
    Condensing the substance of these and other obser
vations, it appears that the spontaneous separation
above described ensues thus.     The specimen remains
stationary during some time on the side of its Vessel,
when each extremity broadens, and flattens beyond
its usual dimensions. This flattening occupies a con
siderable portion of the body, but diminishes from
the broadest parts situated anteriorly and posteriorly
towards the middle of the animal, giving it somewhat
the appearance   of a common sand-glass.      At length

248              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
only a slender isthmus connects the two halves, and
this becomes soon a mere hair-like thread, which,
being ruptured, leaves      the original animal either in
equal halves,     or consisting    of a greater and lesser
portion.
   The duration of this process is very irregular; neither
does it seem influenced by size or season, or any other
condition.      Separation frequently takes place in the
night without previous indication ; at other times it
may be seen hi progress during three or four days.
   The animal seems literally rent asunder, and the
intestinal   organs, occupying a large portion of the
interior of the body, are undoubtedly rent asunder
also, so that obviously an      internal reproduction must
ensue as wonderful as the external reproduction of
the arborescent apparatus.
   The spawning of the Holothuria occurs in February,
March, April, May and June, when many thousand
ova are produced by a single individual.       The larva —
for such we may designate the young progeny on its
first escape from the egg — resembles a bean-shaped
animalcule, having its back convex, while an irregular
transverse fissure, answering to what botanists would
call the hilum of the bean, indicates the position of
 the mouth. The margins of this fissure are edged by
 a ciliated   fringe similar to that of the Pluteus de
 scribed in the last chapter. In the course of its
 growth the margins of the larva and the corresponding
 parts of the fringe are thrown into numerous lateral
 processes, giving   it a scolloped appearance.     By slow
 degrees,   the creature next assumes a barrel shape ;
 the former mouth of the larva becomes obliterated,

              DEVELOPMENT    OF EMBRYO.            249
and a new and permanent one is gradually formed,
surrounded by a circlet of tentacular appendages ; the
locomotive suckers ultimately make their appearance,
and the swimming animalcule is thus slowly con
verted into the wonderful "Sea-pudding" we picked
up upon the beach.
                                        M  5

250            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                    CHAPTER XXIV.
                         SIPUNCULUS.
       " Prom Nature's chain, whatever link you strike,
         Tenth or ten thousandth, breaks the chain alike."
EVERY traveller must have observed, on approaching
the boundary-line which separates two countries dif
fering in language, how gradually the transition is
effected by the interposition of some unintelligible
patois, which, partaking equally of both, belongs to
neither. Precisely in the same manner the Zoologist,
as he nears the confines      of the subkingdoms, or even
the provinces marked out upon the grand chart of
Natural History, is sure to encounter forms of life so
doubtfully combining the characters of most opposite
races of beings, as to defy the nicest criticism to pro
nounce on which side of the border they ought to claim
allegiance — a fact of which the Sipunculi, the subjects
of the present chapter, afford us a very interesting
example.
   The Holothuriae, as we have seen, notwithstanding
their elongated form and soft integument, still retain
the locomotive suckers which so peculiarly charac
terize the star-fishes and the sea-urchins ; and from


                        PLATE V.
                                                          Pago
Fig. 1. SIPOTCTTLUS                                       250
Fig. 2. NEMEBTES BOBLABII                                 256
Fig. 3. PONTOBDELLA HUBicATA.       a, 6. Egg-capsules. . 270
Fig. 4. SEBPULA   CONTOBTUPLICATA                         272
Fig. 5. SPIEORBIS                                          274
Fig. 6. SABELLA ALVEOLABIA                                 277
Fig. 7. AMPHITBITE TENTILABBFM                             280
Fig. 8. AMPHITRITE BOMBTX.         a, 6, c. Reproductive
           powers after mutilation                         282
Fig. 9. AMPHITBITE nfFtrsTOBUiiBf                          285

PLATE       V.
 John Van /onnst 1B56


        TRANSITION     FROM RADIISM TO ANNTTLISM.             251
the rudeness of their shape, and the general inflexi-
hility of their bodies, it is evident that without such a
provision they would be, of all animals, the most
helpless and incapable.        The Sipunculus, on the con
trary (PI. V. fig. 1), might, from its external appear
ance, almost be mistaken for an earthworm, or at
least for one of those marine Annelidans met with
abundantly on every shore. The body of these animals
is indeed completely vermiform, although not as yet
distinctly annulose, that          is,
                          divided into regular rings
or segments. In them, to use the words of Professor
Forbes, RADIISM        sets,   and ANNULISM        appears.    In
their internal structure, however, they are distinctly
Echinoderms, although even here transition towards
                                              a
the annulose type      is
                   perceptible.  They have no rows
of suckers their bodies are no longer divided into
               ;                                               a
quinary arrangement of lobes or rays, and the tenta-
cula around their mouths are no longer regulated by            a
definite number. Their motions and habits are those
of worms.    Instead of having their skins strengthened
by calcareous plates or spines, such as have prickly
appendages are furnished with horny bristles nearly
resembling those seen in many Annelides, whereby
their movements are to some extent aided. Poste
riorly the body of the Sipunculus       capable of dilata
                                              is
tion into   a sort of bulb while at its anterior extre
                               ;
mity it    provided with long fleshy proboscis, at the
          is                   a
extremity of which      situated the mouth, surrounded
                       is
with flower-like circlet of tentacula. This proboscis,
    a
when not in use,         completely retracted into the
                        is
interior of the animal, folding up like the horns of a
snail, until not trace of
                   a           itvisible externally.
                                         is

252             THE AQUARIAN     NATURALIST.
   The Sipunculi are frequently to be met with near
low-water mark, inhabiting holes which they excavate
in the sand to a considerable depth, lining them
throughout with a calcareous secretion, much in the
same way as a well is lined with brickwork. In these
retreats they move up and down with great facility,
coming to the surface when the tide is up, and display
ing their flower-crowned proboscis ; but withdrawing
themselves rapidly, when disturbed, into their holes,
at the bottom of which they hold themselves         firmly
by means of their dilatable posterior extremity.
    In China, where worms of all sorts are looked upon
 as delicacies, the Sipunculi are by no means excluded
from the table of the epicure, but, on the contrary,
are regarded as high-class luxuries ; and one species,
the Sipunculus edulis, constitutes, like the Trepang,
 an article of commerce. It is met with in great abun
 dance on the shores in the vicinity of Batavia, on the
 coast  of Java, where it is called porrest ajang by the
 natives, and soa-sec by the Chinese, who come there
 to catch it. It is found at the depth of from a foot to
 a foot and a    half in the sand, in holes which, being
 always open at the top, are easily distinguishable ; and
 the mode in which this strange fishery is conducted is,
 as we are told,     as follows.   At  every low tide the
 Chinese fishermen assemble       on the shore in troops,
 each   bringing with him a bundle of slender rods
 made of cane, each rod being sharpened at one end,
 and having a little ball or button just above the sharp
 point.    Arrived at the fishing-ground, the Chinaman
 proceeds to drop one of these rods with its point
 downwards into every hole, and there leaves it until

               SIFUNCULUS      BERNHARDUS.               253
he has exhausted the whole bundle.             After a little
time he returns, and, having previously removed the
sand to a proper depth, gently draws forth the rod, to
which by this time the animal has attached itself by
swallowing the button.       The Sipunculi are thus pro
cured in considerable quantities, and are cooked in
various ways, " either with garlic, or with garo sooy,"
condiments which, to most of our readers, will pro
bably be scarcely more appetizing           than the worms
themselves.
   The food of the Sipunculi seems to consist entirely
of such debris of animal or vegetable substances as
chance brings within reach of their proboscis.         As in
the other Echinoderms,         their alimentary canal is
always found filled with sand and broken fragments
of shell.
   Whilst the generality of the Sipunculi bury them
selves in sand, or hide in the crevices of rocks, there
is one remarkable      species   (Sipunculus Bernhardus,
Forbes) found on most parts of the British coast,
which, after the example of the Hermit Crab, adopts
for its abode the shells of univalve testacea, in one or
other of which it constantly resides. This Sipunculus,
however, would appear to be of a less changeable
disposition than its crustacean analogue, for, when
once securely housed     in a shell, it makes that its per
manent residence*.        Whether the egg is originally
deposited in the future habitation of the animal in
obedience to some wonderful instinct, or is only deve
loped when lodged by the water in such a locality, or
whether the parent Sipunculus bequcathcs the chosen
               *
                  Forbes, British Star-fishes.

 254           THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
lodging of its caudal termination to its eldest born,
 and so on from generation to generation, a veritable
entailed property, we know not at present ; but the
inquiry is a most interesting one, and well worth the
attention of the experimental zoologist.     This Sipun-
culus is not, however, content with the habitation
built for it by its molluscan predecessor ; it exercises
its own architectural ingenuity, and secures the
entrance of its shell by a plaster- work of sand, leaving
a round hole in the centre sufficiently large to permit
the protrusion of its proboscis, which it sends out to
a great length, and moves about in all directions with
the utmost facility. This proboscis is long and cylin
drical, and slightly enlarged at its extremity, where it
is surrounded by a circlet of tentacula, which how
ever are very seldom protruded.      Behind these tenta
cula are four circles of minute bristles.      The pro
boscis can be entirely retracted within the body when
not in use.
   The shells selected by this Sipunculus for its habi
tation are usually specimens of the Strombus Pes-
Pelicanus and Turritella terebra ; it is also occasion
ally to be met with in Littorina littorea, when that
shell happens to be in sufficiently deep water ; and
Dent alium Entails is likewise sometimes adopted. The
Sipunculus Bernhardus is by no means rare ; but, as
it lives in from ten to thirty fathoms water, is only
procurable by patient dredging.

                        NEMERTES    BORLASII.                    255
                         CHAPTER XXV.
                         NEMERTES    BORLASII.
  " It does not belong to mankind to pronounce upon the per
fections or imperfections, the use or the uselessness of what
has come from the hands of the Creator, or that the aspect or
dimensions of one creature has rendered         it   more worthy than
another of a place in the scale of beings."
ABOUT four or five miles from South Shields, upon
the coast of Durham, is a locality called Marsden
Rocks, well known to every Northern naturalist, and
a favourite resort of pic-nic parties. It is a strange
place, and, although now many years since we visited
it,   is   associated    in our mind with divers agreeable
reminiscences.           The whole of that part of the coast
consists of magnesian limestone, which from its soft
ness   iseasily worn away by the sea, and in many
places    hollowed out by the action of the waves into
           is
extensive and picturesque caverns. In one of these,
remarkable for its size and numerous chambers, that
wind deeply into the limestone cliff, lived an old man,
called Peter  (the only name by which he was ever
known to us), — queer fellow, half-smuggler, half-
                         a
publican, who had there ensconced himself, and,
partly by the excellence of his whiskey, partly by the

256            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
shrewdness of his wit, managed to carry on a thriving
trade among the numerous visitors to this romantic
spot.
   We shall not easily forget Marsden Rocks, or the
naturalist friends we have encountered around Peter's
sturdy table, while blue-lights and various-coloured
fires burning at intervals in different remote regions
of the cavern gave to the whole scene the aspect of
some   brigand's cave, from which emerging into the
bright sunshine of the shore, the visitor is reminded
of Gil Bias escaping from his subterranean prison.
   The coast in the vicinity of Marsden is classic
ground to the lover of natural history.    It was upon
this coast that Bewick studied his sea-birds, Joshua
Alder and Albany Hancock their Dorsibranchiate
mollusks, William Hutton his fossil flora of the coal-
measures, Hewitson his birds' -eggs.     It is here, in
short, that the Tyneside naturalists are to be met
with ; and surely we need say no more in the way of
apology for thus introducing it to our readers.
   It was during one of our visits to this secluded
spot, as, with a geologist's hammer in hand, we were
busying ourselves in breaking specimens of the rocks,
that are only accessible at low water, a lucky blow
split off a fragment of considerable size, revealing to
the day a fissure, within which lay, coiled in endless
convolutions,   one of the strangest animals we ever
had encountered (PI. V. fig. 2). It seemed to be a
worm, but such a worm we thought as mortal eyes
had never seen before — at least in the course of our
reading we had never met with any account of such a
monster, and presumed, of course, we had got some-

             NEMERTES       THE SEA LONG-WORM.            257
thing new.       In  this, however, we were disappointed :
on subsequently turning over the pages of the ' Lin-
nean Transactions/ we found that even here we had
been forestalled by the       Eev. Hugh Davis, and that by
 a description     of the animal so graphic and circum
stantial as quite to supersede our own notes upon the
subject.
    I laid,  says  Mr. Davis,   a  specimen of this wonder
ful creature in its own element in the largest dish
I  have, with a design to observe its habits and man
ners.     It partook in some respects of the nature of
the leech, seeming, like'it, in some degree amphibious,
as it frequently in part left the water, and, to the
length of a foot or two, extended itself along the edge
of the dish, and the table on which the dish was
placed.      At  other times, particularly during the day,
it was compactly collected together in a heap, and
perfectly still, unless the dish or table was touched, of
which it seemed very sensible. This it indicated by
a vibratory motion       of its whole mass, and by retract
ing the head and fore-part, which were generally
somewhat extended. In the night I always found it
coiled in a more lax and diffuse manner, covering
nearly the whole dish; but on the approach of a candle,
it seemed affected      and inclined    to contract itself, so
that although     I  could not sec that it had eyes,    I  was
quite sure that it was very sensible of light. It fre
quently by morning assumed somewhat of a spiral or
screw-like form, and on one morning in particular            I
was   highly gratified in finding it almost perfectly and
closely spiral from end to end.        I was  forcibly struck
with this appearance,         as it seemed to suggest the

258             THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
solution of a difficulty which perplexed me much, con
cerning the manner how such a wonderfully soft, deli
cate, and seemingly unmanageable length of body could
possibly move itself from one place to another.         But
from the moment when        I  observed this,   I  was con
vinced that this must be the state which the creature
assumes when disposed to change its station ; not only
as thus    it is contracted into the most compact       size
which its make is susceptible of, but likewise that
when so modified, every spire or volution, by a distinct
impulse applied in an appropriate manner, will assist
in the act of progression by shifting forward the whole
of its amazing length at the same instant, without
danger of breaking.
    When    I took it up at the sea-side, collecting such
 an immense creature in a confused manner into an
oyster-shell (a very large one indeed),       I   thought it
 would have been almost impossible to unravel it; but
 it is astonishing to think how readily it was disen
 tangled, owing to the extraordinary     smoothness of its
 surface.
    It is impossible to make a guess at the length of
 it when alive, on account of its constantly extending
 and contracting itself when touched, and that with
 such ease as almost to exceed belief.    I once observed
 a part   of the fore-end extended to a length of be
 tween two and three feet along the margin of the
 dish and the table, which part, on the animal being
 disturbed, was in a short time contracted so as not to
 exceed so many inches ; and as, when      it was thus   ex
 tended, it was full three times as thick as    I have  seen
 it upon other occasions,     I  may well say that it is

          WELL ENTITLED TO THE APPELLATION.                   259
capable of extending itself, without any inconvenience,
to twenty-five or thirty times the length that it pre
sents at another period.
    It
     varies very considerably in colour as it contracts
or extends itself, changing from a dusky to a reddish-
brown; but it has, when placed in a strong light,
especially in the sunshine, a gloss of a fine rich purple
all over : when most contracted, it appears nearly
black.
   Having thus watched this remarkable animal for a
fortnight, giving it daily a fresh supply of sea-water,
I put it into a bottle — which, by-the-by, though the
bottle was wide-mouthed,         I
                                effected with no little
trouble, owing to its facility of extending and con
tracting itself, and likewise from its being so slippery.
                                        I
When, however, this was done, poured upon it some
spirits.  It was convulsed, and became greatly con
tracted in regard to length, and in an instant, to my
great surprise, it projected from its head a proboscis
which was eight inches in length. It is very strange,
that during the space of time above stated, and the
various treatment which the creature had experienced,
it never in the least exhibited this part of itself till in
its dying convulsion.
    It
    being impossible while the animal was alive to
make any reasonable conjecture as to the length of                 it,
I took   it   out of the bottle and measured    it   after   it   was
dead, when     I       to be full two-and-twenty feet
                   found   it
long, exclusive of the proboscis.  Now,    give I  as        it
my firm opinion, that    speak within bounds when
                           I                                      I
say, the animal, when alive,         might have been extended
to four times the length        it   presented when dead.         I

 260             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 therefore look at what Mr. Sowerby gives, on the au
 thority of the fishermen at Newhaven, to be by no
 means improbable, viz. that this most astonishing
 creature may have been susceptible of being drawn
 out to the length of twelve fathoms ; or, according to
 the account of the fishermen on the south coast of
 Devonshire,     to Mr. Montagu, to    thirty yards, or
fifteen fathoms. Indeed, Mr. Montagu's own account
 of one of the length of eight feet when alive, being re
 duced to one   foot when immersed in spirits, does more
 than support my opinion.
    This and another specimen were found near Beau-
 maris at the time of spring-tide     in the month of
 March.
    The Nemertes is extremely liable to be broken, and
 its fragments retain their vitality for many months
 after their separation from the rest of the animal.
    Sir John Dalyell was for a long time perplexed re
 garding the food of this remarkable worm.       A crea
 ture so unwieldy and unmanageable in itself, appeared
 to be very ill-adapted for overcoming resisting prey :
he ascertained, however, that in its natural state it
 invades the tubes of the Amphitrite in order to devour
the tenant ; and in one instance it seized and immo
lated a Terebella, which had lost its protective dwell
ing, and this too in spite of the size and apparently
 superior strength of the victim.
    This animal frequently wraps itself up in an intri
                                                   '
cate knot, whence the derivation of the name Gor-
dius/ applied to it by some authors; and perhaps
food may become occasionally entangled among the
voluminous folds of its body. It is certainly greedy

             PRECAUTIONS TO BE OBSERVED.          261
 after what is readily got.    Portions of mussel are
 always acceptable, and are speedily swallowed by the
 capacious mouth.    If the valves of a small shell be
 sundered, the animal fastens on one of them, drags
it away, and consumes the contents at leisure. The
 dimensions of the alimentary canal permit these
strange beings to swallow a great quantity of food,
whereby the creature appears very different in a state
of repletion from the aspect which it presents during
abstinence.
    Stones or clean shells should always be stored in
the vessels containing animals of this description,
which    they never fail to encircle with their folds,
winding themselves round them as the knot wherein
the body is involved gradually unfolds ; and thus the
rupture of the specimen is prevented, which other
wise   frequently happens,  either on account of the
unmanageable length of the monster, or produced by
immoderate repletion.

262              THE AQUARIAN NATURAJLIST.
                      CHAPTER XXVI.
     " All hail to the ruins, the rocks and the shores !
         Thou wide-rolling Ocean, all hail !
       Now brilliant with sunbeams, and dimpled with      oars,
         Now dark with the fresh-blowing gale.
       While soft o'er thy bosom the cloud shadows sail,
         And the silver-wing'd sen-fowl on high,
         Like meteors bespangle the sky,
       Or dive in the gulf, or triumphantly ride
       Like foam on the surges, the swans of the tide."
GENTLE reader, was it ever your good fortune, in
company with a stout pair of legs, a steady head, and
a Cumberland       friend, to climb the dizzy cliffs leading
from Whitehaven to St. Bee's Head?                  If   so, and
you had a fine day for the excursion, it is a walk not
easily to be forgotten ;       if not, we beg the pleasure of
your company as we cursorily glance at the principal
features of the scene.        It is by no means child's play
that walk    ;  but as it is our privilege, we will, upon
the present occasion, suppose ourselves already half
way advanced upon our road, and taking our stand
here upon the summit of this cliff, survey the scene
spread out in grand panorama around us.                   Behind
us, in the purple distance, are the Cumberland moun
tains, Skiddaw and Helvellyn and Saddleback,looming
through the haze, like the dim forms of Ossian's

                    THE TOM HPED ROCK.                         263
giants  :   but it is seaward we direct our gaze — St.
George's sun-lit channel and the Solway Frith — yonder
the Scottish coast, stretching away for many a lengthy
league — and there, upon the horizon, rests the Isle of
Man.      And now, with steady courage           scan the depth
beneath    :
             —
   " Come on, sir ; here 's the place : — stand still. — How fearful
     And dizzy 'tis to cast one's eyes so low!
     The crows and choughs that wing the midway air,
     Show scarce so gross as beetles : half way down
     Hangs one that gathers samphire ; dreadful trade !
     Methinks he seems no bigger than his head :
     The fishermen, that walk upon the beach,
     Appear like mice, and yon tall anchoring bark
     Diminish'd to her cock ; her cock, a buoy
     Almost too small for sight : the murmuring surge,
     That on the unnumber'd idle pebbles chafes,
                                   I
     Cannot be heard so high : — '11 look no more ;
     Lest my brain turn, and the deficient sight
     Topple down headlong."
    Observe yon rocky mass, which, like a couchant
lion, seems to guard the entrance to the port of
Whitehaven, and against which the waves are dashing,
flinging up their spray — that is the Tom Hurd rock.
    And pray who was Tom Hurd, whose name is thus
immortalized    ?
    Ah !  'tis a sad tale, exclaimed my kind instructor.
Poor Tom Hurd ! — he was a fine young lad, sir— a
sailor who was courting a young lass here at White-
haven, when he was ordered off to sea, and for some
years was never heard of; but his heart was true, and
so was hers.      At last his ship returned, and heartily
Tom Hurd was welcomed back again, and cheerily

264            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
he ran to kiss his bonny     Jane, who for so long had
waited patiently to have him back. Well, nothing
would serve poor Tom but he must have her with him
down to Poulton (there — that village that you see
some distance down the coast), to spend a day of
happiness together.     Alas ! they little thought what
fate awaited them on their return.          Meantime a
storm had risen, but Tom had faced too many storms
to fear — bravely he pulled to gain the haven's mouth,
and manfully he strove against the waves — vain was
his strength against those giant billows rolling in,
and madly raving on this fatal shore. There, on
yonder rock, poor Tom's frail skiff was clashed to
atoms, and his long-intended bride perished amidst
the boiling surge, and disappeared for ever. He him
self was cast up senseless, but alive, upon the shore.
    Sad was his fate. There, for many a weary month,
poor Tom was to be seen standing, silent and alone,
gazing upon the place where all his hopes had sunk —
till, in another storm, he saw the rolling breakers
gathering round the giant pedestal on which he stayed
unmoved as a marble statue, until a wave, engulfing
him in its broad bosom, bore him off to join the lass
so dearly and so fatally beloved.
    Such is the legend of the Tom Kurd rock !
    After thanking our friend for this somewhat tragical
narrative, we again set out upon our walk along the
cliffs — still mounting, as we skirted the grand preci
pice, along a path by far too near its edge to be either
safe  or agreeable to the feelings of a nervous person.
At length we reached the culminating point of our
excursion, the lighthouse which crowns the awful

                     A PLEASANT WALK.                       265
summit of St. Bee's Head, standing 800 or 1000 feet
above the sea.  And here          I
                            parted from my friend,
intending to return by the sea-beach, whereto, after
some difficulty,   I managed to effect    a safe descent.
  And here let me warn my readers, that, to look
down upon a beach from the top of a high cliff, and to
attempt to walk over    it,
                        are two very different things.
In the present instance, most devoutly did        wish
                                                   I
myself safely back again in upper air, and would at
the moment have given      trifle for the loan of pair
                              a                       a
of wings to any of the innumerable birds that screamed
above my head.   Shade of Cheops     Fancy a thousand
                                      !
pyramids as big as thine blown up, their giant masonry
scattered in wild confusion over the ground, mass
piled on mass, stones heaped on stones, and all worn
smooth, and polished     by
                         mighty waves, that, in their
fury, heave them up, and roll them here and there
like pebbles — huge blocks as big as houses strewn
about in all directions, thatched with sea-wrack,
and slippery with ooze and slime      !Sadak, when in
search of- the waters of oblivion, had an easy journey
before him when compared with mine.         How many
hours  I toiled and climbed, and crawled and waded,
I   know not.   Suffice  it,
                           that at last  did emerge
                                           I
from       dread labyrinth of Cyclopian anarchy,
         that
dirty and torn and bruised, and wet and weary and
forlorn.
    Inthis sad plight, while sitting on rock, doubtless
                                          a
as miserable-looking an object as the knight of the
rueful countenance, I   saw     human form advancing
                                  a
towards my resting-place, and on his nearer approach
I could not but be struck at the romantic figure

266             THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
before me ; for certes,        since the days of Robinson
Crusoe, no man ever presented himself in such a garb
in such a desolate place.         A long red beard, worthy
of an Eastern sage, swept down over his ample breast ;
and when he informed me that he was a hermit, who
had retired from the society of mankind, and had
built for himself a hut on that dreary coast, I began
to look upon my new acquaintance with feelings in
which     pity and apprehension were          strangely inter
mingled.      However, as he courteously invited me to
visit his cell and have some refreshment, I was by
no means in a condition to refuse hospitality so
 frankly offered, and accordingly          followed   my new
acquaintance : —
               " Far in a wilderness obscure
                   The lonely mansion lay,
                 A refuge to the neighbouring poor,
                    And strangers led astray."
    And now,     be  it known unto      thee,   gentle reader,
 that we have long been familiar with hermits' cells of
 all sorts and sizes, from that of the Hermit of Wark-
 worth to that of Friar Tuck, and of course always
 knew them to be devoted to contemplation and study ;
 but perhaps you yourself never heard of a hermit's
 cell with " MUSEUM " inscribed over the portal, or
 dreamed of such a collection of relics as were here
 crowded together by the anchorite, my worthy host ;
 albatroses and torn-tits, African fetishes and Chinese
  gongs, ornithorhynchi from Australia and whales'
 jaw-bones from the North Pole, Kaffirs' tobacco-
  pipes  and New Zealanders' heads,         fiddles from New
  York and old      shoes    from Otaheite,      monkeys   and

                   THE HERMIT'S MUSEUM.                   267
magpies, ostrich-eggs and salamanders, all strewn
about in admirable confusion.  Truly we learned
more wonders     in the way of natural history, and
heard more long yarns about the Cape of Good Hope
during our refection in that hermit's cell, than we
could lay before our readers in a whole volume ; and
when the worthy father, staff in hand, kindly accom
panied us on our road homewards, and saw us safely
out of harm's way, we had almost forgotten our
toils, and heartily bade adieu to the Hermit of the
Museum.
  One of our principal objects in visiting Whitehaven
was the study of the Annelidans met with upon that
coast, and, from what the reader has already learned
concerning   the locality, matters seemed but little
promising for our purpose. The investigation of the
habits of these animals is a matter of some difficulty
under the most favourable circumstances, and upon
this occasion everything seemed adverse to our suc
cess.   Tanks we had none      ;    and even   if   we had had
suitable vessels, — to have inundated          the hospitable
residence of our kind host, Mr. John Gibson, with
sea-water, would have been,   to say the least of           it,
hardly endurable by any stretch of friendship.  But
more than this, many of the Annelidans, whose habits
we were desirous     of studying, are by no means easy of
observation   ;   many of them bury themselves habitually
in sand or mud — others construct factitious tubes,
into which they retreat upon the slightest disturb
ance — many pertinaciously         conceal themselves under
stones — all shun the light, and thus baffle our attempts
to get anything like       a satisfactory view of them
                                                N   2

268           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
whilst in their ordinary habitats.         Labouring under
these difficulties, we set to work,   if
                                     possible, to sur
mount them ; and, as many of our readers will doubt
less be glad to learn how we succeeded, we shall now
proceed to describe a vivarium   of our own contrivance
admirably adapted to such an emergency.
  The Tom Kurd rock, although more or less com
pletely submerged at high water, is during the ebb of
the tide uncovered, and very easily accessible.      Its
wave- washed sides are hollowed into broad plateaus and
ledges, on some   of which are worn deep excavations,
forming little pools, left full of water when the tide
retires, wherein are growing corallines and various
kinds of pretty sea- weeds. One of these pools seemed
made exactly for our purpose : beside it was a seat, as
comfortable as an old arm-chair, and close by this an
elevated ledge that formed our table, such an one, as
any microscopist might have envied, solid, flat, and
firm — no fear of shaking there. The bottom of the
pool we filled up to a proper depth with sand and
clay and shingle stones, arranging these in different
portions of our stony tank, so that each form of
Annelide might find appropriate soil wherein to
burrow.   So far all was straightforward enough ; but
here lay the difficulty— when the rising tide attained
a certain height, the rocky pool would be of course
submerged, and, as the waves washed over       our  it,
treasures would be scattered to the deep we there
                                               ;
fore sought out some flat stones, massive and square,
with which we formed lid something like that of an
                       a
ancient stone-coffin, and, to make all more secure,
piled other   stones upon the top.         Having accom-

               AN EXTEMPORE    AQUARIUM.              269
plished this, we left our new vivarium to the surge,
which now came rolling in.
   The plan succeeded      well.   Revisiting our tank
when the retreating tide had ebbed sufficiently, we
found the cover undisturbed, and, on removing   it,
                                                 the
water clear and pure, fit to receive  whatever speci
mens the coast afforded.    These were soon obtained,
and many   a  happy hour we passed upon that rocky
seat,   contemplating the various beauteous forms
whose history we now must hasten to describe.

270             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                   CHAPTER XXVII.
         PONTOBDELLA MURICATA         — SKATE-LEECH.
        " Gem, flower and fish, the bird, the brute,
            Of every kind occult or known
          (Each exquisitely form'd to suit
            Its humble lot, and that alone ),
          Through ocean, earth and air fulfil
          Unconsciously their Alaker's will."
THE Pontobdella, or Skate-leech (PI. V. fig. 3), preys
on the living skate, and it is said also on other flat
fish, sucking their blood, which seems to constitute
its proper food.     The firm adhesion of the sucker to
the skin of its prey must render this animal a cruel
and inveterate enemy.
   During the day this singular leech reposes in abso
lute quiescence, but towards evening its wonted coil
relaxes into wider curves, and it rears itself erect,
with the head turned inwards.
   The Skate-leech propagates by eggs or capsules of
a  very remarkable configuration, which are more or
less numerous, according to the fertility of indivi
duals; and they appear either singly, which is rare,
or in a considerable group, perhaps fifty, deposited on
the exterior or interior surface of a shell.
   Each of these capsules consists of a short stalk or

               EGGS OF THE     SKATE-LEECH.           271
pedicle, surmounted by a spheroid, and supported by a
kind of sole or sucker (PI.V.fig.3j a,b}. The capsule is
altogether about three lines in length, and the sphe
roid, which contains the embryo or young leech, about
two lines in diameter.      Such capsules are firmly ag
glutinated by the sole to the substance whereon they
are deposited.    They are originally white, or of the
faintest carnation, of a fine, soft downy aspect, with
the neck (stalk) orange or yellowish.        They darken
gradually from the time of their production, and in
four or five days the original white is converted to
olive-green or dull wax-yellow.       They are produced
singly, free from all gelatinous matter.
   This capsule is a very singular object, quite pecu
liar, insomuch that it bears no resemblance to the egg
of any other animal.         It consists of a coriaceous,
tough, thick integument full of tenacious, albumenous,
brownish matter.      It  contains, when mature, only a
single embryo, which penetrates the lateral umbo in
issuing forth to the light. At this period the young
leech is about an inch in length.
   The propagation of this species is not strictly con
fined to any season, though belonging       chiefly to the
 summer.
   The Skate-leech     is  most   patient of abstinence.
It is extremely voracious in the natural state, but
rejects all subsistence when in confinement, although
in such a condition it survives a long time.

272             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                   CHAPTER XXVIII.
                  SERFULA AND SPIRORBIS.
            ••
               And far beneath the tempest's path
                 In coral grots defies the foe,
               That never brake in heaviest wrath
                 The sabbath of the deep below."
                                      J. MONTGOMERY.
NATURALISTS       divide the Annelida into erratic and
sedentary. The former, as may be easily concluded,
have no permanent abode ; the latter occupy a fixed
habitation, sometimes of very durable materials and
solid construction.        They are themselves its con
structors, and many of them real architects of a very
ingenious kind.
    Among the tube-inhabiting or sedentary Annelides
 we shall describe a few of those most frequently met
 with upon our own shores, in order to illustrate their
habits and general economy, selecting more especially
 such species as are best adapted to become residents
 in the aquarium, either on account of the elegance of
 their forms, or the interest attaching to their habits.
    Every one must have observed that stones, dead
 shells, fragments of pottery, or any similar substances
 that have been sunk for a length of time in the sea,
 become covered over with irregularly-twisted        cal-

               TUBES AND HABITS OF SERPULjE.          273
 careous tubes, which sometimes accumulate in great
 abundance    ; and not unfrequently masses of similar
 tubes are brought up from considerable depths by the
 lines of the fisherman.    If, while the contained ani
 mals are alive, these be placed in a vessel of sea-
 water, few spectacles can be more pleasing than that
 which they will speedily exhibit.      The mouth of the
 tube is first seen to open by the raising of an exqui
 sitely-constructed door, and then the creature cau
 tiously protrudes the upper part of its body, spreading
 out at the same time two gorgeous fan-like expan
 sions, of a rich scarlet or purple colour, which float
 elegantly in the surrounding water, and serve as
 branchial or breathing organs (PI. V. fig. 4).
    The tube wherein the Serpula (such is the name
 of these beautiful worms) dwells is calcareous, being
 formed    by an exudation from the creature's body,
 which, even under water, soon hardens into shell in a
manner very similar to that whereby other shells are
constructed ; and in this tenement the limbless Anne-
lide is of course destined to remain during its whole
lifetime, fishing for such food as may be obtainable in
the immediate vicinity of its residence.
    The habits of these elegant Annelides are neces
sarily extremely simple. Immoveably fixed by means
of their  tubes to foreign bodies, and frequently at a
considerable depth in the sea, all their movements
are restricted to the mere act of protruding the ante
rior portion of their bodies to  a little distance out of
their shelly residence, so as to expose their beautiful
branchiae to the influence of the surrounding        ele
ment ; these, spread out like fans in the water, are

274            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
moved about with a gentle waving motion, and, both
from their lovely tints and graceful appearance, are
always elegant objects to look upon. This partial pro
trusion from their tube is effected by means of the
little hook-like appendages to the various rings of the
body, by whose assistance the Serpula climbs up the
inside of its tube; just in the same way as the chim
ney-sweep climbs a chimney, or rather used to do,
for we believe that sable race is now extinct. On the
slightest alarm of danger intimated by the agitation
of the surrounding water — for the animal has no eyes
— it at once retires into its abode, and carefully closing
the orifice by means of the parasol-like expansion
upon its head, remains safe from the intrusion of its
enemies.
    We know but little     as to the kind of food upon
which the Serpulae are nourished, and nothing at all
concerning their mode of reproduction.         It may be
supposed,   however, that they live upon aquatic ani
malcules, which are caught by the aid of their
branchial tentacles ; and we may likewise conjecture,
from the construction of the calcareous tube, that the
young are born without any such protection.           Per
haps some of our readers may find an opportunity of
enlightening us relative to these portions of their
history.
    The Spirorbis is another shell constructed by mi
nute Annelidans, still more common than the pre
ceding ; for upon the beach it is scarcely possible
to pick up a piece of sea-weed without finding it
studded over with numerous specimens. The shelly
tubes inhabited by these little worms are exceedingly

                 STRUCTURE OF SPIRORBIS.                275
minute, seldom larger than pins' heads ; and instead
of being, like those of the Serpula, of an irregular
twisted figure, they are rolled upon themselves in a
regular spiral form, with one of the flat sides firmly
cemented to the surface of the object to which the
creature attaches itself.
    When magnified (PI. V. fig. 5), the neck of the
Spirorbis is found to be furnished with a perfect
operculum or lid, formed as in Serpula by a peculiar
development of one of the tentacula in the vicinity
of the mouth, which answers the purpose of a little
door, and likewise with an elegant apparatus of
branchial plumes.
   A little  reflection will at once   show us why the
respiratory organs of these tube-inhabiting worms are
situated in so remarkable a position, being invariably
attached to the neck of the animal, and not,         a%  in
other races of Annelidans, distributed on various parts
of the body. Had the breathing surfaces been placed
in any other situation, it is evident that while the
worm remained in its shell, the water could never
have   obtained free admission to them, and conse
quently respiration would have been impossible ;
whereas, by the elegant arrangement adopted, the
simple raising of the operculum which closes the ori
fice of the shell like a lid, or the slightest protrusion
of the creature's head, suffices to ensure the due
aeration of the blood, without unnecessarily exposing
the little worm to danger.

276             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                    CHAPTER XXIX.
                            SABELLA.
   •'Thus He who makes and peoples worlds still works
     In secrecy, behind a veil of light :
     Yet through that hiding of his power such glimpses
     Of glory break as strike presumption blind."
EVERY sea-side naturalist has doubtless had frequent
opportunities of remarking agglomerated clusters of
sanfly tubes, with numerous circular orifices, rudely
resembling a honeycomb ; or they may have noticed
flattened tubes, composed more solidly of particles of
sand agglutinated to the surface of shells ; or it may
be   they have been        struck    with the appearance  of
some single conical tube       of larger dimensions, neatly
constructed of similar particles, with or without a
silky lining, but altogether so fragile as to be qualified
to offer very little resistance against violence. All
these, whether weak or strong, solitary or conglo
merated, confined or spacious, are the work of their
respective tenants, the Sabellae, a race of elegant An-
nelidans, generally of small size, whose presence in
the aquarium     will enable the student to     pass many an
agreeable hour in watching            them while sedulously
employed in fabricating these curious dwellings.

             HABITS OF SABELLA ALVEOLARIA.            277
    One of the commonest of these little architects is
the Sabella alveolaria    (PI. V. fig. 6), the length of
which is seldom more than three-quarters of an inch.
Its head, or anterior part, is provided with numerous
filamentary tentacula (about eighty in number) . These
organs    are  extremely flexible : one surface has a
groove in the centre, and when completely extended,
may be observed to be toothed on both sides, so as in
some measure to resemble the weapon          of a saw-fish
in miniature.      The body is round, and composed of
numerous segments, some of which are provided with
bunches of minute lateral setae. A slender caudal
appendage,    generally folded up on the body, termi
nates its extremity ; it consists of eight or ten joints,
and is susceptible of some alteration of form.
    Numerous eggs are produced at different times of
the year, especially in June, August and October.
They are generally of a purple colour, consisting of a
darker nucleus within a gelatinous sphere.        A speci
 men having been injured in the third week of October
 by separating a congeries of tubes, a vast quantity of
purple ova issued from the wound ; and on being re
 moved to a watch-glass, the same specimen continued
discharging thousands of ova, all of the same beautiful
 colour and regular ovoidal form.        But neither they
 nor others have afforded any progeny.
    The Sabella alveolaria is a lively active creature,
 whose most prominent property is the power of con
 structing for itself an artificial dwelling, composed of
 grains of comminuted sand intermingled with shelly
 fragments, or other indurated substances.       But there
 seems to be a great difference     in the solidity of the

 278            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
 dwelling, according to the position of the tube, or
 perhaps depending upon the resources of the architect.
 Tims we find the fabric, when presenting the shape of
 the segment of a cylinder, attached to some flattened
 surface, firm, durable, and capable of great resistance.
 It is not easily crushed. On the other hand, when
 cylindrical or alveolar it appears to be always more
 brittle.  Most of these dwellings of the Sabella are
 lined with a fine silky substance formed of a gela
 tinous material that exudes from the surface of the
 body.
    These animals testify a decided predilection while
choosing the materials for their habitations, always
preferring sand and comminuted shell.            Pounded
glass is sparingly and reluctantly employed, and,
unless for a few fragments, is soon entirely rejected.
But there is    a striking difference in the character of
the tubes    : one is short and confined, giving little
beyond mere accommodation for the body ; while an
other is considerably prolonged, so as to afford a safe
retreat in times of danger. The architect of a third
seems to persist  in advancing the fabric as long as it can
procure materials, and never seems weary of working.
    Night is the chief season of this architectural
labour, though the worm is seldom guilty of perfect
idleness.
    By means of the tentacular organs and the cleft in
the anterior    part of the head, grains of sand are
selected and adapted where they are required, a glu-
tenous secretion securing each particle in its proper
place ; and thus the growing structure is progressively
extended.

              CONSTRUCTION OF SANDY TUBE.              279
   It is very interesting to watch the modus operandi of
these quiet labourers ; and the curious observer, who
desires a distinct view of their operations, ought so
to contrive matters that their advancing tube should
come in contact with the sides of the aquarium. They
then continue alike industrious      ; but frequently, as if
to economise labour, the growing edifice is reduced
to the segment of a cylinder, the transparent glass
supplying the defective portion : in this manner, what
ever passes   within is sufficiently exposed. A Sabella,
previously carrying on its operations in a watch-glass,
will sometimes avail itself of the transparent side of
 a jar in the same manner.        The greatest activity is
 always displayed during the warmest weather.
    These animals quit their tubes when the water
 becomes    vitiated, and sometimes without any such
 reason  ; seeming to suffer little inconvenience from
 the want of them.
     Their food is unknown;        nevertheless, they are
 easily preserved, specimens having been found to live
 thirteen months in confinement.

  280              THE AQUA1UAN        NATURALIST.
                        CHAPTER XXX.
   AMPHITR1TE       VENTILABRUM— THE FAN AMPHITRITE.
        " Unheard by them the roaring of the wind,
          The elastic motion of the waves unfelt ;
          Still, life is theirs, well-suited to themselves,
          Nor yet unuseful."
 FROM the depth        of 60 or 70 feet beneath the surface
 of the sea,      a  black leather-like       tube is sometimes
 dredged up, affixed by the lower extremity to some
 solid foundation.         Its position is erect, gradually en
larging upwards from a very narrow commencement.
 It frequently resembles a reed or vegetable stem
of stunted growth, furrowed by age, with portions of
the bark injured below by decay, but fresher and
smoother above, where visibly more recent and entire.
On the whole, when clear and perfect, this submarine
product bears the narrowest resemblance to a tube
of caoutchouc manufactured by human art.
    On plunging this artificial-looking tube into a
vessel  of fresh sea- water, a few air-bubbles first escape
from its orifice, and then the tip of a variegated pencil
is seen gradually protruding, which suddenly unfolds
as a splendid plume composed of many feathers (PI. V.
fig. 7). Let the slightest shock be communicated,
and the whole instantly collapses and disappears

           MANNER OF FABRICATING    ITS SHEATH.      281
 within the tube almost before its image has faded
 from the eye.
     The head or anterior portion of the animal, which
 may be called the plume (though truly the branchiae),
is disposed in two vertical fans, so arranged as to form
 a   complete funnel.    In large specimens it exceeds
thirty lines in depth, and is decorated with the most
brilliant colours, brown, red, green, purple and gold,
 exhibiting a truly gorgeous spectacle.
     Two triangular, pointed, brown and green anten-
 nulae arise near the bottom of the funnel, and below
there are two external fleshy lobes or trowels, with an
 organ like a tongue or scoop between them.
     The mode in which this lovely Annelide constructs
its tube is exceedingly curious.     We will suppose a
specimen with its plume fully expanded in a jar
 filled with its native element : in this condition, if a
drop of liquid mud be dropped from above into the
water so as to disturb its      cleanliness, the animal
immediately begins to rouse itself, and all the thou
sands of cilia that fringe its branchial plumules are
discovered to be in vigorous activity, collecting, by
their incessant action, the diffused muddy particles
into a loose mass, which is soon perceived visibly
accumulating in the bottom of the funnel.         Mean
time, the neck or first segment of the body, rising
unusually high above the orifice of the tube, exhibits
the two trowels, previously alluded to, beating down
the thin edge as they fold and clasp over the margin,
like our fingers pressing a flattened cake against the
palm of the hand. During these operations, the muddy
materials are seen descending between the roots of the

282            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
fans, towards the trowels ; while another organ, per
haps the mouth, is also occupied, it may be, in com
pounding the preparation with adhesive matter. As
the bulk of the muddy mass diminishes, the activity
of the worm abates ; it is soon succeeded by repose,
and then the tube is found to have received evident
prolongation.
    From the observations of Sir John Dalyell, it ap
pears that the branchial fans of the Amphitrite, when
lost   or mutilated,  are, notwithstanding  their com
plicated structure, speedily reproduced and rendered
again efficient.
  AMPHITRITE BOMBYX.        The Silk-worm Amphitrite.
    The general structure of this Annelidan resembles
 that of the Amphitrite last described, both in the
 worm-like organization of its body, and in the luxu
 riant plume of branchiae affixed to its anterior extre
 mity, as also in the circumstance of its inhabiting a
 sheath or tube. This sheath, however, instead of
 being constructed of foreign materials, is entirely
 made up of an animal gluten, resembling silk, with
 out any earthy particles being incorporated in its
 substance. The total length of this Amphitrite is
 about 3 inches, whereof the plume, composed of about
 sixty branchite, constitutes a third, while the body
 consists of sixty or seventy segments (PI. V. fig. 8).
    The plume is proportionately larger and more luxu
 riant than that of the Amphitrite ventilabrum ; it is
 finely variegated with different shades of brown and
 yellow —orpiment orange is the colour which pre-

            HABITS OF AMPHITRITE     BOMBYX.          283
dominates on the body. This animal dwells in a tube
surpassing its whole length, which is not of mecha
nical construction,   but is formed by a spontaneous
exudation from the entire surface of its body. When
originally produced, this tube is as clear    as crystal,
completely displaying through      its transparent walls
the shape of its occupant : it seems indeed altogether
made up of a silk-like secretion, and becomes quite
opake with age. The secretion whence this tube is
derived must be very copious, as several of them are
sometimes secreted by the animal, one after another.
   The Amphitrite Bombyx is a timid creature, and
impatient of light. On the slightest shock, the plume
collapses, and the animal at once retreats into its
abode, closing the orifice of the sheath ; but if left for
a little time undisturbed, it again ventures to issue
forth, rising slowly upward, as if to avoid deranging
the order of its feather-like branchiae.
   These elegant Annelidans have been observed,         in
confinement,     to  spawn   abundantly,   covering the
bottom of the aquarium with quantities of ova mixed
up with a thin gelatinous matter. Spawning, indeed,
continues during most of the summer, more especially
during the months of May and June ; but all attempts
to rear the young progeny have hitherto proved
abortive, and a most interesting problem yet remains
to be solved, by ascertaining the earliest aspect under
which the juvenile Amphitrite makes its appearance
when first liberated from the egg.
   When disappointed, however, in our inquiries con
cerning one interesting subject, it is gratifying to find
satisfactory illustrations of another.

 284               THE AQUARIAN  NATURALIST.
    The present species, in common with the pre
 ceding, is endowed with an extraordinary capability
 of reproducing parts of its body, whereof it may be
 deprived by violence, or which may be consumed by
 disease, so that each mutilated animal again becomes
 perfect.      The plume is liable to gradual loss of its
 peculiar parts, — the body is subject to deprivation of
 its plume, and yet the whole is reproduced in full
 and luxuriant perfection.
    An observation made by Sir          J. Dalyell  affords
satisfactory proof of this phenomenon, remarkable at
any time, but move especially in animals so elaborate
in structure as the creatures of which we arc now
speaking.
    A   specimen which had been recently obtained lost
its plume completely on the 5th of April, and the
separated       portion, an inch in length, lay at the
bottom of the vessel.       In twenty-six hours the trunk
of the body was invested with a delicate silken sheath.
In   fifteen days the rudiments of a regenerating plume
arose from the fore part of the trunk in the form of
several     delicate shoots an eighth of an inch long;
these soon became clothed with incipient fringes, and
in twenty-three days from the date of mutilation the
branchiae      had attained a third of the dimensions of
those they were replacing (PI. V. fig. 8, a, b, c).
    In prosecuting this subject, about five lines, or a
fourth of the body, was broken off, during an attempt
to dislodge a specimen from its sheath. The wounds
thus     inflicted   upon each portion healed speedily.
Ninety-two days after this occurrence, a new plume
was visibly apparent, sprouting from the upper portion

              AMPHITRITE INFUNDIBULUM.                285
of the posterior half; and in     116 days,  this plume,
unfolded in nearly its natural figure, almost equalled
 half the length of the body. While the sundered
fragment thus gained a plume, that of the original
 entire animal still subsisted ; therefore, in this case,
there were two contemporary plumes — two complete
 systems of branchial apparatus, in vigorous existence
at once, on two portions which had constituted an
integral animal, — a strange and wonderful example
of the resources of nature in preserving from de
struction creatures apparently so defenceless and in
capable.
    The theory of such reproductions, indeed, involves
the naturalist in extraordinary embarrassment.       It is
sufficiently surprising that ordinary wounds or lacera
tions should heal — that the energies of the system
should restore the integrity of mutilated organs essen
tial for the preservation of the injured individual.
But, to behold the evolution of the most complex
structures, where none previously existed, nor could
exist, in accordance with the general organization of
the animal — or that its development should be de
pendent on an act of violence, is enough to perplex
the most accomplished physiologist.
AMPHITRITE INFUNDIBULUM.         The Funnel Amphitrite.
   This remarkable Annelide is easily recognizable by
its two semicircular    tentacula, which, when spread
out and united, form nearly a regular circle.       Each
tentacle is composed of about thirty-seven rays, con
nected by a transparent web, except at the points,

286                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
which turn a little inwards.     The outside of these
singularly beautiful arms is smooth, and of a purple
colour, darkest at the tips of the rays ; the inside is
most elegantly ciliated with two rows of fimbria;
along each ray, of a chestnut colour, shaded to a
purple near the centre (PI. V. fig. 9) .
   This animal is capable of the most sudden con
traction, from eight or ten inches in length to three
or four.      It
           has between a hundred and fifty and a
hundred and sixty joints, gradually tapering towards
the posterior extremity.
   The case or tube wherein the animal lives is wholly
gelatinous, of a very firm and elastic nature, greenish
on the outside, but usually stained black by the soil
the creature inhabits.  These cases are composed of
many layers or strata, and when the first coat is
removed the remaining part is quite transparent, and
the animal nearly as distinctly seen as through glass.
   This elegant worm is occasionally met with unco
vered at the lowest ebb of spring tides. The case is
buried beneath the surface of the beach, and is only
discoverable by a small portion which projects above,
appearing like a piece of black jelly.   When the tide
returns, it displays its beautiful tentacula, but rarely
exposes its body.
   In   its   native abode it recedes
                                    on the slightest
alarm ; and when the gelatinous case is taken in the
hand, and the animal is extended within       it,
                                          the sudden
contraction        within the tremulous
                                    tube produces     a
singular and instantaneous vibratory shock, that, be
ing unexpected, rather startling, and might make
                      is                              a
timid collector drop so valuable prize.
                                    a

                AMPHITRITE AURICOMA.                287
  AMPHITRITE AURICOMA.       Golden-hair Amphitrite.
   The Amphitrite auricoma fabricates a very delicate
tube, as thin as paper, constructed exclusively of
grains of sand, agglutinated together in an extraordi
nary manner.     The thickness of the side of one of
these pretty tubes does not exceed a single grain ;
each lies in its own proper place, and the whole is
lined with the slightest silken coating.      The sand
being collected at the orifice of the tube, its tenant,
chiefly by means of its tentacular organs, selects those
which arc appropriate and applies them to use. This
is done only during the night; all the additions being
made around the orifice, in proportion as the animal
 grows ; so that the shape and dimensions of the tube,
 which is an inverted cone, result from the progressive
 growth of the body of the worm.
   This Amphitrite is very timid. It dwells in deep
 water, apparently lying in a horizontal position at the
 bottom of the sea. The tubes are generally regular
 cones, but instances have occurred of tubes slightly
 curved, like the tusk of an elephant.

  288             THE AQUARIAN NATUEALIST.
                      CHAPTER XXXI.
     TEREBELLA LITTORALIS,        SCU ARENARIA — THE SAND
                              MASON.
    " Ruder heads stand amazed at those prodigious pieces of
 Nature, whales, elephants, dromedaries     and camels;  those, I
 confess, are the colossus and majestick pieces of her hand ; but
 in these narrow engines there is more curious mathematicks, and
the civility of these little citizens more neatly seta forth the
wisdom of their Maker I "
 BETWEEN half-tide and low-water              mark, numerous
cylindrical tubes may be observed projecting from
among the rocks and stones of the shore, especially
amidst sandy patches of ground.             Some of these ter
minate in a tuft, like the ragged end of a hempen
cord ; and on a search being made in the neighbour
hood, another opening of corresponding appearance,
or the plane orifice of a sandy cylinder, will frequently
be found within a short distance.           Here is the dwell
ing of the Terebella, an edifice constructed by itself.
If the finder endeavours to pull forth the tube with
its tenant, the fragile structure ruptures in his hand,
and the animal retreats below; but on tracing its
direction as it winds a foot or more among the sand,
or descends under one of the firmest stones in the
vicinity, he may discover the orifice on the opposite


                           PLATE VI.
                                                       P««e
Fig. 1. TEREBELLA i.rrnmu.is                           288
Fig. 2. PKOTULA.       a.  The animal removed from its
           tube                                        317
Fig. 3. FISSIPAKOUS KEPRODUCTIOW      OF PBOTTJLA      317
Fig. 4. CIRRATULUS BOREALIS                            327
Fig. 5. APHBODITE ACULEATA                             330
Fig. 6. ABENTCOLA     PISCATOBCM                       336
Fig. 7. NEREIS (PHTLLODOCE)      LAMDTOSA.
          a, b, e, d. Development of Nereis            320

                       PLATE VI.
Tni¥an West so   iip


                        TEREBELLA.                    289
side,  and the whole may be removed entire, along
with the architect, which meanwhile has contracted
itself within the smallest possible space.
   The Terebella, when taken from its tube, is found
to be an Annelide 7 or 8 inches long, consisting of
numerous segments        tapering towards the posterior
extremity (PI. VI.   fig. 1).   Sixteen retractile pencils,
each consisting of fifteen or twenty bristles, border
the sides of the upper segments, but farther down
these degenerate   into mere stumps.
   The anterior part of the body consists of a kind of
frill divided into three portions,       surrounding the
roots of sixty, seventy, or a hundred tentacula, ac
cording to the age or dimensions of the specimen,
with the mouth, which somewhat resembles a scoop,
in the midst of them. Immediately behind this frill,
three pairs of most beautiful scarlet tufts (the bran
chiae) rise to the height of half an inch.
   The animal is universally of a peach-blossom
colour, with a broad, taper, smooth, bright carmine
stripe descending along the belly.
   If  a specimen be dislodged from its tube, it swims
by violent contortions in the water, after the manner
of various other marine Annelidans; the tentacula
and the branchiae       are compressed    and contracted
about the head like a brush, and, as the animal be
comes very soon exhausted by such unnatural          exer
tions, it soon sinks to the bottom.       Should a quan
tity of sand be now scattered from above, the ten
tacula, speedily relaxing, extend themselves in all
directions to gather it up, sweeping the vessel quite
clean ; so that in a very short time not a particle is
                                               o

290            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
left  behind   that is within     their reach, the whole
having been     collected to be employed in the con
struction    of a new artificial dwelling adapted to
shelter the naked body of the architect.
    The artifice, the selection of materials,    and the
expedition exhibited by this creature in the manufac
ture of its new abode, are truly admirable ; nor is it
a  small gratification to the curious that these may be
witnessed with the utmost facility.
    We will suppose a tube to have been partially con
structed at the side of the aquarium, wherein a spe
cimen    is about    to take up its permanent abode.
During     the earlier part of the day the animal is
found lurking in its interior, with only the extre
mities of the tentacula protruding beyond the orifice,
and so it will remain    till towards noon.  But scarcely
has the sun passed the meridian, than the creature
begins to become restless, and towards four or five it
will be seen to have risen upwards, the tentacula
extending with the approach of evening until after
sunset, when they arc in full activity.     They are now
spread out from the orifice of the tube like so many
slender cords — each seizes on one or more grains of
sand, and drags its burden to the summit of the tube,
there to be employed according to the service re
quired.     Should any of the teutacula slip their hold,
the same organs are again employed to search eagerly
for the lost particle of sand, which is again seized
and dragged towards its destination.
   Such operations are protracted during several hours,
though so gradually as to be apparently of little effect ;
nevertheless,   on resuming inspection next morning, a

             MODE OF CONSTRUCTING THE TUBE.                      291
surprising elongation of the tube will be discovered ;
or perhaps, instead of a simple accession to its walls,
the orifice will be surrounded by forking threads of
sandy particles agglutinated together.
    The architect has now retired to repose ; but, as
evening comes, its activity is renewed, and against
sunrise a further prolongation has augmented the
extent of its dwelling.
    At first sight the numerous tentacula seem only so
many long cylindrical fleshy threads of infinite flexi
bility.     On examining them, however, more atten
tively, we see, that in exercising their special function,
the surface which is applied to the foreign objects
becomes flattened into twice or thrice its ordinary
diameter     ; and, while conveying the sandy materials
to the tube, these are seized and retained in a deep
groove, which almost resembles                a slit ;  in fact, the
tentaculum       becomes     a   flat, narrow riband,         folding
longitudinally in different places to hold the particles
securely*.
    *
      In  Terebella nebulosa, writes Dr. Williams,       the tentacula
consist of hollow, flattened, tubular filaments,       furnished with
strong muscular parietes, each tentacle forming a band which
may be rolled longitudinally into a cylindrical form, so as to
enclose a hollow cylindrical space,    if  the two edges of the band
 meet, or a semicylindrical space,        if they imperfectly meet.
This inimitable mechanism enables each filament to take up
 and firmly grasp, at any point of its length, a molecule of sand,
 or, if placed in a linear series, a rote of molecules.         But so
 perfect is the disposition of the muscular fibres at the extreme
 free end of each filament, that it is gifted with the twofold
 power of acting on the sucking and the muscular principle.
 When the tentacle is about to seize an object, the extremity is
 drawn in, in consequence of the sudden reflux of fluid in its
                                                       o2

292           THE AQUARIAN      NATURALIST.
   Although these organs when contracted are col
lected into a brush scarcely double the thickness of
the animal's body, so enormous is their extensibility,
that they can be stretched out to the length of four
inches, or half the length of the body, thus sweeping
the area of a circle eight inches in diameter.
   A thin internal coating, resembling silk, lines the
whole tube, and at the same time serves as a real
cement to unite and strengthen its innumerable parts.
This silk-like material is derived from a glutinous
slime which exudes from the surface of the body of
the Terebella.
   Notwithstanding the unrivalled expertness and ex
pedition with which this Annelidan advances its work,
it has never been observed to resume possession of its
tube when once forsaken.    To obtain the shelter of a
new dwelling in place of the old, its labours are
invariably recommenced from the foundation.
   Observation does not seem to have supported any
conjectures relative to the food of the Terebellae. All
of them appear to reject animal substances, so that
perhaps, like other genera, they may derive their sub
sistence from swallowing sandy or earthy matter,
mixed up with organized particles.    The timidity of
these worms would appear to prevent the possibility
hollow interior; by this movement a cup-shaped cavity is
formed, in which the object is securely held by atmospheric
pressure; this power  is,  however, immediately aided by the
c-outraction of the circular muscular fibres. Such, then, are
the marvellous instruments by which these peaceful worms
construct their habitation, and probably sweep their vicinity
for food.

          ELEGANT STRUCTURE OF BRANCHIAE.              293
of their attempting the capture of living prey      : they
seem    always readier to retreat than to advance, so
that the smallest and most defenceless creature might
apparently easily repel their attacks.
   Mutilation of the body is often produced by the
violent contortions of the Terebella when removed
from its tube.      The tentacula also are frequently
broken off, either by force or accident ; yet even when
thus separated they continue for a long time to give
indications of vitality, and the animal seems so little
affected by the occurrence, that its labours are not
only continued, but commenced under such privations ;
nevertheless slight injuries often prove fatal, espe
cially in hot weather.     Whenever the body acquires
a  greenish tinge, all attempts at preserving the speci
men may be considered hopeless.
    The branchias of the Terebella are exceedingly
beautiful : in the species under consideration they are
so complex and luxuriant ; they abound in such nu
 merous points, angles and curvatures; their shades
 and intensity of colour, and the alternations of their
 shape are so variable, that few objects are more ele
 gant or more interesting to behold, or more difficult
 to render intelligible by description ; suffice it to say,
 that during the life of the animal, the motion, the
 enlargement, the reduction and spiral twisting of
 these branchiae, singly or collectively, are perpetual ;
 but the instant cessation of these movements, followed
 by speedy disfiguration and decay, are concomitant
 on the death of the animal.
    The eggs of the Terebella are found enclosed in a
 gelatinous mass, generally fixed to the entrance of the

294            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
tube constructed by the parent Annelide ; they are of
a rusty-yellow colour, and when once recognized are
easily procurable for the purposes of the vivarium.
   These worms usually lay their eggs during the
months of March and April ; but this is a rule by
no means of stringent application.      The embryos de
rived from these eggs, when first hatched, give no
indication whatever of the form they will subsequently
assume, and    might easily at first be mistaken for the
larvae of Zoophytes or of Medusae, which they exactly
resemble as they swim rapidly about by means of
innumerable cilia distributed over the surface of their
almost microscopic bodies; but they are not long in
revealing their real nature.      They soon appear per
ceptibly elongated, and something like a head and
tail becomes distinguishable, the former being recog
nized by the presence of a pair of eyes resembling
bright red specks.
   The progress towards a worm-like form now rapidly
advances, and the body becomes distinctly divisible
into four zones or segments ; in front there is a semi
circular flattened head bearing the eye-spots ; to this
succeeds a broad segment covered with cilia, that
still constitute the locomotive apparatus ; then a
narrow segment devoid of cilia ; and, lastly, the tail
or terminal segment, which is densely ciliated.
   In  the course of a short time a fifth segment is
seen gradually making its appearance in the shape of
a  narrow ring, interposed between the terminal seg
ment and the last segment but one of the larva above
described.    We beg the reader's special attention to
the circumstance here marked in italics, for until

           DEVELOPMENT    OF YOUNG  TEREBELLjE.       295
 recently, a greater puzzle than the manner in which
 the Annelidans grow by the acquirement of additional
  segments could scarcely have been propounded.
    At  this period of their growth the little larvre are
  quite transparent, and although no muscular fibre is
 as yet distinguishable   in their composition, they ex
 hibit extraordinary powers of contraction, and keep
 constantly changing into all sorts of shapes : some
 times they shrink into a round ball, sometimes they
 spread into a round disc with ciliated margins, or
 constricting themselves into a worm-like form, they
 attach themselves to the surrounding       mucus, from
 which they have as yet hardly escaped.
    The little Terebellae, having gone through      these
 preparatory changes, now begin to grow rapidly, and
 their shape becomes more vermiform, by the addition
 of new segments, which are progressively developed.
 These rings invariably make their appearance one
 after another, in the same way as the first-formed
 segment alluded to above, that is to say, between the:
tail-segment and that immediately preceding it; con-
seqnently, with the exception of the tail, the position
of the different rings or segments corresponds exactly
with their respective ages, those nearest the head
being the oldest, those nearest the tail the most re
cently developed.
    As yet, the young worm has been completely foot
less, but now the lateral locomotive appendages begin
to make their appearance in the shape of bunches of
hairs, supported on fleshy tubercles appended to the
sides of the individual segments, the development of
these rudimentary legs being effected in precisely the

296               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
same order as that          of the rings, namely from behind
forwards.
  It would be tedious to follow hour by hour the
growth of these young Terebelhe ; suffice it to glance
at the condition in which they are found when just
about to leave the gelatinous mass in which they
have been nursed during the first period of their
existence, that  at the end of the third or fourth
                      is,
day from the  birth, at which time they are strong
enough to issue forth and begin the world for them
selves.
  At      period they present the appearance of
          this
minute worms, not more than one-twelfth of an inch
in length. The head       distinctly formed, and pro
                               is
vided with a pair of eyes. The part of the body im
mediately behind the head, which at first was without
any trace of division, and covered with vibratile cilia,
seems now to represent three rings, of which only the
anterior   ciliated, and the two posterior devoid of
            is
any appendages.     The four or five segments which
come next are each furnished with       pair of fleshy
                                                   a
tubercles supporting setae, and to these succeed two
or three rings as yet devoid of appendages; while
the tail or last segment, still densely ciliated, has
undergone little or no change.
   As growth goes on, the number of segments in
creases, and they are all provided with locomotive
oars in the shape of setiferous appendages. The Tere-
bella in this condition exactly resembles one of the
erratic Annelidans,      and has not the slightest resem
blance to    a   tube-inhabiting worm, such as will after
                                                       it
wards become      ;   in short,   it   is   provided with   a   distinct

              PROGRESSIVE GROWTH OF EMBRYO.                 297
head, antennae, eyes, and locomotive feet, wherewith          it
swims about wherever it thinks proper ; whereas the
adult Terebella, the resident in the tube, has neither
head nor eyes, nor antennae ; and, as         for its feet, they
arelittle better than hooks, wherewith it moves about
in the interior of its beautifully constructed tube.
The further progress of development is therefore
rather retrograde than otherwise, the worm becoming
deprived of privileges which it previously possessed.
Wonderful are the means whereby the ends of nature
are thus accomplished        :   the Terebellfe, as such, must
always have remained fixed in the same locality, with
out the power of distributing their species beyond
the spot where they have ensconced themselves ; but
as it    the wandering larva roams from coast to
        is,
coast   in search of   a   resting-place adapted to its pecu
liar habits.
  By degrees, however, the erratic habits of our little
worms are put     stop to; they lose their ciliated
                   a
belts, and cease to swim, content to lead during the
remainder of their lives    sedentary existence. The
                                 a
first indication of this change    the exudation of
                                        is                    a
kind of mucus, which solidifies around their bodies,
and soon forms    tube open at both ends — prehensile
                  a
hooklets begin to make their appearance, supplanting
the functions of the swimming feet — and the ten-
tacula of the Terebella begin to sprout from the fore
head— the eyes disappear, or rather, strange to say,
become    replaced     by
                        others of   different kind — the
                                        a
gills or branchial tufts begin to sprout from the neck,
the number of segments goes on increasing, and the
tube-building Terebella,          at last complete iu all its
                                                 o5

298             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
parts, prepares to lay its eggs, and thus to perpetuate
wonders such as those we have been witnessing.
          TEREBELLA FIGULUS.      "  The Potter."
   Another     species  of Terebella met with on our
coasts is generally called "The Potter," and is re
cognizable from the preceding by the great length of
the cephalic tentacula, as also from the circumstance
that, in fabricating its dwelling, it gives an evident
preference to mud as the most suitable material.
   If the Terebella figulus be dislodged from its tube,
the body becomes closely coiled up ; but the tentacula
speedily begin to search round, sweeping up every
thing within their reach, and. if the materials are
abundant, a covering is speedily formed.         Like the
former, after the temporary repose of the morning,
its restlessness is displayed through much of the day,
and becomes augmented as evening approaches.           At
this period an active search for building-materials
begins.     Some tentacula secure particles of mud,
others are withdrawing grains of sand, and several
seize on shelly fragments.      Much industry is mani
fested, and   all these various collections are gradually
brought in by the contraction of the respective organs
retaining them. While the tentacula are thus em
ployed, an undulatory action, like repeated inflation
of the upper part of the body, is repeated fifteen, or
twenty times in a minute, the movement advancing
in an upward direction, as towards the orifice of the
tube.     Next, ten or twelve particles are discharged,
perhaps from the       mouth,   after  having  undergone

                            TEREBELLA FIGULUS.                    299
some previous preparation there, and these are added
to the circumference of the orifice of the tube. The
under-lip       then      occupied in smoothing the
                            seems
newly-added portion up and down, or possibly cement
ing it to the rest with glutinous matter.
   It   seems beyond a doubt that the materials                   em
ployed in building are first swallowed.
   The tentacula of the Terebella figulus seem to vary
in number from twenty-five to fifty ; they are stouter
than those of the preceding species, and, when com
pletely extended, they measure at least nine inches,
that    is,    twice the length of the body of the
              above
animal, so that they are thus capable of sweeping
over a very spacious area.  Their natural colour                    is
uniformly brown, or tending to carmine but when          ;
stretching far, they resemble strong whitish horse-hair.
   Nothing      more surprising than the attention of
                is
so humble   an artist being directed towards such a
variety of operations at the same moment.      Many
tentacula are engaged in searching after the materials
— many in  collecting them — whilst others are bearing
them towards the edifice some are quitting their hold,
                                    ;
while others         recovering a load that they have
                      are
let fall, the architect itself being all the time busily
employed in kneading masses in its mouth, disgorging
them successively in proper situations, or in polishing
the rude workmanship resulting from its labours.
  A  perfect tube   half an inch in its external dia
                            is
meter, the sides being of considerable thickness, so
that     has the appearance of being massive and
        it
clumsy   ;    nevertheless,      it   is   in reality so fragile as to
be incapable      of sustaining its own weight, on which

300            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
account it is often constructed horizontally, or built
against some foreign substance for support.
    Some of the Terebellae, more especially the species
under consideration, are endowed with the faculty of
emitting a brilliant phosphorescence, but it is rarely
displayed.
     When this occurs, it is apparently the result of re
straint or suffering. Flashes were emitted by a small
specimen which had left its tube, on transferring it
to a different vessel : on replenishing the latter with
water, a most copious bright blue refulgence, inter
mingled with a reddish flame, streamed from the ten-
tacula and other organs. Apparently the phospho
rescent property is diffused over the body, and in
the case above mentioned the coruscations evidently
attended violence.
     TEREBELLA CONCHILEGA.         " The Shell-binder."
     A third  species of Terebella, the TEREBELLA     CON
 CHILEGA, or SHELL-BINDER,       is another beautiful and
 interesting inhabitant of the aquarium.      This elegant
 Annelide, as its name imports, constructs a dwelling
 exclusively of comminuted shell, in preference to all
 other materials.     In the natural state it generally
 takes shelter within some capacious empty shell, such
 as a valve of the Venus islandica, there to establish
 its edifice.   On all occasions this tube is formed of
  irregular and unequal fragments, and lined with a
  silk-like exudation from the body of the animal.
     This Terebella may be induced to exercise its archi
  tectural faculties by diminishing the light during the

                 TEREBELLA CONCHILEOA.                301
day, as  if night   were approaching.    If supplied with
different-coloured fragments of shell, a variegated
tube in bands,      or otherwise    constructed,  may be
obtained.     A beautiful edifice is composed of the
shivered pearly internal strata of oyster-shells : and a
specimen having been dislodged from its tube, and
committed to a vessel containing a few shelly frag
ments, some sand, and a number of small Venetian
beads, has been known       to employ them all indiscri
minately in the fabrication of a new dwelling.          In
default of comminuted shell, the Terebella conchilega
will build  a tube exclusively of sand.
   By eliciting the propensities of this animal, the
observer   may have    much agreeable     and interesting
entertainment.
   If dislodged   from its tube, and placed in a vessel of
sea-water, the Terebella profits by the earliest pro
vision of fresh materials to construct another. While
this is conducted up the side of the vessel, the tenta-
cula, those essential mechanical auxiliaries, are busily
employed. A silky tentaculum seizes a fragment to
be elevated    to the orifice;  it is too ponderous and
unwieldy, and two or three other tentacula then unite
their efforts in raising the load to its intended posi
tion.    An empty mussel-shell, about half        an inch
long, was thus elevated and secured in its place, to
 augment an edifice in progress.
    Great expedition is exhibited in fabricating a tube
 solely of sand, under a total deficiency of more fa
 vourite materials, and heavy loads of it are dragged
towards its naked body, with which the mouth is
 speedily occupied; but shell is best adapted to the

302            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
labours of this architect, and always receives a de
cided preference. Some particles of this material are
certainly swallowed preparatory to their being incor
porated with the edifice ; but, from the dimensions of
others, it is evident that they must be fixed in their
places by means of some kind of adhesive matter.
When closely examined, the whole structure evidently
consists of a very tough silk, covered with fragments
of shell.
   Specimens of this Terebella have survived nine
months in confinement.
    On some shores the Terebella conchUega is the
most abundant of all the larger Annelides, with the
exception of the Arenicola. They are most numerous
about midway between high and low water-mark,
where the sand is mixed with a large proportion of
stones.    By the shifting of the sand in storms they
are often buried to a considerable depth, and at other
times have several inches of their tube exposed.      In
the first case they speedily work up to the surface ; in
the other the exposed portion of the tube is soon
broken off by the waves, or crumbles from exposure
to the sun. Their tubes are very long, and the animal
remains towards the bottom, except when seeking for
food.    Hence specimens are to be obtained only in
favourable situations, for it is almost impossible to
dig up the whole fabric.
   As soon as the Terebella is removed from its case,
it throws itself into spiral folds. If now it is placed
under water upon sand, it forthwith straightens the
body, and presently all the tentacula are seen in full
action. They are extended in every direction, often

               PROCESS OF   TUBE-BUILDING.            303
to a length exceeding an inch and a half ; and they are
soon seen dragging in small fragments of shells and
the larger particles of sand.      These it places behind
the scales which project from the anterior and lower
part of its head, where they are immediately cemented
together by a gluten which exudes from the animal.
Bending the head from side to side while it continues
to apply the materials of its tube, the Terebella very
soon has formed a complete collar, which it employs
itself in lengthening regularly from every part of its
circumference, with a persevering activity highly in
teresting to behold.      In   order to fix the fragments
compactly, it presses them into their places with the
erected scales, at the same time slightly retracting its
body.     Hence    the fragments, being raised by the
scales, are generally fixed by their posterior edges,
and thus overlaying each other, often give the tube an
imbricated appearance.
   When the tube is from half an inch to an inch in
length, the animal proceeds to burrow. Directing its
head against the sand, it slowly penetrates it.       The
penetrating force is very inconsiderable, because the
creature, having to form its case as it descends, can
advance but slowly.       It is now of course obliged to
avail itself of the materials with which it may come
in contact.     Its progress is marked by the gradual
disappearance of the tail, which continues to with
draw into the tube till the whole has entered.       Soon
afterwards the conchilega is found to have turned in
its abode, and its head appears at the surface.
   In summer the whole task is completed in four or
five hours; but   in cold weather, when the animals are

304                 THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
more sluggish, and the gluten appears to be secreted
in smaller quantities, their progress is slower in pro
portion.
  The extremity of the tube, which appears at the
surface of the sand, is generally ornamented with a
number of branches composed of single rows of sandy
or shelly particles. These are formed accidentally
from time to time by the adhesion of sand to the
tentacula when thrown out in quest of prey. The
gluten exuding from the tentacula cements the grains
of sand together, as may be plainly seen in animals
kept in confinement.
             TEREBELLA TEXTRIX.          "   The Weaver."
   The species thus named by Sir J. Dalyell is of very
small size, varying from about an inch to an inch and
a half in length. It constructs a scmicylindrical sheath
of sandy or muddy particles, the dimensions of which
are always insufficient to cover the body or to receive
the head ; and this sheath is frequently abandoned,
and as often resumed ; neither docs the animal re
strict itself to the construction of one sheath only.
   The most peculiar feature, however, in its history
is,   that   it   manufactures   a   real cobweb, as distinct as
that of the spider, with which     covers itself, and
                                             it
which also frequently,  not always, serves to support
                            if
its spawn. The texture of this remarkable web                 is
very thin, rather irregular, and composed of threads
so fine that they arc almost invisible, from their
slenderness and extreme transparency.    Neither the
mode     of formation or extension, nor the expedients

                      AMPHITRITE OSTREARIA.                      305
used for fastening this web, arc at all obvious.                 This
is,however, plainly a work of some exertion, as the
threads, sometimes amounting to fifty, are fixed to
the side of the vessel as high above the bottom as
equals the length       of the   " Weaver"      or more, and they
also    extend below, there to be secured.               Thus    it   is
evidently an artificial work, and          it   receives successive
additions.
      Such   a   web, however, seems only to be constructed
during the month    of May, and appears specially
destined to the reception of the eggs, which about
this time are deposited.
AMPHITRITE OSTREARIA.              "   The Oyster Amphitrite."
   The word Terebella, literally translated, would seem
to signify  creature endowed with the faculty of per
                 a
forating rocks and other hard substances,  name by       a
no means applicable to the animals we have been de
scribing under that appellation. Nevertheless, there                  is
one exception to be found in     very small Annelidan,
                                       a
bearing some remote kindred to the Terebella, which
seems to have the power          of excavating     a   burrow for its
own lodgement, even in so hard   substance as shell.
                                           a
  While inspecting the exterior of old oyster-shells,
the            may sometimes see several slender,
        observer
brownish tentacular organs playing around      fixed         a
point, and occasionally withdrawing themselves from
view.        On separation of the laminae and breaking
down the shell, an Annelide,           from which they pro
ceeded,      is   discovered lurking in   cavity in the midst
                                           a
of its solid substance.

306            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
   In  some respects    this animal bears   considerable
analogy to the Terebella.        The body of the little
parasite is about nine lines in length, composed of
numerous segments, and tapering towards each ex
tremity; it is bordered throughout with a row of
pencils, composed of three or four setae each.      The
mouth is a cavity in the anterior extremity, some
what behind which are eight round flexible tenta
cular organs situated on the neck; these are sus
ceptible of being flattened and folded longitudinally,
like the tentacula of the Terebella.     Eight of these
tentacles would seem to       form the complete appa
ratus, and they are possibly developed in succession,
seeing that specimens two lines in length have only a
single pair.
   The special habitation of this creature is a cavity
adapted to its size, often situated in the thickest part
of the shell. The cavity is lined with silk, and therein
the tenant lurks, protruding its tentacula through a
circular aperture; these are always employed in
searching round the vicinity, like those of the Tere-
bellae proper.
   Although not dwelling in society, several of these
worms may often be found within narrow limits. At
least a dozen have been seen displaying their tenta
cula from the surface of a single shell ; besides which
there were probably others of small dimensions ob
scured by adventitious matter.

                POETRY OUTDONE BY NATURE.                  307
                     CHAPTER XXXII.
                            NEREIDES.
       " I would not enter on my list of friends,
         Though graced with polish'd manners and fine sense,
         The man, who needlessly sets foot upon a worm."
                                                  COWPEB.
 IT  certainly is a circumstance much to be regretted,
 that the poets, both ancient and modern, when wishing
 to indulge in flights of fancy, by describing monsters
 and all sorts of prodigies, have never come to Nature
 herself for a few lessons, or at least for a few hints
 upon which they might have improved.              Take them
 altogether, they are a very timid race, and their best
 fictions so infinitely below reality, that they ought to
 be ashamed of themselves.         When our late respected
friend Dr. Mantell discovered the "land of the
 Iguanodon," he went the right way to work.              First,
 he reintegrated     the great forms whose bones he had
exhumed, and with the data thus before him, applied
to the genius of John Martin to poetize the sub
ject.    The result was most satisfactory : the mighty
reptile stood at once, as terrible in aspect as if all the
poets of antiquity had had the making of him j be
striding acres of ground, his length of tail curling
off towards the horizon till lost in aerial perspective,

308             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
and evidently requiring a good Dollond's telescope to
see the end of it.      The poetical brood of dragons,
griffins, basilisks, hide their diminished heads in pre
sence  of their mighty prototypes, at present " revisit
                                   "
ing the glimpses of the moon before the Crystal
Palace ; and we rather think that Apollo would hardly
have wasted his arrows upon the fabled Python had
he seen the original owners of some bones that now
figure in geological cabinets.
   The truth      is,
                  we fear, that poets are       far tooby
diffident, and, in their over-anxiety not to
               " o'erstep the modesty of nature,"
that they come very much short of the license which
creation fairly gives them were  not so, we suspect
                                  :       it
they would at least indulge us with greater variety.
They have not as yet, we can assure them, exhausted
the catalogue of things new and strange actually in
existence,    monsters more terrible
         " than fables yet have feign'd, or fear conceived,
      Gorgons, or Hydras, or Chimcoras dire."
   Fortunate     for this world that the tyrants of
                  is    it
our modern seas are most of them comparatively of
very limited dimensions else we could point out some,
                              ;
which we believe Perseus himself, backed by his Pe
gasus,   —orrather backing his Pegasus, as we ought to
say, — would hardly like to encounter, even were    to        it
free another Andromeda.               Neither need we go far to
 find them; the NEREIDS upon our own coasts, could
 we but procure an Ovid to chronicle their exploits,
 would furnish   history far more wonderful than any
                    a
 of all his mythological outrages upon the laws of

          GENERAL STRUCTURE OF THE NEREIDS.           309
natural history ; and as for metamorphoses, the zoo
logist could supply him to his heart's content. How
ever, poetry is not our province ; we must return       to
the broad beaten track of truthful narrative, and in
troduce the Nereids      to the reader, such as he will
find them in his own aquarium.
     The body of these worms (PI.     VI. fig. 7) consists
of a consecutive series of rings, all of which, with the
exception of the anterior segments, that constitute
the head, seem to be repetitions of each other, only
 differing in size as they taper gradually towards the
 tail.   Upon every one of these rings several external
 appendages are observable, situated on each side of
 the body. The uppermost of these appendages is
 frequently a tuft of branching filaments, of a bright
 red or crimson colour in the living animal ; in other
 cases it consists of a single stem, to which lateral fila
 ments are attached ; or else in some species these
 organs consist of mere flattened lamellae, formed by
 processes of the skin ; but whatever may be the shape
 of these appendages, their nature and office are the
  same ; they are almost entirely made up of the rami
  fications of bloodvessels, and being constantly im
  mersed in the surrounding water, the blood flowing
  through them is effectually exposed to the influence
  of the air contained therein, and respiration thus
  adequately provided for.     These tufts therefore con
  stitute so many pairs of gills or branchiae, and from
  the circumstance of their being situated upon or near
  the back of the animal, this group of Annelidans is
  distinguished by the name of Dorsibrauchiate    (dorsum,
  the back, and branchia, a gill).

310           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   The other appendages to each segment are subser
vient to locomotion, and are called the oars ; these
are  generally two in number, upon each side, one
being situated near the back, and the other upon the
ventral aspect of the body : the two pairs of oars are
generally separated from each other by a wide in
terval, but occasionally they are so nearly approxi
mated as not to be readily distinguishable ; or there
are instances   in which only one pair is developed.
When perfectly formed, each oar is found to consist
of a strong fleshy pedicle, from which there projects
an appendage called the cirrus, which is of very dif
ferent shape in different genera, sometimes being
long and filiform, at others expanded into a broad
paddle like that of a Sandwich Islander's canoe, or
occasionally it may be very small and scarcely per
ceptible.
   In addition to the cirrus, each fleshy pedicle is
furnished with a packet of stiff hairs, which can be
protruded or retracted into the body at the will of the
animal; these, from their expansion, add greatly to
the propelling power of the oar, and moreover some
times constitute a most formidable apparatus of de
fensive weapons.
   There is no want of locomotive machinery, there
fore, in one of these humble-looking worms : no
steamer,  with its paddle-wheels at work, presents a
spectacle more admirable   than that offered by every
segment of the Nereis ; and when all combine to beat
the waves in unison, the ease and grace with which
the creature swims, or rather glides along, almost
exceeds belief.

                        EUNICE GIGANTEA.                          31 1
   A   broken specimen of one of these worms now
before us, the Eunice gigantea, measures upwards of
four feet in length, and consists of four hundred and
forty-eight segments, all provided with their comple
ment of paddles. Let the reader, therefore, imagine
for one moment this gorgeous animal free in its
native seas, blazing with iridescent tints that answer
back again the glowing brilliancy of a tropical sun,
 while it rows along its "oary state" by means of
upwards of seventeen hundred distinct propelling
laminae, all wielded with such energy that the eye
can scarcely follow the rapidity of their movements,
and then perhaps he will be able to form some idea of
the efficiency of a locomotive apparatus such as is
 provided for these dorsibranchiate Annelidans.                   The
fabled Ore of Ariosto, moved along
   " By  thousands of strange wheels and thousand slides *,"
is here     outdone,      and poetry lacks terms             to give
expression to a scene so wonderful : —
                             " ....  in such sort,
       A.S, sped by roaring    winds,  long carack steers
       From north or south, towards her destined port,
       So the sea-monster to his food repairs f."
   It  is an interesting        spectacle     to observe       one  of
these creatures moving about             in its tank,     as  though
indignant at captivity.           Its many rings alternately
contract, and again extend themselves into a spiral,
           *   " Con mille guizzi  e mille strane ruote."
            (•
               " Come sospinto suol da Borea    o d' Ostro
                 Venir lungo navilio a pigliar porto
                 Cosi ne viene al cibo che 1' e mostro
                La bestia orrenda."

312            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
emitting at every moment flashes of light, in which
all the prismatic colours are blended in the brightest
metallic reflexions.   When these motions cease, it
crawls   along the bottom of the trough, throwing
forward its thousand feet, and pushing out bundles
of darts from the broad knobs that contain them.
The sides of its trunk are studded with its organs of
respiration, resembling vermilion plumes when they
are swollen by the blood, which may be traced along
the dorsal vessel.    At   its head,  enameled by the
brightest colours, are five organs of touch, encircling
an irregularly-puckered mouth, from which protrudes
at intervals a huge proboscis, armed with three pairs
of jaws. The corselet of the brightest beetle, the
bronzed wings of the butterfly, the blazing throat of
the humming-bird, would all look pale when com
pared with the play of light flashing in large patches
over the rings of its body, glowing in its golden
threads, and sparkling over its amber and coral
fringes.
    The Nereides must be sought for in the excava
tions of rocks, in the hollows of sponges, in univalve
or bivalve shells, in the interstices of the radicles of
sea-weeds, under stones, or, in general, in all kinds
of cracks and fissures.     There are some which bury
themselves in mud or sand, where they excavate a
lodge proportioned to their dimensions, and some
 times they line this dwelling with a mucous material
secreted in sufficient abundance to construct a tube
or sheath.    From this they put forth a greater or
less portion of their body, but rarely the posterior
 extremity, so that they may be able to re-enter on

             GENERAL         HABITS OF THE NEREIDES.             313
the slightest indication           of danger    ;   in this respect
resembling the Sea-Nymphs, whose names they bear*,
who, when upon the shore, as we are told, took up
their residence in grottos and in caves adorned with
shells. Widely different, however, are the voracious
habits of these Annelidans from those attributed to
their mild and beneficent prototypes.
   The Nereids found in sand bury themselves by the
same rapid undulating movements they employ in
swimming, and also travel along with great facility
by extending their anterior rings and bringing up
 the posterior part of the body, somewhat after the
 manner of an earthworm, their progress being at the
 same time very much assisted by the action of their
 numerous bristly feet and lateral appendages.                  Woe
 betide the victims that misfortune brings within their
 reach ! their death is certain, though their fates may
 be slightly different : —
    " For some the felon quarters, some he flays,
       And some he swallows quick, and some he slays."
    On studying still more carefully these Annelides,
 and using glasses of a moderate power, the hairs
 appended to their feet or fins, or oars (call them by
     *
       "Away they race; and foremost of the throng,
         N i-.u i N K, flashing onward in the pride
        Of force consummate, flings herself along       ;
        NISA goes bounding o'er the bounding tide ;
        DOTO, in more than wonted fury strong,
        Breasts the tall billows ; the curved waves divide
         In awe, to give the rushing NEBEIDS way :
         Long lines behind them gleam of argent spray."
                                                      CAMOENS, /..•».
                                                          P

314             THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
any name you please), are seen to form two tufts or
sheaves of darts, sometimes combining every form of
our aggressive weapons.      Here are curved blades with
two cutting edges, the one convex, the other concave ;
there are the types of the broadsword of the High
lander, the sabre-poignard of the artilleryman, and
the sabre-bayonnette of the Vincennes chasseur. Else
where we       have harpoons,   fish-hooks, and cutting-
blades   of every shape, fixed to sharp handles, straight
or curved disks, and lances with their barbs bent
backwards, like the spears of Indian savages, as
though to tear the wounds inflicted, but enclosed in
a sheath preserving them from fracture or from
friction.
   These creatures, as might be expected from their
activity and erratic habits, are carnivorous ; and inno
cent and beautiful     as they look, they are furnished
with weapons      of destruction of a unique and most
curious description.     The mouth of the Nereis would
seem at first to be a simple opening, quite destitute
of teeth ; but on further examination, this aperture is
found to lead into a capacious bag, the walls of which
are provided with sharp horny plates, even more ter
rible than those which occasionally are to be met with
in the gizzards of some of the higher animals. It is
not surprising, therefore, that by many anatomists
the structure in question has been described as a real
gizzard, or by some as the stomach itself. A little
attention    to the habits of the living Annelide will,
however, soon reveal the true character of the organ.
No sooner     does the creature wish to seize its food,
than   t Ins so-called gizzard is at once turned inside

             REMARKABLY CONSTRUCTED MOUTH.               315
out, in which condition it protrudes from the mouth
like a great proboscis ; and the teeth, which were
before concealed      in the interior of the cavity, now
become external, and display as formidable an assort
ment of rasps, files, knives, saws, hooks, or crooked
fangs, as any one could wish to see.   Let us suppose
them, when in this condition, plunged into the body of
some poor helpless victim, while at the same moment
the proboscis is rapidly inverted and withdrawn ; the
prey thus seized is at the same instant swallowed,
and at once plunged       into   a   gulf where all struggles
are unavailing, there to be bruised and crushed, and
sucked at leisure.
  It   is,
         moreover, extremely probable, that creatures
furnished with such tremendous teeth are not formi
dable to small animals only, but that, like the Lam
prey, they can fasten themselves on living or dead
fishes, and bore or tear their way through          the skin
and flesh, thus procuring    a   meal at the expense of the
lives of their victims.
  Many species of these worms appear to be entirely
destitute of any visual apparatus in others numerous
                                       ;
minute specks are distinctly visible, which are ar
ranged with more or less regularity upon the upper
part of their head, and which, notwithstanding the
simplicity of their structure, seem, in  more or less
                                              a
perfect manner, to perform the functions of eyes.
   Those who have watched the habits of the Nereids,
says   Dr. Williams, will scarcely doubt that they        are
gifted with the power of discriminating external ob
jects, of making towards some point, and avoiding
others.      In   the absence, however, of such an optical

  316            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
  arrangement as may be fitted to collect the rays of
  light, it is difficult to form any conception of the
  nature of sight in these animals, if this endowment
  really is conferred upon them. Still it is not essential
  to the practical purposes of the lowest forms of life that
  the objects of the external world should be seen, that
  pictures of them should be painted upon the retina ;
 it were enough that the mere presence or absence
 of an objective body should become evident to the
 sensations of the animal by the positiveness or nega-
 tiveness of the impressions received.         A refinedly
 exalted sense of touch would suffice to accomplish this
 object. It is not easy for those who have never en
joyed the spectacle of the
                              " feat of touch," performed
 by the tentaculated worms, adequately to estimate the
 extreme acuteness of the sensibility that resides at the
 extremities of the living threads with which the head
 and sides of the body are garnished.         They select,
 reject, move towards, and recede from, minute ob
jects with all the precision of animals gifted with the
surest eagle sight, and steer themselves harmlessly,
readily, and unerringly through the thickly tangled
labyrinth of mud, and stone, and gravel, and weed,
amid the twilight of which the habitat of many of
them may have been cast.
    The same author observes, that it is a remarkable
fact in the history of the free Annelidans, that scarcely
any species, however organized, whether furnished or
not with external locomotive organs, in its numerous
and varied muscular evolutions ever moves directly
backwards.      Their movements consist always of ser-
pentiform pranks, or those of elaborate coiling. It

          REMARKABLE MODE OF MULTIPLICATION.            317
  is by the head, however, that such motion is inva
  riably initiated. The tail is always in the rear, never
  in the van.
     One of the most interesting phenomena presented
  by these worms is their capability of developing and
  detaching progeny by a kind of sprouting from the
  posterior end of their bodies.     The part where this
  wonderful process takes place is invariably the same,
  the new animal being always formed by a vegetative
 growth of the antepenultimate segment, that is to
 say,  from the segment immediately         preceding   the
 terminal    one.    This reproductive  segment may be
 observed at certain periods to become    slightly swollen,
 and evidently the seat of increased vital action ; and a
 short time is sufficient to reveal that it is employed
 in manufacturing a young worm, which is soon seen
 growing from the hinder extremity of its parent, from
 which, when sufficiently complete, it detaches itself.
 If  the head     or anterior segment of the species be
 characterized by eye-specks, antennae, a proboscis, or
 branchiae, these are developed in the offspring or off
 shoot, so as to be completely recognizable before the
final separation takes place; so that we have the
strange spectacle of two animals, one growing by its
head from the tail of the other (PI. VI. fig. 3). And
very frequently this is by no means the extent of the
prodigy ; for it very generally happens that as soon as
the lineaments of the head of the first young one are
established, the reproductive segment of the parent
resumes its procreative function, and a second off
spring is developed, intervening between the one first
formed and the original Annelide ; nay, sometimes a

 318            THE AQUARIAN        NATURALIST.
 second   and a third are produced by a repetition of
 this process, so that four generations may be seen
 organically connected together, and constituting one
 individual, •which, however, soon separate from each
 other, and thus become converted into as many distinct
 animals.     Indeed, Professor Milne-Edwards has ob
 served  six young ones generated in succession from
 the same posterior segment, all of which for some
 time continued adherent to their parent.
    The British species belonging to this family of
 Annelidans are very numerous ; some of them are
 exceedingly minute, while others attain considerable
 dimensions : we select from among the latter a few
 of the most conspicuous and interesting for special
 notice —
               "...  facies non omnibus una,
        Nee diversa tamen   ; qunlem decet esset sororum."
      NEREIS FULGENS.          " The Iridescent Nereis."
    The length of this elegant Nereis is about seven
inches, and its breadth at the head four lines. The
figure of the body is roundish, and it consists of above
a hundred segments.          The part representing the head
is a smooth cylinder, projecting beyond the first seg
ment of the body, furnished with eight antennular
organs, and terminated by two stout conical append
ages, placed widely apart, each of which is tipped with
a soft spongy-looking         substance.    The eyes, which
are blue, are four in number, set in a quadrangular
form.    The colour of the body is universally an orpi-
ment or orange-red, with a darker longitudinal line

                           NEREIS MARGARITACEA.                 319
running down the back; the whole surface is finely
iridescent. Two black incurving jaws are seen within
the orifice of the proboscis, their extremities project
ing just beyond it.
    This creature constructs a very thin transparent
silky tube, composed of a material, that, apparently,
exudes from the whole surface of its body, wherein it
keeps itself concealed, except the head, which remains
exposed, and is commonly found waving from side to
side.  The tube is often strengthened by having sand
incorporated with              it,
                      where this material accessible
                                                   is            ;
if   not, remains quite transparent.
            it                          It   always        is
formed of  sufficient width to allow of the animal's
reversing its position within.
   The Nereis fulgens       littoral species
                                     is   a  retreats  ;   it
from the light, lurking under stones or in clefts.
Fine specimens   may frequently be found by raising
shelving portions of rock near low water.
             NEREIS (NEPHTHYS) MARGARITACEA.
     The NEREIS (NEPHTHYS) MARGARITACEA, the Pearly
Nereis,     magnificent species, sometimes measuring
            is
             a
ten inches in length, and consisting, when full-grown,
of upwards of      hundred and forty segments, each
                           a
provided with     complete set of locomotive organs.
                       a
Two short stumps are situated on the head, and                   a
proboscis of extraordinary dimensions             is
                                         occasionally
darted forth.              Sometimes
                              black speck     aseen in     is
front but
        ;      neither constant, nor are eyes visible.
                 it   is
The shape of the proboscis varies considerably, but              it
is   generally somewhat barrel-shaped, and about three

320            THE AQUARIAN     NATURALIST.
quarters of an inch in length, by half an inch wide
towards the middle ; it is beset by several rows of
short, spinous papillae, placed towards the extremity,
which is terminated by a circle of them. The largest
row is composed of at least thirty of these dental
structures.     The proboscis reflects light, as though it
were composed of a hard substance, which it is not ;
it is protruded when the animal is in       a state  of ex
treme weakness, and at length becomes incapable of
being withdrawn.
     The colour of this Nereis is nearly white, with a
line down the middle of the back ; but no figure can
do justice to its beauty.    It  is quite possible, indeed,
for a person to study these elegant creatures in
 engravings, and thus imagine that he has acquired a
tolerably exact idea of their structure, without having
 the slightest conception of the interest which attaches
 to an inspection of their living forms and active evo
 lutions.
     The Nereis margaritacea swims by a serpentine
 motion, in a horizontal direction, with great violence
 and rapidity.     When at rest, it lies among the sand
 close at the bottom of the vessel, with its head par
  tially protruded.   It is extremely timid, and, if near
  the top of the tank, retreats downwards upon the
  slightest alarm.   If its site is about to become dry,
  the body twists, as if preparing to leap.
     This animal frequents the sands of the sea-shore
  somewhat lower than the point of half-tide.
       PHYLLODOCE LAMINOSA.        " Laminated  Nereis."
      But the most magnificent      Nereis inhabiting our

                 PHYLLODOCE LAMINOSA.                  321
seas is the  NEREIS REMEX, or, as it is now called, the
 PHYLLODOCE LAMINOSA (PI. VI. fig. 7).         The length
of this glorious Annelide is sometimes at least two
feet, and its body composed of above 400 segments,
always multiplying with age, each segment being
provided with a pair of broad lateral paddles, by the
aid of which it swims through the water with in
describable elegance. The natural colour of this gem
of the sea is a fine green : bluish green on the centre
of the back, iridescent, reflecting  a bright blue ;  while
the paddles, as they are justly denominated, are always
green.
   During the day this species lurks in concealment,
mostly under some large flat shell, where it reposes ;
but at night it unfolds itself from its many convo
lutions, and goes in quest of prey. In confinement,
however, it seems to refuse all kinds of sustenance,
and becomes at length    lank and emaciated, from pro
tracted abstinence.
   The mechanism of this creature, its parts, and their
powers, are to be ranked among the more conspicuous
and admirable works of Creation        ; nor can they be
contemplated without wonder.       Issuing forth from its
retreat, it swims by an undulating serpentine motion.
Its unwieldy body, gradually withdrawn from its
hiding-place, has its multiplied organs unfolded in
regular order and arrangement ; so that, whether in
tertwined or free, they never present any appearance
of intricacy or confusion — each part performs its
own proper functions, and the general effect is pro
duced by the united exercise of the whole.           When
inactive, the lateral paddles    are laid close over the

 322           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 back ; but when in activity, they spread widely out,
 acting like so many oars to aid the animal's course
 by their successive impnlses on the water.      It is a
 pleasant thing to see a well-manned boat glide over
 the smooth surface of the sea — to watch the long
 array of oars as silently they simultaneously dip and
rise again, all flashing in the evening sunshine ; but
such a sight is but a paltry spectacle compared with
that afforded by these gorgeous worms — 400 pairs
of oars, instinct with life, harmoniously   respond in
play so active that the eye can scarcely trace their
movements, save by the hues of iridescent splendour,
violet and blue, and green and gold, the very rain
bow's tints, that indicate their course.
    In  confinement,   these magnificent  Nereids    can
seldom be preserved entire.     Their body, unmanage
able on account of its length, without ample space
wherein to perform its evolutions, is exposed to fre
quent entanglement amongst surrounding objects,
and is often broken by the creature's struggles to
get free ; yet, wonderful to state ! even this is by no
means an irreparable damage.       A specimen kept by
Sir John Dalyell, measuring about twenty-two inches
in length, was mutilated by the loss of some of the
hinder   segments of its body during the month of
October, and in eleven days the wanting joints had
been regenerated.     But on the 22nd of January the
body of the same worm broke asunder near the middle.
Within three weeks the wound at the hinder extre
mity of the anterior portion healed, and in the month
of April above fifty segments with their paddles had
been reproduced.      The whole of the newly-formed

         REPRODUCTIVE    POWERS OF PHYLLODOCE.        323
portion was of a pale green colour, but its breadth
did not exceed a third of the width of the original.
    It seems, however, that   it is only the anterior por
tion of the Phyllodoce which possesses the power of
regenerating lost segments, although the hinder parts
retain their vitality for an extraordinary length of
time.    In  the specimen above mentioned, the poste
rior half, when detached from the rest of the body,
had had a small fragment torn off, leaving the place
ragged ; this ragged end Sir John Dalyell        removed
with a sharp pair of scissors, in hopes of preserving it.
Accordingly the result was that the wound healed in
eleven days ; but, after fifty days had elapsed, nothing
indicated   regeneration of the defective head, and
about a month later both parts unfortunately perished
from accidental vitiation of the water.
   A   month subsequent to the capture of several spe
cimens of these animals, a green globular mass, above
five lines in diameter, made its appearance floating in
the vivarium     wherein  they were confined ; it was
attached slightly to a very thin silken tube formed on
the side of the vessel near the surface of the water,
and had doubtless been deposited by one of them,
which kept always in the vicinity. This globular
mass consisted   of hundreds of eggs resembling green
specks imbedded in a transparent jelly.       After a few
days, these eggs were hatched, and gave birth to
minute ciliated embryos, which for several days moved
rapidly about in the surrounding water, testifying by
their numbers the extraordinary fertility with which
these creatures are endowed ; for Nature still con
tinues to pour forth with lavish hand immense supplies

324               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
of creatures such          as these,     to be alternately destroyers
and destroyed       :—
  " While ravening death of slaughter ne'er grows weary,
    Life multiplies the immortal meal as fast.
      All   are devourers, all in turn devour'd           ;
      Yet every unit in     the uncounted sum
      Of victims has its share of bliss — its pang,
      And but    a pang,   of dissolution      :   each
      Is happy till its moment comes ; and then,
      Its first, last suffering, unforeseen, unfear'd,
      Ends with one struggle pain and life for ever.''
  NEREIS NOCTILUCA.                  "   The Glow-worm Nereis."
  Among the members of the numerous tribe of
Nereids, we must not forget to mention the luminous
properties of the NEREIS NOCTILUCA : —
                " Hanno                 i lor diletti ancore
                        quest 'onde
                 Qui  se spiega   la notte il fosco velo
                 Nel mare emulo al cielo ;
                     Piu lucidi, piu belle
                      Moltiplicon le stelle
               E per 1' onde vedrai gelida e bruna
               Rompere i raggi e scintillar la luna."
  When transferred amidst                  a   quantity of marine pro
ductions to a glass jar, this pretty little Annelide, a
diminutive species not exceeding the length of half
an inch, commonly ascends      to the very edge of the
water, and there secures itself just under the surface,
in a silken sheath applied to the side of the vessel.
On sudden agitation, the whole body of the worm
seems in a blaze, even while it remains stationary in
its own element ; but          if,
                         after emptying the vessel,              it   is
filled up with fresh water     e. river-water), beautiful
                                         (i.

                       NEREIS NOCTILUCA.                    325
flashes are emitted      ; and should different parts     of the
sides   of the vivarium be occupied by several            speci
mens, as is always the case where miscellaneous col
lections have been recently introduced, so many bril
liant coruscations will escape from all the parts of the
vessel where they are established.            This interesting,
though rude experiment, may be repeated several times
upon the same subjects; however, if these are to be
preserved,     the vessel must be speedily drained and
refilled with their proper clement, as few marine ani
mals can survive even a short immersion in fresh water.
    The Nereis noctiluca is at all times an elegant and
 instructive little creature, serving at least to show
 what various forms of life Nature has lighted up to
 beautify the deep,
         " Or gild the surge with insect sparks that swarm
           Round the bright oar."
     We   have yet to discuss      one of the most interest
 ing departments connected with the history of the
 Nereides, namely the metamorphoses which these
  creatures undergo after leaving the egg, and their
  subsequent growth to their mature condition, — sub
 jects which, to every aquariist, present a rich field
  for observation and research.
    We    need hardly say, that the Nereis,       in the earlier
  stages   of its growth, does not         as  yet possess the
  almost countless segments that it afterwards acquires ;
  and yet the mode in which those segments become
  multiplied, and, as they grow, provided with the com
  plicated limbs they sometimes bear, was, until re
  cently, a most unfathomable mystery.
     The Nereis, when it leaves the egg. is quite a limb

326              THE AQUARIAN   NATURALIST.
less embryo  (PI. VI. fig. 7, a), and might be taken
for an Infusorial form of life, swimming about by
means of a broad ciliated disk. How long the micro
scopic atom keeps this shape we know not, nor the
mode in which it is transformed into the second
aspect under which it shows itself (PI. VI. fig. 7, b) ,
in which condition it is recognizable under a figure
somewhat like its proper self, about a line in length,
offering as yet only four segments bearing lateral
oars, although its head and eyes are quite discernible,
as well as one small pair of antennae.
   As growth advances, other segments show them
selves successively,and these are always found to be
developed in one spot, namely between the last-formed
segment and the tail, or rather the tail-bearing ring
which terminates the body; and as they by degrees
are perfected, they develope from their sides the lateral
oars, which now become      the locomotive agents, and
the creature gradually attains the appearance seen in
the next figure (PI. VI. fig. 7, c).
   By constant repetitions of the   same procedure, more
segments and more oars progressively are added from
behind to those in front (PI. VI. fig. 7, d), until the
animal, at length promoted to its perfect form, con
tinues to grow longer as new segments show them
selves,   till it acquires the complement allowed by
Nature in its adult state.
   Such    is,
            in brief, an outline of the process; but
there yet remains wide scope for any one, whose
leisure or whose opportunity      affords   the means of
adding to our knowledge on      a   subject so important,
and as yet almost in its infancy.

                  CIRRATULUS     BOREALIS.              327
                  CHAPTER XXXIII.
CIRRATULUS BOREALIS — "THE NORTHERN CIRRATULUS."
THE length of this beautiful Annelide (PI. VI. fig. 4)
is about four inches ; its body is composed of numerous
segments    tapering towards each extremity; but the
most striking feature whereby it is distinguished con
sists in the possession of numerous long and flexible
cirrhi, or thread-like appendages, made up of an in
finite number of rings attached along the entire
length of its body.
   These cirrhi, apparently
       " More soft and sensible
         Than  are the tender horns of cockled snails,"
arise on each side from every alternate segment of the
body, and besides being instruments of prehension,
apparently perform the functions of the branchiae or
breathing organs of other Annelidans.            They run in
two rows down the back, and are continued nearly to
the posterior extremity; they are longest, however,
in the vicinity of the head, becoming gradually shorter
as they recede backwards.        When the animal crawls,
these   cirrhi lie along the back, presenting a very
singular appearance.
   The colour of the Cirratulus is generally red, some

328              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
times tolerably vivid ; or it is brownish or variegated,
owing to the quantity of mud which the worm
swallows, apparently as its ordinary diet.
   Through its long filamentous arms and branchiae
the blood ebbs and flows, dyeing them of the richest
crimson, or leaving them of a faint yellow colour.
The tangled skein which they have formed consists of
living coils, ever binding and unbinding their glisten
ing knots, and catching up grains of sand, or atoms
of slime, till the animal retires into an envelope of
fragments,     which, by clustering together, become a
case, which encloses and protects it.
   The natural and favourite habitat of these Anne-
lides is in the muddy fissures of rocks, or under tufts
of sea-weed or other soft covering, and they are
generally met with considerably above low-water
mark.      They are distributed very profusely upon
most shores, but are never to be found amongst sand.
While the animal lurks in its retreat, its cirrhi are
spread   like  .so many worms over the neighbouring
surface.
   The Cirratulus retires from the light. If kept in a
white saucer covered with a shell or stone, it will
creep out at    night ; or by filling the vessel containing
it to such a height that the tips of the cirrhi cannot
reach the surface of the water, it will abandon its con
cealment and crawl up the side, thus affording a
satisfactory view of its structure ; but, when forcibly
removed,     the whole    creature contracts into a con
fused bunch.
    The Cirratulus lays its eggs during the months of
 May and June : the ova are very numerous, minute.

            CONDITION ON LEAVING THE EGG.           329
and  of a spherical shape. When hatched, the embryos
have exactly the appearance of Infusori<al animalcules ;
in form they are elongated, flattened, and begirt with
cilia; their length three times their breadth; their
colour a faint dingy yellow; their body generally
opaque, but with lighter portions on some specimens.
Their movements towards the end of June become
rather slow, and sometimes the little creatures display
a tendency to revolve horizontally on the centre of the
body as on an axis. The further development of these
embryos has not as yet been satisfactorily traced.
   The Cirratulus is tolerably patient under confine
ment   : one specimen survived eighteen months, and
then it perished accidentally.

330             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                   CHAPTER XXXIV.
                   APHRODITE     ACULEATA.
          " Quell' era armata di piu fin metallo
            Ch' avean di piu color gemme distinto  ;
            Rubin venniglio, crisolito giallo,
            Verde smeralda, col flavo jacinto."
                                          ARIOSTO,     OH. Fur.
         " Of metal was her armour bright,
            With gems of many colours overspread     ;
            The tawny jacinth, yellow chrysolite,
            The emerald green of hue and ruby red."
THE aspect of the Aphrodite aculeata (PI.            VI.   fig. 5)
is so peculiar that it cannot be mistaken.              It is the
most brilliant of all the lower animals inhabiting the
seas of the British coasts, and has consequently inva
riably attracted the notice of many who have not other
wise much curiosity regarding the works of creation.
   The body of the largest is sometimes as much as
eight inches in length; commonly, however, it does
not exceed five, and is of a long oval figure, with ex
tremities proportionably acute. The back is some
what convex, the belly flat ; a short, thick, brown fur
covers the dorsal region, especially towards the sides,
interspersed with long bright green and yellow iri
descent hair ; and intermixed with this are transverse

                      WEAPONS FOR DEFENCE.                   331
 irregular rows of long, stiff, thorny, brown bristles.
  Nothing can exceed the splendour of the colours
 which ornament these apparently apathetic beings;
 they yield indeed in no respect to the most gorgeous
 tints of tropical birds, or to the brilliant decorations
 of insects : green, yellow and orange, blue, purple
 and scarlet — all the hues of Iris play upon them with
 the changing light, and shine with a metallic efful
 gence only comparable to that which adorns the breast
 of the humming-bird.
    But it is not for their dazzling beauty merely that
 the setae of the Aphrodite are remarkable ; they are
 not unfrequently important weapons of defence, and
 exhibit a complexity of structure far beyond anything
 to be met with in the hairs of higher animals.               In
 the Aphrodite hispida they are perfect harpoons, the
 point of each being provided with a double series of
 strong barbs; so that when the creature erects its
 bristles, much more formidable than those of the por
 cupine, the most determined enemy would                scarcely
 venture to attack it : —
       " In vaine it were for to declare in verse
         How sumptuously his armour all was wrought     ;
         All set with stones and gilt with orient gold,
         Both fit for use and pleasant to behold  ;
         How many arrows under his right side,
         All deadly dangerous, all cruel keene,
         Headed with flint, and feathers bloody dyed,
         Such as the Indians in their quivers hide."
    And here we cannot help observing another pro
vision, rendered necessary by the construction of
these lance-like spines.         The bundles of setae are all

 332            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 retractile, and can be drawn into the interior of the
 body by the aid of the muscular tube from which they
 spring.    It would be superfluous to point out to the
 reader the danger which would accrue to the animal
 itself by the presence of such instruments imbedded
 in its own flesh, it being evident that by every move
 ment of the creature's body they would be inextri
 cably forced into the surrounding tissues.       The con
trivance to obviate such an accident is as beautiful as
it  is simple.   Every barbed spine is furnished with a
smooth, horny sheath, composed of two blades, be
tween which     it is lodged ; and these, closing upon the
barbs when they are drawn inwards, effectually pro
tect the neighbouring soft parts from laceration.
    Two cartilaginous-looking flexible antennae, about
half an inch in length, issue from the head, and a
row of peduncles, furnished with stiff setae, borders
each side of the body, serving to aid the progress of
the animal : nevertheless, when in confinement, its
sluggishness is excessive ; it scarcely ever stirs, but
always seems in a languid state, remaining nearly in
the same position, with the posterior extremity of the
body recurved, and discharging a constant stream of
water from an orifice near the hinder part of its back
with so much force, that a slight vortex is formed in
the surrounding water.
    The movements of these Annelides,           when  they
choose to exert themselves, are, however, very swift,
half-running, half-swimming ; but they likewise swim
with great facility, passing rapidly through the water.
   The Aphrodite most probably preys upon living
animals, nor does it spare even its own species.        Of

               RESPIRATION     OF APHRODITACEjE.            333
   two specimens procured at the same time, one was
   large and fine, two inches and a half in length, the
  other not quite half as long, but proportionally
  broader.     After living peaceably together during two
  or three days, the former was found attempting to
  devour his companion.         One half was already swal
  lowed into its strong and capacious proboscis, while
  the victim struggled desperately to be free.           How
  ever, the assailant, after retaining     the prey for some
  time, was reluctantly compelled to disgorge it ; but
  the suffering animal's back was broken, and some of
  the   scales  ruffled   off by the rude assault.       Next
 morning only half of the poor fellow remained, the
 other portion having been devoured ; and the victor
 now darted out its proboscis repeatedly, in order to
 finish its meal on the rest, as it lay in a corner.
     The Aphroditacea constitute a group of Annelides
 to which the term      " dorsibranchiate"   does not  strictly
 apply, seeing that in the majority of the species be
 longing to this family no branchial appendages exist
 either on the back or anywhere else.          Respiration is
performed on a novel principle, of which no illustration
occurs in any other family of worms. The whole
back is vaulted over with a series of broad scales, or
membranous plates, which exhibit            periodical move
ments of elevation and depression.          Overspread by a
coating of felt, readily permeable to water, the space
beneath these scales during their elevation becomes
filled with a large volume of filtered water, which
during the descent of the scales is forcibly ejected
at the posterior end of the body ; thus, like a pair
of water-bellows, supplying a constant flow of the

334           THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
respired element over the dorsal surface of the crea
ture's body.
   Like the rest of the erratic Annelidans, the      fa
vourite retreat of the Aphrodite is under stones or
shells, where it adheres, in a reversed position. It is
extremely timid, roaming abroad at night, apparently
in search of prey; but it always quits its retreat
cautiously, as if dreading the vicinity of a foe.
   In the middle of June a large specimen of Aphro
dite cirrosa produced an immense number of eggs,
probably not fewer than 10,000, or perhaps more.
This great profusion, accumulated on the bottom of a
glass vessel, was  of a  reddish hue, each    individual
ovum being minute, white, and globular to the naked
eye; but as they all proved abortive, we are unac
 quainted with the form of the embryo, or the history
 of the progeny to which they give birth.

                 ABENICOLA     PISCATORUM.               335
                  CHAPTER XXXV.
        ARENICOLA     PISCATORUM    — " THE LUG."
           " Amid  the bowels of the earth,
             Where dawning day does never peep,
             His dwelling is."
EVERY visitor to the sea-coast        must have remarked
certain  places   on the shore, near low-water          mark,
almost entirely covered with little pyramids or mounds
formed by coils of sand or mud, the " castings," as
they are called, of worms.        All these little heaps are
produced by an animal lurking at a considerable
depth beneath the surface, named in scientific lan
guage Arenicola piscatorum, and known by fishermen,
who find in it a valuable bait, as the Luy-worm or the
Lug (PI. VI. fig. 6). There can never be any difficulty
in procuring specimens of these worms,          if  only care
be taken to dig deep enough, the spade being driven
to the depth of at least a foot and a half into the sand,
otherwise the animal will certainly be broken.
   When dug up entire, this beautiful Annelidan is
found to be about ten inches in length, and in some
parts nearly half an inch in thickness, its body being
cylindrical, and made up of very numerous segments
towards the posterior part.         However,     it  becomes

336            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
suddenly reduced in size, and assumes quite a dif
ferent appearance, as if more uniform in structure,
and presenting a shagreen surface.      A  double row of
bunches of setae project from the sides of the animal,
and thirteen pairs of beautiful vermilion-coloured
tufts rise from the back, commencing at about one-
third of the length from the anterior extremity   ; these
last-named organs, which      constitute the respiratory
apparatus, are extremely elegant, and when examined
with a simple magnifying-glass resemble arborescent
shrubs, the stems, boughs and branches of which are
all in lively action.
   The diversity of colour in this species is very great :
of a number collected together, some will be found of
a carmine hue, or of a still deeper red, some brownish,
and others blackish green, or all these shades are
sometimes blended together in the same individual.
   Dwelling constantly in the dark, not only deep in
the sand, but generally covered by the sea, the Are-
nicola is extremely impatient of light, and when in
confinement continually attempts to penetrate down
wards, even when there is no sand in the vessel ; but
if amply provided with this material, it soon screens
itself from view.
   The Arenicola piscatorum connects the naked with
the sedentary Annelida. A viscid secretion exudes
from the anterior half of the animal, to which the
sand adheres,    and hence, -when the worm is dug up,
this part is generally found to be covered with an
imperfect arenaceous tube, within which the move
ments of the worm are performed with perfect free
dom, but which cannot be removed entire, on account

                  INGENIOUS MODE OF WELL-SINKING.                   337
of its extreme fragility.              This tube   is,   in fact, left
behind as the animal progresses, and forms      com           a
plete lining for the hole, which, like the brickwork
of    a   well,
            supports, and keeps pervious throughout
                  it
its whole length.  The creature     thus enabled to
                                             is
ascend  readily to the surface, and the water                  is   ad
mitted freely to the branchiae.
      A   of the anterior rings of the Arenicola pro
           few
gressively diminish in size, and each admits of being
completely folded within the ring immediately behind
it. Hence, when they are fully retracted, the anterior
extremity of the animal appears abruptly truncated                    ;
while      prolonged in the shape of a regular cone
           it    is
when they are projected to an extent just short of
developing the mouth.    This constitutes its boring
apparatus. The rings being retracted, the flat head
of the Arenicola    directed against the sand, and
                             is
then the forcible projection of the cone opens a
passage          for the rest of the body.    The opening thus
made would, however, be insufficient, and the delicate
branchiae         might be injured while forced through such
a narrow passage but, to avoid this, the animal imme
                        ;
diately on completing the penetration distends the
penetrating rings very considerably. By the advance
of the body the opening thus enlarged       then oc      is
cupied, and the rings being again received into each
other, the cone  ready to be again projected. During
                        is
the progress of the animal, the glutinous secretion
which exudes from    cements together the surround
                              it
ing sand, and gives that support to the sides of the
hole, without which             would immediately fall in.
                                  it
      It   is   not, however, simply for the purpose of exca-
                                                          Q

338             THE AQUARIAN   NATURALIST.
vating     a retreat that the Arenicola thus pioneers
beneath the soil — the sand amongst which it works is
devoured and swallowed as the worm bores its way :
not that the sand itself is nutritive, or can be used as
food, but the organic matters mixed up with it — the
last scrapings, as we might say, of the platter, — are
thus made      useful, and  become   assimilated as the
earthy medium traverses the alimentary canal, and it
is finally rejected in the form of the sand-coils which
                             "
betray the retreats of the lugs
                                   " on every sea-beach.
    The Arenicola seems to be a favourite article of
food    to all sorts of marine   animals of carnivorous
appetite : not the apple of Discord itself stirred up
such sanguinary battles, nor was the body of Patroclus
more stoutly fought for by the rival Greeks and
Trojans than one of these worms, when offered as
the prize of fight among the multifarious combatants
ready to claim their portion.
    In   order to study the mutual hostilities of these
warlike races, M. Quatrefages threw a large specimen
into a pool a few feet wide. A troop of shrimps at
first, scared by the sound, darted away ; but these soou
rallied, just as the Annelide was about to bury itself
in the sand, when one, more daring than the rest,
grappled it by its middle.     Thus emboldened, others
lost no time in prosecuting the attack, and the poor
worm was pulled about in all directions, till a full-
grown prawn, rushing from behind a tuft of coralline,
dispersed his feebler comrades, and appropriated the
booty to himself. It was, however, at once seen that
he would speedily be forced to share the spoil, for at
that very instant there appeared some score of Turbos

               BATTLE OF THE ROCK-POOL.              339
and small Whelks, who, conscious that a dinner was
at hand, all hastened up, evidently for the purpose of
participating in the feast.    Without any sign of un
certainty or hesitation they moved straight forward
toward the anticipated meal, and the worm was soon
covered   with these predatory mollusks.     The fate of
the contested prey seemed definitively settled, when
a small Shore Crab (Carcinus Manas), issuing from
underneath a stone, soon put to flight the shrimps,
and, hy dragging    off the Arenicola, very nearly upset
all the Turbos, who forthwith retreated gladly to their
sandy haunts.     Then, however, a large edible Crab
(Cancer Pagurus) appeared upon the scene, and the
poor little Mamas was obliged in his turn to beat a
retreat, in order to escape out of the reach of the
formidable pincers of his stronger kinsman.      Still he
kept a watchful eye over the dainty morsel which he
had once tasted, and taking advantage of a moment
when the larger crab was withdrawing from the field
from some temporary emotion of alarm, he rapidly
seized the long-disputed Arenicola and carried it for
safety to some distance from the water's edge, where
he might devour it at his ease upon dry ground, and
thus put an end to the combat.
                                           Q.2

340           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                 CHAPTER XXXVI.
                       CRUSTACEA.
WE should certainly hesitate before advising a friend
possessed of a vivarium well stored with the more
delicate offspring of the sea, to introduce Crabs and
Lobsters   among its inmates, the former more espe
cially; indeed we should almost as soon think of
permitting the grunting tenantry of our pig-sty to
disport themselves upon a bed of tulips    ; nevertheless,
in  a  capacious tank, associated with well-selected
companions, small specimens of these somewhat un
ceremonious shell-fish, as they are generally called,
will be found by no means devoid of interest, and,
from many remarkable circumstances connected with
their history, will abundantly repay the little care
that is requiste for their preservation.
   The Crustacea generally are carnivorous, testifying
the same disposition which characterizes other carni
vorous animals.    They are fierce, cruel and rapacious,
devouring alive whatever creatures they can over
power, and not even sparing their own species.        The
voracity of many is excessive ; indeed they only cease
to feed from repletion.    Their choice is almost indif
ferent, provided animal matter can be obtained.
This, although half, or entirely putrid, is not rejected ;

              HABITS OF THE CRAB TRIBES.             341
even some marine vegetables arc consumed      in periods
of famine, by these insatiable gormandizers. They
are, moreover, very patient of abstinence, that is,
when no food is to be obtained, insomuch that we
have occasionally received    living specimens of land
crabs from the West Indies which not only survived
the passage, but lived for some time after their arrival,
without the slightest nutriment.
   The habits of the Crab tribes, as might be well
supposed, are exceedingly variable : some, essentially
swimmers, are only met with in the open sea ; others
live near the shore, but never come out of their native
element ; others again seem to like the air upon the
beach almost as much as the water, and may be . fre
quently found hiding themselves under stones ; lastly,
there are some species which make for themselves a
subterranean retreat by digging, or rather scratching,
themselves into the sand, where they remain secure
from observation.
   Neither are they all inhabitants of the sea-shore,
at least in the mature stages of their existence.    The
land-crabs of the West Indies take up their abode
amid mountain fastnesses in the interior of the coun
try, living in burrows like rabbits, and only visiting
the coast at certain seasons, when, as we shall soon
perceive, owing to the exigencies of their newly-
hatched progeny, it is essential that their eggs should
be consigned to the sea.     We   have said above, that
they are all carnivorous in their appetites, yet even
this would seem in one or two instances to admit of
exception.
   Mr. Darwin gives an interesting account of     a crab,

 343           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 very common in all parts of the Polynesian islands,
 which lives on cocoa-nuts, and which grows to a
 monstrous size.     This vegetarian crab has its fore
 pair of legs terminated by very strong and heavy
 pincers, and the last pair by others of like structure,
 which are comparatively narrow and weak.            " It
would at first be thought quite impossible for a crab
to open a strong cocoa-nut, covered with the husk,
but Mr. Liesk assures me he has repeatedly seen the
operation effected.     The crab begins by tearing the
husk fibre by fibre, and always at that end under
which the three eye-holes are situated ; when this is
accomplished, the animal commences hammering with
its heavy claws on one of these holes till an opening
is made ; then, turning round its body, by the aid of
 its posterior and narrow pair of pincers, it extracts
 the white albumenous substance of the nut.       I think
 this as curious a case of instinct as ever was heard
of, and likewise    of adaptation of structure between
two objects apparently so remote from each other in
the scheme of nature as a crab and a cocoa-nut-tree.
This crab is diurnal in its habits, but every night it
 is said to pay a visit to the sea, no doubt for the pur
pose of moistening its branchiae.        The young are
likewise hatched and live for some time on the coast.
These crabs inhabit deep burrows, which they exca
vate beneath the roots of trees ; and here they accu
mulate surprising quantities of the picked fibres of
the cocoa-nut husk, on which they rest as on a bed.
The Malays sometimes take advantage of their labour
by collecting   the coarse fibrous substance and using
it  as junk."

                THE COCOA-NUT EATER.              343
   We have nothing to do, however, with cases so
exceptional as the above : the occupants of our own
coasts are very similar to each other, both in their
structure and general oeconomy ; and as the species
are few, the aquariist is not likely to be much embar
rassed in his selection.

344.            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                    CHAPTER XXXVII.
                                 '•
         CARCINUS M.ENAS
   " There is no danger to profound these mysteries — no sanctum
sanctorum in philosophy ; the world was made to be inhabited
by beasts, but studied and contemplated by man : 'tis the debt
of our reason we owe unto God, and the homage we pay for not
being beasts : without this the world is still as though it had
not been, or as  it was before the sixth day, when   as yet there
was not a creature that could conceive or say there was a world.
The wisdom of God receives small honour from those vulgar
heads that rudely stare about, and with a gross rusticity admire
his works : those highly magnify him, whose judicious enquiry
into his acts, and deliberate research into his creatures, return
the duty of a devout and learned observation."
A    SMALL     green   Crab,    running actively over the
rocks and sands during the recess of the tide, cannot
have escaped the notice of visitors to the sea-beach ;
and as it is one, from its size and abundance, equally
convenient for experiment and observation, we shall
review its history at some length.
    The ShoreCrab(Pl.VII. fig. 4), like all its congeners,
is provided with ten limbs, viz. two claws and eight
locomotive legs.      In all the tribe the claws differ from
the legs, being much larger and stronger. They have
several important parts to perform : first in holding the
fdoo, tearing it asunder, and carrying it to the mouth ;

                HABITS OF THE SHORE CRAB.             345
 they are likewise the organs of defence and the in
 struments of offence.      The other limbs, disposed in
 pairs, are adapted for running, and resemble each
 other, only those of the hind pair are fringed and
 slightly flattened. The claws, however, are the main
and most important       weapons,     armed with forceps,
whose office may be compared to the hands of man
kind, and the paws of other animals ; they possess
remarkable strength in proportion to their dimen
sions.     The motions of the little crab under consider
ation are lively, quick, and active, but it does not
swim : none of our native species is so thoroughly
littoral in its habits, — the shore is almost as much the
place of its abode as the sea.        Wherever rock and
weeds and sand abound        it is commonly present, ever
seeking shelter in the fissures, or under the shelves,
so that its body may be protected by some covering.
    The Carcinus Manas feeds voraciously ; the most
convenient food for it is the common mussel, which
may be kept fresh a long time — though that seems
no great recommendation, seeing that this creature is
not nice in the quality of its sustenance : it is one of
Nature's scavengers, and feeds as promiscuously as
any of them, whether the substance be fresh or putrid
— fish or flesh — living or dead. Should a mussel or
other bivalve be opened, and the half given to one of
these little captives, it is not a little amusing to see
how gravely it holds the valve in one claw, and with
the other picks out the contents, conveying each
morsel to its mouth, just as people employ their hands,
until the shell is emptied as cleanly as if cleansed
artificially.
                                            Q5

346              THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
     There is indeed something irresistibly comical in the
imperturbable demeanour of these hard-visaged ma
rauders — nothing can make them laugh — no amount
of mischief done, or agony inflicted, for a moment
 alters the grim, stolid countenance with which they
 sit,
          " Chattering their iron teeth, and staring wide
            With stony eyes,"
 amid the havoc they have caused.               A monkey in a
 lady's boudoir, or a bull in a china-shop, could
 scarcely prove less eligible inmates than these scram
 bling tyrants of the well-stored tank.            Let the aqua-
 riist, therefore, keep them carefully aloof from any
 specimens of damageable nature.              Nevertheless, the
 study of their habits is by no means devoid of interest ;
 and, under proper treatment, even these creatures
 have been looked upon as pets, and regarded as
                                                          " little
 dumb       companions,     having      always    something     to
  impart."
      One of the most remarkable phenomena connected
  with the history of these Crustaceans is the periodical
  exuviation     or change of shell         to which    they are
  subject, — a change, the necessity for which must be
  obvious when we consider the dense, unyielding nature
  of the stony armour in which their bodies are encased.
  That they must get rid of their old suit of mail when
   it becomes too small for their increasing size is evident
   enough ; but how this is to be accomplished is a
   problem, the solution of which presents so many
   difficulties, apparently insurmountable by any natural
   process, that nothing short      of actual observation would
   warrant a belief in its being able to achieve a feat

              HOW    EXUVIATION IS ACCOMPLISHED.               347
which might well be considered impossible.                To say
that the creature casts its skin, as a life-guardsman
would lay aside his cuirass and draw off his jack
boots, is easy enough ; but how this is to be done
with such      a cuirass, such legs, and such boots, is by
no means of facile explanation. And yet, even under
these difficulties,
         " Eternal Providence, exceeding thought,
            Where none appears, can make herself   a way."
   The mode adopted by Nature appears to be                     as
follows    : —
   At   certain seasons of the year all the limbs are full
of flesh ; but when the time approaches for changing
the shell, the muscles, contrary to the opinion of the
ancients*, become flabby, watery, aud, in the eatable
crab, unfit for food. A soft integument is formed,
    • " Cum vires norant    se disrumpentes amictus,
        Aflectant epulas et pascua beta requirunt.
        Ut saturo faciles disrumpant corpore crustas
        Labitur   e toto cum ruptum corpore legmen,
        Hi   primum in fulva nunquam laetantur arena,
        Nee pastum capiunt, nee quicquam mente revolvunt,
        Expectant mortem, vitales ore calores
        Non spirant, tenui formidant omnia pelle ;
        Sunt timidi donee firmentur tegmina membris.
        Ac veluti medicus languentem corpore curat,
        Atque velut primis epulas gustare diebus
        Attenuans calidaa morboso in corpore vires
        Paulatim preebens epulas, quaa languida membra
        Instaurant, donee tanto sint membra dolore
        Purgata et vires restent in corpore firmae ;
        Sic crustis nuper natis sua membra Paguri
        Curant, lethiferum cupientes pellere fatum."
                                         Oppian a Lippio cers.

348             THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
intervening between the old shell and the body of the
animal, and then the subsisting shell opening hori
zontally between the hind pairs of legs allows the con
fined crab to escape, clothed in its new integuments.
   To follow the course of this remarkable process is
extremely interesting, and will be witnessed, at least
on the first time of its occurrence, with great surprise.
   "I   had preserved," says Sir J. Dalyell, "a middle-
sized specimen     of the Cancer (Cartinus) Mamas for
several months, which had become very tame and
familiar.    The heat of a sultry summer's day induced
me to put it outside the window of my study in a
capacious vessel of sea-water, where it remained during
the night. Next morning, when thinking little of the
matter, a crab, lying on its back in the tank, struck
my view, and beside it stood one of larger dimensions,
its very image.     I  hastily concluded that a stranger
had been introduced ; but, no — exuviation had taken
place  during the night.      The latter was the animal,
clothed in its new garb, and close beside it lay its
former self, now an empty shell."
   The old shell is always found apparently quite
entire — all the accessories and minutest parts in their
places — bristles, antennae,   eyes, all exactly resemble
the living and emancipated crab. And yet, when we
consider the amazing complexity of structure pre
sented     by the individual portions of the cast-off
skeleton, the joints and levers of the various limbs,
the numerous jaws, the stony teeth, the innumerable
facets of the compound eyes, and reflect upon the
difficulties attending the reconstruction of organs so
admirable     and so delicate, few natural    phenomena

                    METAMORPHOSIS.                  349
can be regarded as more wonderful than the exuvia
tion of one of these creatures.
   Another important point connected with the history
of these Crustaceans is the metamorphosis, which re
cent observations prove them to undergo, preparatory
to their assumption of the adult form.        Nothing,
indeed, can be more dissimilar     than the appearance
presented by the young crab on first escaping from
the egg, and that which, after a few moultings, it
subsequently presents ; and few subjects of micro
scopical research are more interesting to the inquiring
naturalist than the succession of forms by which this
change is progressively effected.
   Mr. Couch procured    some  of the Shore Crab (Car-
cinus Manas) laden with ripe eggs, just ready for
hatching.   These were transferred to captivity, placed
in separate basins, and supplied with sea-water. In
about six hours large numbers of strange-looking
animals   were seen    swimming about with all the
activity of young life. There could be little doubt
that these creatures were the young of the captive
inmates.    In  order, however, to secure accuracy of
result,  one of the crabs was removed to another
vessel, and supplied  with filtered water, that all in
truders might be removed ; but in about half an hour
the same creatures were observed swimming about as
before.   To render the matter still more certain,
some of the ova were opened, and the embryo ex
tracted;  but shortly afterwards Mr. Couch had the
pleasure of witnessing beneath the microscope the
natural bursting and escape of one precisely similar
in form to those found     so abundantly  in the water.

350             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
Thus, then, there is no doubt that these grotesque-
looking novelties are the young of the Carrimt*
Manas; but how different they          are from the adult
need  hardly be pointed out any further than by refer
ring to the figure (PI. VII. fig. 4, a). When they first
escape, they rarely exceed half a line in length ; and
yet these minute creatures, in this early state of their
existence,   are  natatory    and wonderfully vivacious.
They are continually swimming from one part of the
vessel to another ; and when observed free in their
native pools, are, if possible, even more active than
when in confinement.      Their swimming is produced by
continued flexions and extensions of the tail, and by
repeated beating motions of their claws ; this, toge
ther with their grotesque-looking shape, gives them
a most extraordinary     appearance   when under exami
nation.    As the shell becomes more solid, they get
less active, and retire to the sand at the bottom of the
vessel to cast their shells and acquire a new form.
They are exceedingly delicate, and require great care
and attention to convey them through the first stage ;
for, unless the water be supplied very frequently, and
in great abundance, they soon die.
   The second phasis of transmutation (PI. VII. fig. 4, b)
is equally remarkable with the first, and quite as
distinct from the adult animal.        In  the species now
under consideration,     this  second   transformation is
marked by the disappearance of the dorsal spine. The
shield becomes flatter and more depressed. The eyes,
from being sessile, are now elevated upon footstalks.
The claws undergo an entire revolution ; the first
pair becomes stouter than the others, and armed with

                   PREPARATORY    STATES.              351
a  pair of strong nippers ; the tail is greatly diminished
in its relative size and proportions, and is sometimes
partially bent under the body, but more commonly
it is extended.    This form is as natatory as the first,
and the animals in the state described are frequently
found congregating around floating sea-weed, the
buoys and strings of the crab-pot marks, and other
floating substances   both near the shore and in deep
water.
    The   final change   confers upon the animal        the
 general form of the perfect crab (PI. VII. fig. 4), and
 its natatory habits, in conformity with the changed
 condition of its limbs, are entirely laid aside.

352             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                  CHAPTER XXXVIII.
         CANCER PAGURUS
                                 " THE EDIBLE CRAB."
   " On the other side in one consort there sate
     Cruell Revenge, and rancorous Despight,
     Disloyal Treason, and hart-burning Hate ;
     While gnawing Jealousy, out of their sight
     Sitting alone, his bitter lips did bight ;
     And trembling Feare still to and fro did fly,
     And found no place where safe he shroud him might."
MOST of our readers have, doubtless, seen some of the
numerous     " happy    families   "  exhibited in the streets
of London, consisting of most incongruous assort
ments of the animal creation, all huddled together in
the same gigantic cage, and all looking as miserable
and woe-begone as happy families could easily do under
any circumstances, and yet we suspect the lot of these
poor prisoners to be comparatively enviable when
compared with that of the occupants of a tank into
which we recently introduced half a dozen specimens
of the common Crab whose name is at the head of
this chapter.      Spenser, when he penned the lines we
have    adopted    as the appropriate introduction        to a
brief history of their proceedings, might almost be
supposed to have been describing them from the life,

                      A HAPPY   FAMILY.                353
and with inimitable accuracy sketched off the striking
picture they presented.       We had indeed ourselves no
idea, when we consigned them to the same vessel,
what a set of remorseless villains we had to deal with,
and much question whether our reformatory prisons
could show such an example of appropriate classifica
tion.   They were of different sizes, their dimensions
progressively increasing in a regular ratio, the biggest
being about as large as an ordinary saucer, and seemed
each of them at once to be aware of the tender mercies
he  might expect from his companions, although such
a presentiment,   if it existed, apparently interfered not
a  bit with his premeditated designs upon the rest.
The game was not long in beginning : the first that
ventured out was seized upon at once by the next in
size, who, laying hold of his victim as though he had
been a biscuit, with one pair of pincers, proceeded
deliberately to break up his shell with the other,
helping himself to the flesh by means of his finger
and thumb with as much deliberation and gusto as if
he had been   taking snuff from a snuff-box, and appa
rently caring little for the hungry eyes that seemed
to glare with savage delight upon the atrocious spec
tacle. The Crab had, however, not very long enjoyed
his cannibal feast before his proceedings were, as we
thought, very unceremoniously interrupted by the
onslaught of a stronger foe, which, seizing him exactly
as he had done the first, proceeded to break him up
in a similar manner, helping himself with the utmost
sang  froid to the flesh of his already well-fed victim  ;
while the latter, strange to say, by no means desisted
from his meal upon the crab first slaughtered until

354             THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
quite disabled by his ruthless assailant, — affording a
remarkable illustration of the absence of suffering
during the infliction of the well-deserved penalty.
    On the morning following this tragical exhibition
we were not at all surprised to find, that out of the
six captures of the preceding day, only the two largest,
which in strength and size were pretty nearly matched,
remained alive in the tank, at the two opposite ends
of which they sat, each scowling at the other with
such looks of undissembled malice, that it seemed an
act of pity to disturb their truculent meditations ;
and, truth to say, all pity for such demons in crusta
cean guise appeared a maudlin piece           of sentimentality
quite inappropriate and thrown away; we therefore
let them fight it out as best they could ; and certainly
no trumpet-sound was wanted to incite the doughty
combatants to a battle, as fierce as ever was chroni
 cled in the pages of romance : —
      " As when two rams, stirr'd with ambitious pride,
        Fight for the rule of the rich-fleeced flock,
        Their horned fronts, so fierce on either side,
        Do meet, that, with the terror of the shock
        Astonied, both stand senseless as a block,
        Forgetful of the hanging victory,
        Both staring fierce."
    Their powers, however, seemed pretty equal, and it
 was only upon a subsequent occasion that one of them
 was found immolated and devoured by his inveterate
 antagonist, whose appetite, like that of the Dragon of
 Wantley*, was by no means particular.
     • " The Dragon of Wantley churches ate—
            (He used to come on a Sunday) —

                     DESPERATE ENCOUNTER.                355
    It must not be supposed, however, that the contests
between these vicious animals are in any way conducted
after the courtly principles of chivalry, or that an honest
tilting-match is the extent of their passages of arms ;
they are not always content with butting against each
other, as described in the preceding quotation; on
the contrary, nothing can exceed the savage, blind
ferocity with which they sometimes ply the work of
battle, as if hatred, and revenge, and fiend-like cruelty
prompted their fierce encounter; this the mangled
claws and limbs wrenched off soon testify, so that the
spectator naturally beholds them with a shudder, and
of course supposes creatures thus crippled, maimed at
least for life.    Not a bit of it : the loss of a few legs
to these wretches appears to be a very trifling acci
dent, and, strange to say, is very speedily repaired      : —
         " Him they diamember'd often, and not slew ;
           Nor he, because dismember'd, ever dies,
           For he remodels leg or hand like wax *;"—
and in a short time presents himself with a new set
of limbs, quite as complete and efficient as their pre
decessors.
         Whole congregations were to him
            A dish of Salmagundi;
         The corporation worshipful
            He valued not an ace,
         But swallow'd the mayor, asleep in his chair,
            And pick'd his teeth with the mace."
    * " Piu volte 1' hanno smembrato  e non mai uccidea,
        Ne per smembrarlo uccider si potea,
        Ch6 se tagliato o mano o gamba gli era,
        La rappiccava che parea di cera."

356           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
   Scarcely more wonderful is the scene recounted
in 'Orlando Purioso/ relative to the fight between
Orillo, the necromancer, and the English duke, than
the phenomenon which nature in this case presents
us with in real sober earnest, although perhaps some
of our readers may have imagined that in writing the
lines alluded to, Ariosto had transgressed the licence
even of romance : —
      "About the field Grillo's members flew,
       Hut he together gathers them ngaine,
       And straight his fight and forces doth renew ;
       The English Duke dismembering him in vaine       :
       Until at length one blow so luckio sped,
       That by his shoulders he cut off his head."
      " And having headed him   so even and so   just,
       Straight with his head on horseback he doth mount,
       And rides away. Orillo in the dust
       Doth grope to find the same, as he was wont ;
       But missing  it,and full of new mistrust,
       To overtake him yet he makes account     ;
       He rides, and would have cried, Ho tarrie tame
                                           !        !       !
       But in his hand the Duke his tongue did carrie."
         Combat bettcecn Astolfo and Orillo — Orlando Flmoao.
  And now once more to revert to the stern facts of
natural history, as recorded by Sir John Dalyell.
  Individuals of the common Crab, when kept alone,
become very tame   whence, says Sir John, for long
                   ;                                    a
time
   I    was induced to think them of an extremely
pacific nature but four small ones having been com
              ;
mitted to the same vessel,  was soon undeceived by
                             I
discovering that one had been devoured by com           a
panion.   On the same day found the smallest of
                               I

              REPRODUCTION OF LOST LIMBS.              357
the survivors in the fangs of the largest, nor could     I
rescue it without the loss of several of its limbs.
   This unfortunate creature being shifted into another
vessel, immediately began to feed on some portions
of mussel with as much gusto       as if nothing  had hap
pened;     nevertheless it proved to have undergone
extraordinary mutilation ; seven of its ten legs were
actually gone, for only the two claws and the posterior
right limb remained; these, however, were entire,
and   the next day the animal seemed quite hearty.
Ninety-four days after this mutilation the victim cast
its shell, when, wonderful   to relate   ! the whole com
plement of ten limbs was found again complete ; those
corresponding to the seven which had been deficient
being somewhat under the natural size, but in all
other respects as perfect and efficient as their prede
cessors.
   The Edible Crab inhabits the whole of our coasts,
preferring those parts which are rocky, and its usual
retreats are amongst the holes in the rocks, whither
it generally retires, and is often to be taken in such
situations when the tide has retreated sufficiently to
render the localities accessible.     Specimens so found
are, however, always small     individuals,    rarely more
than three inches in breadth   ;  the larger ones remain
farther out at sea, in deep water; they also bury
themselves in the sand, but always in the immediate
neighbourhood of their lurking-places.
   The food of this species, like that of most other
Crustacea, consists principally of animal matter, such
as dead fish and the like ; and it is exceedingly pro
bable that the Crabs discover their prey rather by a

 358            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 sense analogous to that   of smell than by sight. Thus
 they detect a halt which is often placed in such situa
 tions that it cannot be seen by them at any distance,
 and which generally consists of pieces of fish in which
 decomposition has already commenced.
    The fishery for these Crabs constitutes an important
 trade on many parts of the coast.         The numbers
 which are taken arc immense ; and as the occupation
 of procuring them is principally carried on by persons
who are past the more laborious and dangerous pur
suit of general fishing, it affords a means of sub
sistence to many a poor man, who, from age or in
firmity, would be unable without it to keep himself
and his family from the workhouse.        They are taken
in what are termed    " Crab-pots," a sort of wicker trap,
made by preference of the twigs of the Golden Willow
 (Salix vitellina), on account of its great durability
and toughness. These " pots" are constructed on the
principle of a common wire mouse-trap, but with the
entrance at the top.     They are baited with pieces of
fish, generally of some otherwise useless kind, and
these are fixed into the pots by means of a skewer.
The pots are then sunk by stones attached to the
bottom, and the situation where they are dropped is
indicated, and the means of raising them provided
for, by a long line, having a piece of cork attached to
the free end, which, floating on the sea, indicates the
position of the trap.


                           PLATE VII.
                                                                 Page
Fig. 1. PAGUBUS BEBNHABDTO                                       359
Fig. 2. PAL^MON      SEBBATUS                                    365
Fig. 3. MAIA    SQTONADO                                         382
           The smaller figures exhibit its larva condi
        tion (not specially described in the text).
Fig. 4. CABCINUS M^NAS.         a, b. Successive   forms of its
            metamorphosis                                         346
Fig. 5. BALANTIS.      a. Male.     b. Larva                      393
Fig. 6. LEPAS.      a, b. Stages  of its metamorphosis       . .  395
Fig. 7. LAOFNCULA BEPENS                                          412
Fig. 8. FLUSTBA HISPIDA                                           422
Fig. 9. ALCTONIDIUJI      OELATHTOSUM                             427
Fig. 10.   BUGXTLA AVICTTLABIA
            The    throe    smaller    figures   exhibit   the
         " Bird's-heads " in different      states   of expan
         sion                                                     437

PLATE VII

                    PAGURUS BERNHARDUS.                      359
                    CHAPTER XXXIX.
        PAGURUS BERNHARDUS           " HERMIT    CRAB."
        " But in the porch doth evermore abide
          An hideous giant, awful to behold,
          That stops the entrance with his Spacious stride,
          And with the terror of hia countenance bold
          Full many doth alfray."
IT is curious to     observe the strange alliances by which
animals of most opposite habits, and evidently remote
from each other in zoological resemblance, are some
times associated, the necessities of the one being pro
vided for in an extraordinary manner by some pecu
liarity in the structure or general (Economy of the
other, without which the existence of a creature so
constituted would be impossible.
   The PAGURUS BERNHARDUS,               or  HERMIT         CRAB
(PI.  VII. fig. 1), is a crustacean whose appearance must
be familiar to every one frequenting the sea-shore.
If it  is not, the reader has only to take advantage of
a low tide upon some shelving beach in order to gratify
his curiosity.     In such situations he will doubtless be
puzzled at beholding a number of turbinated shells
traversing the sands in all directions, as if of their
own accord, but after a fashion evidently widely dif
ferent from what would be followed by the proper

360            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
owners of the tenements.     Some of these shells are of
small dimensions, others much larger, all seeming to
be  wandering about after their individual pursuits,
though not apparently guided by any common impulse.
If the progress of these peripatetic shells be inter
rupted, they at once stand still, and then each of
them is found upon examination to be the residence
of a Hermit Crab.
   To comprehend the shape of this animal, it is neces
sary to deprive it of its habitation. It is then seen to
be formed of two distinct portions, — the head and a
good portion of the body being covered with shell,
like the fore part of a lobster ; whilst the hinder, or
tail portion, is bare, soft, and devoid of any solid pro
tection ; so that, in order to defend its nether regions,
the creature is obliged to have recourse to the strange
expedient of making an extempore sentry-box of any
shells that, from their size and shape, may be adapted
to such a purpose, and which the occupants are com
pelled to drag about with them on all occasions.
     It
    is still a question undecided whether the Hermit
Crab always selects for its habitation a shell already
empty, or whether it does not sometimes actually
kill and devour the original inhabitant   before   taking
possession   of its outraged abode, and thus add murder
to piracy.
   The fishermen on the coast state its •proceedings
for securing the ejection of the lawful tenant to be
summary enough : the aggressor seizes his victim —
the whelk for instance — immediately behind the head,
and, after thus killing or disabling    it,
                                        at once pro
ceeds to eat   it   out of house and home, and then to

              STRUCTURE OF THE HERMIT CRAB.              361
 appropriate    its vacant residence,       affording thus   a
 striking illustration of
           " The  abort, the simple plan,
        That they shall take who have the power,
             And they shall keep who can."
    When feeding or walking about, the head and
thorax of the Hermit Crab project beyond the mouth
 of the shell ; but when they are alarmed, they draw
 themselves in, closing the aperture of their domicile
with one of their claws, which is much larger than the
 other.   They hold on so firmly to their retreat, that
 they will rather be torn asunder than quit their attach
ment ; nevertheless, as they increase in size, they are
obliged to change their habitation for a more commo
dious one, and the way in which they do this is very
amusing.       They may, on such occasions, be fre
quently observed crawling along a line of empty
shells left by the last wave ; and, as if unwilling to
part with their old domicile till a new one has been
obtained, they slip their tails out of the old house into
the new one, speedily again betaking themselves to
the former, if the latter is not found suitable.           In
this manner they not unfrequently try a great number
of shells before they find one to their liking, and
combat fiercely for the possession of a promising
lodging.
   It will  readily be supposed that, in order to adapt
these shell-frequenting anchorites to occupy a domicile
so foreign to the usual habits of their class, corre
sponding modifications in the structure of the animals
will be rendered necessary          ;  accordingly the pecu

 362            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 liarities of their form, and the wonderful adaptation of
 all the limbs to a residence in such a dwelling, cannot
 fail to strike the most incurious observer.    The chelae
 or large claws are proportionately strong and massive,
 armed with blunt tuberculated teeth, and sufficiently
 formidable in their aspect to render our advice to
young ladies not to put their fingers within the reach
of such    a  tenacious pair of pincers, probably super
fluous.    It will be observed, moreover, that these
claws differ remarkably in size, one being exceedingly
small as compared with its fellow, — a provision, the
wisdom of which becomes at once apparent when the
animal retreats into its citadel.    Had the two chelae
been    of equal dimensions, and both of them as large
as the biggest of them, it is evident that they could
never have been retracted within the orifice of the
shelly residence ; whereas, by the plan adopted, when
the animal retires into its concealment, the smaller
one     may be entirely withdrawn, while the larger
closes and guards the orifice.
    The two succeeding pairs of legs, which alone are
used for walking, and are consequently       of great size
and strength, unlike the corresponding pairs of the
Lobster, which are terminated by pincers, end in
strong pointed levers, whereby the animal can not
only crawl along, but drag after it its heavy habita
tion; both which operations are effected with such
vigour and energy, that we warn our friends, that they
might as well set a pair of horses dragging a plough
behind them to promenade their choicest parterres,
as to allow one of these creatures to roam about in a
delicately-stocked aquarium     : their path is marked —

           ORDINARY     HABITS OF HERMIT CRAB.              363
       " As when the fierce south wind, or bleaker north,
         Has burst into the thickest of a wood,
        And rushing on, to force a passage forth,
        Behind him leaves a prostrate forest strew'd,
        And drives before him with a madman's mirth
        The foliage flying."
  As surely     as the evening comes, so surely do these
devastators  begin their gambols, till, with their pick
axe legs and harrowing shells, they have torn, raked
up, and mangled everything within. Truly it may
be said, that, where they have their way,
         " Ruin itself stands still for lack of work,
           And Desolation keeps unbroken sabbath."
   Behind the powerful locomotive legs are two feeble
pairs, barely strong enough to enable the Hermit
Crab to shift his position in his retreat ; and the false
feet attached to the abdomen are even still more
rudimentary in their development. But the most
singularly-altered portion of the skeleton is the fin of
the tail, which here becomes transformed into a kind
of holding-apparatus,by the aid whereof the crea
ture retains a firm grasp upon the interior of the
apex   of the shell forming his residence, and thus
carries it about without any difficulty.
  The Hermit Crab is lively and very voracious ; it
is,however, of    peaceful disposition, so that several
                  a
specimens may be placed in the same tank, where
they will live for    considerable time on terms of
                       a
apparent friendship; although, truth to say, their
amicable conduct       is   probably   rather   owing to the
impossibility of attacking their neighbours, except
upon the same terms as a dog attempts to draw                 a
                                                 B2

364            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
badger from the tub, defended      by his vice-like jaws
and formidable teeth.
   For the most part they     feed upon dead fish ; but
they are by no means particular, and eagerly devour
whatever garbage may be thrown on the shore by
the receding tide, and thus become important agents
in the grand police of Nature, assisting most mate
rially to cleanse our coasts,

                       PALuEMON    SERRATUS.                   365
                         CHAPTER XL.
     " Did not goodwife Keetch, the butcher's wife, come in
                                                              then,
 and call me gossip Quickly? coming in to borrow a mess
 of vinegar : telling us, she had a good dish of prawns ; whereby
 thou didst desire to eat some ; whereby    I told thee, they were
 ill for a green wound ?" — King Henry IV. Part 2.
 WE     are free to confess, that although we never had
the opportunity of luxuriating upon a dish of prawns
in conjunction with " a mess of vinegar," as asso
ciated in the preceding quotation, we are by no means
without a proper appreciation of the value of these
delicate edibles in an epicurean point of view, and
acknowledge at once that, whether employed for the
garniture of a turbot or a salmon, or in any other
manner made adjuncts to the ornamentation of the
dining-table, they always command our respectful
attention     ; nay, we will even go a step further, and
avow, that fresh shrimps are not without their attrac
tions in our eyes, whether as the appropriate accom
paniments of a sea-side breakfast, or in their more
doubtful character, as belonging to the tea-parties of
Greenwich, or of less classic Gravesend. We are not

366              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
sure that we will disallow our approval of shrimp-
sauce, indeed we fear we have admitted as much on
a  former occasion;         and as to potted-shrimps — ye
nymphs of Lancaster ! can we he so ungrateful as to
forget them ? No ! the proud forms of
                 " Gaunt'a embattled towers "
may vanish from our memory, but still the shrimps
of Morecamb Bay, embalmed by fairy fingers — Hold !
we must not dwell on such a theme.                  We are just
now above such gastronomic thoughts.
   We will suppose ourselves upon the silent shore at
evening's first approach, as the declining sun steals
gently towards the horizon, and the receding tide lays
bare the wave-worn beach            : —
           " Back  to its bed the ocean creeps,
             Clear as a mirror shine the deeps,
               One smile on sea and sky      ;
             All softly  breaks the rippling tide,
               Low   murmuring on the rocky land,
             And playful wavelets gently glide,
               As they approach the strand."
   And here, amid this labyrinth of tangled wrack
and weed-crowned stones, we wander on in search of
pretty things, such as the waves bequeathe us.             Let
us sit awhile upon this rock, beside the margin of the
quiet pool left in the hollow of its ample base : —
     " An elfin pool   so shelter'd,  that its rest
       No winds disturb ; the mirror of whose breast
       Is smooth as clear, save where, with dimples small,
       A fly may settle or a blossom fall."
  On looking down through its translucent waters, we

                                                                      367
perceive     it is not uninhabited by fairy forms,            scarcely
to be detected even by the eye of the keen naturalist,
so pure and crystalline their texture               is,
                                         so glass-like
and transparent,            now     gliding here and there like
delicate shadows, and anon darting away
            " Swift    as an arrow from the bow   of Love,"
to be lost within the shelter of their fastnesses.
  And are these beauteous-seeming visions Prawns
and Shrimps — the things they drown in melted butter
and prepare with spice      'Tis even so yet, who
                                    ?                     ;
would think creatures so frail as these were not as
evanescent        as   the icicle   ?
  Now let us watch them more attentively, and scan
awhile their exquisite construction, as they rove in
numerous companies around their lake, some basking
in the sun, disporting as at play amongst the coral
lines and fuci that wave round them, while the rest,
retired from observation, seek the shade,
                           "or   under rocks their food
                   In jointed armour wait."
  It   is   not, however, in their native haunts that we
can stndy them satisfactorily. Let us transfer few                a
of them to the tank, and there endeavour, under the
guidance of Mr. Warington, to become more inti
mately acquainted with the history of creatures so
remote in form from any we have yet encountered.
  Into       of Mr. Warington's aquaria, the contents
            one
of which consisted of Ulva latissima and Entero-
morpha, as the vegetable members of the circle and of         ;
several varieties of Actinia, Madrepora, Annelida, &c.,
to represent the animal section           ;   while the functions

368            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
of the scavengering mollusks were fulfilled by La.Uo-
rina, Trochus, and Purpura ; a few individuals of
the common Prawn (Palamon serratus) were intro
duced during the months of October and November.
They were fed every second or third day with small
pieces of either oyster, mussel, cockle, shrimp, and
the like ; or, when these could not be obtained, with
softened shreds of raw, lean meat, which had been
previously dried by exposure to the air, in order to
preserve it from putrefaction, and allow of its being
kept as a store of provision, capable of being had
recourse to as occasion might require.
   The manner in which these beautiful creatures take
their food, while foraging about the tank, is very in
teresting.    The first and second pairs of forceps-like
feet are cautiously and continuously thrust into every
cranny, as well as around and partially under the
pebbles and rockwork, and often into the tubes of
Serpulae    and Sabellae, or the shells   of the univalve
 ruollusks ; and these, if not protected by an operculum,
or some provision for closing the orifice of their tube
or shell, soon fall a prey to their attacks. When any
 thing edible is met with, it is rapidly seized by these
 prehensile feet and transferred to the jaws.
    The senses of touch and smell in the Pal&monida
 are exceedingly delicate, the latter appearing to reside
 most strongly in the antennae.       Thus, when a small
 particle of food has been dropped into the water and
 has sunk to the bottom, the moment the antennae        of
 the prawn in its movements pass across the column
 of water through which the food has fallen, the
 whole motion of the creature becomes changed in an

                   HABITS OF THE PRAWN.                369
 instant, and it darts rapidly here and there from the
 surface throughout the path of its transit until it is
 discovered ; and often, after it has been devoured, a
 second    prawn will, on reaching the same locality,
 gain the scent, and hunt over every spot in search of
 that which has been already removed, but which evi
 dently had left its odour behind.      It has very often
 occurred, that if some one of the Actiniae had been
 first fed, the prawn, on gaining the scent, has tracked
 the food to the Actinia and speedily rifled it of its
repast ; and in instances where the zoophyte had even
 transferred its meal by means of its tentacula into
its pouch, the prawn has redoubled its efforts, and
frequently dragged the savoury morsel out of its very
 stomach.     This operation it effects in a very sur
prising manner : the Palamon charges, without any
apparent fear, full on the extended disc of the Actinia,
the tentacula of which it- keeps in constant play by
means of its three pairs of unarmed feet, while at the
same time one of the second, or larger pair of pre
hensile feet, is thrust into the orifice of its maw, and
the food forcibly and quickly extracted. The only
chance the poor Actinia has of preventing this, and
securing its feast, appears to be by contracting the
whole of its tentacula together, so as to close entirely
all approach to its stomach.     The energy with which
this attack is effected depends very much upon the
keenness    of the prawn's appetite ; and in cases where
the Actinia is strong, and also very hungry, the con
flict is often severe, and the aggression is sometimes,
though rarely, successfully repelled.
    The first pair of didactylous, or forceps-like feet of
                                            R5

370            THE AQUARIAN      NATURALIST.
the prawn, are slender and most delicate in their
structure, and, when examined with a magnifying-
glass,   are found to be provided at      their extremities
with   a  brush-like appendage of short hairs standing
out at right angles to the claw. The power of motion
with which these legs are endued is really wonderful,
and their usefulness is applied in every conceivable
direction — around the eyes, and among the appa
rently complicated apparatus of mandibles, antennae
 and palpi, at the head, within or beneath the carapace,
 and for some distance between       it and the body, par
 ticularly when the period for moulting is approaching ;
 they are employed also for the cleansing of the abdo
 minal false-feet or swimming-webs, and the expanded
 lobes of the tail ; and the appearance of the prawn
 during the execution of this brushing or scrubbing
 process is grotesque in the extreme : the body is sup
 ported and raised high on the four pairs of legs, the
 abdominal part and tail being curved forward between
 them, so that the whole posterior division of the ani
 mal can be brought within the reach of the first pair
 of feet, and thus the necessary cleansing operation be
 readily effected.
    When in full swimming action, the appearance          of
 these beautifully    transparent crustaceans is most ele
 gant. The front feet are generally laid backward,
 and tucked under the body, like the fore-legs of the
 deer-tribe in the act of leaping.      The long and deli
 cate antennae     stream gracefully on each side of its
 body, and float for some distance beyond its entire
 length ; while its strong abdominal paddles propel it
 rapidly through the water. In the aquarium under

                      MODE OF EXUVIATION.              371
  consideration,    these delicate playmates were in the
  habit, on the summer evenings, of careering to and
  fro close to the glass-front of the case, presenting a
  most pleasing spectacle, and one which must be
  observed in order to be appreciated, as no descrip
  tion can convey an adequate idea of the interesting
  scene.
     It  is also a curious  and striking phenomenon to
 observe these creatures, by the aid of a lighted candle
 or lamp, in a dark room, during the night, in conse
 quence of the bright reflection of the luminous body
 from their prominent pedunculated eyes; for as the
 prawn does not retain a stationary position, but slowly
 roams about through the water and over the rock-
 work,     seeking for its food, it adds an increased in
 terest to its appearance to behold these small globes
 of bright light, like the bull's-eye signal-lamps of     a
 miniature railway-engine looming through the distance
 in a dark night, moving slowly along, the body of the
 creature being quite imperceptible, and nothing visible
 but these pairs of globular balls of fire shining from
 out the dark water.
     When the period arrives at which the prawn is
about to throw off its old external covering, it ceases
to feed, and seeks about from spot to spot in a restless
and fidgety manner until it has fixed upon a locality
sufficiently adapted for the purpose required, and
suited to its fancy; for this really appears to be some
times the case. The third, fourth and fifth pairs of
legs are then stretched out wide apart, and the feet
hooked on so as to hold firmly upon the surrounding
substances     in such a way that the body may be poised,

372            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
and capable    of moving freely in all directions,     as
though suspended on gimbals.
    The prawn then slowly sways itself to and fro, and
from side to side, with strong muscular efforts, appa
rently for the purpose of loosening the whole surface
of the body from the carapace    ;  the two pairs of pre
hensile or didactylous legs are at the same time kept
raised from the gnnmd — stretched forwards, and fre
quently passed over each other with a rubbing motion,
as if to destroy any remaining adhesion ; the eyes
also may be observed to be moved within their cover
ing, from side to side, by muscular contraction ; and
when every precaution appears to have been perfectly
taken for the withdrawal      of its body from its too
limited habiliments, a fissure is observed to take place
between the carapace and the abdomen, at the upper
and back part, and the head, antennae, legs, feet, and
all their appendages, are slowly and carefully drawn
backwards and out from the dorsal shield, until the
eyes are quite clear of the body-shell or carapace, and
appear above its margin ; the prawn, thus half re
leased, then makes a sudden backward spring or jerk,
and the whole of the exuvium is left behind, generally
adhering by the shell of the six feet to the surface it
had selected for its purpose.
    A moment's consideration       will develope  to the
contemplative mind, writes Mr. Warington, what a
truly wondrous process this act of exuviation really
is.   When we reflect on the small size of this crusta
cean, and the extreme delicacy and intricacy of all its
various organs, and then find that in this moulting,
the shell of the most minute and complicated of these

             ACQUIREMENT     OF NEW ARMOUB.            373
structures is thrown off in a complete and uninter
rupted state, even to the gauze-like membrane cover
ing the projecting andpedicled eye, the filamentous
antennae, the many-jointed legs, the delicate didac-
tylous hand, the paddled abdomen with its beautiful
appendages, the palpi, and all the minute spines and
microscopic hairs with which these various members
are provided — the human mind can hardly appreciate
the wonderful       wisdom of the Creative Power that
could have called into existence         so marvellous  an
adaptation.
     At the moment the prawn has been thus liberated
 from its old envelope, it rolls on the surface of the
 ground, perfectly helpless ; for it is at first evidently
 so soft, that it does not possess the power of support
 ing its own weight erect upon its feet, while the
 beautifully delicate antennae float from its head like
 gossamer-threads through the water.          In a short
 time, however, it plunges or springs by a strong mus
 cular exertion of its abdomen from place to place,
 stretches its webbed tail and the large paddles of its
 swimming       apparatus, and soon retreats into some
 dark and sheltered corner, where it remains, continu
  ally exercising its various organs, until such time as
  the new investing membrane shall have become suffi
  ciently hardened to allow of its venturing forth among
  its companions without danger ; for during all this
  interval it is liable to their attacks whenever it comes
  near them, and is obliged by a series of forcible leaps
  rapidly to evade their attempts and to keep out of
  their way.
     When the newly-coated Paltemon first makes its

 374            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 exit from its hiding-place, its appearance is doubly
 beautiful ; the colours are so clear and bright, particu
 larly the orange and rich brown bands which encircle
 the pale blue prehensile feet, the various markings
 are so defined, the small spines and fringes of hair
so clean and well-developed, and the deportment         of
the creature is altogether so bold and vain-glorious, as
though proud of its new vesture, that it cannot but
command the admiration it seems to seek.
    From the observations of Mr. Warington, it ap
pears   that the period intervening between the exu
viations of the prawn varies from twelve to twenty-
four days.      This variation may depend upon the
quantity of food taken by the respective individuals,
and also on the varying temperature of the aquarium.
If  the cast-skins be not removed from the water, the
prawns will devour all the smaller and softer parts, as
the legs, the palpi, and the false or swimming feet,
with great rapidity.
    For the benefit of such zoologists   as  may wish to
witness for themselves the hatching of the ova of the
Prawn, it may be observed, that the females, which
are vastly more numerous than the males, carry       their
ova attached in groups to the inner branch of the
subabdominal fins, and that these ova are at first of
an oval figure, a pale yellowish-brown colour, and
small size ; but as they increase in size, they become
more round, change to a dark brown, then to a red
dish brown, and gradually acquiring greater trans-
lucency, at length assume a pale flesh-colour, with
black eyes seen through their transparent covering.
Females arrived at this last stage of gestation, being

                    METAMORPHOSES.                375
kept in frequently renewed sea-water for a few days,
will enable the aquariist to observe the strange form
under which the progeny of these crustaceans first
make their appearance from the egg, and perhaps,
with care and attention, to trace their subsequent
metamorphoses, two phases of which we have figured
(PL  VII.  fig. 2).

 376             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                      CHAPTER XLI.
       PINNOTHERES        TALITRUS — COROPHIUM, ETC.
  " Pour'd from the neighbouring strand, defonn'd to view,
    They march — a sudden, unexpected crew !
    Strong suits of armour round their bodies close,
    Which, like thick anvils, blunt the force of blows :
    In wheeling marches fonn'd, oblique they go ;
    With harpy claws their limbs are arm'd below ;
    Fell shears the passage to their mouth command ;
    From out their flesh their bones by nature stand ;
   Broad spread their backs, their shining shoulders rise   ;
    Unnumber'd joints distort their lengthen'd thighs :
    With stony gloves their hands are firmly cased ;
   Their round black eyeballs in their bosom placed ;
   On eight long feet the wondrous warriors tread,
    And either end alike supplies a head.
    These, mortal wits to name as OHABS agree, —
   The Gods have other names for things than we."
                                       Battle of the Frogs, $r.
HAVING in the last chapters given a somewhat detailed
account of the principal facts connected with the
history of the larger and more interesting Crustacea
ordinarily met with upon our coasts, we shall proceed
to notice more discursively a few others of common
occurrence, selected from the long catalogue of our
native species    : —

                  PINNOTHERES      VETERUM.               377
             " Terrible things with terrible names ;
      Names that we all know by sight very well,
      But which no one can speak, and no one can spell."
   And first we will select the PINNOPHYLAX, or PIN
NOTHERES VETERUM, as at least affording an illustra
tion of the development of the bump of imaginative
ness upon the skulls of natural-historians.
   The history of this pretty little creature, the PEA-
CRAB of our vernacular nomenclature, has from re
mote antiquity been a puzzle. It seems always to be
found in the society of another animal, and that
apparently a most unlikely associate, namely the
Horse-mussel (Mytilus modiolus), insomuch that the
history of one is generally interwoven with that of
the other.     Mr. W. Thompson observes, that on the
coast  of Ireland he opened eighteen of these mussels,
and in them found no fewer than fourteen of the
Pinnotheres, all females ; and Mr. J. V. Thompson
remarks, that on any bank of old Modioli or Pinrue,
where these little crabs have been observed, almost
every shell  will  be found to contain at least one grown
female, some two, others three, independent          of young
ones and males occupying them in common with the
females. Neither is this peculiarity in their history by
any means a modern discovery; from the remotest anti
quity it has been a subject of admiration both to poets
and philosophers. The friendship of Damon and Py
thias has not been half so celebrated as that between
" Pinna   and her Cancer friend ;" neither has any zoo
logist, from Aristotle to Linnaeus, neglected to afford
a passing tribute of admiration to the matchless fidelity
of these strange lovers, the reality of which is      as much

378               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
a myth as the affection          of Petrarch for Laura, or the
loves of Eloisa and Abelard.          Let them, however,       speak
for themselves, and we will give Linnaeus the pas.
    "The Pinna or Sea- wing is contained in a two-
valved shell, weighing sometimes fifteen pounds, and
emits a beard of fine, long, glossy, silk-like fibres, by
which it is suspended to the rocks, twenty or thirty
feet beneath the surface         of the sea.      In  this situation
it  is so successfully attacked by the eight-footed Poly
pus, that the species perhaps could not exist but for
the exertions of the Cancer Pinnotheres, who lives in
the same shell, as a guard and companion *."
     " The Pinnotheres, or Pinnophylax, is a small crab,
but is furnished with good eyes, and lives in the same
shell with the Pinna.             When they want food, the
Pinna opens the shell and sends its faithful ally to
forage ; but if the Cancer sees the Polypus, he returns
 suddenly to the arms of his blind hostess, who by
 closing the shell avoids the fury of her enemy ; other
 wise, when     it has procured a booty,        it brings it to the
 opening of the shell, where it is admitted, and they
 divide the prey. This was observed by Haselquist
 in his voyage to Palestine f."
     Crabs, either of this kind or allied to them, the
 ancients believed to have been the voluntary inmates
 of the Pinna and other bivalve shells, which, being too
 stupid to perceive the approach of their prey, were
 warned of it by their vigilant friend.                Oppian, who
 calls the Crab invvo$v\a,%, tells the fable prettily : —
                                  p. 48. — Linnaeus,
     * '
         Amoen.  Acad.' vol. ii.                      'Syst. Naturae,'
 vol. i. pp. 1040 and 1159.
    t  Darwin (Dr.), 'Botanic Garden,' pp. 392, 393.

                   HABITS OF PINNOTHERES.                    379
       " In clouded                   Pinna hides,
                    deeps below, the
         And through the silent path obscurely glides  ;
         A stupid wretch, and void of thoughtful care,
         He forms no bait, nor lays a tempting snare.
         But the dull sluggard boasts a Crab his friend,
         Whose busy   eyes the coming prey attend.
         One room contains them, and the partners dwell
         Beneath the convex of one sloping shell ;
        Deep in the watery waste the comrades rove,
        And mutual interest binds their constant love    ;
        That wiser friend the lucky juncture tells,
        When in the circuit of his gaping shells,
        Fish, wandering, enter ; then the bearded guide
        Warns the dull mate, and pricks his tender side    ;
        He knows the hint, nor at the treatment grieves,
        But hugs the advantage and the pain forgives.
        His closing shells the Pinna sudden joins,
        And 'twixt the pressing sides his prey confines.
        Thus fed by mutual aid, the friendly pair
        Divide their gains, and all the plunder share."
                                              OPPIAN, Halieut.
    Whether the motives which             actuate the Pinno
 theres   are as  friendly as above represented, we con
 sider to be rather more than doubtful ; but it certainly
 does not appear that this animal rambles at large like
 others of its restless fraternity ; on the contrary, it is
 a constant inmate of some bivalve shell, dwelling
 there in peace along with its owner.
    The body of this elegant little crab is nearly cir
 cular, and not above half an inch in diameter; its
two    claws and eight locomotive limbs are rather
slender, and well-proportioned.             Two red eyes in
front are placed considerably apart, and scarcely pro
ject beyond the margin of the shell.             The colour of

380              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
the whole animal is a delicate red, or reddish cream-
colour.     The creature is very timid, inactive, and
extremely susceptible of atmospheric changes.             On
the slightest shock the limbs contract, and it will lay
supine and motionless, as if dead, or counterfeiting
death, for an extraordinary length of time. It feeds
readily upon mussel, and is easily kept in the aqua
rium, where specimens have been known to survive
fourteen months.          Perhaps some of our readers may
be enabled     to furnish a new episode in its poetical
history.     Poetical speculations, however, are very
dangerous examples to the student ; false facts are far
more dangerous in science than false theories ; neither
can  it ever be too deeply impressed upon the mind         of
the aspirant to zoological reputation, that
                   " those who greedily pursue
           Things wonderful instead of true ;
           That in their speculations choose
           To make discoveries strange news ;
           And natural history a gazette
           Of tales stupendous and far-fet ;
           Hold no truth worthy to be known,
           That is not huge and overgrown,
           And explicate appearances,
           Not as they are, but as they please ;
           In vain strive Nature to suborn,
           And for their pains are paid with scorn."
   It may, however, be just possible that the Pinno
theres is by no means so disinterested in her atten
tions to her bivalve landlady, and that the molluscous
owner of the house would have no objection to get
rid of her lodgers     ; for there are some crabs, as Oppian
tells us, that are very fond of oysters ; but being quite

                          SEA-SPIDERS.                    381
wise enough to appreciate the dangers attendant upon
helping themselves to the delicious meal, placed be
tween a pair of shells, as though to be the bait of a
live trap, in which they might be caught by the claws
like rats or mice, are obliged to be cautious : watch
ing, therefore, their opportunity, when the oyster
opens its shells to enjoy a little sunshine, the cun
ning crustacean just pops a stone between the two
valves, and then proceeds to pick out leisurely the
tempting morsels *. Perhaps the Pea-Crab is partial
to mussel, and once within the shell, luxuriates at
leisure on her favourite food.
   Passing on to the various other forms of Crusta
ceans everywhere to be met with on our coasts, the
naturalist    need    never want       employment,     or the
admirer of the grotesque and strange, subjects for
amusement.
   The SEA-SPIDERS, as they are not inappropriately
designated, present a remarkable group of singularly
constructed creatures, from among which many spe
cies, well adapted to the aquarium, may easily be
selected,  more especially as they are comparatively
of harmless disposition.         Their movements are slow
   * " Si quis in aequorea Cancrmn conspexerit alga,
       Laudibus extollet, tantam mirabitur artem.
       Conceasa ex alto solera prudentia Cancro,
       Cui parta eat dulcis magno sine praeda labors.
       Ostrea distendit testas et claustra recludit
       Portarum, pascitque lutum, scopulisque repanda
       Gliscit aquas, parvum madida de rupe lapillmu
       Obliquus tollit Cancer, chelisque recurvis
       Continet, in testis lapidem demittit apertis,
       Assidet, atque epulis Iaetus aaturatur amicis."

 382             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 and   unstable   ;  the weakness      of their claws renders
 them but little formidable to other occupants of the
 tank, and they live only upon the softest and most
 helpless kind of prey. The Maia squinado, the spe
 cies which, together     with its progeny, we have selected
 as an example of their general form (PI. VII. fig. 3),
 was of great reputation among the ancients, and is
figured on some of their medals. They attributed to it
 the possession of a great deal of wisdom, and believed
it to be sensible of the charms of music, with how
 much justice we will not pretend to say ; we never
saw it dance even to the all-inspiriting tune of Sir
 Roger de Coverley ; perhaps its habits are too demure
to permit of such hilarious levity.
    The Sea- Spiders live, for the most part, at con
siderable depths in the sea, where they hide them
selves amongst the sea-weed.            They are likewise fre
quently to be met with on oyster-beds.
    Aristophanes makes a crab say to a serpent which
he had seized in his claws, "Why don't you walk
straight forward, sir, as       I do ?" — a piece of fun, only
to be appreciated by those who have had an oppor
tunity of witnessing the singular obliquity with which
some of these creatures crawl on their long stilt-like
legs about the rockwork of their prison, —
           " Like   a tom-cat in a thievish vein,
             That round the walls doth slily creep,"
preserving all the while a gravity of demeanour so
imperturbable, that it is difficult to watch them with
out laughing at the oddity of their proceedings.
    We mention the ISOFOD and AMPHIFOD Crusta-

          ISOPOD AND AMPHIPOD     CRUSTACEANS.      383
ceans rather for the purpose    of warning the aquariist
against their destructive ravages than of recommend
ing them as objects fit for admission into his tanks,
except for the purpose of specially investigating their
own habits, some of which are sufficiently remarkable.
   Of these, myriads may be met with on turning
over any heap of sea- weed left upon the beach by the
receding tide —jumping about in all directions like
so many grasshoppers, and that with such activity,
that, out of hundreds which may be skipping about,
the collector will be lucky in catching two or three
individuals ; in fact, the capture of these creatures is
one of those exceptional pieces of business that can
only be done well when done in a hurry. The mode
in which these animals leap is curious. To execute
their active movements, they bend under the body
certain appendages belonging to their tails, and then,
suddenly letting them go like a spring, they are
thrown into the air by the jerk, just upon the prin
ciple of the
              " skip-jacks " with which children amuse
themselves.     When placed in the water, they swim
about by means of the contractions of their tail,
aided by the movements of their feet ; and some, in
consequence of the extreme compression of their
body, and the very strong curvature of the tail, are
obliged, when at rest, to remain continually couched
on one side.
   The Sand-hoppers live on animals smaller than
themselves, or on dead bodies cast on shore by the
waves;    they are themselves eagerly devoured by
aquatic birds, and form an excellent bait for taking
small fishes by the line. They carry their eggs under

384                 THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
the scales of the breast, and in this situation                  the
young ones remain until strong enough to provide for
themselves.
  The existence of             corresponding to that of
                           a sense
smell among the Sand-hoppers (although where such
a sense resides it is difficult to give any satisfactory
opinion)     may be inferred from the fact, that               if,   in
any locality frequented by these creatures, dead fish,
                                                  a
or any other dead animal, be buried under        heap      a
of stones,    it   is   sure to be found in the course of a
few days      devoured by hosts of these indefatigable
scavengers,    whose knowledge of the whereabouts of
such   abooty could only be derived from the effluvia
of putrefaction emanating therefrom.
  Among these littoral crustaceans,  very curious
                                              a
species, named the LONG-HORNED COROPHIUM, lives in
holes which   forms in the mud and against this we
               it                         ;
specially warn our readers.  It carries on perpetual
                                                  a
warfare against the Nereids, the Amphinomes, the
Arenicolae, and other marine Annelidans which make
their dwelling in the same localities.        There
                                            nothing   is
more curious than to see, at the rising of the tide,
myriads of these crustacea bestirring themselves in all
directions, striking the mud with their long arms,
and thinning      for the purpose of discovering their
                    it
prey.   When they find an unfortunate Annelide,
often ten or twenty times larger than themselves, they
unite in companies for the purpose of attacking and
devouring     it;
               nor do they give over their carnage
until they have smoothed and thoroughly searched
the mud and slime, and left   bare of all its gay in
                                     it
habitants.    The mussel-fishers even pretend that they

               TUBE-MAKING CRUSTACEANS.                385
 cut the threads whereby those shell-fish suspend
 themselves, so as to make them fall into the mud ;
 and that they then devour them.
    Not the least remarkable circumstance connected
 with the history of the Amphipods, is that some of
them construct tubes, somewhat after the manner of
the caddis-worms among insects.
    " Some years since,"  observes  Mr. Spence Bate, " I
had in a glass-case a few Amphipod Crustaceans in
sea- water, with a little weed.    After a short time, an
hour or two,   I was surprised to find that one   of these
small creatures had managed to bend a        portion of a
leaf of green Ulva upon itself, and cement the same
into   a tube-like case, in which it lived, putting out
its head and antennae only; — upon being disturbed
at one extremity, it would quickly turn within its
abode, and protrude its head at the other.      I thought
it curious at the time, but pursued the subject no
farther, until more recent and longer-extended oppor
tunities showed that the above was by no means an
isolated instance, but that a large and well-marked
group of these animals enjoy this power of construct
ing for themselves    temporary residences ; while an
other, equally distinguishable, dwell in abodes that
they have made by excavating channels in clay, mud,
or even wood."
   When engaged in prosecuting these observations,
Mr. Bate kept in a small tank several specimens of
Amphitoe rubricata dredged up at the east end of
                           " These varied in their ages,
Plymouth Breakwater.
from the very young to the well-advanced adult, all
of which, in the course of a short time, fabricated for
                                              s

386             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
themselves     nests formed partly of foreign materials,
and partly of a kind of silk secreted for the purpose ;
and during their construction a small area around
each    lair was swept clean, as if the animal had pro
cured all the disposable particles fit for the erection
of its residence." These little builders generally seek
out well-sheltered     crevices at the roots of sea- weeds,
or under stones and other objects that break the
wash of the waves, and there construct abodes for
themselves,    by scratching together any available sub
stance within reach, and uniting it into a mass by a
secretion which they elaborate.
   "  If  we take one   of these small nests, and place it
under a microscope, we find that it consists, inde
pendently of the collected material, of a quantity of
fine threads, closely woven and knit together, crossing
each other in the utmost confusion; and here and
there are seen loops formed by a single thread being
doubled and spirally twisted upon itself."
   Thus elegant are the contrivances whereby the
humblest creatures are defended      — thus  exquisite the
machinery employed, even beneath the silent water,
to secure the due accomplishment of the Creator's
will  !  and surely that mind must indeed be apathetic
that refuses to survey such beautiful arrangements —
that does not reap enjoyment and inexpressible grati
fication from such a scene.
   " The    cheerfulness of heart that springs up in us
from the study of Nature's works," says Addison,
" is an admirable preparation for gratitude. That
mind has gone a long way towards praise and thanks
giving     that is filled  with such a secret     gladness.

         A WORD IN FAVOUR OF NATURAL HISTORY.            387
Such an habitual disposition of thought consecrates
every field and wood, turns an ordinary walk into a
morning or evening sacrifice, and will improve those
transient gleams of joy which naturally brighten and
refresh the soul on such occasions into an inviolable
and   permanent state of happiness. When we find
ourselves inspired by this pleasing instinct, this satis
faction and complacency arising from the beauties of
Creation, let us consider to whom we stand indebted
for all these entertainments of sense, and who it is
that thus opens his hand and fills the world            with
good."
    We are therefore by no means disposed to permit
the shafts of raillery and ridicule to insult our
favourite science without remonstrance;          or to allow
that there is anything frivolous in a close and earnest
investigation of the works of the Almighty; we
rather exclaim with Cicero,      —
   " Cultus autem est optimus idemque castissimus atque sanc-
tissimus plenissimusque pietatis."
    Natural History is the appointed handmaiden of
Religion, enabling us, instead of merely assenting to
the existence of a Divine Providence, and recog
nizing in vague terms the fact of his beneficence, to
feel, and in some humble proportion to appreciate,
how closely and how carefully the well-being and
happiness of all creatures has been provided for — how
admirably they are severally adapted to their re
spective stations and employments, and how wonder
fully every part of their (Economy is made subser
vient to the general good.         This is the true spirit in
                                               s2

388           THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
which the aquariist ought to work, and this the end
and object of his science : —
        " Let it be hers a voice to raise,
          Like those bright hosts in yonder sphere,
          Who, while they move, their Maker praise,
          And lead around the wreathed year !"

                CIREIPEDES OR BARNACLES.                   389
                     CHAPTER XLII.
                CIRRIPEDES OR BARNACLES.
      " So slow Bootes underneath him sees,
        In the Icy Isles, those Goslins hatch'd of Trees ;
        Whose fruitful Leaves falling into the Water
        Are turn'd, they say, to living Fowls soon after :
        So rotten Sides of broken Ships do change
        To Barnacles : O Transformation strange !
        Twas first a green Tree, then a gallant Hull,
        Lately a Mushnun, then a flying Gull."
           " And from the most refined of Saints
             As naturally grow miscreants,
             As Barnacles turn Soland Geese,
             In the Islands of the Orcades."
THE account of the Barnacle given by the sage
Gerrard is a rich specimen of the natural history of
the sixteenth century.        Here it is : —
   " But what our eyes have seen and our hands have
touched we shall declare.         There is a small island in
                            '
Lancashire     called the     Pile of Foulders,' wherein    are
found the broken        pieces   of old and bruised ships,
some whereof have been cast thither by shipwracke,
and also the trunks and bodies with the branches of
old and rotten trees cast up there likewise, whereon
is found a certaine spume or froth that in time

 390            THE AQUARIAN      NATURALIST.
 breedeth into certaine shels, in shape like those of
 the muskle, but sharper pointed, and of a whitish
 colour, wherein is contained a thing in form like a
 piece  of silke, finely woven as it were together, of a
whitish colour ; one end whereof is fastened unto the
inside of the shell, even as the fish of oisters and
muskles are: the other end is made fast unto the
belly of a rude masse or lumpe, which in time
commeth to the shape and form of a bird : when it is
perfectly formed, the shell gapeth open, and the first
thing that appeareth is the foresaid lace or string :
next come the legs of the bird hanging out, and, as
it groweth greater, it openeth the shell by degrees,
till at length it is all come forth, and hangeth onely
by the bill : in short space after it commeth to full
maturitie, and falleth into the sea, where it gathereth
feathers, and groweth to a fowle bigger than a mallard,
and lesser than a goose, having blacke legs and          bill,
or beake, and feathers blacke and white spotted in
such a manner as our mag-pie, called in some places a
Pie-Annet, which the people of Lancashire call by no
other name than a tree goose, which place aforesaid,
and all those parts adjoining, do so much abound
therewith, that one of the best is bought for three
pence.    For the truth hereof, if any doubt, may it
please them to repair unto me, and            I shall satisfie
them by the testimonie of good witnesses*."
   The belief that the Barnacles are the young or
embryo state of the Barnacle Goose (Anas erythropus),
and of the Scoter or Black Goose (Anas nigra), is
indeed one of those popular errors which has not only
                  •
                     Vide Herbal, p. 1587-S8.

       SUPPOSED ORIGIN OF
                                   "   BARNACLE GEESE."              391
extended through         several     still prevails
                                       ages,   but
amongst the vulgar on all the shores of the Euro
pean seas, and appears to have no other foundation
than a fancied resemblance in the plumose members
of the animal inhabitant to the wing of              a    bird.
  One circumstance,         however, which               serves    in no
small degree to keep up this absurd error       that in      is,
some Catholic countries the above species of geese are
still conveniently considered as belonging to the finny
tribe, in order to extend the bill of fare in Lent, and
at other times of fasting and abstinence             :   — " C'est      un
gibier d'eau fort estime: une qualite quc les pieux
gourmets savent apprecier c'est qu'on peut les manger
dans   le
       temps    abstinence religieuse*."
                  d'
  " The    bird which at Paris     called isMacreuse,'
                                                         '
and in other parts of France     Macroul,' the French
                                        '
eat upon fast-days and all Lent, thinking      to be         it           a
sort of fish, or    marine animal with cold blood, or
                    a
else  a Barnacle generated either out of rotten or
corrupted wood floating upon the sea, or out of
certain fruits fallen into the water, and there meta
morphosed into a bird, or else from       kind of sea-
                                                     a
shells adhering to old planks and ships' bottoms t-"
  To show how far prejudice will sometimes carry men,
who, from station and education, should be fortified
against such delusion, we may as well add what Sir
Robert Moray has said upon the same subject, in                           a
grave communication to be found in the same work                         J.
  Having observed wood thrown up by the ocean on
  *
      Article B^NACHE, Nouv. Diet. d'Hist. Nat.
 t    Dr. Tanered Robinson, Phil. Trans, abridged, vol. ii.        p.   850.
 t    Page 849-50, No. 84.

 392              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 the shores of the Western Islands of Scotland, which
were    covered       with Barnacles        (from the figure and
description probably Lepas Anatifera), he states that
the pedicle " seems to draw and convey the matter
which serves for the growth and vegetation of the
little bird within it. ... In every shell that I opened
I found a perfect Sea-Fowl ; the little bill like that of
a Goose ;    the eyes marked ; the head, neck, breast,
wings, tail, and feet formed ; the feathers everywhere
perfectly shaped, and the feet like those of other
waterfowl, to the best of my remembrance                     Nor
did   I  ever see any of the little birds alive, nor met
with    anybody that did ; only some credible persons
have assured me that they have seen some as big as
their fist."   (! !)
    Surely in those days it was not without reasou
that conscientious and honest               men were somewhat
scandalized at so bare-faced an evasion of the strict
discipline of Lenten-fare, and we can readily appre
ciate the zealous indignation with which they pro
tested    against        such    irregularity in expostulatory
effusions: —
             " Men holden ye therefore prophanea      ;
                Ye    eaten neither shrimps nor pranes  ;
               Salte fish, stockefish nor herringe
               la not for your wearinge ;
               Nor in holy Lenten season
               Will     ye either beanes or peason ;
                But    ye looke to bee lette loose
               To    a pygge or to a goose."
   The animals embraced under the term Cirripeds by
naturalists are familiar to every sea-side visitor. Two

                 FOOD OF THE   CIRRIPEDES.            393
very different types, however, are comprehended under
this name, viz. the families of LEPADES or true Bar
nacles    (PI. VII. fig. 6), and that of the BALANI or
Acorn-shells of British conchologists (PI. VII.fig.5), —
the former elevated      on a membranous    pedicle, the
latter sessile, and provided with a domicile wholly cal
careous : several species of both of them are amongst
the most abundant        and common productions    of the
ocean.     The Balani attach themselves, for the most
part, to the surface of rocks, and are consequently
the inhabitants of the shore; the Lepades, on the
contrary, are seldom found on fixed bodies, but almost
always on such as float upon the surface of the sea,
such as Fuci, bits of wood, and the bottoms of ships,
by which means they participate in the benefits of a
vagrant life.
     The food devoured by the Cirripedes would seem
to consist of various minute animals, generally of
microscopic dimensions, caught in the water around
them by a mechanism at once simple and elegant.
Any one who watches attentively the proceedings of
a   living Barnacle when in a vigorous and active con
dition, will perceive that its arms, with their ap
 pended cirrhi, are in perpetual movement, being alter
 nately thrown out and retracted with great rapidity ;
 and that, when fully expanded, their plumose and
 flexible stems form an exquisitely beautiful apparatus,
 admirably adapted to entangle any nutritious mo
 lecules, or minute living creatures that may happen to
 be present in the circumscribed space over which this
 singular casting-net is thrown, and drag them down
 into the vicinity of the mouth, where, being seized by
                                            s5

39 t           THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
the jaws, they are crushed and prepared for digestion.
No sense but that of touch is required for the success
of this singular mode of fishing          ; and the delicacy
with which the tentacula perceive the slightest contact
of a foreign body, shows that they are eminently sus
ceptible of tactile impressions.       Nothing, indeed, can
be more admirable than this            unique apparatus, or
more efficient for the intended purpose; it reminds
the spectator at once of Ariosto's giant : —
     " He, 'mid the cruel horrors he intends,
       Takes pleasure in a net by cunning hands
       Contrived, which near his mansion he extends ;
       So well conceal'd beneath the crumbling sands,
       That whoso uninstructed thither wends
       Naught of the subtle mischief understands,
       Whom with loud laughter to his seat hard by
       He drags along, entangled in his snare ;
       Then, having suck'd their brains and life-blood dry,
       Oasts forth their bones upon the desert lair."
   In  order to account for the apparent election made
by the Lepades and the Balani, as to the sites inva
riably adopted for their respective         residences,  it was
at one time surmised that the eggs of the two races
were of different specific gravity ; that those of the
Balani, from their greater density, were disposed to
remain at, or sink to the bottom, while those of the
Lepades, being lighter, tended to rise towards the
surface, and by a glutinous        property attached    them
selves to the first solid body     with which they came iii
contact.    There will, however, be no further occasion
for the exercise of our ingenuity to account for this
remarkable circumstance, when aware that in the first

                     PROPAGATION OF LEFADES.                 395
state of these animals they not only possess perfect
freedom and power of motion, but organs of sight,
which furnish them with the means of choosing such
localities as are best suited to the respective habits
conferred upon them by Omnipotence, and limbs
calculated to anchor them to the chosen spot ; in fact,
that after leaving the eggs from which they are pro
duced, they undergo a complete and wonderful meta
morphosis, the phases of which are extremely remark
able and interesting, and which, by collecting the
animals at the proper season, that       is,
                                    during the earlier
spring months, the aquariist will have little difficulty
in studying for himself, and perhaps of solving some
of the mysteries with which this part of their history
is   still overclouded.
     In
     the pedunculated races, the ova, after expulsion
from the ovarium, appear to be conveyed by the ovi
positor into the cellular texture of the pedicle (just
beneath the shell-clad body), which they fill to the
distance of about an inch.         When first placed in this
situation, they seem to be shapeless, and inseparable
from the pulpy substance in which they are imbedded            ;
but as they approach to maturity, they become of an
oval figure, pointed         at both   ends,   and   are   easily
detached.
   During the stay of the ova in the pedicle, they
fender this part more opaque and of a bluish tint              ;
the eggs themselves, and the cellular texture with
which they are surrounded, being of pale or a/ure-
                                               a
blue colour.
     It   is   difficult to conceive in what manner the ova
are extricated from the situation above indicated, but

                  THE AQUARIAN      NATURALIST.
they are subsequently found forming a pair of leaf-
like expansions, placed between either side of the
body of the Barnacle and the lining membrane of
the shells (PI.     VII.  fig. 6). These leaves seem to be
 composed of a layer of eggs irregularly placed, and
 imbedded in a kind of soft texture, out of which,
 when mature, they readily fall on its substance being
 torn asunder ; indeed it at length becomes so tender
 as to disappear entirely ; so that, after the period        of
 gestation    is   passed, no vestige       of these leafy con-
 ceptacles is to be found.
    Few things could be more startling to the inex
 perienced naturalist than the appearance of the young
 Cirripedes derived from these eggs when they are first
 hatched   ; neither could any one imagine a priori that
 they were the progeny of parents so completely dis
 similar : —
              " The diabolic youngling
                Comes out no callow birth,
             Puling, defenceless, blind, and weak,
                Like bird or beast of earth,
             Or man, — most helpless thing of all
             That fly, or swim, or creep, or crawl, —
                But in his perfect figure ;
             His horns, his dreadful tail, his sting,
             Scales, teeth and claws, and everything,
                 Complete and in their vigour."
    In this their first or larva condition the young
 animal is quite free and active, resembling a tailed
 Monoculns (PI. VII. fig. 6, a), able to swim about
 vigorously   ;   and for this purpose having three pain
 of natatory limbs, the anterior of which are simple,
 the others bifid ; it likewise has its back covered with

                       METAMORPHOSES.                   397
an ample shield,      terminating anteriorly in two ex
tended horns, and posteriorly in a single elongated
spinous process ; and, what is stranger still, a large,
conspicuous eye, of which no vestige is traceable in
the adult.
    It  still remains uncertain how long the larvae of
these Cirripedes remain in this, their first and free
state, but it is probably for a longer or shorter period
of time, according as they sooner or later meet with
a support adapted to their respective habits.         How
ever this      may be, sooner or later a second change
of form takes place, quite as remarkable as the first ;
and the young Barnacle        makes its appearance under
a   totally different aspect (PI. VII. fig. 6, b).
     The little creature in this condition is quite trans
 lucent, one-tenth of an inch long, of a somewhat
 elliptic form, and of a brownish tint.         When in a
 state of perfect repose, it resembles a very minute
 mussel, and lies upon one of its sides at the bottom of
 the vessel of sea- water in which it is placed.     At this
 time all the members of the animal are withdrawn
 within the shell, which appears to be composed of
 two valves, united by a hinge along the upper part of
 the back, and capable of opening from one end to the
 other along the front, to give occasional exit to the
 limbs. These are of two descriptions : viz. anteriorly,
 a  large and very strong pair, provided with a cup-like
 sucker and hooks, serving solely to attach the embryo
 to rocks, stones, &c.    ;  and posteriorly, six pairs of
 natatory members, so disposed as to act in concert,
  and to give a forcible stroke to the water; thus causing
  the animal, when swimming,        to advance     by a sue

 398            THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
 cession of bounds, after the same        manner as the
 Water-flea,   Daphnia, and other freshwater Entomo-
 straca, but  particularly Cyclops, whose swimming-feet
 are extremely analogous.      The tail, which is usually
 bent up under the belly, is short, composed of two
joints, and terminates in four bristle-like appendages ;
 these are employed to assist in progression.
    The most startling circumstance, however, in the
 structure of these larvae is the possession of eyes,
 which, although constantly shielded by the valves of
 the shell, arc pedunculated as in the Crab and Lobster,
 and placed anteriorly at the sides of the body.
    Under the impression that the little creatures re
presented in the plate referred to were Crustaceans,
perhaps in a larval state, a few of them were placed
by Mr. J. V. Thompson, who first discovered and de
scribed these strange proceedings, in a glass vessel,
covered by such a depth of sea-water that they could
be examined at any time        with a magnify ing-glass ;
and on the 8th of May (we give the date, in order to
indicate the proper season for such researches), two
of them were found to have thrown off their exuviae,
and were seen firmly adhering to the bottom of the
vessel, changed into young Barnacles.
    On the 10th another individual was seen throwing
off its shell, and attaching itself, like the others, to
the bottom of the glass.     As the shelly valves of the
young Barnacle are formed, the eyes disappear, and
the capability of vision is extinguished for the re
mainder of the creature's life ; the arms at the same
time acquiring the plumose appearance characteristic
of the adult Cirriped.

BAHNACLE NEITHER A DUCK-EGG NOR A GOSLING.          399
   Thus, then, an animal originally natatory and loco
motive, and provided with a distinct organ of sight,
becomes permanently and immoveably fixed, and its
optic apparatus obliterated;   and the Barnacle, al
though neither a duck-egg nor a young gosling, is thus
proved to undergo a metamorphosis, not so miraculous
certainly, but almost as wonderful, as that ascribed to
it bv our forefathers !

400            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                  CHAPTER        XLIII.
                         WHITBY.
FEW localities offer more attractions to the naturalist,
especially if he have a geological bias in his compo
sition, than the vicinity of Whitby, and few remains
of monastic edifices can rival the noble ruins of
Whitby Abbey.
    One fine autumn morning, when zoologizing in that
neighbourhood, we specially remember enjoying a
delightful   walk on the pier there, in company with
some    pretty cousins of ours, whose conversation,
sparkling as the laughing sea around us, lent addi
tional charms to an already charming scene. Various
were the legends, grave and gay, upon which we had
to bestow our attentive ears   ; — how Lady Hilda,   the
great patron saint of that district, and the foundress
of the venerable Abbey which looked down upon us
from its elevated site upon the opposite side of the
bay, having, like St. Patrick of Ireland, a violent
detestation of snakes and other vermin, had not only
tunied them all into stones, but wrung all their heads
off at one fell swoop, and causing them to be buried
in the neighbouring cliffs, thus enriched the locality,
with all the   " snake-stones "   (Ammonites, as unbe-

                    LEGENDS     OK ST. HILDA.             401
 lieving geologists call them), and various other curi
 osities to be met with abundantly in that locality : —
            " They told how sea-fowl's pinions fail,
              As over Whitby's towers they sail,
              And sinking down with flutterings faint,
                                                 "
              They do their homage to the saint ; —
 a  phenomenon, by-the-by, very irreverently accounted
for by some naturalists, from the circumstance that
 the flocks of migratory birds, which, after their long
passage across the sea, first reach the land, are in
 this vicinity, as in many others, so exhausted by their
journey, as to be for some time incapable of further
exertion, and must needs rest their weary wings,
without much troubling their heads about the episco
pacy of the neighbourhood.
     But the most startling legend of all, and for the
truth of which some of the ladies fully vouched, was
that Lady Hilda was herself still to be seen, haunting
the ruined pile she had so long presided over, and
manifestly continuing to take a deep interest in the
town and its inhabitants.          Our incredulity upon this
point was evidently regarded by our fair companions
as a very unpardonable piece of heresy, more espe
cially  as,  Whitby being our native       place, such scepti
cism was on that account the more unjustifiable.
    It happened that the evening of that day was a
most inviting one for a walk : — a cloudless moon,
nearly at her full, rose gloriously upon the rippling
sea ; and as the dirty lanes and dingy alleys of the
old town consorted       ill with  such a state of things, we
sauntered forth to climb the Abbey-steps by which
you mount to the top of the tall cliff whereon the

4<)2            THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
old Abbey and its coeval church are situated.             We
felt that the time was propitious : —
       " He that would view such ruins aright,
         Must visit them by the pale moonlight,
         When the broken arches are black in night,
         And each shafted oriel glimmers white ;
         When buttress and buttress alternately
         Seem framed of ebon and ivory ;
         When silver edges the imagery,
       And the scrolls that teach thee to live and die."
    There    is  something deeply solemn in walking
through      an ancient churchyard at such an hour,
more especially in one so far removed above the busy
turmoil of the town beneath — as we pace to and fro
over the stones once trodden by the feet which now
 repose beneath them.           Upon the present occasion
 everything combined to attach solemnity to the scene
 — -more especially the death-like silence, unbroken,
 but rendered still more impressive by the low mur
 muring of the waves, which, at an awful depth below,
 approached the ruin-decorated cliff.
     Wandering along in this contemplative mood, hap
 pening to raise our eyes in the direction of the Abbey,
 judge of our astonishment at seeing right before us,
 standing in the air, the figure of its saintly foundress,
 Lady Hilda— a mitred abbess, with two fingers raised
 as in the attitude of blessing Whitby !
     Now we are not easily startled; but it must be
  confessed,   an apparition so extraordinary and so un
  expected was calculated at least to astonish the be
  holder, and we certainly gazed upon this remarkable
  vision  with    no    ordinary feelings of        amazement.

                     A GHOST-STORY.                  403
 However, there it stood, gigantic in its dimensions —
 40 feet at least in height, suspended in mid-air, each
 fold of every garment quite distinct, and the whole
 in an attitude of benediction, just like that we see
sculptured on ancient monumental brasses !
    Had the phantom vanished suddenly, or been more
evanescent   than it was,  I certainly should have been
converted to my pretty cousins' faith in the actuality
of Lady Hilda's nocturnal visitations to her beloved
Whitby   ; but, fortunately, there the figure stood, and
challenged observation, which soon made the matter
plain enough. The moon was just behind the Abbey's
oriel window, the rich tracery of which — the stony
framework where the glass has been (as I took pains
to convince myself afterwards by daylight) — presents
the exact outline of the aerial figure, while in front of
the window, the damp mists of evening formed the
screen on which the image magnified was thrown.        A
more complete magic-lantern could not have been
constructed : the unclouded moon, then nearly at her
full, was the light, the oriel window the slide, the
misty cloud in front the screen, and myself, to my
great gratification,   the spectator — a more striking
phantasmagoria     was perhaps never witnessed ; and
doubtless many a belated passenger, whose super
stitious fears preponderated over his knowledge of
optics, has, under favourable circumstances, had his
faith confirmed in the Ghost of St. Hilda, and her
attachment to those beautiful ruins.
    We have not, however, on the present occasion
climbed thus high for the purpose of enjoying such
ghostly interviews    with  the departed;  our business

 404               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
just now is to trace from these majestic heights, a
 kind of chart to guide us in our future wanderings.
     The marine Mollusca, which will next occupy our
 attention,     are   generally mentioned by systematic
 writers as inhabiting different zones or regions of
 depth ; by which phrases are understood the several
 belts or spaces margining the land or occupying the
 floor of the sea, distinguished from each other by
 peculiar features, dependent on the nature of their
 animal or vegetable inhabitants.            The working natu
 ralist knows well, that upon any given beach, the
 objects he is in search of are by no means scattered
 confusedly or at random, but are always to be found
 in certain spots, the selection of their habitats agree
 ing with the nature of the ground, the depth of water,
 and various other circumstances, which the practised
 eye at once appreciates.             So, on a larger scale, we
 may divide the ocean into districts, all of which have
 their appropriate or peculiar occupants.
     Now turn we to the sea, spread wide beneath us in
 one broad expanse : —
        " Its colours changing,  as from clouds and sun
          Shades after shades upon the surface run ;
          Embrown'd and sombre now, and now serene,
          In limpid blue and evanescent green ;"
  and try to indicate and name the regions which it
  will be found useful for us to distinguish in our
  future excursions.
      The highest of these belts is the space between the
  tide-marks indicating high and low water, an interval
  of very great importance in the marine fauna of our
  islands, and inhabited        by numerous      peculiar species

                     ZONES OP THE OCEAN.                        405
 of plants, as well      as  animals.       This is termed the
 LITTORAL ZONE. Its features vary with the geological,
or rather mineralogical features of the coast ; and its
population, both as to kind and numbers, varies cor
 respondingly.
    The line of high-water there is no mistaking : —
    " Here, Samphire-banks    and Salt-wort bound the flood    ;
      There, stakes and sea-weeds, withering in the mud      ;
      And higher up, a ridge of all things base,
      Which some strong tide has roll'd upon the place."
    The broad bare tract of shore that intervenes be
tween this line and the now distant water (for the tide
is close upon its ebb) will represent the zone in ques
tion, which the returning waves will soon reclaim : —
      " There, near the land you may the billows trace,
        As if contending in their watery chase ;
        May watch the mightiest till the shoal they reach,
        Then break and hurry to their utmost stretch :
        Curl'd as they come, they strike with furious force,
        And then, reflowing, take their grating course,
        Raking the rounded flints, which, ages past
        Roll'd by their rage, will still to ages last."
    A  second region is the CIHCUM-LITTORAL, or              LAMI-
NARIAN ZONE, so called from the abundance               of tangles,
or sea-weeds belonging to the genus Laminaria, that
flourish in it. Vegetable-feeding shell-fish and Naked
Mollusca are exceedingly numerous in this space. It
is indeed highly productive of various types of animal,
and also     of vegetable    life ; its usual extent may be
stated as between low-water mark and where the sea
reaches a depth of about fifteen fathoms.
   A third    region is the MEDIAN, or CORALLINE ZONE,

406            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
occupying the space between fifteen and fifty fathoms.
Sea- weeds, properly so called, are scarce within
and absent from its greater portion but much of
                                      ;                it   is it,
clothed with an animal- vegetation, so to speak, in the
shape of Corallines or Hydroid Zoophytes. It abounds
with shell-fish, and many of our rarest and most
valued kinds are procured from it.
   The fourth region    the INFRA-MEDIAN, also called
                       is
the region of Deep- Sea Corals, since in our seas
(though not in those of the tropics) the principal
stony corals, whether of zoophytic or bryozoic pro
duction, are procured from it.
  We    need scarcely trouble the reader to accompany
us to the   fifth region, —
         " The dark, unfathom'd, bottomless abyss,"
unsounded by mortal plummet its proper occupants,
                                  ;
     " The rapid Swordfish and the ravening Shark,"
are scarcely admissible     into any aquarium of ordinary
dimensions, and may well be dispensed with.   We
will therefore now retrace our steps, and wending
towards the beach, endeavour to obtain        a   few speci
mens better adapted to our present purpose.

                            POLYZOA.                        407
                       CHAPTER XLIV.
POLYZOA      — (BRYOZOA,EHEENBERG) — ASCIDIAN         POLYPES.
   " Seas and deserts hide millions of animals from our observa
tion.   Innumerable  artificial and strange stratagems are acted
in the howling wilderness and in the ' great deep/ that can
never come to our knowledge. Besides that, there are infinitely
more species of creatures, which are not to be seen without, nor
indeed with, the help of the finest glasses, than of such as are
bulky enough for the naked eye to take hold of. However,
from the consideration of such animals as lie within the com
pass of our knowledge, we might easily form a conclusion of
the rest, that the same variety of wisdom and goodness runs
through the whole creation, and puts every creature in a con
dition to provide for its safety and subsistence in its proper
station."
WELL     !   here we are once      more    upon the ocean's
shore, as Sir Isaac Newton has          it,   picking up shells,
in lamentable ignorance of the vast treasures that are
hidden       underneath    those heaving waves —     ; no  by
means        a   bad exchange for the busy town behind us,
where
        " Poor Nature, with her face begrimed with dust,
         Is stoked, coked, smoked, and almost choked."
    There     something exhilarating in the exercise, as
                 is
 we     scramble over the wave-worn, tangle-thatched
 rocka, and feel the salt spray which             the "snoring

 408                 THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 breeze
           "  dashes into our faces as the advancing wave
 lashes    itself to foam : —
        "Then back to     sea, with strong majestic sweep,
          Rolls in   an ebb yet terrible and deep."
     And now we reach the farthest verge of the wide-
 stretching reef, and find around us piles of sea-weeds,
 strewn in prodigal abundance ; a wild and desolate
 scene, where little seems to tempt our search, and
 from which a superficial observer might easily be in
 duced to turn away in disappointment ; and yet, in
 reality, a richer field for the naturalist can scarcely
 be pointed out than is now submitted                for examina
tion : —
      "Involved in sea-wrack, here you find a race,
        Which, science doubting, knows not where to place ;" —
there is not a frond of that vast heap but is able
to afford a treat to the aquariist, perhaps unparalleled
throughout the overwhelming catalogue of the Cre
ator's works       : —
          " Infinite multitudes on every leaf,
            But yet too fine for unenlighten'd eye —
      Like stars whose beams have never reach'd our world."
    It  is easy, even without a magnifying glass, to per
ceive that the weeds before us are covered over in
many places with parasitical growths, sometimes re
sembling creeping stems of the Sertulariae described
in a preceding chapter, or,               as  is more commonly
the case, representing patches of delicate moss-like
growths, spreading to a greater or less extent over
their surface, or appearing not unfrequently like the
" pile "    of plush or of velvet.       On being placed gently

                    HABITS OF THE POLYZOA.                     409
in  a vessel    of sea-water, however, it is by no means
difficult to detect, with a magnifying glass of very
ordinary power, that every fibre of these moss-like
patches is alive ; nay, more, that it is an animal of
most elaborate structure, polyp-like in form, and,
like the humbler polyps, living in a cell, sometimes
of horn, transparent as thin glass, sometimes with
fleshy, or with earth-encrusted walls. A little further
inspection      shows     that the polyp-shaped occupants
of these cells are full of life and vivacious activity,
readily, when undisturbed,            protruding from the ori
fices   of their abodes their numerous                delicate and
flexile arms in search of food : —
   " As  florets, by the frosty air of night
     Bent down and closed, when day has gilt their leaves,
     Rise all unfolded on their straighten'd stems * ;"
but which on the slightest alarm are instantly re
tracted and packed up securely in their little citadel.
The gentlest touch, even the modifications of the in
tensity of light, are sufficient to produce the retire
ment of these timid creatures, which thus manifestly
exhibit both an apprehension of danger and a feeling
of safety.
    The cells, though commonly still, have a free
power of motion ; and when one is disturbed, it bends
quickly to and fro, so as to strike one or two more ;
these again strike upon others, and thus, for a few
seconds, all are in action, banging themselves about
      *  " Quale i floretti, dal notturno gielo
            Chinati  e chiusi, poi che '1 sol gl' imbianca
            Li drizzan tutte aperte in loro stelo."
                                                          T

  410            THE AQUARIAN               NATURALIST.
  furiously ; but they soon return to quietness, and the
  arms, which during the commotion have been doubled
  up, open again.
    It is really a circumstance well calculated to excite
 the astonishment even of the tyro in natural history
 in these days, and to afford convincing evidence of
 the vast improvements effected during the last few
 years in the means of research at our disposal, that
 numerous and conspicuous as these creatures now
 appear to be as subjects         for microscopic examination,
 the details of their oeconomy were utterly unknown,
 and their real nature even unsuspected, until about
 thirty years ago, when the learned eye of Ehrenberg,
 and the patient but ill-requited industry of Mr. J. V.
 Thompson, nearly at the same time demonstrated the
 wide distinctions whereby they were separated from
 ordinary polyps, and raised them to their true dignity,
 as forming a most important                  and interesting class of
 the Animal Creation. By the former of these eminent
expositors of the works of the Almighty they were
named BRYOZOA *, or Moss-like animals ; by the latter,
 POLYZOA   t, or Many-animals, in allusion to the mul
titudinous    communities          in which            they are found
aggregated together; but by far the best name—
although, unfortunately, not Greek enough for modern
ears — is that proposed by their erudite historiographer,
Dr. Arthur Farre, who called them CILIOBRACHIATA,
or Cilium-armed Polyps, in allusion to what we
shall soon perceive to be the most distinctive fea
ture of their organization.                 Let us, however, select
               *
                 Bpuoc, moss    ;   ;,•,..,.;•, an animal.
               t 1I<A i >-. many ; (i>ov,        an animal.

  HOW TO    VIEW POLYZOA UNDER THE MICROSCOPE.               411
a few specimens from the heaps before us, and having
placed them in a jar filled with their native element,
return to our microscope, further to elucidate their
history.
    Whoever wishes to study closely the oeconomy of
these    exquisitely-constructed       organisms, should be
furnished with a number of glass troughs (which,
with the aid of a little cement, may easily be manu
factured of every variety of shape) ; these should be
filled with sea-water, and a branch of the species to
be examined placed        in each, care being taken to adapt
the dimensions of the trough to the thickness of the
specimen ; it being very desirable that no more water
should intervene between the latter and the sides of
the glass than is just sufficient for the purpose. The
polyps, which always contract the instant that they
are disturbed, will soon expand themselves, in which
state many may be seen with the naked eye, and a
very cursory glance under the microscope will then
show which are the best adapted for observation*.
    * A  very beautiful Bryozoon is generally to be met with,
spreading out in patches of variable size upon the exterior of
mussel-shells ; and as this is procurable in a living state with
the utmost facility upon any coast where mussels are abun
dant, it will always be at the disposal of any one interested
in the study of  these elegant beings, more especially as portions
of it can easily be detached from the shells whereon they grow,
and, being transferred    to a watch-glass, attach themselves to
 their new support, in which condition they may be readily pre
 served in a vessel of sea-water. Nothing can be more instructive
 than the examination of specimens so circumstanced : all the
 progress of the embryos and cells may be admirably seen, and
 their development watched from day to day in the most satis
 factory manner.
                                                  T2

412              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
    In  order to examine them satisfactorily, it is abso
lutely necessary that a clear reflected light should be
transmitted through the object, care being taken to
avoid all artificial illumination, the latter being totally
inadequate to supply that delicate and perfect defini
tion requisite for the exhibition of creatures so ex
ceedingly minute and evanescent : —
          " Transparent forms too fine for mortal sight,
            Their fluid bodies half dissolved in light."
    All  things being thus arranged, there is no diffi
culty whatever in watching the many wonders con
nected with a spectacle so miraculous as that afforded
by the inhabitants       of the hitherto invisible colony, as
each individual seems to start into existence, and
disport itself with an energy and activity little to be
expected in creatures apparently so uncared for and
neglected.
    In  the more transparent species, even while the
little animal remains quiescent in its crystal residence,
it may be observed through the hyaline walls of its
retreat contracted and doubled on itself, the tentacula
compressed      together, and the orifice of its habitation
closed by a kind of membranous lid (PI. VII. fig. 7),
 which, as the polyp rises to display its parts, unfolds
 like the inverted finger of a glove.
    A circlet of seta, or microscopic            bristles of in
 describable slenderness, next makes its appearance,
 rising out of the apex of the cell, and followed by the
 flexible portion on which it is set.             The tentacula
 next pass up between the setae, and push them asunder;
 while the integument of the animal is seen gradually

     MECHANISM     OF EXPANSION AND RETRACTION.          413
rolling outwards from around the ciliated polyp-like
arms, until the latter have risen entirely above the top
of the cell, when, the act of protrusion being com
pleted,   the tentacula separate and expand, and the
cilia upon their surface commence their rapid and
apparently voluntary vibrations,
             " Tinged with rays of infinite colour,"
and appearing to the eye, beguiled by the velocity
and regularity of their action, like strings of orient
pearls.
   The mechanism by which the protrusion and re
traction of the polyp are effected, is somewhat com
plicated ; and these movements are usually performed
with such rapidity, especially that of retraction, that
it is only by watching the animals perseveringly for
several hours together, and sketching down each step
of the process, whenever a momentary glance of one
of them in a favourable position can be obtained, that
any satisfactory idea of the precise mode of performing
these operations can be realized.           Under propitious
circumstances, it will be seen that a very elaborate
muscular apparatus is provided for the purpose, con
sisting of numerous bundles of delicate thread-like
cords arising from the bottom of the cell, and im
planted around the basis of the tentacular apparatus.
No sooner     has   the little  Polyzoon fully expanded
itself, than a very lively scene commences — the neigh
bouring visible particles floating in the surrounding
water are at once set in rapid motion, as though
suddenly brought within the influence of a mighty
whirlpool, terrible as the Maelstrom itself, and woe

414               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
betide the animalcule races cast by mischance within
the fatal circle !
  The cause of the existence of this miniature Cha-
rybdis is to be looked for in the structure of the ten-
tacula, which, when examined with a good microscope,
are found to be armed at the back by about a dozen
fine hair-like processes, which project from them nearly
at right angles, while on either side they are richly
furnished   with vibratile cilia in constant and rapid
motion, exhibiting a spectacle of extraordinary, we
might almost say, of matchless beauty. All particles
therefore which come within the reach of these ciliary
currents    are transmitted       along   the surface of the
tentacles, until they are finally engulfed in the open
mouth, which gapes to receive them.
  Let the student, however, remember, that this
ciliary apparatus is to be recognized in general only
under favourable conditions, and by the aid of optical
instruments of superior power and quality, although
the effect produced may often be detected when the
cilia themselves are imperceptible.   The discovery of
cilia upon the tentacula   indeed, of very recent date
                            is,                            ;
nevertheless, their presence forms the leading cha
racter whereby the Polyzoa are distinguishable from
the Hydriform Zoophytes, and         invariably accom
                                          is
panied with an organization far more complicated
than that possessed by the unciliated Polyps.
  On examining the animal under the microscope,
when placed in water to which   little carmine has
                                          a
been added, the movements of the streams of water
produced     bythe ciliary action can be more distinctly
observed.     The two rows of cilia attached to each

                      INTERNAL (ECONOMY.                   415
   tentaculum do not, as has been sometimes stated, give
   an impulse in opposite directions; but both strike
   downwards, and towards the mesial line of the ten
   taculum to which they are attached, causing a current
   down the centre of its internal surface, whereby the
   particles of carmine are carried towards the mouth.
   At this part all the streams converge, and thus give
   rise to an upward central current, by which the par
   ticles of carmine are carried outwards.        None of the
   carmine seems to enter the oesophagus, although the
   particles will sometimes be found collected in con
  siderable quantities around the mouth, before they
  are floated away, — a circumstance, which would indi
  cate that these little creatures possess the power of
  selecting such substances only as are adapted to their
  nourishment.
       The tentacula are united together at their base so
  as to form a circle, in the centre of which is situated
  the mouth, from whence is prolonged a capacious and
  highly irritable oesophagus that contracts vigorously
  when food is introduced into it.       To the oesophageal
  tube there succeeds     in some species (Bowerbankia*)
  a contractile gizzard, the walls of which are lined
  with a wonderfully-constructed pavement of tessel
 lated teeth, by the aid whereof the aliment is crushed
 and bruised preparatory to its admission into the
 proper digestive stomach, whence an intestinal         canal
     •
        The BOWERBANKIA DENSA is commonly found on Flustra
foliacea, thickly aggregated in patches of half an inch to one
 inch in diameter ; and will be easily procured by the indus
 trious microscopist who wishes to enjoy the luxury of exa
 mining it.

 416             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 may be traced mounting upvjards along the oesophagus
 to terminate by a distinct orifice, situated close to the
 outer side of the tentacular ring.           Thus, instead of
 being a simple bag, as in the Hydriform Zoophytes,
 the alimentary canal consists of pharynx or oesophagus,
 gizzard, stomach and intestine, all of which float freely
 in  a visceral cavity formed by the delicate, transparent
parietes of the animal, and apparently occupied by a
 clear fluid, wherein are lodged the delicate muscles
that serve for the retraction of the creature.
    The most ordinary mode of reproduction in the
 Polyzoa is by a process of gemmation, or budding
from the common polypary or creeping stem, on which
young animals in various stages of growth may always
be seen, sprouting        from the parent-stock (PL VII.
 fig. 7), and in these the nascent polyps may readily
be witnessed through the transparent walls of their
cells —
                  " timidly expanding into life,"
while the growth of their various organs can be traced
from hour to hour, until they burst forth, and begin to
exercise the functions peculiar to their species.
    The Polyzoa      generally are amongst the hardiest
and most easily reared occupants of the aquarium.
The Rev. Mr. Hincks observes, that he transported
specimens from the coast of Lancashire to Exeter, a
distance of three hundred miles ; and although he was
unable to renew the water in which they were kept,
they continued to live, after their long journey, for
two or three days.         " At the end of that time they
showed signs     of  a disposition to get rid of their heads
— which     is by no means a suicidal act in a Pedicellina,

                  POWER OF REPRODUCTION.                       417
and were therefore at once transferred to Goadby's
invaluable solution."
   Far be it from us to say anything in disparagement
of " Goadby's solution " as a means of               preserving at
least the wrecks of defunct specimens ; but whoever
hopes to appreciate the beauties of a Polyzoon must
examine it alive and in its full vigour, —
      " For alum styptics, with contracting power,
        Shrink its thin  essence like a rivell'd flower."
No, no    ! a pickled Sylph or a potted Beroe would form
objects for the microscope quite as instructive as a
Bowerbankia marine"e a la Fortnum and Mason.
   Notwithstanding the complexity of structure so
conspicuous in these highly organized zoophytes, it
has been observed by Professor Reid, that in certain
pedunculated species (Pedicellina) the body of the
Polyzoon will fade and perish, and a new one will be
reproduced in its place.             A few days before this
occurs, the tentacula remain permanently retracted ;
the body becomes opake, and at length falls off.
After the lapse of      a few days,    however, the top of the
stalk enlarges, and a minute bulb presents itself, in
which the different parts of the polyp are developed,
so that   in time it assumes the proportions and duties
of its predecessor, — a circumstance, which will enable
the reader to understand how voluntary decapitation,
as Mr. Hincks observes, in these creatures is not
necessarily liable to a verdict offelo de se.
                                                     i5

418               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                       CHAPTER XLV.
     NJLIACEOUS      AND INCRUSTINO      POLYZOA, FLUSTRJ!,
                          ESCHARS, ETC.
    " The morning is all sunshine, the wind is
                                                  blowing free ;
      The billows are all sparkling, and bounding in the light,
       Like creatures in whose sunny veins the blood is running
           bright."
READER,       if  ever it has been thy lot,     with weary head
and     aching heart, to turn for relaxation from the
toils, the troubles and the cares of city-business, or,
with the pallid cheek of those
                 " who wear their health but sickly,"
to find      recruited    strength in happy quietude and
 bracing exercise,       no doubt thou hast been able to
appreciate the luxury of such a scene as here is spread
 before us, and to enjoy a stroll along the shingly
beach,     breathing     health-giving    air, in search of any
 trifling object.       The very search itself rewards thr
 pains.
    To the student of natural history,          a walk along the
 quiet beach affords tenfold enjoyment. The works of
 the Creator that bestrew his path on every side are
all to him familiar friends, whose gentle admonitions

                      FLUSTR.E OR SEA-MATS.                 419
cheer and harmonize his soul          with happiest influence,
recurring every now and then
          " Like pleasant thoughts, that o'er the mind
               A minute come and go again,"
yielding perpetual and increasing knowledge.
   -So now we stand upon the froth-fringed margin of
the sea, and at our feet the rippling waves
                 " Just kiss the shore, then
                                             sleep."
   A    lady, the companion of our excursion, evidently
inspired by the scene, is growing poetical, and ex
claims, appropriately enough —
      " How various the shades of marine vegetation
         Thrown here the rough flints and the pebbles among  !
         The feather'd Conferva, of deepest carnation,
         The dark purple Slake, and the olive Sea-thong."
Yes   !   here they are scattered in rich variety ; and
among the multifarious assemblage we may likewise
observe innumerable specimens of what the ladies
call    "White Sea-weeds," and which are likewise
known as " Hornwrack " and " Sea-mats," the FLUS-
TRA FOLIACEA        of scientific authors.
   The word FLUSTRA, selected              by Linnaeus as the
designation of these
                             " Sea-mats," is derived,     as we
are told, from a Saxon word flustrian, which signi
fies to weave ; and any one who is familiar with the
ordinary appearance of these masterpieces of Nature's
loom, will readily acquiesce in the appropriateness of
the name conferred upon them.
   Few persons would imagine, from a cursory in
spection of this very common marine production, how
wonderful its structure really is ; still fewer would

420             THE AQUARIAN          NATURALIST.
surmise, that in an object so unobtrusive, they were
examining a microcosm that might be regarded lite
rally as a world in miniature, the population of which
is hardly to be counted, and possessing                a structure,
when examined under the microscope, of inexpressibly
elaborate character.
   " For curiosity and beauty," says the quaint author
of the ' Micrographia/ " have not, among all the
                                  I
plants and vegetables         I
                        have yet observed, seen any
one comparable to this sea-weed.    It is a plant [so
our forefathers pleased to consider      which grows
                                                it]
upon the rocks under the water, and increases and
spreads   itself into     a   great tuft, which         not only
                                                       is
handsomely branched into several                leaves, but the
whole surface   covered over with
                   is                           a     most curious
kind of carved work, which consists of texture much
                                                 a
resembling     honeycomb; for the whole surface on
both sides  is a
               covered over with    multitude of very
                                            a
small holes, being no larger than so many holes made
with  a small pin, and ranged in the neatest and most
delicate order imaginable, they being placed in the
manner of   aquincunx, or very much like the rows of
the eyes of     fly, the rows or orders being very
                a
regular, which way soever they are observed.   These
little holes, which to the eye looked round, when
magnified appear very regularly- shaped holes, repre
senting almost the shape of the sole of  round-toed   a
shoe, the hinder part         of each being,     as   it   were, trod
on or covered      by   the toe of that next below it. These
holes seemed walled about with           a   very thin and trans
parent substance, looking of            a    pale straw colour;
from the edge of which, against the middle of each

                         ESCHAIL3E.                       421
hole, were sprouted out four small, transparent straw-
coloured thorns, which seemed to protect and cover
those cavities."     It would be difficult to improve
upon a description so simple and so graphic.
   The ESCHAR* are very nearly allied to the Flustra
in their general structure, the principal difference
between the two consisting in the nature of their
skeleton or polypidom, which in the Escharae is solidi
fied  by the deposit of calcareous earth in its sub
stance, until it assumes a stony hardness, instead of
remaining soft and flexible, as in Flustra. In both
races the individual cells vary in shape in different
species, and generally have their orifices defended by
projecting spines, or sometimes by a moveable oper-
culum or lid, which apparently answers the same pur
pose as the setae  of Bowerbankia, described in the last
chapter, by defending the entrance to the cell.
   Let not the reader suppose, however, that the pre
cise and elegant structure of the surface of these Sea-
mats is all that they present worthy of a naturalist's
admiration ; or that to pick them up as they lie dis
carded on the beach —
     " Like ocean-weeds heap'd on the surf-beaten shore " —
is the proper way to obtain them          for microscopical
examination    : they must be sought for in their living
state far out at sea, or at the very lowest tides, grow
ing   upon   their  native rocks, incrusting shells, or
spreading out upon the stems and fronds of Fuci.
Thus procured, and kept in glasses filled with fresh
sea-water, it is easy to observe the wondrous spectacle
they offer for our contemplation : thousands of Polyp

422             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
like inhabitants, protruding from as many separate
cells, stretch forth their fairy arms and flash their
countless cilia in the sunshine : —
        " Their glittering textures, like the filmy dew,
          Dipp'd in the richest tincture of the skies,
          Where light disports in ever-mingling dyes."
It  were absurd to try to illustrate such a scene by
words, or to expatiate on the multitudes that crowd
these densely populated realms — for such they are            !
Yet, if we must descend to figures, let us try to cal
culate the number of inhabitants on but a single
polypary.
    Dr. Johnston        mentions     a  specimen of Flustra
membranacea (a most magnificent one certainly) five
feet in length by eight inches in breadth, and esti
mated, by counting the cells on a square inch, that
this "web of silvery lace" had been the joint pro
duction and habitation of above two millions of in
dustrious inmates; so that this single colony on a
submarine island was about equal in number to the
whole human population of Scotland ; — another Lon
don in miniature !
    Speculations like these are manifestly puerile. We
will therefore describe, after Sir John Dalyell, an ex
ample illustrative of the general (Economy of such
productions, the study of which will enable the aqua-
riist easily to recognize the principal facts connected
with their history.
   The Fucus serratus, or "Sea-ware," so common
on our rocky shores, is frequently invested by dark,
brownish    gelatinous-looking       patches,    sometimes ad
hering to one or both sides of the leaves or fronds, and

             STRUCTURE OF FLUSTRA HISP1DA.           423
occasionally encircling the stem.   These patches are
now and then in such profusion, that the leaf is weighed
down by the accumulation of its parasitic occupants.
  On plunging a small branch of the Fucus so in-
crusted in a jar of recent sea-water, and allowing it
to remain for a little while at rest, a thin pale blue
cloud will    be speedily seen to hover over its dark
irregular surface, which, on the slightest shock, is
instantaneously dispelled, leaving the brownish fleshy
substance distinct as before.  This experiment may
be frequently repeated.  The semblance of a cloud     is,
however, soon perceived, by the aid of    microscope,
                                          a
to be caused by the simultaneous protrusion of mul
                                                 a
titude of polyps emerging from the cells of the brown
polypary, while the play of their numerous pale ten-
tacula in motion over the darker ground produces       a
misty shade.
  The minute and active polyps which thus crowd
the surface of this parasitical Bryozoon are, in fact, so
timid, that they sink into concealment on the slightest
apprehension of danger, and     it only when they are
                                     is
relieved from their alarm that they venture again to
display their tentacula (PI. VII. fig. 8).
   Viewed by lens, the surface of the polypary, from
                a
which these little beings issue forth,     seen to be
                                          is
covered with numerous      projections, indicating the
position of so many cells, each of which has its orifice
beset   byfine spines; but  it    difficult to see these
                                 is
distinctly, except in particular positions of the object.
   The various phases attending the evolution of the
contracted Polyzoa are easily witnessed. The rough,
 dark surface of the Flustra remains undisturbed until

 424                THE AQUARIAN     NATURALIST.
 the summit of the cell begins to project, announcing
 the approaching evolution of the polyp.           First a very
 short white cylinder protrudes ; and then the integu
 ment of the body, unfolding like the inverted finger
 of a glove, displays the exterior of the animal crowned
 by about thirty-five tentacula, so arranged as to form
 a bell-shaped cup, the margin of which is slightly
 everted.        The form of the whole creature is elegant,
 light and beautiful      ; it rises very leisurely and gradu
 ally from the cell ; but its retreat is most precipitate
— it     vanishes in a moment, and thus the cloud, com
 posed     of multitudes, is dissipated at once.
    The largest, most vigorous and luxuriant speci
 mens of this Bryozoon abound at low-water mark,
and they generally prefer a muddy shore ; some may
be met with higher up upon the beach,              but propor
tionally deteriorated as they are remote from the sea.
    Such Polyzoa are, however, of difficult preserva
tion   ;   constant renewal of the agitated waves seems
to be an indispensable lotion ; otherwise a thin mouldy
film accumulates upon the surface of the Zoophyte,
and the polyps drop from their cells.           Hence may be
inferred the purpose of Nature in assigning the abode
of these animals within the flux and reflux of the tide.
    If    vigorous specimens of this elegant Zoophyte be
procured towards the end of May, or the beginning of
June, and deposited in suitable vessels, innumerable
active little       bodies,  resembling    Infusorial  animal
cules,      will   soon  be   discovered   swimming     rapidlv
about (PI. VH. fig. 8).
    These creatures, the gemmules of the Flustra his-
     a, are of a pure white colour, elliptical in shape,

               REPRODUCTION   BY GEMMULES.          425
thin, and fringed by a border of active cilia, forming
beautiful objects under the microscope. They traverse
the water readily in all directions, ascending, de
scending, or revolving as if on an axis, with marvel
lous ease and most graceful evolution.
   On isolating     one of these  gemmules, it is seen
after a few days to remain stationary, and speedily to
become affixed to the spot whereon it has rested.
In   a  few  days    more a polyp becomes developed,
displaying   itself from a short tubular orifice at one
extremity.     Next, a wing is formed by development
from the side, which is the commencement of a new
cell wherein a second polyp originates, which, having
attained maturity, is displayed along with its elder
companion ; and from the transparency of these new-
formed cells, it is easy, at this period, to examine
completely the form and organization of the animals
within, — an advantage not permitted in the adult,
owing to the darkness and opacity of the polypary.
From the sides of these first-formed cells, others soon
begin to sprout, which, as they become complete, and
furnished with their enclosed polyps, give rise in their
turn,  in  a  similar manner, to a third generation —
these again to a fourth, and so on, until the symme
trical dimensions of the leaf-like polypidom are ulti
mately attained by a continuance of the process.
   The growth of the polyparies, which are thus
densely populated, is thus seen to be effected by the
progressive addition of new cells around the circum
ference, those occupying    the margin being of course
the most recently formed ; and, indeed, the latter are
not unfrequently found inhabited by the living ani

 426               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 mals  ;  whilst in the older, or central ones, the original
 occupants have perished. Each polypidom, therefore,
 presents a long series of generations affixed laterally
 to each other; and in any portion of the series the
relative ages of the individuals are indicated by the
position which they occupy, each new-developed rank
maintaining faithfully the pattern stamped upon its
predecessors,       and coinciding in the general arrange
ment of the preconstructed cells so perfectly as to
transmit the characteristic         form of their polypidom
unchanging         and   unchangeable.      Ceaselessly the la
bouring millions work,
      " And still fulfil, immutably, eternal Nature's law ;
         Each with undeviating aim, in eloquent silence."
   As to obtaining specimens of        these Polyzoa, adapted
to the purposes of the aquarium, the naturalist, pro
vided with ordinary perseverance, will find no diffi
culty ; they are to be met with in a great variety of
shapes on every coast ; their range, indeed, is almost
universal ; all waters seem alike to swarm with their
innumerable legions ; — in creeks and quiet bays along
our southern coasts, —
          " Or  where the Northern ocean in vast whirls
            Boils round the naked, melancholy isles
            Of furthest Thule, and the Atlantic surge
            Pours in among the stormy Hebrides," —
they are found almost equally abundant ; so that no
sea-side visitors, however short their stay, but may
procure for themselves a rich treat in witnessing the
gorgeous spectacle which we have so feebly endea
voured to recommend to their notice.

             ALCYONIDIUM GELATINOSUM.                      427
                  CHAPTER XLVI.
 ALCYONIDIUM GELATINOSUM           " PUDDING-   WEED
                                                       "
                 " SEA-RAGGED-STAFF."
      " Fair creatures of the ocean, that reside
        Happy in grottos of pure crystal, deck'd
        With shining gems, and prettily sustain'd
        On columns of clear glass !"
AN elegant writer observes, that " there is an inde
scribable charm about the illusions with which chi
merical ignorance once clothed every subject. Those
twilight views of nature are often more captivating
than any which are revealed by the rays of enlightened
philosophy.  The most accomplished and poetical
minds, therefore, have been fain to search back into
the accidental conceptions of what are termed barba
rous ages, and to draw from them their finest imagery
and machinery."
  Far be it from us to underrate the " accidental
conceptions
            " of our forefathers, or the " imagery and
machinery
           " of which they have been suggestive ; on
the contrary, we have not unfrequently endeavoured
to enliven our pages by the introduction of a few of
their quaint absurdities. There        is,
                                    however, some
thing in the study of Natural History peculiarly re

428            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
pugnant to fanciful and visionary speculations ; and
although we now and then can afford to smile at their
folly, we are much more frequently disposed to grieve
at the lamentable ignorance of which they are the
legitimate offspring.
   Whoever has carefully pernsed the works of that
great renovator of modern science, Lord Bacon, will
doubtless have appreciated the difficulties that he had
to encounter, not merely in the establishment of the
simplest principles of useful observation, but in the
far more difficult task of combating the errors and
falsehoods with which the student of nature was every
where beset ; errors so deeply rooted, and falsehoods
so sanctioned by long toleration, that they had almost
assumed    the importance of truth and sound argu
ment.     The Idols of the tribe, the Idols of the den,
the Idols of the market, and the Idols of the theatre,
which he had to tilt against, were by no means Quix
otic windmills or empty phantoms, but stubborn and
obstinate antagonists, not easily to be overthrown ; the
dogmas of the schools were unassailable, and the false
facts of the existing philosophy held the position of
long-established data.    It is almost impossible to be
lieve, at the present day, how deeply implanted in the
minds, even of persons pretending to be votaries of
science, was the belief in fables more absurd and
monstrous than ever were penned for the amusement
of children in the wildest of nursery legends.    Fancy
the venerable old Ambrose Pare, by way of experi
ment poisoning four criminals in order to test the
virtues of the Unicorn's horn, and thereby vainly
attempting to convince his chivalric master, Henri

         PHILOSOPHY    OF  THE SIXTEENTH CENTURY.            429
Quatre, that that vaunted counterpoison was ineffi
cacious ! *
    It is really laughable to observe how timidly and
cautiously the disciples of Bacon ventured to sub
stantiate the simplest truths that happened to be at
variance with popular prejudice.            The vulgar justly
regarded it as an extraordinary feat, when they were
told of pearl-divers being able to remain under water
so long as they were said to do by wonder-telling
travellers ; but the philosophers          at once explained
   *
      The physicians of the sixteenth century believed the horn
of the Unicorn to be a universal antidote against all kinds of
poison, and assure us, that the animal used to
                                                  " dip it in the
water to purify and sweeten if ere it would drink ;" it is added,
that for the same reason other beasts would wait to see this
creature drink before them. This valuable horn was bought by
kings and nobles, who appointed officers of state to immerse it
in their cup before they drank, with full confidence in its effi
cacy as the guardian of royalty from all attempts of an assassin ;
and hence the proud position which the Unicorn now holds in
this country as one of the supporters of the royal arms. The
price at which so valuable a medicine was sold is almost incre
dible : Andrea Rocci, a physician at Florence, affirms the pound
of sixteen ounces to have been at one time dispensed in the
apothecaries' shops for 1536 crowns, when the same weight of
gold was only worth 148 crowns ! During the prevalence of
the great plague in London, no longer ago than the time of
Charles the Second, in the year of our Lord 1666 — not yet two
hundred years since — the philanthropic author of the 'Loimo-
       '
logia laments bitterly the excessive dearness of the Unicorn's
horn, which was still regarded as an infallible remedy for that
" cruell peste " ; at the same time, however, congratulating
himself as the discoverer of an admirable substitute for the
                                       "
expensive nostrum, in the shape of lively toads baked to a
fine powder."

430                  THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
how they managed to accomplish       asserting, with   it,
the utmost gravity, that they put into their mouths
a piece of sponge soaked in oil, whereby they were
enabled to breathe under water           Surely, such a piece
                                              !
of information,             as we might suppose, could only
emanate   from some wag on April-fool-day  and yet,                 ;
listen to the cautious Hooke, in his Micrographia/
                                                           '
a   work published in 1665, at the expense of the Royal
Society, and bearing their glorious motto—
                               " Nullius in verba,"
                " No argument like matter of fact              is   —
                                                                   ;"
in strict conformity   with which, he seems to have
entered upon his researches after truth —                      :
   " That use which the divers are said to make of                          it,
seems,    true, very strange but having made trial of
          if                             ;
itmyself by dipping      small piece of
                                  a       in very good     it
sallet-oyle, and putting    in my mouth, and then
                                      it
keeping my mouth and nose under water,    could not                I
find any such thing, for  was as soon out of breath
                                      I
as   if  Ihad had no sponge, nor could    fetch my             I
breath without taking water in at my mouth."
   Surely the world was astonished at this notable
discovery       !
   Such was the condition  of natural science at the
period when we find the editor of Gerarde's Herbal
                                                                        '   '
taking his early morning's walk     the sea-side, and by
stumbling  upon    remarkable production, that forms
                           a
the subject of our present chapter, and which in that
antique repertory of curiosities the reader will find
described in the following words                  —
                                                  :
     "   This   is   a   very succulent and fungous plant, of the

                    STRUCTURE OF ALCYONIDIUM.                431
thicknesse of one's thumbe ; it is of a dark yellowish
colour, and buncheth forth, on everie side with many
unequal tuberositics or knots ; whereupon Mr. Thomas
Hickes being in our companie, did fitly name it Sea
Ragged Stafie."
  Subsequent writers have appropriated to the same
substance the less heraldic designation of the " Pud
ding-weed,"         and by both these titles it is now distin
guished upon many parts of our coast.
  Little did worthy Dr. Johnson imagine, when he
pointed out to his friend Mr. Thomas Hickes the
newly-observed curiosity, what miracles lay hidden in
the semipellucid walls of that glass-like mass, or that
the " succulent and fungous plant," as he calls     wasit,
in reality    colony of living animals, — as countless
               a
from their multitudes as they are admirable in the
details of their oeconomy, imperceptible almost to the
unassisted eye, on account of their minuteness, and
yet revealing under the microscope     structure sur
                                               a
passing even the dreams of the poet, —
               " When     fancy at glance combines
                                     a
                    The wondrous and the beautiful."
  The ALCYONIDIUM GELATINOSUM, for so we must
now call this exquisite production,   extremely com
                                             is
mon on many parts of the coast, especially after              a
gale, when      frequently cast up in immense quan
               it    is
tities.   Itgenerally found attached to loose stones
               is
and shells in the form of soft, flexible, jelly-like
masses,   of very irregular shape, being rounded and
smooth upon the surface, or flattened, nodulated and
branched, sometimes attaining the length of two or

432             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
three feet, but ordinarily not more than about six
inches long (PI. VII. fig. 9). When a portion of this
gelatinous mass is placed in a small glass trough of
sea-water, multitudes      of little polyps are soon ob
served   emerging from hexagonal cells upon its sur
face, in such numbers as to cover it with a coating
resembling the finest down, and moreover so closely
set, that there seems to be hardly room           for them to
spread forth their tentacula.         In this state, indeed, it
is scarcely possible to make any observations upon
them ; but when a few only project, they become, from
their extreme delicacy and transparency, peculiarly
favourable subjects for examination under the micro
scope, and   soon reveal themselves         to be Polyzoa as
elaborately organized as those inhabiting the cells of
the Flustrae described in the last chapter.
   In this  species the tentacula       are sixteen   in num
ber, and fully two-thirds the length of the body of
the polyp ; they are, moreover, extremely slender and
flexible. When expanded, they are frequently seen to
roll up closely upon themselves, even down to their
base, the revolution     taking place either inwardly or
outwardly,   and in one or more arms at the same
time.     These   tentacles,    we need      hardly say, are
densely covered with cilia of inexpressible delicacy,
transparent, and almost as imperceptible as
                            " the fibrous cloud
       That catches but the faintest tinge of morn,
       And which the straining eye can scarcely see."
Nevertheless, the action of the tentacular cilia appears
to be entirely under the control of the animal, and

               REPRODUCTION BY GEMMULES.                433
 they are sometimes observed completely at rest.        If a
 portion of one of the arms be cut off, the ciliary action
 continues as vigorous as before, and the isolated part
 is carried about in the field of the microscope as
  though it were itself a living creature.
     The addition of a small quantity of carmine to the
  water, wherein a few of the polyps are vigorously at
 work, at once reveals the existence of powerful cur
 rents rushing along the tentacula towards the mouth,
 which occupies the same position as in Bowerbankia
 and other Polyzoa.      The stomach is not furnished
 with  a gizzard in this species.  The intestine forms a
 considerable elbow at its origin, and is short and
 wide, terminating, not, as is generally the case, near
 the tentacular ring, but about midway up the body,
 at a point opposite the base of the setae.
    During the spring season the aquariist will often be
 able to detect minute whitish points, which are some
 times exceedingly numerous, disseminated through
the whole transparent substance of the gelatinous
polyparium.     If one of these points be carefully turned
out with a needle, it is found to consist of a trans
parent sac, wherein are contained, generally, from four
to six ciliated gemmules, which, as soon      as the sac is
torn, escape and swim about with the greatest activity,
affording most interesting objects for microscopic ob
servation (PI. VII. fig. 9).
    It would be impossible to explain the variety of
motions which these gemmules are capable of exe
cuting, were it not obvious how complete is their con
trol over the action of the cilia, which are their sole
locomotive organs.      Sometimes they simply        rotate
                                               u

434                 THE AQUARIAN     NATURALIST.
upon their axis, or they tumble over and over ; or,
selecting a fixed point, they whirl round it in rapid
circles, like moths around the flame of a candle;
others creep along the bottom of the watch-glass, upon
one end, and with a waddling gait, until in a short
period all motion ceases, and they are found to have
attached themselves to the surface of the glass, where,
after the lapse of about forty-eight hours, the rudi
ments of a cell may be observed in process of forma
tion, indicating the commencement of a new colony.
    In    these     forms of Polyzoa there is moreover a
second mode of reproduction, namely by gemmation,
that     by the development of young animals and
         is,
cells in the interspaces between the mature ones              ;
and this may readily be witnessed in every specimen.
The newly-formed cells thus produced are, at first, of
a triangular shape, and the nascent polyp   to be deis
tected as  mere spot in the centre of each.
               a                             As they
grow, they advance outwardly, thrusting aside the
circumjacent cells, until they acquire the hexagonal
form of the adult, and thus enlarge the population of
the colony.  We find consequently in these wonder
fully-constructed microcosms two distinct modes by
which propagation    effected one through the agency
                          is          ;
of locomotive gemmules, which, by the aid of their
cilia, disperse the race to distant localities; and the
other      by  process of budding, whereby, as in the
                a
growth of leaves on      plant, innumerable inhabitants
                            a
are added to the          original colony, which in process of
time     becomespeopled by thousands, ay, even by
millions of exquisitely-constructed creatures, present-
ing altogether       a   scene   of life and happiness, the con-

                  INNUMERABLE PROGENY.                435
templation     of which inspires the mind with inex
pressible feelings of admiration and astonishment
at such a display of the handiwork of the Almighty,
on a production apparently so humble in the scale
of creation.
     " All acts with Him are equal  : for no more
       It costs Omnipotence to build a world,
       And set a sun amidst the firmament,
       Than mould   a dew-drop and light up its gem."

 436              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                     CHAPTER XLVII.
  POLYZOA    continued — " AVICULARIA" — "VIBRACULA,"
                                ETC.
     " There are more things in heaven and earth, Horatio,
       Than  are dreamt  of in our philosophy !"
 MANY genera of the Polyzoa are furnished with re
 markable accessory organs, that appear to be in some
 measure analogous to the
                                     " pedicellaria " of Star
fishes and Sea-urchins, which must by no means be
passed over     in silence.
   A very beautiful     Polyzoon, for example, is generally
to be found growing parasitically upon specimens of
the Flustra truncata (of which abundance may be met
with upon every shore in the north of England,
although upon the southern coasts it is comparatively
of rare occurrence), called the BUGULA AVICULARIA.
This pretty polypidom is easily recognizable : in shape
it assumes somewhat the form of a miniature pine,
or larch-fir, rising about an inch in height by a short
stem, around which the boughs are disposed rather in
a spiral    arrangement.       The root runs superficially
over the Flustra, secured by radicles.           Each cell, of
which this elegant arborescence consists, is occupied

               STRUCTURE OF AVICULARIUM.                437
 by a lively Bryozoic polyp, resembling in all essen
 tial particulars those described in the preceding
 chapters.
    The Buffula avicularia, however, has received its
 specific name from the presence of numerous remark
 able organic     bodies (avicularia) that cannot fail to
 attract the notice of all observers.      The position and
 nature of these strange objects, indeed, together with
 the peculiar and unaccountable motions which they
exhibit, have proved a source of much embarrassment
to every one who has attempted their description.
    The " avicularium " presents the strongest resem
blance, as its name would indicate, to a bird's head in
extreme miniature ;        nor  is   the comparison much
impaired, even when it is examined by powerful
magnifiers.      It is always seated on the outside and
about the middle of a cell ; and should the branch
of the Zoophyte be composed of a longitudinal series
of parallel cells, it is borne cither alternately on
each margin of the branch, or on one margin only.
When examined with a lens, it seems to consist of
three distinct principal organs : first, a basis founded
on, and incorporated with, the cell ; next, a head con
nected with the basis    ;  and in the third place, a lower
mandible, which exhibits the most lively movements.
In   quiescence,   the whole is    like the head of a bird
with the bill closed ; but when in activity, the lower
mandible opening folds back with a very wide gape
(PI. VII. fig. 10). Another joint connects the head
with the basis, whereon the neck moves as in a
socket. The bill opens and closes frequently, as if
for the purpose of swallowing some extraneous matter

438             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
too refined for detection by human sense ; like the
gentleman who was always
         " Washing his hands with invisible
                                            soap,
           In imperceptible water."
   The movements are of two kinds ; — the whole avi-
cularium sometimes bending to and fro, so that the
head occasionally reclines as far back in proportion
as when a    bird lays its head between its shoulders.
The other movement is merely the opening and closing
of the lower mandible, which gapes widely, and con
tinues thus expanded, but stationary, when the whole
Zoophyte has perished.
   These movements are frequently so lively, that,
notwithstanding      the excessive minuteness of the
Avicularia, the agitation of several at once proves very
inconvenient for microscopical observation. Though
numerous on a specimen, not more than one indi
vidual is ever met with on any single cell. The
aviculariurn is itself semitransparent ; yet, further
than has been described, no subordinate parts have
been detected.
   Here, then, is a fine subject for investigation      by
the sea-side   inquirer : — Are these Avicularia parasites
that live fixed immoveably to a certain spot ? Are
they an integral part of the Zoophyte ? What rela
tion do they bear to the cell, or to the polyp on
which they reside?        Many observers have been in
duced to conclude them to be of a parasitical nature ;
nevertheless, they are evidently integral parts of the
Zoophyte, in so far as they are constantly formed along
with new or reproducing portions ; and it would seem

      PROBABLE OFFICE OF THE     " BIRD's-IIEADS."     439
that they are not connected with the polyps, because
they are often found lively and active on the sides of
cells wherein there are none.
    There is something very comical in the energy and
earnestness with which the tiny jaws open and close,
and throw themselves about ; no cause being apparent
in general for the outrageous gapings and eccentric
jerks in which they indulge.
    While watching on one occasion a piece of Cellu-
laria avicularis under the microscope, the Rev. T.
 Hincks observed a worm pass over it and among its
branches.     It was almost immediately     firmly grasped
                 "
 by one of the Bird's-heads," and forcibly detained.
 In a short time one end of it was seized by another,
 from which, however, by its violent contortions, it
 extricated itself, but not without injury.       The first
 assailant meanwhile    kept fast hold, and soon two
 others caught the unfortunate creature at different
 points of its body. Thus it was held until securely
 pinioned ; and all its efforts to disengage itself, which
 were most vigorous, proved unavailing.         The Avicu-
 / »rin grasped the body of their victim most viciously,
 and nearly divided it.    At the end of the contest the
 worm seemed exhausted by its struggles, and scarcely
 stirred, the beaks remaining firm and motionless.
 These strange police-officers, according to Mr. Hincks,
 were very systematic in their operations, and in cap
 turing the intruder seemed to be discharging a very
 ordinary function ; so that he thinks there can be
 little doubt that it is the office of these organs to
 defend the Bryozoon from enemies, and to arrest
 creatures or substances which might injure or annoy

440           THE AQUARIAN   NATURALIST.
it.   They are well placed for such a purpose, as their
incessant gaping and swinging must enable them
readily to detect the presence of trespassers.
   Mr. Gosse, in his most useful ' Manual of Marine
                              '
Zoology for the British Isles (a work indispensable
to the sea-side visitor who wishes readily to identify
the varied productions of our coasts),     suggests   that
the   "bird's-head
                 appendages," by seizing passing
animals and holding them in their tenacious grasp
until they die, may be a means of attracting the
proper prey of the Bryozoon to the vicinity of its
mouth.    The presence of decomposing animal sub
stances  in water, he observes, invariably attracts
crowds of Infusory animalcules, which then breed
with amazing rapidity, so as to form a cloud of living
atoms around the decaying body, quite visible in the
aggregate  to the unassisted eye; and these remain
in the vicinity, playing round and round, until the
organic matter is quite consumed. A tiny Annelid,
or other animal, caught by the " bird's-head " of
a Polyzoon, and held tightly, would presently die;
and though in its own substance it would not yield
any nutriment to the captor, yet, by becoming the
centre of a crowd of busy Infusoria, multitudes of
which would constantly be drawn into the tentacular
vortex and swallowed, it would be ancillary to its
support, and the organ in question would thus play
no unimportant part in the oeconomy of the animal.
  Among so many conflicting opinions and surmises,
we must leave every microscopist to decide for him
self; we merely state the case as we find      it,
                                             simply
wishing the reader as much pleasure as we ourselves

       STRUCTURE AND FUNCTIONS OF V1BRACULA.          441
have enjoyed    in watching the ludicrous movements of
these anomalous productions.
    With regard to the development of the " Avicu-
laria," little has been made out.    At  first, they make
their appearance    as convex or hemispherical knobs,
surmounting a simple cylindrical stem, and as growth
advances progressively, the bird's-head form is gradu
ally attained.
    In some species  of Polyzoa, a moveable appendage
of a totally different description, named the " vibra-
culum," affords an interesting subject for microsco
pical observation. This consists of a hollow filament,
situated at the upper and outer angle of each cell,
filled with a fibrous contractile substance, whereby
it is enabled to effect movements of a very remark
able character.    These movements occur at irregular,
 occasionally very short, intervals.  First, the filament
 sweeps downwards over all the posterior surface of
 the polypidom within its reach, and then returning on
its former track, descends in the opposite direction.
The use of this singular apparatus is at present con
jectural, for its movements are quite independent of
the polyp, and continue for days after its death. It
has been suggested, that it may be useful, by serving
to rid the Polyzoon of intruding vagrants, and to
cleanse away accidental defilement by sweeping across
the orifice of the cell.
    Such are the principal and most instructive fea
tures of the Polyzoa met with upon our coasts ; but,
because we have selected only a few of the more
ordinary species for the illustration of their general
habits, the reader must by no means infer that the
                                            c 5

442              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
members of this class are scantily distributed, or of
trivial importance in the oeconomy of Nature ; on the
contrary, they are to be met with under innumerable
different aspects, dispersed along every coast, from
                            " the dismal shore
        Of cold and pitiless Labrador,
        Where, under the moon, upon mountains of frost,
        Full many   a mariner's bones are toss'd,"
to the regions of the tropics and the torrid zone. The
 Corals themselves are not more abundant, neither
have they left more lasting proofs           of the universality
 of their existence
           " In the dark backward and abysm of time."
From the earliest appearance of life upon our globe, —
from the Silurian rocks to the most modern deposits,
     " Through antediluvian mists    as thick as London fog,"
the skeletons of the Polyzoa present themselves                in
 rich profusion, testifying that, although "men were
 none
       "  to see, much less appreciate such a spectacle,
 the cilia worked as vigorously upon the arms of ex
 tinct races,    as  on the tentacula of the Flustrae and
 Bowerbankiae in our own aquaria.

                  TUNICATA.    — ASCIDIANS.               443
                   CHAPTER          XLVIII.
                  TUNICATA.       ASCIDIANS.
                                " I find thee apt ;
        And duller shouldst   thou  be than the fat weed
        That roots itself in ease on Lethe's wharf."
THE scene is altered     !  Who that     saw the sun go down
last evening would have dreamed of such a change as
this?
         " Shapes rose from the ocean to
                                            greet him ;
             They curtain'd his bed :
           Gold-tinged, like the eye of the topaz   ;
             Blush-colour'd, blood-red ;
           Such blue as the amethyst hides
              In the depths of her breast : —
           And thus in the bosom of beauty
              He sank to his rest I"
Then, all was calm and cheerful, and the peaceful sea,
extended like a mirror, only served to multiply the
glories of the parting day ; hut now, the hardy fisher
 man, with sail half-hoisted,       hastens hack to port to
seek a shelter from the coming storm.                 The wind
 is up, and the dark heaving swell rolls heavily upon
 the beach, curling in sheets of foam, which, as they
 hurry onwards, seem to try to shun the maddening

444              THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
fury of the waves behind.           Here let us stand awhile,
and contemplate the vast uproar ; — look at the long
array of foam-crowned billows stretching far to sea
ward, over which the shrieking gulls, blending their
wild screams with the howling blast, wheel to and
fro, as though in ecstasy, or ride triumphant            o'er the
yeasty waves !
   See ! where is now the rocky reef o'er which we
clambered yesterday? — far out from land, like a
black streak among the wallowing seas; its hidden
ridges only traceable by yonder line of breakers,
rising like a wall amidst the eddying water, which,
as in desperation, hurls itself upon the craggy ob
stacle that dares to interrupt its seemingly resistless
course:   —
   •'
      And it bubbles and seethes, and it hisses and roars,
      As when fire is with water commix'd and contending     ;
      And the spray of its wrath to the welkin up-soars,
      And flood upon flood hurries on, never ending ;
      And, as  with the swell of the far thunder-boom,
      Rushes roaringly forth from the heart of the gloom*."
   A    bad day this      for the naturalist     ! do you say ?
By no    means ; this furious storm         will save us an in
finity of trouble.      Let us wait awhile till the retreating
tide enables      us to gather up the spoils these waves
have reft from       their deep hiding in the Laminarian
   *  " Und  es  wallet und siedet und brauset und zischt,
        Wie wenn Wasser mit Feuer sich mengt,
        Bis zum Ilimmel spritzet der dampfende Gischt
        Und Well' auf Well ohn' Ende drangt,
        Und wie mit des fernen Donners Getose
        Eutstiirzt es brullend dem finstern Schoosse."

                         FORMS OF SIMPLE ASCIDIANS.                         445
zone ; and, trust me               !    we shall reap a most abundant
harvest         :   —
         " Suave, man magno turbantibus aequoia ventis
           E terra magnum alterius spectare laborem ! "
            — as              will take the liberty of translating            it,
       is is,
that                     we
— It   very agreeable to sit still here upon the shore,
and watch the sea doing our work for us, especially
while we enjoy   little luncheon.
                              a
   And now the tide      ebbing, and the beach strewn
                                   is
with all sorts of objects left by the retreating waves                         :
— let us to our task, and see what next presents itself
for observation for we may rest assured, the products
                          ;
of deep water will be met with here. And first, these
large ASCIDIANS claim our notice.
   Rarely the dredge drawn up from any sea-bed at
                    is
all prolific in submarine creatures, without containing
few or many irregularly-shaped leathery bags affixed
to sea-weed, rock, or shell, by one extremity, or by
one side, free at the other, and presenting two more
or less prominent orifices, from which, on the slightest
pressure, sea-water      ejected with great force.
                                  is                 On
the sea-shore, when the tide       out, we find similar
                                                 is
organisms attached to the under surface of stones, or
lodged in crevices of rocks. They are variously, often
splendidly coloured, but otherwise are unattractive, or
even repulsive in their aspect.   These creatures are
ASCIDI^, properly so called. Numbers of them are
often found clustering amongst tangles, like bunches
of some strange semitransparent fruit; others are
enclosed in   gelatinous case*, which
                         a              often en              is
  *
       The word Ascidian           is   derived from aaKos (askos),   a   leather
bag,   or wine-skin.

446             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
crusted    with stones   and shells, or decorated    with
parasitical, though ornamental plumes of corallines,
that not unfrequently form valuable additions to the
stock of the aquarium.
   When we consider the fixed and immoveable con
dition of one of these helpless creatures, and its abso
lute deprivation of all prehensile instruments adapted
to seize prey, it is by no means evident at first sight
how it is able to subsist, or secure a supply of nourish
ment adequate to its support : neither is the structure
of the mouth itself, nor the strange position which it
occupies, at all calculated to lessen the surprise of the
naturalist who enters upon a consideration of this part
of their oeconomy . The mouth, in fact, is quite destitute
of lips, or other extensible parts, and situated, not at
the exterior of the body, but at the very bottom of a
capacious bag enclosed in the interior of the creature.
It  is obvious, then, that whatever materials are used
as  aliment must be brought into the body with the
water required for respiration ; but, even when thus
introduced, the process by which they are conveyed
to the mouth still requires explanation.         A truly
miraculous     apparatus is provided for this purpose.
The whole surface of the respiratory chamber is
covered over    with multitudes of vibratile and closely-
set cilia, arranged in millions, which by their united
action cause currents in the water, all of which flow
in continuous streams directly towards the mouth.
It is sometimes possible, in very young and trans
lucent specimens, by the aid of a good microscope,
to witness the magnificent scene afforded by these
cilia when in vigorous action : —

          ORGANIZATION OF SIMPLE ASCIDIANS.                    447
                         " salientia viscera possis
          Et perlucentes   numerare   in pectore fibras."
The effect upon the eye is that of delicately-toothed
oval wheels revolving continually from left to right ;
but the cilia themselves are very much closer than the
apparent teeth, the illusion being caused by a fanning
motion transmitted along the ciliary lines, producing
the appearance of waves, each wave representing a
tooth of the supposed wheel.
   Whatever little substances,          alive or inanimate, the
entering water brings into the branchial sac, if not
rejected as unsuitable, lodge somewhere on the respi
ratory surface, along which each particle travels hori
zontally, with a steady, slow course, to the front of
the cavity, where it reaches a downward stream of
similar  materials, which hurries            onward,      receiving
accessions from both sides, until at last the whole is
brought into the gaping mouth.
    The food of these creatures, indeed, appears to
consist entirely of vegetable organisms, principally
Desmidia, Diatotnacea, and other microscopic forms
which abound in their native element, and are con
stantly poured in shoals down their throats by the
amazing machinery we have just been describing.
    Impassive and rudely shaped as the Ascidians seem,
 a close examination      shows that some        of them are by
 no means destitute of instruments of sensation ; and
 to some species the possession of eyes has been attri
 buted by observers of well-established reputation ;
 these  consist   of six or eight red specks arranged
 round each of the two external orifices of the sac-like
 envelope, and which are stated by some anatomists to

448                THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
present in their internal structure a set of lenses, and
all the parts necessary for distinct vision.   It is cer
tainly hard to conjecture of what use eyes can be to
creatures so circumstanced            ;   and yet, who knows of
what indolent enjoyment they may be capable               ?   Do
they
         " In   coral bowers love to lie,
           And hear the surges roll above,
           And, through the waters, view on high
           The proud ships sail, and gay clouds move ?"
We     leave the reader to his own speculations upon this
subject.
   The next great puzzle that suggests itself relative
to the oeconomy of the Ascidian Mollusca is the mode
in which they are propagated and dispersed through
out the seas ; for surely it would be difficult to point
out any race of beings less adapted by their habits
and sedentary character to the dissemination of their
species.  They might lay eggs, it is true, and those
eggs, consigned to the tender mercies of the waves,
might be washed about hither and thither, the sport
of chance ; yet even thus the helpless progeny would
find it difficult to gain a resting-place, were they,
when hatched, as limbless and as senseless as their
parents. Here comes another prodigy ; for, wondrous
to relate, although the parent is as still and motion
less as the dull weed to which we have compared               it,
the young Ascidian at its birth presents itself in the
shape      of anactive, seeing, wriggling, swimming
thing, well able to disport itself, and choose at will a
resting-place where to attach itself for life.
  For one of the earliest accounts of the extraordinary

                  METAMORPHOSIS OF
                                              " SPINULA."             449
metamorphosis whereby this is effected, we are in
debted to Sir John Dalyell; and consequently, al
though later researches have since filled up the out
lines of his description with many elaborate details,
we shall lay before the reader the original sketch,
which may well serve as a model for the observant
naturalist : —
     " Having obtained     quantity of heterogeneous
                                  a
collections from the sea about the middle of summer,"
says   Sir   J.   Dalyell,
                             "I   discovered for the first time a
minute  reddish animal, nearly a line in length, re
sembling a common pin, such as is used in apparel,
which was endowed with considerable      activity. It
disappeared suddenly without exciting much surprise ;
however, for the purpose of recognition, a rude draw
ing had been made of                  it,   and   it   was denominated
    Spinula,' from its peculiar shape.
'
     " Exactly five years afterwards,                  a   similar animal
again made its appearance and      was with some sur
                                       ;      it
prise that found this to be precisely on the same day
           I
of the year, the 19th of July. The coincidence being
remarkable, demanded more sedulous attention.                          I
acknowledge that    felt rather disposed to consider
                         I
the object an early stage of some foliaceous or car-
nose Zoophyte, than as pertaining to anything                        else,
providing     were not itself
             it                perfect animal."
                                        a
  The   " Spinula
                  " bears the strongest resemblance to
the shape of     common tadpole.
                     a                                     A  large head,
almost opaque, with a black internal                       speck, declines
into an attenuated flattened tail, by the aid of which
it wriggles through the water. There was in another
tank   awhole colony of these Spinula, and many were

450            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
preserved, correct delineations      having been made of
several of them.       They all disappeared just as the
former had done ; but this time it was observed that
various minute circular spots made their appearance,
not unlike those which generally indicate originating
Zoophytes, and these remained on the internal surface
of the vessels wherein the SpinuUe had been confined.
    In  subsequent observations, the SpinuUe having
continued healthy, active, and vigorous for a certain
time, some of them were seen with their heads applied
to the bottom of the vessel, the tail being upright
and stationary,     as  if they were enjoying a state of
perfect repose in this inverted erect position.     Mean
time, the front may be observed to be enlarging ; it
seems hollow    ; the margin at the same time dividing
into angular projections; and incipient adhesion to
 the glass ensues.       Now the animal is no longer
tranquil; its violent struggles testify that it is un
 wittingly or unwillingly arrested; its exertions are
 vehement to be free.       At this juncture the vibrations
 of the tail become so rapid, that, like those of a cord
 in tension, its figure is hardly discernible by the eye ;
 at length quiescence follows, some diffusing matter
 escapes from the margin of the flattened head, and
 the Spinula is rooted irreversibly to the spot.          A
 dark, solid nucleus is substituted for the adhering
 head ; the tail has vanished ; a transparent marginal
 diffusion surrounds the front where        applied to the
 glass, towards the circumference of which are distri
 buted numerous flattened radicles diverging from the
 nucleus as from a centre (PI. VIII. fig. 4).
    As the nucleus consolidates, two nipples           with

       CYNTHIA AGGREGATA. — CYNTHIA AMPULLA.           451
 quadrangular orifices rise from the surface, while the
radicles below, gradually attenuating, disappear from
view.     A   complete metamorphosis has been accom
 plished;  — the  Spinula has become changed into an
 Ascidian resembling the Cynthia aggregata, so fre
 quently met with upon our coasts.
    The CYNTHIA AGGREGATA is the most common of
 any of the tribes occupying our seas. Almost every
 substance becomes readily, and often profusely in
 vested by it. Vegetables, zoophytes, wood, shells, rocks
 and stones serve alike    for its abode, and upon these it
 fixes itself, either solitarily, or associated in groups.
 It is an elegant, and, at all events, a harmless occu
 pant of the aquarium, requiring but little attention
 except  during the summer months, at which season,
 whoever is desirous of tracing the history of the
 Spinulae and their strange metamorphosis, should
.attentively watch for their appearance.       There is an
                                       "
old Spanish proverb, which says, Lo que no acaece
en un afio, acaece en un rato," — What does not
happen in a year may happen in an instant; and
accordingly, during the months of June and July, a
few specimens      of these Ascidians, kept apart in small
vessels,   should from time      to time be carefully ex
amined with a lens, and their offspring transferred
to watch-glasses       for the    purpose   of microscopic
 examination.
    The CYNTHIA AMPULLA, " The Woolly Ascidia," un
like the generality of the race, is not affixed by the base
to any foreign substance; it is free. Its dwelling is
in deep water, among sand at the bottom of the sea,
and it is usually caught by the lines of the fishermen;

452            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
though not, as it would seem, from seizing the bait.
The animal is round, from four to four and a half
inches in length, and of a reddish-brown colour, the
interior of the orifice being scarlet. Whether the
posterior extremity is sunk amidst the sand in its
natural state, and the other end disengaged above,
has not been ascertained.     In  captivity it always lies
horizontally, without any effort either to penetrate
downwards, or to shift its position.
   The ASCIDIA INTESTINALIS      (PI. VIII. fig. 5) bears
some resemblance to a Florence oil-flask, with two
necks of nearly equal dimensions, and is occasionally
met with three or four inches in length ; its appear
ance is translucent, soft, and delicate.    The ordinary
habitation of this species is between the valves of old
oyster-shells, wherein a group of five or six may some
times be discovered closely packed together.       But by
rending such double shells asunder, the Ascidue are
often much injured; for they arc generally firmly
adherent by a large portion of their sides to both
valves, instead of being fixed by the base, as is gene
rally the case in other species. Laceration or abrasion
is always fatal to the Ascidian.
   The young are nearly transparent, and consequently
well adapted for microscopic observation.         Almost
the whole     alimentary canal is frequently visible,
occupied by the muddy mass from which subsistence
is eliminated.


                               PLATE VIII.
Fig. 1. BOTRYLLUS          ............................          454
Fig. 2. AMABOUCIUM.             a.  A single individual  removed
          from its cell and magnified           ..............   455
Fig. 3. PYEOSOMA           ............................          459
Fig. 4. ASCIDIA ..............................                   445
Fig. 5. ASCTDIA IWTESTINALIS ....................                452
Fig. 6. SALP.Z:.       a. Solitary individual,        b. A chain
          of aggregated            Salpae.   c. Chain of embryo
          Salpac derived from a            ..................    461
Fig. 7. PHOLAS     DACTYLUS          ......................      486
Fig. 8. SOLEN
                            •
                 s 11,i (j i \ ..........................        480
Fig. 9. PECTEN ..............................                    466
Fig. 10. APLTSIA ............................                    497
Fig. 11. BuccnfUM ............................                   500
Fig. 12. PUBPUBA ............................                    500
Fig. 13. CHITON ..............................                   505
Fig. 14. Eotw ..............................                     509
Fig. 15. DOBIS ..............................                    506
Fig. 16. EGGS     OP   CUTTLE-FISH ..................            504
Fig. 17. AMPHIOXTJS ..........................                   514
Fig. 18. ECHENEIS REUOBA ....................                    514
Fig. 19. SYSGNATHTO ....... ..................
                                         ,                       519
Fig. 20. STNGNATHUS HIPPOCAMPUS                 ..............   519

PLATE VIII.

                          COMPOUND       ASCIDIANS.              453
                            CHAPTER XLIX.
                         COMPOUND ASCIDIANS.
        - Millions  and millions on these banks he views,
          Thick  as the stars      of night."
IT   is a pleasant evening, and we                will again resume
our strolls upon the beach.
            "How     calm, how beautiful comes on
              The stilly hour, when storms are gone        ;
               When warring winds have died away,
              And clouds beneath the glancing ray
              Melt  i ill•,  and leave the earth and sea
                                                     "
              Sleeping in bright tranquillity      !
   If, when thus walking upon the sea-shore about the
line of low -water mark, our readers will take the
trouble to turn over large stones, or look carefully
under projecting eaves of rock, they are almost sure
to   find  — occasionally in            considerable     abundance —
translucent jelly-like             masses,    sometimes nearly uni
form in tint, sometimes beautifully variegated, and
very frequently ornamented as if with stars of gor
geous device, encrusting the surface of the stone,
or depending from it in icicle-like projections.

454              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
           " These  islets on the living rock
             Are of a thousand shapes,
         And Nature, with her various tints,
         Diversifies their thousand forms :
             For some are green, like moss ;
         Some ruddier tinged, or grey or silver white ;
         And some, like yellow lichens, glow with gold   ;
          Some sparkle sparry radiance to the sun,
             As gush their fountains up."
These are COMPOUND ASCIDIANS,                of which, for the
guidance of the young aquariist, we have figured one
or two examples (PI. VIII. figs. 1 &2). A tangle, or
broad-leaved Fucus, torn from its rocky bed, or ga
thered on the sands, where the waves have cast it
after a storm, will often show us similar bodies, mostly
star-figured, investing its stalks, winding among the
intricacies of its roots, or clothing, with a glairy coat,
the expanse of its foliated extremities.            If some of
these gelatinous masses be removed alive in a vessel of
sea-water, and placed in our aquarium, we find them
lie there apparently as apathetic as sponges, giving few
signs of vitality beyond a slight pouting-out of sundry
tube-like membranes surrounding apertures which
slowly become visible on their surface.           A closer and
more microscopic examination, however, teaches us
that they are by no means so inanimate as they ap
pear, but that, at all the apertures above alluded to,
currents of water are in rapid motion : streams ejected
and whirlpools rushing in, indicate, that however torpid
these creatures may seem to ordinary observation,           all
the machinery of life, respiratory wheels and circu
latory pumps, are hard at work, concealed in their
inmost recesses.

                 COMPOSITION OF COLONY.              455
    In  the course of our examination,    especially if a
little dissection be employed, we find that it is not a
single animal that lies before us, but a multitude of
beings, all bound together by common and vital ties.
Each star is found to be a family ; each group of stars
a community.        Communities are linked together in
systems,    and  systems are combined       into masses.
Every member of the commonwealth            has its  own
peculiar duties, but shares also in operations which
relate to the existence and well-being of the entire
organism.      There is great diversity of arrangement
observable    in different races, all of which, close in
spection shows to be extremely beautiful ; indeed,
few creatures among the lower forms of animal life
exhibit such exquisite and kaleidoscopic patterns as
those which we see displayed in the surfaces of these
jelly-like substances.     The individual animals com
posing one of these elegant colonies (PI. VIII. fig.2,a),
notwithstanding their minute size, are found, when
examined anatomically, to be constructed in every
respect upon the same plan as the Simple Ascidians
described in the last chapter; each member of the
community, however extensive, being complete in
itself, although organically conjoined with its neigh
 bours by means of the common fleshy substance in
which they are all imbedded ; but this is only during
the adult period of their existence, for they, like the
 preceding, undergo a metamorphosis prior to their
 final fixation, which, to the aquariist, will afford
 abundant scope for exercising his talents of observa
 tion.    We will try to lay before him what is at pre
 sent known concerning this portion of their history.

 456            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
    When the egg of one of these Compound Ascidians
 is first hatched, the young progeny is seen to resemble
 almost exactly a newly-born tadpole, which soon
 extends its tail, and begins to swim about by the aid
 of its undulatory movements.         The tail is propor
 tionately large, and, like the body, is composed of
 two distinct parts, the one superficial, colourless, and
of a gelatinous texture, the other central and yellow.
These larvae, after swimming about with an active
 wriggling motion for a few hours, attach themselves
 to the surface of some foreign object ; and if disturbed
from their position, set off and swim about as before,
 until they meet with     a suitable situation.   Having
 done so, their activity ceases, and they become per
 manently fixed, their size at this period being about
that of the head of a very small pin. They appear to
affix themselves    to their resting-place by means of
some     minute  suckers situated upon their anterior
extremity.
    "When once    attached, the tadpole-like larva soon
loses all power of locomotion, and quickly undergoes
a strange kind of change in its configuration ; its body
becomes wide and sac-like     ; its long tail, which pre
viously played so important a part, is found entirely
reduced to its gelatinous or tegumentary portion ; and
speedily even this, becoming more and more trans
parent, withers, and is finally detached, or falls away
in shreds,    and totally disappears.     These changes
ordinarily occur within the space of from ten to
twelve hours ; and if the larvae are examined towards
the close of the first few days of their sedentary ex
istence, they will be seen to present the appearance

  HOW COMPOUND ASCIDIANS       BECOME ASSOCIATED. 457
and structure of the Simple Ascidians       described in
the last chapter.
   The Compound Ascidians during the earliest period
of their development are thus seen to be solitary,
swimming about like tadpoles in search of a suitable
locality whereon to fix themselves, while subsequently
they are found under various forms, grouped together
in colonies composed of very numerous individuals.
The next question, therefoi'e, which presents itself for
solution   is relative  to the manner in which these
groups are established, and how the numerous in
dividuals thus associated become arranged after a
pattern so decided and constant in each species.
   Various hypotheses have been framed by different
naturalists to account for this remarkable pheno
menon.      In dissecting the Botrylli (PI. VIII. fig. 1),
M. Savigny remarked a multitude of little mem
branous tubes, slightly dilated at their extremities,
surrounding the margins of the stellate groups ; but,
as his observations were confined to specimens pre
served in spirits, this indefatigable observer was
unable to do more than indicate the existence of such
minute filamentary processes.      Milne-Edwards, how
ever, while prosecuting his examinations on living
animals, sufficiently transparent for the purpose, soon
convinced himself that each of these marginal append
ages is in reality a little tubercle, or rather bud, de
veloped upon the surface of the abdominal portion of
the adult Ascidian, which, as it becomes gradually
elongated, assumes the appearance of a tube having
its free extremity closed ; whilst, by its opposite end,
it remains in communication with the animal from
                                              x

458              THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
which it sprouted, insomuch that the circulating fluids
of the latter penetrate freely into the new offshoot,
wherein a very perceptible circulation is apparent. As
these marginal tubes extend into the common tegu-
mentary tissue wherein the original founder of the
colony is imbedded, they divide regularly into several
branches, each of which becomes             gradually dilated,
and soon exhibits in its interior the rudiments of a
new animal, in every respect resembling the other
Ascidians that inhabit the common mass. Ultimately
the communication between the parent and the newly-
formed individual becomes obliterated ; but still the
progeny derived from the same branch, remaining
united by their pedicles, present that determinate
stellate arrangement which is characteristic of their
race.
   It  is really wonderful to find,     in animals thus appa
rently helpless and incapable, a structure so complex
as that presented by these minute beings : doubtless,
senseless and apathetic as they seem, they enjoy
existence,    and have some dim perceptions of the
external world ; at least,
      " To taste the freshness of heaven's breath, and feel
        That light is pleasant, and the sunbeam warm."
At all    events,  in their embryo and wandering con
dition, they evidently select localities adapted to the
exigences of the future colony, that seems to flourish
 best  in agitated water, —
          " On pebbly bonks that Neptune laves
            With measured surges loud and deep,
            Where the dark cliff bends o'er the wave? ,
            And wild the winds of autumn sweep."

                            PYHOSOMA.                              459
They are, however, not all of them of such sedentary
habits ; in one remarkable genus, sometimes, though
rarely, met with upon our coasts, the Pyrosoma
 (PI.   VIII.
            fig. 3), or, as the word is literally traus-
lateable, the "body of flame," each seeming indi
vidual     in fact,
          is,          little colony of Ascidians, every
                        a
one lodged in its own cell, distinct, and yet in
separably connected with its fellows.  Collected into
the figure of     gelatinous cylinder, open at one
                    a
extremity and closed at the other, these strangely
compound beings float in the seas like meteors of
this lower world, shedding around them          halo of   a
light, brilliant indeed, but surpassed in beauty by the
gorgeous colours which     serves to disclose colours
                                it                        ;
that come and go at pleasure, glorying, as      were,         it
in their subtle changes, passing rapidly from lively          a
red to aurora, to orange, to green, and to azure-blue               ;
— magic scene, compelling more than the admira
  a
tion of every beholder      :—
                                      "the fair   star,
           That gems the glittering coronet of morn,
           Sheds not  light so mild, so powerful."
                        a
   "Only imagine,"          says     Humboldt,       "the superb
spectacle which we enjoyed some days ago, when, in
the evening, from seven to eleven o'clock,         con        a
tinuous band of those living globes of fire passed near
our vessel, some of them giving out, while swimming
beneath the surface of the sea,    circle of light of
                                        a                           a
foot and      half in diameter,
                a                         by
                                      which we could
distinguish, at    depth of fifteen feet, tunnies and
                    a
other fishes, which have followed us for several
weeks."

  460           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
     Mr. Thompson has given an interesting account
  of the same     species: — "It  presents itself to the
  astonished voyager under the appearance of thick
 bars of metal of about half a foot in length, ignited
 to whiteness, scattered over the surface of the ocean.
  Some assume the luminous state, and continue so as
 long as they remain in view; while in others the
 luminosity declines and disappears.         The greater
 number of these apparently incandescent masses pass
 close to the sides of the vessel, or follow in her wake,
 their phosphorescence being called into activity by
 coming in contact with her prow, as that of such as
 are more distant appears    to be by the conflict of the
 waves.    The light appears to pervade the whole sub
 stance of the animal, and, when examined near at
hand, varies in intensity and in shade, often exhi
biting a beautiful phosphorescence, of a bluish or
greenish tinge, like a pale sapphire or aquamarine, as
it gradually fades away. Agitation or friction renews
it  as long as the Pyrosome continues to exhibit signs
of life ; but it is most vivid when the animal is first
drawn up, and at length can scarcely be called forth
by the rudest treatment."
    We   can  scarcely promise our readers an oppor
tunity of viewing the Pyrosome as an inmate of the
aquarium, at least in these latitudes.     In the Medi
terranean, however, it is common enough, and many
a happy hour have we spent in the contemplation of
its glorious effulgence.

                                  SALIVK.                       461
                           CHAPTER L.
                                  SALFJS.
     " Glorious Sea !   This earth has not a plain
       So boundless or so beautiful as thine !
       The eagle's vision cannot take it in :
       The lightning's wing, too weak to sweep ita     space,
       Sinks half-way o'er     it,
                               like wearied bird
                                       a           :
       It the mirror of the stars, where all
           is
       Their hosts within the concave firmament,
       Gay marching to the music of the spheres,
       Can see themselves at once."
DURING calm weather in the summer-time,                  the sea
side visitor, who     is   in the habit of making boat-excur
sions to    little distance from the shore, may often
            a
see gliding past him lengthy chains of most trans
lucent delicacy, the progress of which through the
water on    bright day may sometimes be recognized
             a
by the rainbow-tints that seem to play around them,
although, otherwise,      their presence would hardly be
suspected,      even in the clearest water. On carefully
capturing       one of these       elegant productions of the
ocean, and examining          it   in a glass vessel filled with
its native element,      found, to the surprise of the
                        it   is
beholder, to be entirely made up of numerous distinct
animals united together, after various patterns in

462            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
different species, all of which are extremely beautiful      :
some form a lengthened ribbon, composed of nume
rous individuals     placed side by side, and hence
arranged transversely; others again form chains, in
which each component member is stretched in the
direction    of its length, and attached to the one
before   and the one behind      it;  while some, like the
specimen we have        figured   (PI. VIII.  fig. 6, b), are
agglutinated, as it were, in two parallel rows.
   When taken out of the water, the links of the
chain   fall  asunder, owing to the several distinct
 animals of which it is composed losing their power
of adhesion ; and broken-up chains, and separated
members of such communities, are not unfrequently
met with in seas where the Salpae are numerous.
   But other Salpae are also to be found, very dissimilar
in form from the preceding (PI. VIII. fig. 6, a), which
are never united together in chains, and might easily
be looked tipon as belonging to a distinct race, but
which have been proved by recent discoveries to be
 in reality the parents and the progeny of the con
catenated individuals ; the offspring of these solitary
 Salpae being united together in long ribbons, such as
we have already described      (PI.  VIII. fig. 6, c), which
in their turn give birth to isolated animals ; in other
words, the chained Salpae do not produce chained
Salpae, but solitary    Salpae, which   in their turn give
birth, not to solitary beings, but chained ; conse
quently a Salpa-mother is not like its daughter, or
its own mother, but resembles its sister, its grand
daughter, and its grandmother.          These remarkable
animals are most diflicult subjects for observation :

            ORGANIZATION AND HABITS OF SALPjE.                      463
whilst swimming in their native element, indeed,
such is their transparency, that, without profiting by
every change of light, their very existence might
easily escape the notice of an incautious observer,
and it is only after long and most careful study, that
their beautiful structure reveals itself to the asto
nished      naturalist     :   attentive examination,          however,
shows       that   their       delicate   bodies   are       translucent
cylinders,      at both ends, each cylinder being
               open
made up of two membranes, whereof the outer one is
tough, and possessed of little vitality, while the in
ternal, of softer consistence, is eminently contractile.
The apertures, situated at each extremity of the body,
allow free passage to the surrounding element, which
permeates      the animal from end to end                ;   and as one
of the terminal orifices is provided with a valve, that,
while it allows free admission to the entering water,
prevents its return through the same channel, it                      is,
by the contractions of the muscular walls of the
body, ejected in forcible streams out of the hinder
orifice, thus giving an impulse whereby the creature
is enabled to propel itself through the water. In the
long, chained       forms        that     swim   through      the calm
water with regular undulatory movements, the in
dividuals of which they are composed appear to
contract and expand simultaneously, keeping time
like   aregiment of soldiers marching each chain     ;
seems consequently to be      single animal, and hence
                                     a
the    sailors often speak of them familiarly as sea-
serpents.
     We have already alluded to the crystalline trans
parency which         renders the Salpae almost undistin

464                THE AQUARIAN                NATURALIST.
guishable, even in a small vessel of the most limpid
water   :   —
                                . . . .
                                          " the fibrous cloud,
            That catches but the faintest tinge of even,
            And which the straining eye can hardly seize,
            When melting into eastern twilight's shadow,
            Is scarce   so   thin,   so   slight."
They are, nevertheless, exceedingly beautiful objects,
and, in a favourable light, splendidly iridescent : —
              " Mille trahens varios adverso sole colores."
Their hues of rainbow-light glow like the gleams of
an air-bubble in the sunshine, presenting tints which
scarcely find comparison on earth; and during the
night, many of them are, under certain circumstances,
brilliantly phosphoric; nevertheless, they appear to
emit their phosphorescent flame only when the water
is agitated, or when they come in contact with op
posing bodies.   In his observations on one of these
creatures, Mr. Beaufort says, — " On holding a Salpa in
my hand, and gently pressing                         it,
                                    faint flame seemed     a
to pervade the ^dlole inside, and on each projecting
point there seemed to stand     little globule of very
                                                     a
vivid light.       On increasing the pressure, its brilliancy
likewise increased for a few moments, then gradually
declined for some time, as exhausted by the exertion.
                                            if
It may have been fancy, but at the time    was con                 I
vinced that   gave out
                   it    sensible degree of warmth
                                           a
to the hand."       The latter observation, says Dr. John
ston,   is   probably not fanciful, but real for Humboldt      ;
has proved that the Salpae, as well as the Pyrosomes,
when preserved in     bottle, make the temperature of
                               a
the water rise nearly one Centigrade degree.

             PECTEN
                         " THE   SCALLOP-SHELL."      465
                        CHAPTER LI.
        " What print of fairy feet is here,
          On Neptune's smooth and yellow sands ?
          What midnight elves in airy dance,
          Beneath the moonbeams' trembling glance,
          Have chased the waves, uncheck'd by fear ?
          Whoe'er they were, they fled from morn ;
          For now, all silent and forlorn
          These tide-forsaken  sands appear."
IT by no      means     follows, that because   the marine
aquarium has but recently found a place in the draw
ing-room of the amateur naturalist, or vindicated for
itself a claim to be considered as ancillary to the
pursuits of the scientific inquirer, it is a novelty
in the world, as rows of oyster-tubs on every fish
monger's stall abundantly testify ; neither are the
contents of those wooden piscina without numerous
admirers, anxious to discuss the merits of their native
occupants, and enjoy the luxury of more familiar
acquaintance with the interior of the well-known
bivalves, so far at least as to be able to estimate with
critical gusto the relative merits of such epicurean
delicacies. Further than this, we believe the public
                                                i  5

466             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
interest   does not generally extend.           Sooth    to say,
there is little in the external appearance of an oyster
to kindle enthusiastic admiration.            It is anything
hut a cheerful companion; and were all its conchi-
ferous brethren equally motionless and apathetic,
their presence in the aquarium could perhaps very
well be dispensed with.
   Fortunately, however, this is by no means the
case ; on the contrary, many of the Bivalve Mollusca
are exceedingly vivacious, and from the        vivid beauty of
their colours, calculated to adorn, as well as to en
liven, the scene of their operations ; insomuch that we
feel ourselves tempted to select at least two or three
examples illustrative of their oeconomy.
   The PECTEN or " SCALLOP-SHELL " (PI. VIII. fig. 9)
derives its Latin name from the longitudinal mark
ings with which its surface is covered having some
resemblance to the teeth of a comb, that is to say,
of certain kinds of combs, which, in obedience to
the revolutions of fashion, at intervals make their
appearance.      Their colours are often extremely beau
tiful; and from this circumstance,          as well     as from
the elegance of their shape, they have always been
favourite subjects both for painting and sculpture.
Neither are they without their heraldic significance : —
         " For the scallop shows in a coat of arms,
             That, of the bearer's line,
           Some one in former days hath been
             To Santiago's shrine."
   " The                      says Fuller,
                                              "
            scallop-shell,"                      (I mean the
nethermost of them, because most concave and most
capacious,)   was often cup and dish to the         pilgrims in

                   STRUCTURE OF THE SCALLOP.                      467
Palestine,       and   thereupon,     their   arms they always
charged therewith*."
    It   is,   however, rather with the internal           oeconomy
of these bivalve races, than with their external deco
rations, that we wish at present to occupy the atten
tion of our readers, and therefore claim indulgence
for  a brief period, while we endeavour to illustrate
the principal features of their organization.
   On separating the two valves (PI. VIII. fig.    a),           9,
we at once perceive that each of them       lined withis
a  thin and transparent membrane, which, like the
shells, encloses the body of the mollusk, in the same
way that the leaves of    book are contained between
                                a
its covers. These lining membranes of the shell con
stitute the mantle, the circumference of which      in           is
  * The
         scallop-shell appears to have legitimately belonged
only to pilgrims to the celebrated shrine of St. James at
Compostella      in Spain,   as may be gleaned    from the following
legend — :
   The ship in which the body of St. James was conveyed to
its last resting-place happening to draw near the coast during
the performance of certain nuptial festivities, the bridegroom's
horse becoming ungovernable, plunged into the sea, and, toge
ther with its rider, sunk; but at the moment the ship was pass
ing by, rose again, close along-side of it. There were several
miracles in this case.   The first was, that the sea bore upon its
waves the horse and horseman as
                                     if
                                     it  had been firm land, after
not having drowned them when they were so long under water.
The second was, that the wind, which was driving the ship at
full speed into port, suddenly fell, and left motionless
                                                 it      while
                                                             ;
the third, and most remarkable, was, that both the garments of
the knight and the trappings of his horse came out of the sea
                         which were afterwards enjoined to
covered with scallop-shells,
be worn in commemoration of the event.

468               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
this case quite free and unconnected, except in the
immediate vicinity of the hinge.            The borders of the
mantle are thickened, and surrounded with a delicate
fringe of retractile filaments     ;   they, moreover, present
a decided glandular appearance, and secrete colouring
matter of various tints, similar to those seen upon
the exterior of the shell       ; the glandular margins of
the mantle form, in fact, the apparatus whereby the
extension, as well as the ornamentation, of the shell
is effected.
     Between the layers of the mantle are seen the
branchia or gills, always consisting of four delicate
 leaves, composed      of parallel fibres of exquisite struc
 ture, attached to the circumference of the body by
their fixed extremities, but elsewhere perfectly free,
 so as to float loosely in the water, which, when the
 shells are slightly opened,         finds free admission to
 them.
     The mouth is situated between the two inner
 hi in i n:- of the branchiae, in a kind of hood, formed by
the union of the gills in the vicinity of the hinge : it
 is a wide orifice, without any kind of dental appa
 ratus, but bordered by four thin and membranous
 lips, a pair of which is situated on each side of the
 aperture.
     The valves are opened by the elasticity of a com
 pressible ligament interposed between them, and are
 closed by the contraction of a powerful muscle, that
 passes directly from one to the other, while around
 this the rest of the body is disposed.           In the neigh
 bourhood of the oral aperture is placed a retractile
 fleshy organ, which, although        in the Scallop it exhibits

                       CILIATED BRANCHIAE.               469
very rudimentary dimensions, expands in other spe
cies to such a size as richly to merit the name of the
" foot," whereby it is generally designated,        and which
we shall see, in a subsequent chapter, playing a very
important part in the oeconomy of these animals.
  Whoever for a moment reflects upon the arrange
ment of the breathing apparatus in these bivalves,
and the position of their mouth, consisting, as it does,
of a simple orifice, unprovided with any prehensile
organs, must perceive that there are two circum
stances connected with the oeconomy of a conchiferous
mollusk, and those not of secondary importance, by
no means easily accounted for.   It           is,
                                       in the first
                                          of these
place, absolutely essential to the existence
animals that the element in immediate contact with
the respiratory surfaces should be renewed as rapidly
as it becomes deteriorated, or suffocation would in
evitably result from the inadequate supply of freshly
aerated water to secure which, especially when the
                  ;
valves are shut, no adequate provision seems to exist.
Secondly,    itnatural to inquire, how
                  is                       food conis
veyed into the mouth    for, in an animal, quite de
                             ?
prived of any means of seizing prey, or even of pro
truding any part of its body beyond the margins of
its abode in search of provision,        not easy to
                                         it   is
imagine by what procedure      due supply of nutri
                                     a
ment     secured.
        is         Wonderful indeed     the elaborate
                                              is
mechanism employed to effect the double purpose of
renewing the respired fluid and feeding the helpless
inhabitants of these shells   Every filament of the
                                 !
branchial  fringe, when examined under     powerful a
 microscope,     found to be covered with countless
                  is

 470             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 cilia in constant vibration, causing by their united
 efforts powerful and rapid currents, which, sweeping
 over the entire surface of the gills, hurry towards the
 mouth whatever floating animalcules or nutritious
 particles happen to come within the limits of their
 action, and thus bring streams of nutritive molecules
 to the very aperture through which they are cou-
 veyed into the stomach, — the lips and labial fringes
 acting as sentinels to admit or refuse entrance, as the
 matter supplied is of a wholesome or pernicious cha
 racter. So energetic, in fact, is the ciliary movement
 over the whole extent of the branchial organs, that if
 any portion of the gills be cut off with a pair of
 scissors,  it immediately swims       away,   and   continues
 to row itself in a given direction as long as the cilia
 upon its surface continue their mysterious move
 ments. The tenuity of the individual cilia is inde
 scribable, —
            "Fine  as Arachne's thread or gossamer;"
 while, such is the velocity of their movements, that
it is only by their effect upon the surrounding water
that they are at all distinguishable, —
      " Like that spun vapour when 'tis pearl'd with dew."
Around the margin of the mantle is arranged a row
of greenish, metallic-looking lustrous beads, emulating
in their brilliancy so many gems, and indeed by no
means unlike those precious stones familiarly known
as
    " cat's-eye diamonds." The nature of these glow
ing specks remained completely problematical until
Poli, after much elaborate research, pronounced them
to be visual organs, and conferred upon the animal

                  FACULTY OF LOCOMOTION.                 471
the name of ' Argus/ the gentleman so bountifully
furnished with eyes, that some of them were always
awake*; and certainly, if eyes they be, they are
placed in the only position in which they could be
made available as optical instruments.
   Some of the Scallops are able, by a series of
spasmodic Sittings, to jump about vigorously ; nay,
if we are to believe some          authors, they will occa
sionally leap out of the pot in order to escape from
being boiled, a feat which they accomplish by a sud
den strong effort to close their valves after the shells
have been opened to the utmost.             When deserted by
the tide, it is said they will tumble forward in this
way, until they have regained the water.                Some
writers even assert, that by flapping their valves with
a very quick motion, they can rise up from their beds
in the deep, and navigate the surface, having one
shell raised, and disposed so as to catch the breeze
in its concavity, while the other serves as a boatf.
How far this account may be true we know not,
although we think it probable the sailing part of it is
an exaggeration ; there can, however, be no doubt of
the locomotive capabilities of the Pecten, at least in
    • " Centum luminibus cinctum caput Argus habebat,
        Inde Buls vicibus capiebant bina quietem ;
        Caetera servabant, atque in stations manebant."
         t " So the emperor Caligula,
             That triumph'd o'er the British sea,
             Engaged his legions in great bustles,
             With periwinkles, prawns and mussels,
             And led his troops with furious gallops
             To charge whole regiments of scallops."

472            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
the earlier stages of its growth.      The Rev. David
Landsborough writes thus :     —  " We observed on a
sunny September day, in a pool of sea-water left on
 Stevenston strand (Ayrshire) by the ebbing tide, what
we at first thought some of the scaly brood at play.
On close investigation, however, we found it was the
fry of Pecten opercularis, skipping quite nimbly
through the pool. Their motion was rapid and zig
 zag, very like that of ducks in a sunny blink rejoicing
 in the prospect of rain.     They seemed to have the
 power of darting like an arrow through the water, by
the sudden opening and closing of their valves.      One
jerk carried them     some yards, and then by another
jerk they were off in a moment on a different tack.
We doubt not, that when full-grown, they engage in
similar amusements ; though, as Pectens of greater
gravity, they may choose to romp unseen and play
their gambols in the deep."
   Many bivalve mollusca possess the power of fasten
ing themselves to foreign objects by means of tena
cious threads, formed by the agency of their " foot ;"
and as the Scallop is not a very favourable subject for
enabling the young naturalist to study this part of
 their (Economy, we should recommend the addition
of two or three specimens of the common mussel
 (Mytilus edulis) to the stock of the aquarium, as, by
observing them under favourable circumstances, the
reader will be enabled readily to witness their mode
of proceeding whilst employed in the construction of
these elegant anchors.     Opening their valves, the foot
will be seen to be protruded with various strains and
stretches, and gradually thrust out, until the elongation

                      FABRICATION          OF BYSStJS.            473
is carried to the desired extent, sometimes fully two
inches.   It is next employed in feeling or testing all
the objects within reach, moving backwards and for
wards, or to the right and left, apparently to ascertain
the security of the intended holdings. The point of the
foot is then settled, and retained for a short time on
the chosen spot, when it is again suddenly removed
and immediately withdrawn entirely within the shell,
leaving behind a thread that reaches from the point
selected to the base         of the foot.       By many repetitions
of this operation, carried on patiently day after day
(for not above four or five threads are produced in
the twenty-four hours), and by attaching the disc-like
extremities of the threads to different places, the
mussel at last completes its mooring and secures a
safe anchorage.
  The machinery whereby the byssus is manufac
tured, or spun, as some people erroneously term                      it,
very simple.   Along the centre of the foot, which                is is
at once distinguishable by its powers of elongation
and contraction, and, in the edible mussel, by its
deep violet colour, there             is   an open furrow, capable
of being converted, at the will of the animal, into                  a
closed canal, along which the glutinous secretion,
whereof the threads are formed, flows. This   fur            is
nished   by  glandular structure, situated near the
              a
base of the foot.  The glutinous material      thus          is
moulded into the shape of     thread, and speedily
                                            a
hardens into strong, tenacious filament so that, in
                  a                                      ;
accordance with the number produced will of course
be the strength of the attachment.
  The Pecten          is   likewise    capable     of manufacturing

474•           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
threads of byssus, very closely resembling those of
the mussel, only much shorter, and of a coarser tex
ture, whereby the creature fixes itself to any sub
stance that may be in its neighbourhood, whether it
be a stone, a piece  of coral, or any other solid object ;
and after storms they are not unfrequently found cast
up among the rocks, where there were none the day
before, and yet fixed by their threads as securely as
if they had occupied the situation for months. Their
byssus   is produced exactly    in the same manner as
that of the mussel    ; only the organ with which they
manufacture it is not so long, and has a wider grooTe,
on which account the threads are necessarily thicker
and shorter.
    According to Dioscorides, whose dictum for many
centuries received implicit assent among the disciples
 of learned antiquity, " the Escallop is engendered of
the dew and air," as indeed was supposed to be the
 case with bivalves generally.     Fortunately, in these
 days they seem to have changed their manners in
 this respect, and the aquariist may now observe them
 produced from eggs, which, owing to their brilliant
 orange colour, are very conspicuously, visible.   These
 eggs, when first laid, are received into one or other
 of the pairs of branchial laminae, which become much
 swollen by their presence. It is in this situation that
 they are hatched, and give birth to a progeny totally
 dissimilar  from their parents, although already en
 closed in a pair of shells.    They are indeed, on their
 first emergence   from the egg, extremely active, and
 swim vigorously about in all directions by means of
 two prolongations derived from the mantle, which

                     HABITS OF LIMA TENERA.                           475
are     everted     and covered      with vibratile            cilia, thus
enabling the little creatures for a time to roam freely
about in search of a locality adapted to their habits.
  Nearly related to the Scallop is a very beautiful
bivalve, the Lima tenera, remarkable    not only on
account of the elegance of its appearance, but from
the circumstance that it builds for itself a nest, or
rather bower, of which the Rev. David Landsborough
gives an interesting description.  The Lima differs
from the Scallop in the circumstance that its fragile
shell does not nearly cover the mollusk — the most
delicate part of which, a beautiful orange fringe-work,
is altogether external.    " Had it no additional pro
tection, the half-exposed animal would be a tempt
ing mouthful, quite a bonne bouche to some prowling
haddock or whiting ; but ' He who tempers the wind
to the shorn lamb/ teaches this little creature, which
He has so elegantly formed, curious arts of self-pre
servation.  It is not contented with hiding itself
among the loose coral, for the first rude wave might
lay it naked and bare : it becomes a marine mason,
and builds a house, or nest            :   it   chooses to dwell        in
a coral grotto       ;   but, in constructing        this grotto, it
shows that        it is not only   a mason,     but a rope-spinner,
and a tapestry-weaver, and a plasterer.  Were it
only a mason, it would be no easy matter to cause
the polymorphous coral to cohere. Cordage, then, is
necessary to bind together the angular fragments, and
this cordage it spins ; but how it spins            it,
                                            one of the    is
secrets   of the deep. By some means or another, though
it   has no hand,        it                  this yarn
                              contrives to intertwine
among the numerous bits of coral, so as firmly to bind

  476           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
  a  handful of them together.     Externally, this habita
  tion is rough, and therefore better fitted to elude, or
  to ward off enemies;      but though rough externally,
 within all is smooth and lubricous, for the fine yarn is
 woven into a lining of tapestry, and the interstices are
 filled up with fine slime, so that it is smooth as plaster-
                                             '
 work, not unlike the patent ' Intonaco of my excel
 lent, ingenious friend,   Mrs. Marshall.     Not being in
 tended, however,   like her valuable composition, to keep
 out damp, or to bid defiance to fire, while the inter
 twining cordage keeps the coral walls together, the
 fine tapestry, mixed with smooth and moist plaster,
 hides all asperities, so that there is nothing to injure
 the delicate appendages of the enclosed animal."
     When the Lima is taken out of its nest, and put
into a jar of sea-water, it is one of the most graceful
marine animals imaginable.         The shell is beautiful ;
and the orange fringe-work outside of the shell is
highly ornamental.        Instead of being sluggish, it
swims with great vigour, its mode of swimming being
the same as that of the Scallop.        It opens its valves,
and, suddenly shutting them, expels the water, so
that it is impelled onwards and upwards ; and, when
the impulse thus given is spent, it repeats the opera
tion, and thus moves on by a succession of jumps.
When moving through the water in this way, the
reddish fringe-work is like the tail of a fiery comet.
The filaments of the fringe are probably useful in
catching prey. They are very easily broken off, and
it is remarkable that they seem to live for many
hours after they are detached from the body, swim
ming about like so many worms.

          SOLEN SILIQUA
                              " THE  RAZOR-SHELL."      477
                     CHAPTER LIT.
                        " Barest thou, Cassius, now
        Leap in with me into this angry flood,
        And swim to yonder point P    Upon the word,
                     I      I
        Accoutred as was, plunged in."
 WE   need scarcely  inform thee, gentle reader, that we
 regard ourselves as being ardently devoted to the
 study of Natural History, and gifted with a certain
 amount   of enthusiasm       in the prosecution     of our
favourite science  ;  were  it not  so, we should not be
now employed in penning these pages for thy instruc
tion and amusement. It is not by any means our
intention to underrate, in thy presence, our own
prowess and self-devotion, and thus diminish our
claims to be thy exemplar, as well as thy guide ; but
there are limits to human endurance, which it behoves
the prudent naturalist to commiserate, and, however
indomitable may be thy own ardour and perseverance,
we plead for a moment the cause of thy weaker
brethren, whose notions of naturalizing         may not be
quite commensurate with thine own.
   We happened some years ago to enjoy the pleasure
of a visit to the late Sir John Ross, the hero of the

 478             THE AQ.UARIAN  NATURALIST.
 North Pole, at that time but recently returned from
 his celebrated expedition.     One evening, just before
 retiring to rest, we chanced, innocently enough, to
 express a wish to procure some Razor-shells   — muskins,
 as   they are there called, and were informed that the
 nearest point where they were obtainable was on
 some sand-banks     in the vicinity of Glenluce ; " how
 ever," said Sir John, "I will consult the almanac as to
 the state of the tides (the muskins being only obtain
 able at very low water), and shall be happy to drive
 you over." Of course, after expressing our obligations,
 we went to our chamber, and were soon soundly
 asleep,  in blissful ignorance of the fate we had so
inadvertently brought upon ourselves.       Our slumbers
 did not last long ; about half-past two in the morning
 we were hailed by the stentorian voice of Sir John at
 our bed-side, informing us that he found it would     l>e
low-water in the bay of Luce at half-past five o'clock
— that he had ordered the pony-chaise to be at the
door at three, and that there was only half an hour at
our disposal to dress and get some breakfast.
    I  cannot say that the morning was particularly
inviting for a ride, or that I looked upon the prospect
before us with very pleasurable emotions. The month
of November is at the best hut ill-adapted to a na
turalizing excursion; and, on the present occasion,
not only was it intensely dark, but a Scotch mist
hung around us like a London fog, through which
the snow, as it came down in broad flakes, descended
in silent profusion.     However, as Sir John said that
was of no consequence, off we drove, my teeth chat
tering with cold, as if in a fit of the ague ; but it was

                EXCURSION WITH SIR JOHN ROSS.               479
of no use uttering any complaint in presence of such
a weather-proof        companion, fresh as an iceberg from
the polar seas.
    After a rather chilly drive, we arrived at length
upon the shores of the bay of Luce, and at once pro
ceeded to knock up the fishermen who were to be our
guides ; after some difficulty, this was accomplished,
and we then set off in search of the sea-side, the
scene, as     I  thought, of our operations.      The air was
now beginning to grow clearer, and the mist had
become less dense, so that objects were         faintly distin
guishable ;      at least, the white line of surf proclaimed
that we were on the sea-beach,              and we were pre
paring,
           " So soon  as heaven's window show'd a light,"
to set to work.
    " There      are no muskins       here,  my good fellow,"
exclaimed the thrice-hardy           veteran ; " they are over
yonder."
                " Where ?" I inquired. " Why,      there," said
Captain Ross, pointing right out to sea — on
                                                  "      a sand
bank half a mile out — you will see it just now, when
 it gets   a little lighter."
    "0 I !    suppose, then, we are waiting for a      boat?"
    " Boat    !  my dear fellow ; here are no boats — WE
 MUST WADE IT !          It won't reach up to your arm-pits :
take that gun upon your shoulder ; it will help to
 steady you."
    " But, Sir John,        I shall be catching my death of
 cold," I expostulated.
    " Cold ! — nonsense ; no one ever caught cold in
 salt water yet. Here, come along ! take hold of me
 — mind you don't stumble."

 480           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
    It was quite obvious there was no retreating ; so,
 with desperate determination, in we went — Sir John
 in front, and a fisherman on each side of me — deeper
 and deeper still — until fairly up to our necks ; and,
 holding the guns at arm's length above water, we at
 last crossed the strait, and gained the sand-bank on
 the other side, where, dripping with wet, and half-
 frozen,  I mentally resolved never to associate my
 self in future with men who, like my Arctic friend,
 seemed to consider a bath at the temperature    of 32°
 Fahrenheit quite warm and comfortable.
    In order to understand our subsequent proceedings,
 it will be necessary briefly to narrate the habits of
the Razor-shells, the objects of our expedition.
    Unlike the Scallops, described in the last chapter,
these creatures   burrow in the sand to the depth of a
foot and a half or two feet, and are in general only to
be found near the low-water mark of spring tides, or
 upon sand-banks occasionally uncovered during the
lowest ebb, the place of their retreat being usually
indicated by perforations shaped like keyholes, corre
sponding to the form of the extremities of the siphons
or tubes through which they respire.    The position of
the shell is always nearly vertical, and the animals,
unless when disturbed, are usually found occupying a
position within a few inches of the surface.       The
manner of catching them is as follows : — The fisher
man, armed with a slender iron rod, furnished with a
barbed head resembling a harpoon, treads carefully
backwards over the beach, left bare by the retreating
tide, and finds the holes in which the Solen lodges,
by watching the little jet of water thrown out by the

       MODE OF     FISHING FOR THE RAZOR-SHELL.             481
animal, when, being alarmed by the shaking of the
sand, it contracts its body*. Guided by the orifice
through which the water is thus ejected, he plunges
his rod into the sand, and generally succeeds in
piercing  the mollusk with          its  barbed point, and
dragging   it from its concealment ; but, should he
fail in his first attempt, he well knows that to try
again would be unavailing, for the creature instantly
works its way down to such a depth as to render
pursuit hopeless.
   A still simpler mode of obtaining them, without
injuring the animal, is by putting a little salt upon
their holes. The salt, penetrating the perforation in
the sand, reaches and irritates the extremities of the
siphons, when the mollusk, annoyed by the applica
tion, immediately mounts to the surface; by watch
ing the moment,        the vigilant aquariist may then
seize the opportunity — and the Solen, if he can catch
it; but, unless very quick in his movements, those of
the  " Razor " will be   the quickest, and, once aware of
the danger, the sensible shell-fish will not rise again,
but submits patiently to the indignity of being salted
alive rather than run the risk of being caught and
roasted, or else cut up for bait.
    Nothing is more wonderfully illustrative of the
perfection of structure conferred upon these humble
creatures, than      the  machinery whereby they are
enabled to burrow beneath the compact, and, at the
same time, loose material, wherein they dwell, a feat
   •
     The Solen, or " Razor-sheath," derives its scientific name
from the Greek word \t)v, a pipe, or squirt ; a term by no
means inappropriate either to its shape or habits.
                                                   Y

 482           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 that may be readily witnessed ; for, if the Solen be
 taken out of its hole and placed upon the sand, it
 immediately prepares to rebury itself, by the assist
ance    of its enormous " foot," which it at once
 stretches forth to its full length.    The extremity of
 the foot when     thus   protruded  assumes  a flattened
form, tapering to a sharp point, and it is by means of
 this dagger-shaped instrument that the animal pro
ceeds to perforate the sand.       Driving the extremity
of this singular      weapon   to  a considerable  depth,
 with the greatest facility, and then bending the end
into the shape of a hook, it acquires a sufficient pur
chase    to enable  it to drag its shell into a vertical
position, and this being accomplished, all that remains
to be done is to bury itself still more deeply ; for this
purpose the foot is once more elongated and forced
perpendicularly downwards to the extent of half, or
two-thirds   of the length of the shell, and, as the
organ retains its dagger-shape while this is effected,
it encounters but little resistance. Now commences
the most remarkable part of the operation : the foot
all on a sudden completely changes its shape ; with
out at all diminishing in length, instead of being
flat, it becomes at once round, or cylindrical, and
then suddenly swells out near its extremity into a
great fleshy globe, thus assuming a contour resembling
that of the clapper of a bell. By means of the fleshy
globe thus imbedded firmly in the sand, a secure hold
is obtained ; when, by shortening that portion of the
foot which is situated between the globular dila
tation and the shell, the latter is forcibly dragged
downwards;     and   thus, by a repetition of the same

                   USES OF THE
                                 "   FOOT."            483
process, the creature manages to bury itself with a
rapidity that is quite astonishing.
  The manner in which it reascends towards the sur
face is precisely the reverse of the preceding opera
tion: the foot becomes dilated into a bulb, close
beneath the inferior end of the shell, and there,
taking    firm hold of the surrounding sand, the Solen
           a
is enabled, by forcibly elongating the organ, to push
itself upwards.
   These movements of the foot may be readily wit
nessed when the Razor-shell has been dug up from its
hiding-place, particularly that whereby it is enabled
to bury itself in the sand ; for, if held up in the
fingers, it thrusts out its leg, and performs all the
necessary evolutions, whilst making fruitless attempts
to save itself after its usual plan of escape.
   Other species of bivalves, when inclined for a walk,
leisurely protrude this remarkable locomotive organ,
and, extending it to the utmost, apply it cautiously
to some solid support, and then, by contracting    as  it,
with  painful effort, pull themselves along the foot
       a                                           ;
isnow again extended in the same cautious manner,
and the shell again dragged forward to the point of
fixture.             has happily compared this mode
               Reaumur
of progression to that of      man, who, having laid
                                 a
himself flat on the ground, attempts to move onward
by tbft sole aid of one arm he stretches the arm out,
                            ;
to take hold of some object which he can just reach,
and thus drags himself along the difference between
                                 :
the action of the foot of the bivalve, and that of the
arm, consisting only in the circumstance that, in the
former, the shortening     effected by
                          is            general con
                                              a
                                                  Y2

484             THE AQUARIAN    NATURALIST.
traction of the whole organ       ; and in the latter, by
muscles    bending a joint.     In  a few rare instances
the movement is retrograde : the animal plants the
point of its foot against the clay or mud in the imme
diate vicinity of the opening of its shell, and then, by
elongating the organ, pushes itself backwards ; in the
same way that a sailor shoves       off a boat, by leaning
against the oar which he has planted in the sand.
   When the bend in the foot is considerable, forming
a sort of elbow, as is the case in the Cockle for example,
the creature is projected forward by a succession of
short leaps ; it stretches out the leg as far as possible,
and    by a sudden movement, similar to that of a
spring let loose, is enabled to skip about with viva
city.    In fine, so varied and multifarious are the per
formances of this versatile instrument, that, although
a slight shiver creeps over us at the recollection, we
still look back with pleasurable reminiscences at our
visit to the Bay of Luce in company with the gallant
discoverer of the North Magnetic Pole, on which
occasion we for the first time had an opportunity of
studying them to advantage.

                     PHOLAS DACTYLUS.                      485
                     CHAPTER         LIII.
                     PHOLAS DACTYLUS.
     " His bowre is at the bottom of the maine,
       Within a mighty rock, 'gainst which doe rave
       The roaring billows in their proud disdaine :
       Chafed with the angry working of tho wave,
       Therein is eaten out a hollow cave,
       That seems as mason's work with engine keen,
       Had long while labour'd it to engrave : —
       There was his wonne."
 WHOEVER takes the slightest interest in the geological
history of this planet, must have been impressed with
the conviction, derived from unmistakeable           evidence,
that important changes are continually in progress
between the relative situations of ocean and of the
dry land ; that the most ancient continents have been
at one time or another submerged beneath the waves ;
and that what is now terra firma, by slow, and almost
imperceptible submission to its mighty conqueror the
sea, is on many parts      of our coast yielding ground,
inch by inch, before the incessant attacks of so un
relenting an antagonist.        The proud and tempest-
beaten cliff that beetles o'er the surge, slowly under
mined by unseen and unsuspected agency, at length
comes toppling down, encumbering the shore with

486                 THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
its vast ruins, apparently still imperishable, but which
melt away in time, as though they were but frag
ments of an iceberg.
  Rare, and sometimes welcome to the sight of the
poor sailor, weary and tempest-tost, is the casual
appearance        of a drifting tree, which tells him generally
that land is somewhere near ; and yet, when we reflect
what endless stores of floating timber every year roll
down from the wild forest regions of both hemi
spheres,     it    an interesting question how the
                  becomes
wide ocean is kept clear from the accumulation of
such obstructions.
  Various are the agents silently at work, whose
energies  are specially devoted to this important
service.         The Pholades and Saxicavae mine the solid
rock     as efficiently     as the sappers       employed at Se-
bastopol;         while
                   floating timber, vanishing more
speedily, proclaims how easily, and yet how well, the
" gimlet-mouth'd Teredo" does its duty. The truth
is,   thatwhole army of miners
             a                      organized for the
                                            is
above purpose, which, under the general name of
Pholas, have, from a very remote period, excited the
attention of the natural historian, and even at the
present day are very puzzling              subjects for contem
plation.
   The word Pholas          is   derived from the Greek &>,>\,<.
and signifies simply anything              that   is   hidden   ;   the
name having been given to this genus of shell-fish
from their custom of making for themselves holes in
mud, clay, or other substances, and living in them
hidden       from     observation   ;   habits    which,mayas
readily be supposed,         necessitate important modified-

        BORING-BIVALVES     STRUCTURE OF SIPHONS.     487
  tions in the structure of the animal.       Throughout
  the various races of Oysters and Scallops, as we have
  already had an opportunity of remarking, the margins
  of the mantle being free and unattached, admission is
  at all times afforded to the surrounding water ; and
 were creatures so circumstanced to be buried in sand
 or mud, they would speedily have their delicately-
 ciliated  branchial  fringes so completely clogged up
 that they would immediately perish.
     In the boring bivalves, therefore, the mantle no
 longer offers the same simple arrangement ; but the
 two sides becoming gradually more and more united
 along their edges, the bodies of these mollusks are
 by degrees entirely enclosed, as though shut up in a
 sac, so that the external element is denied admis
 sion, except by two membranous tubes, sometimes
 of considerable length, called siphons, through which
 the water is conveyed to the gills, and effete materials
 are expelled into the surrounding ocean.
     We at once perceive the use of the tubular arrange
ment here referred to : — had the mantle been open,
like that of the Scallop, respiration would have been
impossible under the circumstances in which these
creatures live ; but, by the modification of structure
thus    provided, their tubes being prolonged to the
mouth of the excavation wherein they reside, water
is freely admitted to the branchiae through one of
the passages so formed, and again returned through
the other in a vitiated condition.    Whoever watches
one of these siphoniferous bivalves in a living state,
will readily appreciate the importance of this siphonal
apparatus, especially if minute floating particles are

488             THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
 diffused through the water wherein the creatures are
 confined. It will then be seen that powerful currents
are perpetually rushing through the extremities of
each siphon, caused by the rapid action           of cilia placed
within ; and that the streams thus produced not only
form a provision for constantly changing the water in
 which the branchiae are immersed, but forcibly convey
floating molecules to the aperture of the mouth,
which occupies a position very similar to that of the
 Scallop, described in a preceding page, and thus
 supplies abundance of nutritive materials, that could,
in animals so destitute of prehensile organs, have
 been procured by no other contrivance.               The whole
 arrangement, indeed, very closely resembles what we
 have already witnessed in the Ascidian races ; only,
 instead of being merely agglutinated to foreign sub
 stances, the Pholades excavate for themselves a sub
terranean residence, wherein, living a life of comfort
able indolence, they pass      their time, and
             . ..." in their pearly shells, at ease attend
          Moist nutriment."
    The abodes of the Pholas dactylus are generally in
black, sandy mud, and their colonies are readily
discovered by treading heavily, or striking the beach
with a stick, whereupon the alarmed inmates spirt
water from their burrows ; and on digging at the
places thus indicated, the animals are easily exposed,
each holding firmly to the interior of its den by
means    of its great foot, which cannot be withdrawii
into the shell, and resembles a piece of translucent ice.
    Placed in a vessel of sea-water, the smaller spcci-

                 HOW THE ROCK IS PERFORATED.                 489
  mens immediately protrude their siphons, and explore
  the surrounding bottom with them in a remarkably
  worm-like manner.           The branchial      currents  com
  mence instantly, and never cease unless the creatures
  are disturbed.       The force and volume of these cur
  rents are quite marvellous to those who witness them
 for the first time.        The inhalant orifice is trumpet-
 shaped, and guarded with cirrhi ; the exhalant is a
 little contracted, and projects beyond the other.
      The manner in which the stone- borers, " Stein-
 bohrers," as the Germans call them, excavate their
 abodes, has long been a subject          of interesting debate,
 and is even yet by no means satisfactorily settled.          So
 completely was this part of their history unintelligible
 to the earlier naturalists, that Rondeletius was abso
 lutely led to suppose, that the sea-water lodged in
 cavities in the rocks was itself converted into Pholades
 and other saxicavous mollusca         !
                                         *  and even the more
 philosophical Reaumur was driven to the belief that
 they entered the earth while it was yet in a soft state,
 which afterwards hardened by degrees around them.
 Various other explanations of this phenomenon have
subsequently been at different times suggested, but
scarcely with better success.            Some have supposed
that the creatures bore by the aid of a solvent liquor ;
others that their excavations are effected by file-like
rasps, situated upon         the exterior of the shell, and
worked by its semi-rotatory movements, produced by
appropriate muscles.          Of late, various other theories
    •  " Ego crediderim in saxorum cavernulis, vel vi vel natura
factis aquae marinas appulau procreari, atque in concham verti,
quae cavitatis  sive foraminis figuram servat."

490             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
have been propounded      : the borings have been ascribed
by an ingenious      author to the action of currents of
water directed against the parts to be worn away by
the ceaseless play of ciliary action ; these currents
acting not so much by their force as by their constant
and long-continued operation, just as the drops from
the cave will iu time wear a basin in the stone-floor
underneath    ;  while, according to Mr. Albany Han
cock, the foot and mantle of these boring mollnsks
are crowded     with siliceous particles, so as to repre
sent rubbing- discs of extraordinary power, which act
upon the rock like glass- or sand-paper, wearing it
away by prolonged and continual attrition.
    The opinions relative to the manner in which the
Pholades excavate, however, may all be classed under
five conclusions: — 1st, that the boring Mollusca
perforate by means of the rotation of the valves of
their shells, which serve as augers ; 2nd, that the holes
are made by rasping, effected by siliceous particles
studding the surface of certain parts of the animals ;
3rd, that    currents    of water, set in action by the
motions of vibratile cilia, are the agents ; 4th, that
the animal secretes a chemical solvent, — an acid
 which dissolves the substance into which it bores         ;
 5th, that the combined action of a secreted       solvent,
 and rasping by the valves, effects the perforations.
 " Of all these theories," says Professor Forbes, " the
 chemical one, so far as a secreted solvent is con
 cerned, bears least examination.          The substances
 perforated arc wood, limestones, hard and soft, argil
 laceous shales, clays, sandstone ; and, in the case of a
 Pholas in the magnificent collection of Mr. Cuming,

              PHOSPHORESCENCE           OF PHOLADES.             491
wax ; so that the notion of a menstruum that would
act indifferently upon all these substances, at pre        is,
sent at least, purely hypothetical.
  Some of these bivalves are gifted with   phospho     a
rescent faculty, and amongst these the Pholas holds
                                Pliny            " The phospho
a  conspicuous         place.            says,
rescent fluid     is           in them, that
                       so abundant              shines     it
about the mouths of those who eat Dactyli, shines
on their hands, and even on their clothes, from drops
falling thereon;" and according to Reaumur, the
Pholas secretes the fluid in sufficient abundance to
answer this account.    He removed the animal from
the shell, and on placing       in the dark, the light
                                    it
appeared to emanate from every part of the surface,
and on tearing    to pieces the internal parts seemed
                   it
to be equally luminous —        :
    " Take him, and cut him out in little stars,
      And he will make the face of heaven so fine,
      That all the world will be in love with night."
   After having handled this Pholas, Reaumur, at
first by accident and then on purpose, washed his
fingers in    glass of water, which then appeared in
              a
the dark  " as    vessel of milk would do in the full
                  a
light of noon." The light thus emitted      of bluish is    a
•white colour, and      stronger in proportion as the
                          is
animal   is   fresh and lively, more especially during the
summer season.
  What can be the use of this remarkable brilliancy
to animals lying concealed in deep holes, which they
have bored in clay or rocks, and for what purpose
they illuminate their gloomy cells,       difficult to
                                                 it   is

492            THE AQUARIAN      NATURALIST.
conjecture ; unless, as Dr. Johnston suggests, it be to
allure their prey, and perhaps to see
                " by their  own radiant light."
   These Conchifera,      like most others of our own
coasts, are usually full of spawn in the spring or at
the commencement of summer, — a period which, as
relates to oysters, is kept sacred, as being the " close
season." Previous to their expulsion, the young may
be seen within a pellicle of jelly that encloses them,
opening and shutting their tiny valves, and moving
on their axes in a rotatory manner, as though prac
tising their evolutions preparatory to their entrance
upon active existence.        We use the term advisedly,
although perhaps some of our readers may smile at
the notion of activity in their case ; the fact, how
ever, is as we state it ; for no sooner do the young
bivalves escape from their gelatinous cradles, than they
begin to swim about in countless multitudes, rolling,
tumbling, and darting to and fro, by means of ciliary
paddles, with which they are at this time abundantly
furnished, like so many insane steam-boats. Even the
very oyster gambols and frisks in its new-born enjoy
ment of life ; the mussels roam about at freedom ;
the stone-boring Fholas and other excavating tribes
set  off like schoolboys just released from school, in
search of distant rocks, wherein to locate their nu
merous colonies ; and all disperse themselves as in
stinct leads or chance directs, in search of fitting
residence ; some of them even swimming to consider
able distances before they lose the locomotive faculty,
and settle down for life.

     PRODIGIOUS FERTILITY     OF THE CONCHIFERA.       493
   The fertility of this class    is prodigious.     Leeu-
wenhoek reckoned that there were ten millions of
embryo young produced by a single oyster.           Baster
reduces the number to a hundred thousand ; and the
reduction  might be allowed, had not Poli added his
authority for its more abundant fruitfulness.        He is
more precise : he says,    " that an oyster may contain
one million two hundred        thousand   eggs, and   may
give birth to the contents of twelve thousand barrels."
Well    might   the   reverend   author   of one of the
'                Treatises '          his              that
  Bridgewater                express        opinion,
" Providence   has thus taken care that the demands
made upon them to gratify the appetite     of his creature
man shall not annihilate the race."      Such, indeed, is
the fecundity of the Conchifera, that they would in
the course of a short century fill our shallow lakes
and rivers, and raise to the sea's surface the banks on
its hollow bed, were it not for the numerous checks
that oppose their undue multiplication, and retain in
equipoise the balance between their prolific increase
and the destruction that awaits them.

494               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
                         CHAPTER LIV.
                     GASTEROPOD MOLLUSCA.
   -•
      0, what an   endlesae   worke have  I in hand,
      To count the Sea's abundant progeny,
      Whose iVm i i'n 11 seede farre passeth those in land,
      And also those which wonne in th' azure sky !
      For much more eath to tell the starres on hy,
      All be they endlesse seeme in estimation,
      Then to recount the Sea's posterity ;
      So fertile be the floods in generation,
      So huge their numbers, and so numberlesse their nation."
PARADOXICAL         as the assertion may appear,           it is un
doubtedly consistent with general experience, that
the beauties of Creation are by popular prejudice
only deemed estimable in proportion to their rarity ;
or, in other        words,     that whatever is common            or
abundant, is on that very account contemptible and
unworthy of notice. With a certain class of persons,
the student of natural history, who, to their apprehen
sion, does nothing but
                    " sigh for Nature's vermin,"
comes     in for rather more than a due share of pity
and charitable compassion.             Poor fellow !

                         A REMONSTRANCE.                     495
         " He will
                     pore by the hour
           O'er a weed or a flower,
   Or the Slugs that come crawling out after a shower.
   Black-Beetles and Bumble-Bees— Blue-bottle Flies,
   And Moths, are of no small account in his eyes ;
   An ' Industrious Flea ' he 'd by no means despise ;
   While an old    '
                     Daddy-long-legs,' whose long legs and thighs
   Pass the common in shape, or in colour or size,
   He is wont to consider an absolute prize."
Nay, sometimes the commiseration of our friends
assumes a tone of still severer reproof, and with
admirable thriftiness we are reminded that, —
               " Tis  better learn to save one's clothes,
                   Than cherish Moths that eat them."
Eh    bien !
                 " trahit sua quemque              "
                                          voluptas —
Every one to his liking! and as unfortunately we
have nothing but snails and slugs to talk about in the
present chapter, we patiently submit our shoulders to
the castigation of those who, despising such low
pursuits, strive to rhyme us into better manners, and
thus
                        " ballad us out  o' tune."
    Now, we must confess, that, in the perverscness of
 our imagination, we are in the habit of regarding
these so-called
                      " vermin "     as  very elegant and inter
 esting objects ; nay, we fearlessly uphold, that some of
 them are so conspicuously beautiful as to be amongst
the most ornamental inmates of the aquarium, and
 doubtless, did space allow us, could enumerate a very
 lengthy list of examples confirmatory of this asser
 tion; — the gorgeous Sea-ear*, with its painted plumes
                                •
                                  Haliotis.

    496           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
    and iridescent shell ; the top-shaped Trochus, circled
    round with hoops of crimson flame; the sculptured
   Rissoa    and the stately Murex; Scalaria with its
   winding flight of stairs ; and Turrilella, like a moving
   spire of matchless tracery carried upon a living
   church; Cypraa clad in porcelain, and a hundred
   more, which almost every heach will furnish.
      The "foot," which constitutes the distinguishing
   feature of these GASTEROPODS, is a very remarkable
  organ; its structure is entirely made up of an in
  extricable   interlacement   of muscular     fibres inter
  woven in every      possible direction.   Progression is
  accomplished by a series of undulations, propagated
  in rapid succession along the sole, as we are tempted
  to call  it; so that they appear    to occupy the whole
  surface ; resembling in miniature recurring wavelets
 on a tranquil sea, gently propelling the creature
 forward in a continuous manner, gliding, as it were,
 over any smooth plane. In progression, however,
 these animals are not restricted merely to crawl upon
 the rocks, or other solid substances ; many of them
 can ascend to the top of the water, and use the sur
 face as a liquid floor, along which they creep in the
 same manner as they do on land, with the difference
only of having their body and shell in a reversed
position, as though they were crawling across the
ceiling of a room ; many of our native species may
be sometimes seen crossing pools upon the shore in
this way, but how they manage to perform such a
feat is by no means easily explicable.        While float
ing in this manner, these living boats occasionally
drop suddenly down, suspending themselves by a

                 APLYSIA       THE SEA-HARE.             497
delicate filament, which is fixed to their tail, or to the
posterior extremity of the
                                 " foot." In this way they
will let themselves gradually to the bottom, or remain
for some time pendent in the water without apparent
support, for the thread is so transparent that it is
scarcely visible.    When carefully looked for, how
ever, it can always be perceived, originating in a track
of mucus, forming     a  small inverted cone at the point
from which the thread issues, and slightly dimpling
the surface of the water      ; if alarmed, the animal falls
at once to the bottom.          This is effected by the foot
quitting its hold on the suspending filament, when
the mollusk, being specifically heavier than the sur
rounding element, immediately sinks.
   In  deep pools, at very low tides, the explorer         of
the beach will sometimes meet with an interesting
Gasteropod of very striking appearance, named the
APLYSIA (PI. VIII. fig. 10), and which, we are happy
to say, it is no longer felony to pick up. In former
                                              "
times, to search after the " Sea-hare — such is its
English name — was to render oneself suspected ; and
when Apuleius was accused of magic, because forsooth
he had married a rich widow, the principal proof
against him was that he had hired fishermen to pro
cure him this animal.        It were indeed long to tell
                   . . . .
                           " what drugs, what charms,
        What conjuration, and what mighty magic,"
these   villanous  sea-slugs are stated to have fur
nished, either to brew the deadly-venomed bowl, or
" poison a young maid's affections ;" for widely ope
rative was their malignant influence.
   " Few mollusks," writes Professor Forbes,          " have

498            THE AQUARIAN      NATURALIST.
 had greater popular fame, or a worse character, than
 the Aplysiae.    From very ancient times they have
 been regarded    with horror and suspicion ; and many
writers on natural history, conversant with them only
through the silly stories of ignorant fishermen, have
combined to hold them up as objects of detestation.
To touch them, according to European prejudices,
was sufficient to generate disease in the fool-hardy
experimenter; whilst Asiatics, reversing the conse
quences, maintained, perhaps with greater truth, that
they met with instantaneous death when handled by
man.     Physicians wrote treatises on the effects of
their poison, and discussed the remedies best adapted
to neutralize it.   Conspirators brewed nauseous beve
rages from their slimy bodies, and administered the
potion, confident in its deadly powers. Every nation
in the world on whose shores          the poor Sea-hares
crawled, accorded to them attributes of ferocity and
malignant virulence ; and yet, strange to say, there
never appears to have been the slightest foundation
for a belief in their crimes.
   " The Aplysia   is a perfectly harmless, gentle, timid,
and, if observed in its native element, beautiful animal.
Its odour, it is true, is sometimes not over-pleasant,
and, when irritated,    it ejects a fluid, the vivid purple
hue of which may have excited alarm.             Its shape,
wherein it resembles, more than most mollusks, the
body of some little quadruped, naturally attracted
the attention of the curious    ; but why it should have
excited their fears, and filled with terror the muscular
hearts of sturdy fishermen, is a problem to be solved
only when the predisposing causes of groundless super-

                FOOD AND HABITS OF        APLYSIA.             499
stitions shall have      been thoroughly          sifted and       ex
plained*."
   The Aplysia live among sea-weeds in the Lami-
narian zone, rarely straying out of that region. Their
food consists both of animal and vegetable substances,
although     they are     often   stated to be exclusively
  *
     There is no doubt that, as far as relates to the Aplysiae of
our own shores, the above vindication of the character of these
mollusks is well merited by their gentle and innocuous habits           ;
and yet it is difficult altogether to discredit the evidence
afforded, not only by ancient, but by modern writers, relative to
the pernicious qualities of some foreign species. Bohadsch states
that the fishermen in the Bay of Naples excused themselves for
not procuring specimens, by saying that the animal was a filthy
thing, which stank abominably.      When removed from the sea,
and placed in a vessel, according to this writer, there exuded a
large quantity of a limpid, somewhat mucilaginous            fluid,
exhaling a sweetish, sickening, peculiar smell ; but besides this,
and distinct from its purple secretion, the Aplysia secretes also a
milky liquor, formed in an internal conglomerate gland.         As
often as Bohadsch took the Aplysia from the vase of sea- water,
and placed it upon a plate with the view of more narrowly exami
ning its structure, the apartment was filled with a most foetid,
nauseous odour, compelling his wife and brother to leave the
room.   He himself could scarcely endure    it,
                                             and had frequently
to go out and breathe the fresh air. His hands and cheeks
swelled after handling the creature for any length of time but ;
he is uncertain whether the swelling of the face proceeded from
the halitus merely, or from having touched        with his hand
                                                  it
besmeared with the liquid   : probably the latter was the real
cause, for when he purposely applied some of     to his chin, the
                                                  it
hair came off from the part. — Bohadsch, l>< Anim. Mar.
   An Aplysia, which Mr. Darwin met with at St. Jago, exudes
an acrid secretion, which " causes   asharp, pungent sensation,
similar to that produced by the I'hysalia, or Portuguese man-
of-war."

500             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
vegetable    feeders.    They breed in spring, at which
season they often congregate       in vast numbers, laying
their eggs among the Fuci imbedded in long and
slender gelatinous ribands.
   Beautiful as are the homesteads             of many of the
shell-bearing    Gasteropods, and harmless as their
occupants appear to the uninitiated, many of them,
as the aquariist will often find to his cost, are not
only eminently carnivorous        and destructive, but are
provided with most formidable           instruments    where
with to satisfy their appetites      ; nay, strange to say,
it is amongst themselves they wage an internecine
war, as though they were resolved on mutual exter
mination.      And yet, perhaps, it would be difficult to
point out a race of animals apparently more secure
from attack than the inhabitants of such stone-built
citadels ;  so impenetrable are    their shells, and so com
pletely closed by the stone door that guards the
entrance, we might think no robber's cave we read of
in Arabian tales was ever more secure ; and yet, by
means    as  simple as they are admirable, the weakest
and apparently most despicable assailant succeeds in
its attack,
                            " and with  a little pin
               Bores through their castle walls."
   We will select     as  an example of these carnivorous
tribes, the Purpura lapillus (PI. VIII. fig. 12), a species
to be met with abundantly on rocks or stones, in the
space between tide-marks, where it is the doubtless
unwelcome companion of periwinkles, limpets, and
top-shells, all of which, if they had a vote in the
matter, would probably prefer its absence ; for it is

        PROBOSCIS  OF CARNIVOROUS GASTEROPODS.        501
exceedingly voracious, and, when it gets hold of a
neighbouring mollusk, seldom leaves it without eating
it up.    We   have seen a Purpura devour   a  Periwinkle
in the course of an afternoon, when placed in the
same vessel of sea-water, a feat which it readily
accomplishes ; first, by means of its proboscis, drilling
a hole through the shell of its victim, and then
quietly and leisurely proceeding to eat the poor ani
mal out of house and home.
    The proboscis, by the instrumentality of which this
is performed, is contrived with marvellous artifice :
it is not simply provided, like that of the elephant,
with the means of flexure and extension, but it can be
entirely retracted into the body, by drawing itself
into itself in such a manner, that that half of it which
forms its base, contains and encloses the half nearest
the point; and it can again be protruded from its
 sheath thus formed, by unfolding like the finger of a
 glove, or like the horns of the garden- snail.
    The boring apparatus is situated at the extremity
 of this strange organ, and is a formidable instrument,
 armed with hooked and very sharp spines.               It
 is supported by two long cartilaginous levers, the
 extremities of which form a pair of lips that can be
 separated or approximated, or made to move upon
 each other by the mass of muscles wherein they are
 imbedded, in such a manner that the spines covering
 them are alternately depressed and elevated ; so that,
 by a repetition of these movements, the hardest shells
 are soon perforated, as by the action   of a file.
    No drill could do its work more cleanly, or more
 efficiently ; and admission being once obtained by this

502           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
remarkable contrivance into the interior of the resi
dence of its victim, we need hardly say that the clever
house-breaker proceeds at once to help himself to the
contents of the larder.
   The eggs of these carnivorous Gasteropods are ex
ceedingly interesting objects, and, from the facility
with which they may be procured and nursed in the
aquarium,   can easily be made to afford an inex
haustible  source of delightful amusement to any one
who, with a little patience and a microscope, chooses
to compare their varied forms, or examine for himself
the wonderful    mysteries, but half concealed by their
transparent shells, connected with the evolution and
development of the enclosed young.
   The egg-cases    of the common Whelk (Bvccinum
undatum) are to be picked up on every beach ; they
consist of numerous parchment-like        capsules, of a
compressed     globular shape, united together into
roundish masses, which in size and general appearance
very closely resemble the nests of some humble-bees,
and are known upon the coast by the familiar name
of "wash -balls." Each of these capsules (ootheca)
contains three or four eggs, wherein, when approach
ing maturity, the young are distinctly discernible,
already provided with little sheik, consistii)g of about
four whorls, and exhibiting to some extent the cha
racter of the adult.    The " concamerated nidus " of
the Fusus antiquus is still more curiously constructed :
it forms an obtuse cone about three inches in height
and two in diameter, made up of a number of pouches,
in shape somewhat resembling the human nail, con
vex outwardly and concave on the inner side, encased

             OOTHECvE OF NASSA AND OF NATICA.          503
 in  a strong horny outer coat, but slit along the upper
 edge, so as readily to allow the exit of the little
  whelklings when mature.
    Nassa reticulata, another form of Whelk, deposits
 its egg-capsules on weeds or stones fastened together,
 and overlying each other like the brass scales on
 the cheek-band of a soldier's helmet, each capsule
 having a shape like that of the spade on playing-cards.
 They consist individually of compressed pouches,
 nearly of the size of a silver penny, supported on very
 short pedicles, and opening at the top to give a door
 way to the embryo when sufficiently advanced in
 growth.
    The ootheca of Natica are extremely curious, and
were formerly described as a zoophyte, under the name
of Flustra    arenosa.  The parent mollusk in this case
either leaves its egg-clusters loose in sandy places, or
attaches them so carelessly, that they frequently be
come loose ; and the object of the remarkable form of
the gristle-like mass under which they present them
selves would seem to be to fit it for lying on sand
without becoming deeply imbedded in it.
    The shape of this substance is remarkable ; it greatly
resembles the hoof of a colt, and is about equal in
thickness to the peel of an orange. It is composed
of fine particles of sand, cemented by an animal
gluten, very friable when dry, in which condition it
bears a striking resemblance to a piece of Scotch oat
cake. If held to the light it appears full of cells,
arranged nearly in quincunx order, that, in fact, arc
so many capsules wherein the ova are contained      ; and
these,  if kept in the aquarium until they are hatched,

504             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
give birth to the young of a pretty Natica (Natica
monilifera, Lam.).
     The eggs of the Purpura are enclosed in little urn-
shaped vesicles, of a membranous texture and yel
lowish colour, often tinged with pink, and may be
met with standing erect, attached to the surface of
rocks or stones, or sometimes on the parent shells
themselves. Each of these little urns will be found,
on close examination, to contain many young ones,
which when mature escape from their confinement.
Mr. Peach      observed,    that  " so long a time as         four
months sometimes elapsed before the vesicle opened ;
 and then the included whelklings did not quit their
cradle all at once, but took their time in coming out,
according to their individual dispositions ; doubtless
the quick-minded and more                curious   commencing
    §^   The eggs of the Cephalopoda or Cuttle-fishes are likewise
 interesting objects of study, although the animals themselves,
 from their rapacious habits, and the black secretion with which
 they occasionally convert the water around them into ink, are
 scarcely admissible into a well-regulated aquarium.
     These eggs are always clustered   together, and the pattern
 of the cluster varies in the different families.    In the Sepia
 it resembles very exactly, both in size and colour, a bunch
 of black grapes (PL Vm. fig. 16). In the Octopus they are
 irregularly heaped in bundles, attached to Algae ; and in the
 Loligo or Calamary they are imbedded in a regular series of
 cells, in a long gelatinous intestiniform mass, from eight to
 twelve inches in length, many of them being united together
 by ligaments derived from a common centre ; so that the cluster,
  when mature and entire, might be compared to a woollen mop :
 indeed the eggs are so numerous, that Bohadsch calculated a
  cluster of the average size to give birth to not fewer than
 39,760 young squids   !

        CHITONS    NUDIBRANCHIATE GASTEROPODS.       505
 their travels first, while those of slow and studious
 constitutions  would    remain   as long as a fortnight
 before resolving to see the world for themselves."
    The beautiful and very problematical race of CHI
 TONS (PI. VIII. fig. 13), which may be met with on
every coast, attached to rocks, stones, or shells, have
peculiar claims upon the attention of the aquariist,
inasmuch     as they are at present perfect zoological
puzzles, and even the class of animals to which they
belong is a disputed point.       Unlike any other mol-
lusks, their bodies are protected by a series of shelly
plates, resembling the scaly armour of the warrior
(XITO>V, a coat of mail), and were classed by the old
conchologists as
                     " multivalves."    Some writers re
gister them with the Annelidans,       and perhaps there
may be some points of resemblance; but, as our
knowledge stands at present, we prefer to regard
them as Gasteropods, which, with the exception of
their shells, they closely resemble. The observant
aquariist, who, while resident upon the coast, by ob
taining their eggs, shall succeed in ascertaining the    •
form they assume in their embryo condition, will
make an important discovery and confer a boon upon
science.
   The Nudibranchiate Gasteropods, as they are called,
distinguishable by their shell-less bodies, elegantly
decked with branchial tufts or plumes, sometimes
most gaily ornamented, next demand a passing notice.
Doris, with gills resembling an expanded flower, dis-
played upon the hinder region of the back; and Eolis,
adorned with      painted ornaments,     most gracefully
disposed, bedight with tints so brilliant and harmo

506            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
nious, that it might almost be taken for a bed of
flowers endowed with life, and wandering about to
show its splendours.      These and a hundred more,
presenting various forms of beauty, are procurable on
every beach. Specimens of different species of Doris
(PI. VIII.  fig. 15) are common on most parts of the
coast, and sometimes are met with in considerable
numbers.      Thirteen occurred at once between the
valves  of an old empty shell, and at another time
fifteen were obtained from a moderate quantity of
miscellaneous gatherings ; so that the reader need be
under no apprehension of being disappointed in bis
attempts to obtain specimens for examination.
    The spawn of these animals is deposited in the
form of a long gelatinous riband, which is sometimes
an inch broad and above a line in thickness, the
dimensions of course depending upon the size of the
parent. A Doris of medium bulk has been seen to
produce in the course of ten days a spiral festoon,
resembling a frill of fine lace, that must have con
tained at least 20,000 ova; and in larger specimens
the number of the eggs really exceeds computation,
insomuch that it almost baffles conjecture to account
for the fate of a vast proportion of the multitudinous
progeny of these prolific animals.
    On cutting off a portion of the gelatinous frill in
which the ova are enclosed, and subjecting them to
examination with the microscope, a singular scene
manifests itself.     The most mature parts will be
 found to consist of numerous perfectly transparent
 capsules, of a spherical shape, deposited in the same
 mass of albuminous matter.      In each of these cap-

              SPAWN    OF DORIS TUBERCULATA.           507
sules are included two, three, or sometimes four em
bryos, all moving about with the greatest activity,
and tumbling over each other apparently in high
glee and enjoyment.
    We will, however, select an example for special
description    : —
    The spawn of the Doris tuberculata is a broad gela
tinous riband, attached by one of its edges to the
under side of stones in a circular coil of about three
volutions,    the whole    forming a beautiful cup- or
flower-like expansion.      The number of ova imbedded
in it cannot be less than 50,000. Each egg contains
a single yelk ; but frequently there are two, and some
times even three yelks in the same egg.         The period
necessary for their attaining perfection is generally
 about a fortnight, after which time the mass presents
 a very animated spectacle.        When examined with a
common magnifier, the full-formed embryo may be
 seen in some, whirling itself round with great velocity
 in the transparent egg ; others, having broken the
 shell, will be found performing more extended gyra
 tions in the general envelope ; while others, again, are
 swimming hither and thither in search of an aperture
 through which to escape into the open water.
     The nascent animal forms     a beautiful object for the
 microscope.       Its body is enclosed in a very delicate,
 calcareous, nautiloid shell, furnished with an equally
  diaphanous operculum; and the whole surface of the
 little creature is covered over with minute vibratile
  cilia, as are also the internal walls of the alimentary
  canal, which is visible through the transparent cover
  ing. Two broad wing-like flaps form a very effi
                                               z2

 508           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 cient locomotive apparatus; these are fringed with
 long cilia, by the motion of which the minute being
 swims freely through the water : they are capable of
 being withdrawn into the shell and the operculum
 closed upon them.      The mouth is situated between
 these lobes.
    From the above description it will be at once seen
 that these little " Nautilines " do not bear even the
 most remote resemblance to the future Doris ; and
 how long they remain in this state, or how their
transformation    takes place, is a very interesting sub
ject of inquiry. In the second stage of growth, the
diminutive Nudibranch is still found enclosed in its
shell ; but the mantle has become detached, and covers
tightly the mass of the viscera.      The foot is so en
larged, that it forms a considerable projection beyond
the margin of its operculum — eyes and tentacles be
come conspicuous, and the tiny voyager swims with
surprising quickness.
    In the third stage the shell has fallen off, and the
general shape is that of the parent, but the ciliated
locomotive lobes still remain.      In  the fourth stage
the creature     begins to crawl in the Gasteropod
fashion, until at length the full evolution of its
organs completes the metamorphosis, and entitles the
animal to the privileges of maturity.
    Few, however, of such a multitudinous host are per
mitted to arrive at this stage of their existence.   The
young
         " Nautilines " have myriads   of enemies in the
shape of small infusoria, which may be noticed with a
powerful microscope hovering round them, and ready
to devour them the instant weakness or injury pre-

                          EOLIS.                       509
 vents their keeping in action the cilia, which serve for
 defence as well as for locomotion.    Let them cease to
 move, a regular attack is made, and the animal is
 soon devoured. It is curious to observe several of
 these  little marauders sporting in the empty shell, as
 if in derision at the havoc they have made. The
 Nautilines themselves are mere specks ; what must
 be the size of the conquerors ?    Thousands of young
 Nudibranchs perish thus early, in a few hours after
 coming into existence ; indeed, if all came to maturity,
 our coasts would be literally covered with their
 multitudes.
    We have already alluded to the beautiful adorn
 ments of Eolis (PI. VIII. fig. 14), many species of
 which are of surpassing elegance.      Neither are these
 creatures by any means such sluggards as many of
 their congeners, but on the contrary exhibit much
 violent action, and assume many strange attitudes.
 While reposing, supine, just under the surface of the
 water, the tentacula are generally recurved, like ram's
horns,    and the coloured   branchial    papillae quietly
 crossed on the back.     Should they, however, be in
any way actively employed, were it even in simply
taking a glide along the side of the tank, and any
interruption or annoyance is suffered, the branchiae
bristle up in resentment or defiance.        During con-
teution for prey, all are in violent agitation, and the
vehemence with which both they and the tentacula
seem to strike is surprising.    The animals also bite
each other, and, in short, are amongst the most
irritable and contentious creatures that can be ima
gined. During such hostile encounters, the branchiae

 510           THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
 are very liable   to become   torn off, and are then
 found to be long, round, pointed organs, extremely
 tenacious of life, contracting, extending, and appa
 rently endeavouring to search for something lost,
 during a considerable period after their detachment.
    Whether it be in accordance with the necessities
resulting from such a disposition, or that the race is
peculiarly exposed to mutilation, the deficient organs
thus rudely sacrificed are speedily restored.       Soon
after the capture of several specimens, one of them
was found to have lost a tcntaculum by the root, and
another was mutilated in a similar manner ; in both
cases reparation    was speedily effected, the missing
organ being reconstructed in the course of a fort
night.   Another specimen lost the whole right ten
tacle by the root, on the 25th of September, and on
the 28th lost likewise one of its cornicula, evidently
two very important organs.       How this loss had been
incurred   was unknown ; but the mutual        animosity
displayed between the creature and a companion in
the same vessel, as evidenced by the bristling up of
their branchiae, and biting each other whenever they
met, led to conjecture that it was by violence.       In
the course of a month both of the missing organs
were nearly restored to   their pristine condition.
   Some species of Eolis feed on the T\ibularia indivisa
and on the Tubularia polyceps, infesting those zoo
phytes in numerous colonies.
   Their spawn is produced as an irregular, ovoidal,
albuminous    mass,  containing 300 or 400 eggs.       It
appears   at various seasons, summer or winter, June
or December ; but the chief breeding-time is perhaps

           REPRODUCTION AND HABITS OF EOLIS.          511
in March or April.       The same specimen will some
times spawn repeatedly at intervals, producing bun
dles of ova resembling minute sausages, measuring
three lines in length, or less, and commonly found
attached to the stalks of Tubularia.
   Under favourable circumstances, the eggs may be
observed arranged singly, as if in long compartments,
across   the mass; and when nearly mature, if exa
mined under the microscope, will be found to contain
active beings, which, on escaping from their confine
ment, prove to be Nautilines, resembling the progeny
of Doris, already described ; these immediately begin
to swim about with great vivacity, some individuals
pursuing their course singly through the water; or
several,  clustering together, may be seen revolving
horizontally in merry dance, and forming a most
amusing and interesting scene. Nothing more, how
ever, than what has already been      recorded, relative
to the general .structure of Nautilines, distinguishes
these diminutive larvae.
   The Eolis dwells in society, and is rarely found
solitary. It is one of the few Nudibranchiates whose
food is known, which renders it a favourite subject
for observation ; and as the young grow readily, and
rather speedily,    the progressive  evolution of their
different   organs may be satisfactorily investigated.
Still it must not be supposed that all the Eolides have
appetites precisely similar.   The " Porcupine Eolis"
(Eolis hystrisc), for example,  shows several    peculiar
propensities.    It does not shun the light ; and, above
everything, its voracity, so different from the usual
habits   of its race,   is most remarkable.     It  feeds

512          THE AQUARIAN     NATURALIST.
greedily on mussel and on periwinkle, swallowing
large portions entire, till it becomes evidently dis
tended with the quantity ; it will likewise eat black
Planarue;   and, sad to say of so pretty a creature,
seems quite ready to devour its own species.

                                   FISHES.                      513
                           CHAPTER LV.
   FISHES     :  AMPH10XUS           ECHENEIS      SYNGNATHUS   —
                               CONCLUSION.
      . . . .
              " And fish that with their fins and shining scales
   Glide under the green wave ;
                             part single, part with mate,
   Graze the sea-weed their pasture, and through groves
   Of coral stray, or sporting, with quick glance,
   Show to the sun their waved coats dropp'd with gold."
To complete our already lengthy list of animals
adapted       to the aquarium, either on account of their
beautiful structure, or the interest attaching to their
history, we have yet to notice the Fishes, properly so
called, — an important group, which at least, so far as
regards the enlivenment of the tank, some of our
readers may consider to be
                       . . . .
                               " the master-work, the end
                 Of all yet done."
Varied, indeed, and never-failing subjects of admira
tion are many of the species to be met with on the
coast, and were they equally harmless to               their neigh
bours,      the reader would            have   only  to select  the
prettiest forms, suitable by their size or playfulness,
to be the inmates of his collection ; but, as has been
                                                      z 5

514               THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
already observed in our opening chapter, the choice
must be made with caution, for unfortunately the
association      of most of them with rare specimens
belonging to the inferior ranks of life is at all times a
very hazardous experiment; the innocence of their
appearance and the gaiety of their apparel are fre
quently allowed to plead powerfully in their behalf,
and we must           therefore     warn   our    friends against
the indiscriminate        voracity for which they are too
often conspicuous —
                     "nimium     ne crede colon."
There are, however, a few we wish to recommend to
the notice     of the aquariist, as being remarkable for
peculiarities in their economy of sufficient importance
to arrest attention.
   The LANCELET (Amphioxus lanceolatus) (PI. VIII.
fig. 17) is perhaps one of the most paradoxical crea
tures met with in the whole range of Natural History
— a fish without either head, brain, or eyes, and yet
having a distinct vertebral column — possessing, in
stead of gills, the branchial apparatus of an Ascidian ;
and so entirely anomalous in its entire organization,
which, owing to the transparency of the creature,
may be distinctly studied under the microscope, that
it may well be regarded as the greatest puzzle in the
Animal Creation*, and a subject well worthy of the
closest study.
    The SUCKING-FISH           (Echeneis Remora)        (PI. VIII.
   *
     For  a  full account of the anatomy of this wonderful animal,
the scientific reader is referred to the author's " General Outline
of the Structure of the Animal Kingdom," 2nd edit

                AMPHIOXTJS LANCEOLATUS.              515
fig. 18), although by no means common, is occasion
ally to be met with upon our coast, and is at once
recognizable by the flattened oval adhesive disc,
situated upon the top of its head, by means of which
singular contrivance the creature is able to attach
itself firmly to the surface of other fishes, or to the
bottoms of ships; but whether for protection or
convenience, is a question not yet satisfactorily ascer
tained.    Long before the invention of railways, the
little Remora     was   enabled   to  appreciate to the
fullest extent the advantages to be derived from rapid
 travelling and cheap fares, indulging itself with both
to its heart's content whenever inclined for an excur
 sion ; and, moreover, by no means restricted to some
given line of road, inasmuch as, simply selecting any
passing shark, or other fleet conveyance, without even
the ceremony of taking a ticket, it is able to assume
possession of its outside place, and whenever it chooses,
by the mere detachment of its adhesive disc, it at
once alights, without troubling itself at all about " the
company's servants."
    We can easily imagine the envy with which such
privileges were regarded in ancient times, and are
 scarcely surprised that a poor little fish thus emi
 nently favoured should soon become a mark for the
shafts of detraction and slander ; nay, that it should
be accused of crimes and misdemeanors to which the
 sin of witchcraft was venial.    That a witch could ride
 on a broomstick was mere child's play in comparison
 with the atrocious feats of the Echencis, that is able,
 as we are told, to arrest the progress of a man-of-war
 in full sail (e^e^l?, e'^w — vat/9, holding ships back),

516               THE AQUARIAN      NATURALIST.
and positively change the fate of empires by inter
fering with the exploits of kings and kaisers : —
     " Looking far forth into the ocean wide,
       A goodly ship, with banners bravely dight,
                                     I
       And flag in her top-gallant, espy'd,
       Through the main sea making her merry flight         ;
       Foire blew the wind into her bosome right ;
       And th' heavens looked lovely all the while ;
       That she did seem to daunce, as in delight,
       And at her own felicity did smile.
       All suddainly there clove unto her keele
       A little fish that men call RF.MOHA,
       Which stopp'd her course,    and held her by the heele,
       That winde nor tide could    move her thence away.
       'Tis straunge, me seemeth,   that   so small a   thing
       Should able be so great an   one to wring."
     Pliny         upon this subject with his usual
             descants
gravity, and the reader may possibly be amused with
an old translation of the account given by the Roman
naturalist    :   —
     " The current of the     sea is great, the tide much,
the winds vehement and forcible               ;   and more than
that, ores and sailes withall, to help forward the rest,
are mightie and powerfull ; and yet there is one little
sillie fish, named Echeneis, that checketh, scometh,
and arresteth them all.       Let the winds blow            as much
as they will, rage the storms and tempests what they
can, yet this little fish commandeth their furie, re-
straineth their puissance, and maugre all their force,
as great as       it
                   compelleth ships to stand still,
                       is,                                        a
thing which no cables, be they never so big, and able
as they will, can perform.  She bridleth the violence
and tameth the greatest rage of this universall world,

                       ECHENEIS REMORA.                517
and that without any paine that she putteth herself
unto, without any holding or putting backe, or any
other means, save only by cleaving and sticking fast
to a vessel; in such a sort that this one small and
poore fishe    is sufficient to resist and withstand     so
great a power both of sea and navie ; yea, and to
stop the passage of a ship, doe what they will to the
contrarie.  What should our fleets and armadoes at
sea make such turrets        in their decks and forecastles
for? Wherefore         should they fortifie their ships in
warlike manner, to fight from them upon the sea, as
it were from mure and rampier on firme land ? See
the vanitie of man ! Alas, how foolish are we to make
all this adoe, when one little fish, not above half a
foot long, is able to arrest and stay perforce, yea,
and hold as prisoners, our goodly tall and proud ships,
so well armed in the beakehead with yron pikes and
brazen tines   ;           and dangerous to bouge
                   so offensive
and pierce any enemies' ship which they doe en
counter ! Certes, reported it   that in the naval
                                     is,
battaile before Actium, wherein Antonius and Cleo
patra the queene were defeated by Augustus, one of
these fishes staid the admiral's ship, wherein M. An
tonius was, at what time as he made all the hast
and meanes he could devise, with help of ores, to
encourage his people from ship to ship, and could not
prevaile, untill he was forced to abandon the said
admirall and go into another galley.       Meanwhile
the armada of Augustus Caesar, seeing this disorder,
charged with greater violence, and soone invested the
fleete   of Antonie.
  " Of late    daies also, and    within our remembrance,

518             THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
the like happened to the Roiall ship of the Emperor
Caius Caligula, at what time as he rowed backe and
made    saile  from   Astina     to    Antium    ;   when   and
where this little fish detained his ship. And yet it
was not long ere the cause of this wonderfull staie of
his ship was known; for so soon as ever the vessel
(and a galliace it was, furnished with five banks of
ores on a side)     was perceived alone       in the fleet to
stand still, presentlie a   number of tall fellows leapt
out of their ships into the sea to search what the
reason might be that     it stirred not, and found one of
these fishes  sticking to the very helme       ;   which, being
reported to Caligula, he fumed and fared like a very
empcrour, taking great indignation that so small a
thing as it should hold him back perforce, and check
the strength of all his mariners, notwithstanding there
were no fewer than four hundred lustie men in his
galley, that laboured at the ore all that ever they
could to the contrarie.      But this prince (as it is for
certaine knowne) was most astonied at this, namely
that the fish, sticking only to the ship, should hold
him fast, and the same being brought into the ship
should not work the like effect."
   Nay, even this is not the extent of delinquency
attributed to the poor Remora, although             it seems to
have some useful qualities too : —
   " It enters into the composition of poisons which
extinguish all feelings of love : it impedes justice, and
arrests the mandates of the tribunals^tM/iciorttnj mora ;
but, in virtue of the same power, it can compensate
for the evils thus produced. It preserves pregnant
women from accident, and,           if  salted, its very ap-

                         SYNGNATHID.S.                    519
 proach is sufficient to draw gold out of the deepest
 wells into which it may have accidentally fallen!"
    The SYNGNATHID*, or "Pipe-fishes" (PI. VIII.
 figs.!9&20), constitute a most interesting and curious
 group, remarkable from the circumstance that their
jaws are united, forming a tube more or less cylin
 drical  (crirv,   together;  yvddoy,   the jaw) ;  they   are
likewise     called   LOPHOBRANCHII       (tufted branchia),
and are distinguished from all other fishes hy having
their gills, instead of being comb-shaped, as in other
races, divided into little rounded tufts disposed in
pairs along the branchial arches.        The gills have like
wise this further peculiarity, that, instead of being
protected by a moveable gill-flap, as is generally the
case, they are entirely enclosed beneath a large oper-
culum attached all round by a membrane which only
permits the water to escape through a small hole.
    Mr. Lukis, who had two female specimens of the
Sea-horse (Syngnathus Hippocampus) for some time
in a glass vessel, describes their actions as being
equally novel and amusing.             "An appearance of
searching for a resting-place induced me," says that
gentleman,
                " to consult their wishes, by placing straws
and sea- weed in the vessel.         The desired effect was
obtained, and gave me much to reflect upon in their
habits.    They now exhibit many of their peculiari
ties, and few objects of the deep have displayed in
prison more sport or more intelligence."
    When swimming about, they maintain a vertical
position ; but the tail is ready to grasp whatever it
meets in the water, quickly entwines in any direction
round the weeds, and, when fixed, the animal intently

520            THE AQUARIAN NATURALIST.
watches    the surrounding     objects, and darts at its
prey with great      dexterity.    When both approach
each other, they often twist their tails together, and
struggle to separate, or attach themselves to the weeds.
This is done by the under part of their cheeks or
chin, which is also used for raising the body when a
new spot is wanted for the tail to entwine afresh.
The eyes move independently of each other, as in the
chameleon : this, with the brilliant, changeable iri
descence    about the head, and its blue bands, forcibly
remind the observer of that animal.
   From the great similarity in the form and size of
the mouth in all the species of the Syngnathi, it is
probable that their food is also similar.         Worms,
small mollusca, young and minute thin-skinned
crustacea,   and the ova of other fishes, are amongst
the substances sucked up, — a feat which the Pipe
fishes apparently perform    by dilating their throats, so
as to draw food up their cylindrical beak-like mouth,
as water is drawn up the pipe of a syringe.
    The male differs from the female in being, from the
vent to the tail-fin, much broader, and in having for
about two-thirds of its length two soft flaps, which
fold together, and form a bag or pouch, something
resembling the nest-like pouch of the kangaroo and
other marsupial mammalia.          In this pouch of the
male fish, strange to say, the ova      of the female  are
deposited and matured; nay, even after they are
hatched, they still find in this remarkable paternal
pouch a refuge and safe retreat in time of danger. It
is even stated by fishermen, that if the young are
shaken out of the pouch into the water, over the side

                             CONCLUSION.                        521
 of the boat, they do not swim away            ;   but,    if   the
 parent-fish   berestored to his native element, will
 again enter the well-known refuge, as there only being
assured of safety and protection.
  In other species of Pipe-fish, such as the Syngnathus
Ophidion, neither male nor female possesses an abdo
minal pouch    but nevertheless the ova, after being
                   ;
deposited by the female, are carried about for a time
by the male in separate hemispheric depressions on
the external surface of the abdomen, until they are
hatched.
   And now we must conclude our pleasing task ; but,
ere we say farewell to the frail glass and mimic ma
sonry, — the petty theatre in which we have endea
voured to display so many perishable wonders, — let us
pause awhile, if but to take a parting glance at the
amazing scene.
  These humble forms of life, though each of them
might well require a volume to elucidate its history,
were, most of them, but a few years ago, almost un
known even to those whose study is to search out
Nature's works. Let not the reader, then, suppose
the mine exhausted, or that nothing now remains to
lure attention or reward research ; the wonder how        is,
little has been done how few the labourers that have
                         ;
toiled in such an ample field or, should we rather
                                    ;
say, have left on record what they have observed            ?
  It has often occurred to us, that one very important
cause of this paucity of original observation    to be
                                                     is
ascribed to    a   feeling of diffidence, natural enough in

522                 THE AQUARIAN     NATURALIST.
the young naturalist, as to the novelty or importance
of his labours, — a feeling for which, at present at least,
there   unfortunately, but very little real foundation.
         is,
Science    not as yet by any means so rich in infor
               is
mation, even as relates to the commonest productions
of the ocean, as to render additions to our stock,
however trifling, either misplaced or unwelcome and         ;
we venture to say, that there are few subjects upon
which the results of accurate observation would be
unacceptable.    Every established fact faithfully re
corded     is
          as     new light set upon
                    a                 candlestick, and
                                                a
in the exact ratio of the number of such contributions
will be the clearness with which science will be able
to see its way through the obscurity which still sur
rounds many interesting phenomena.
   But here we would remind the student, that there
is
a   wide distinction to be drawn between facts and
theories nay, we may be permitted to say, between
          ;
pure unsophisticated truth, and truth seen through
the medium of      theoretical bias, which not unfre-
                         a
quently tints  with false colour, or even distorts
                    it       a                                  it
altogether — much in the same way as     pretty facea
becomes   hideous when seen through an irregularly
refracting piece of glass. Alas, from this cause, how
many an elaborate superstructure, based on some
visionary foundation, have we seen spring into ephe
meral existence only to be forgotten —          !
                             " How   many  system, raised
                                            a
        Like    Neva's icy domes, awhile hath blazed
        With lights of fancy and with forms of pride,
        Then, melting, mingled with the oblivious tide !"
  We     advise our young friends to have           nothing to do

                          CONCLUSION.                        523
with speculative opinions, which, like ignes fatui, are
continually misleading the ardent and enthusiastic
aspirant into all sorts of quagmires and impassable
swamps, but to content themselves with the reflection
that it is man's place to be the student, not the critic
of creation, — his simple duty and his highest privilege
consisting in the endeavour to derive, from the con
templation of the Creator's attributes, a clearer know
ledge of Himself, who is
                         " to us invisible, yet dimly seen
          In these His lowest works ; "
and that, in such a true spirit of humility and pious
reverence as befits our ignorance and incapacity.
    " Teach  my endeavours so   Thy works to read,
      That, learning them in Thee I may proceed ;
      Give Thou my reason that instructive flight,
      Whose weary wings may in Thy hands still light       ;
      Teach me to soar aloft, yet ever so,
      When near the sun to stoop again below.
      Thus shall my humble feathers safely hover,
      And though near earth, more than the heavens discover."
    "  1 had rather," says Lord Bacon, " believe all the
fables in the legend, and the Talmud and the ' Al
                                      '           '
coran/ than that this universal frame is without a
 mind ; and, therefore, God never wrought miracle to
 convince atheism, because his ordinary works con
 vince it.    It is true that a little philosophy inclineth
 man's mind to atheism, but depth in philosophy
 bringeth men's minds about to religion : for while the
 mind of man looketh upon second causes scattered,
it may sometimes rest in them, and go no further ;
 but when it beholdeth the chain of them confederate

524             THE AQUARIAN       NATURALIST.
and linked together, it must needs fly to Providence
and Deity."
   If  this be true of science generally, surely it must
be emphatically as regards the animal creation, — so
vast  in its extent, exhibiting at every step such close
relationships,    and yet     such infinite       variety — such
countless manifestations of supreme design and un
speakable wisdom, of limitless beneficence and omni
present agency, — all pointing out, with finger un-
mistakeable, the power, the goodness, and the majesty
of GOD.
            " There, Science, veil thy daring eye,
              Nor dive too deep, nor soar too high,
                 In that divine abyss :
              To Faith content thy beams to lend,
              Her hopes assure, her steps befriend,
                 And light her way to bliss."
                           THE END.
                PRINTED BY TAYLOR AKD    FRAHCIS,
                  RED LION COURT. FLEET STREET.

       Shortly     will  be published (similarly illustrated),
               BY THE SAME AUTHOR,
    THE FRESHWATER SERIES
                                   or  TOM
      AQUAEIAN NATUEALIST;
   B11NO THE NATURAL HISTORY OF THE ANIMAL INHABITANTS OF OCR
                            STREAMS   AND PONDS,
              ADAPTED TO THE PURPOSES OF TRE AO.UAKIUM.
              DIRECTIONS TO THE BINDER.
  Place PLATE    I. as Frontispiece,  and its Description to face page  1
  Description  and PLATE     II                         to follow page 98
  Description  and PLATE     III                                  „   131
  Description and PLATE IV                                   „    „   192
  Description and PLATE V                                   „     „   250
  Description and PLATE      VI                               ,   „   288
  Description and PLATE      VII                             „    „   358
  Description and PLATE      VIII                           „     „   452
  Ail the Plates,   except the Frontispiece,  to form right-hand pages,
with their corresponding    descriptions as opposite pages.


                                                   LONDON, DECEMBER 1857.
                    CATALOGUE OF BOOKS
        PUBLISHED                BY MR. VAN VOORST.
                                ZOOLOGY.
                                MAMMALIA.
       istory of   British Quadrupeds,            including the Cetacea.
          By THOMAS BELL, F.R.S., P.L.S., Professor of Zoology in
         King's College, London.       Illustrated by nearly '200 Engravings,
         comprising portraits of the animals, and vignette tail-pieces.
         8vo.   New Edition in preparation.
   Natural History           of the Sperm Whale, and a Sketch
         of  a South   Sea Whaling Voyage.           By THOMAS BEALE.
         Post 8vo, 12s. cloth.
            This is the only work on a subject of much national import
              ance, and the only account of Whaling as practised in the
              South  Seas.
  flutory and Description of the Skeleton of a New Sperm
        Whale, lately set up in the Australian Museum. By WILLIAM
        S. WALL, Curator ; together with some account of a New Genus
        of Sperm Whalea      called Euphysetes.      8vo, with Two Plates, 5s.
                                      BIRDS.
 History of British Birds.                  By   WILLIAM YAHRELL,
       V.P.L.S., F.Z.S.,    &c.    This work contains a history and a pic
       ture ]x>rtrait, engraved expressly for this work, of each species of
       the Birils found in Britain. Three volumes, containing 550 Illus
      trations.     Third Edition, demy 8vo, £-i 14s. 6<f.
 Coloured Illustrations of the Eggs of British Birds, with
      Descriptions     of their Nests and Nidilication. By WILLIAM C.
      } IKW iTSON.          Third Edition, 2 vols. 8vo, £4 Iffc^Tho figures
      and descriptions of       the Eggs in this edition are from different
      specimens     to those  figured  in the previous editions.
Systematic          Catalogue of the Eggs of British Birds,
      arranged with a View to supersede the use of Labels for Eggs.
     Uy the ReT. S. C. MAT, AN, M.A., M.A.S.                On writing-paper,
     8vo, 8s. 6rf.
Game Birds and Wild Fowl;                       their Friends and their
     FOCB.      By A. E.    KNOX, M.A., F.L.S. In post 8vo, with Four
     Illustrations     by  Wolf,  9s.
          JOHN VAN         VOORST,        I PATERNOSTER          ROW.

2  .      BOOKS PUBLISHED             BY ME. VAN VOOEST.
Ornithological Rambles              in Sussex.       By A. E. KNOX,
     M.A., F.L.S. Third Edition.        Post 8vo, with Four Illustrations
      by Wolf, 7s. 6d.
Falconry in the British Isles. By F. H. SALVIN and
     WILLIAM BRODRICK. Imperial 8vo, with Twenty-Four
      Coloured Plates, £1 It.
Falconry in the Valley of the Indus. By E. F. BURTON.
     Author of ' Goa and the Blue Mountains,'         fee.  Post 8vo, with
      Four Illustrations, 6s.
Monograph of the Birds forming the Tanagrine Genus
     CALLISTE;         illustrated by Coloured Plates of all the known
      species. By P. L. SCLATER, M.A., Fellow of Corpus Chri*«i
     College, Oxford, F.Z.8., &c. 8vo, Parts 1 to 3, each      Kk  GA: to
      be completed in Four Parts.
The Birds of Jamaica.              By P. H. GOSSE, Author of tic
      ' Canadian Naturalist,' &c.     Post 8vo, 10s.
The Dodo and its Kindred ; or the History, Affinities and
     Osteology of the Dodo, Solitaire, and other Extinct Birds of the
     Islands Mauritius, Rodriguez, and Bourbon. By II. E. STEICK-
     LAND, M.A., F.G.S., F.R.G.S., and R. G. MELVILLE, M.D.
     Edin., M.R.C.S. Royal 4to, with 18 Plates and other Illustra
     tions, £1 Is.
Geographical          and    Comparative      List of the Birds of
     Europe and North America.          By CHARLES LUCIEN BON A-
     PARTE, Prince of Musignano.           8vo, 5s.
Ornithological Synonyms.               By the lato HUGH EDWDf
     STRICKLAND, M.A., F.R.S., &c. Edited by Mrs. HUGH
     EDWIN STBICKLAND and SIR WILLIAM JAEDINE,
     Bart., F.E.S.E., &c. 8vo, Vol. I. containing the Order Accipitres.
      12*. 6d.
                                REPTILES.
History of British Reptiles. By THOMAS BELL, F.ft.S.,
     President of the Linncan Society, V.P.Z.S., &c., Professor of Zoo
     logy in King's College, London.       Second Edition, with 00   Illus
     trations,  l'2s.
                                  FISHES.
Production and Management                 of Pish in Fresh Waters,
     by Artificial Spawning,     Breeding, and Rearing.    By GOTTLIEB
     BOCCIUS.         8vo, a.:
         JOHN VAN VOOEST, I PATERHOSTEB. BOW.

           BOOKS PUBLISHED                   BY ME. VAN VOOBST.                       8
History of British Fishes.                      By   WILLIAM YARRELL,
     V.P.L.S., F.Z.S.,       &o.     Second Edition, in two vols. demy 8vo,
     illustrated by nearly 500 Engravings, £3. A Supplement to the
     First Edition, demy 8vo, 7s. 6el. Eoyal 8vo, 15s., or Imperial
     8vo, £1 2s. 6d.
Growth of the Salmon in Fresh Water.                               By Mr. TAR-
     RELL. With Six Coloured Illustrations of the Pish of the natural
     size, exhibiting its structure and exact appearance at various              stages
     during the first two years. 12s. sewed.
Heraldry of Fish.                By THOMAS MOULE.                       Nearly six
     hundred families are noticed in this work, and besides the several
     descriptions of fish, fishing-nets, and boats, are included also mer
     maids, tritons, and shell-fish.            Nearly seventy ancient seals arc
     described, and upwards of twenty subjects in stained glass. The
     engravings, two hundred and five in number, are from stained
     glass, tombs, sculpture and carving, medals and coins, rolls of
     arms, and pedigrees.            8vo, 21s. ; a few oil large paper (royal
     8vo) for colouring, £2 2s.
Fly-Fishing in Salt and Fresh Water. "With Six Coloured
     Plates, representing        Artificial Flies, &c.      8vo, 7s. 6d.
An    Angler's Rambles.                  By EDWARD               JESSE, F.L.S.,
     Author of 'Gleanings in Natural History.'                 Contents: — Thames
     Fishing— Trolling in Staffordshire— Perch Fishing Club— Two
     Days' Fly-fishing on the Test — Luckford Fiahing Club — Gray
     ling Fishing — A Visit to Oxford — The Country Clergyman.
     Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.
                             INVERTEBRATA.
Introdnction         to Conchology           ;  or Elements of the Natural
     History of Molluscous Animals. By GEORGE JOHNSTON,
     M.D., LL.D., Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edin
     burgh, author of 'A History of the British Zoophytes.'                  8vo, 102
     Illustrations, 21s.
         " The book   is a convincing proof that there i- no subject, however dry and
           unpromising;, that may not lie made interesting by a man of taste, genius
           and learning.    Dr. Johnston's object has been to present the cpncholo-
           gist with a view of the economical, physiological, and systematical rela
           tions of molluscous animals to each other and to other created beings ;
           and this he has done in a stymie so elegant and captivating, and with such
           a happy facility of illustrating    his theories by learncd references and
           curious aneedotes, that it is not easy to decide whether his work is most
           valuable as a seientific, or interesting as a literary composition." —
           Morning Post.
History of British Mollusca and their Shells.                              By Pro
     fessor   ED. FOKBES, F.B.S., &c. and SYLVAN US HANLEY,
     B.A., F.L.S. Illustrated by a figure of each known Animal and
     of all the Shells, engraved on 203 copper-plates.                   4 vols. 8vo,
     £d 10s. ; royal 8vo, with the plates coloured, .£13.
        JOHN VAN VOOBST,                   1   PATEENOSTEB ROW.

4         BOOKS PUBLISHED                   BY MB. VAN VOORST.
Synopsis       of the Mollusca of Great Britain.                      Arranged
      nccording     to their Natural Affinities and Anatomical Structure.
      By W. A.       LEACH, M.D., F.B.S., &c. &c. Post 8vo, with 13
      Plates, 14*.
History       of the British Marine                   Testaceous     Mollusca.
      described in their Natural Order, on the Basis of the Organiza
     tion of the Animals, with References and Notes ou every British
     species.    By WILLIAM CLARK. 8vo, 15s.
Thesaurus        Conchyliorum.              By G. B. SOWERBY.             Imp.
     8vo, Sixteen Parts, £1 on. each.
Malacologia Monensis.                 A Catalogue of the Mollusca in-
     hnhitdng    the    Isle of Man and tlte neighbouring Sea.               By
     EDWARD           FORBES.         Post 8vo, 3s., Edinburgh, 1838.
Genera of Recent Mollusca ; arranged according to their
     Organization. By HENRY AXD ARTHUR ADAMS.                              This
     work contains a description and a copper-plate figure of each geniw,
     and an enumeration of the species. 32 Parts are now published.
     8vo,
           20£
               phiin ; or royal 8vo, with the plates coloured, bs. each.
History of British Star-fishes, and other Animals of the
     Class Echinodcnnato. By EDWARD FORBES, M.W.S., Pro
     fessor of Botany in King's College, London.            8vo, with more Uian
     120 Illustrations, 15s., or royal 8vo, 30s.
Elements of Entomology                 : nn Outline of the        Natural Hi-
     storv and Classification        of British Insects.     By  WILLIAM      S,
     DALLAS, F.L.S.            Post 8vo,    8s. 6tl.
The Entomologist's Annual for 1855 to 1857.                        Duodecimo,
    bonrds, 2s.     GW.  each.
History of British Stalk-«yed Crustacea (Lobsters, Crabs.
    Prawns, Shrimps, &c.). Bv THOMAS BELL, President of th.-
    Linneon Society, F.G.S., I' ./.S., Professor of Zoology in King's
    College, London.         The volume is illustrated by 174 Kngrarings
    of Species and tail-pieces.          8vo, £l 5s.; royal "8vo, £'2 lOs.
History of the British Zoophytes. By GEORGE JOHN
    STON, M.D., LL.D. Second Edition, in 2 vols. 8vo. with nn
    illustration of every       species.     £2  2s. ; or on large paper, royal
    8vo,   £4   4s.
Manual of the Sea-Anemones                       commonly      found on the
    English Coast.          By   the Rev. GEORGE TUG\VELL. Oriel
    College, Oxford.        Post 8vo, with Coloured Illustrations, 7s. ful.
Natural History of Animals.                       By Professor T. RYMEll
    JONES. Vol. II. Insects, &c., with 104 Illustrations, post fvo,
    I2s.
        JOHN VAN VOORST,                  1  PATERNOSTER BOW.

         BOOKS PUBLISHED                     BY ME. VAN VOORST.                          5
 Familiar Introduction to the History of Insects                               ;    being
     a Second and greatly Improved Edition of the Grammar of Ento
     mology.   By EDWARD NEVVHAN, F.L.S., Z.S., &c. With
     nearly 100 Illustrations, 8vo, price 12s.
 The World of Insects ; a Guide to its Wonders.         By J.
    W. DOUGLAS, Secretary to the Entomological Society of Lon
    don.    This work contains rambling observations on the more in
    teresting members of the Insect World to be found in the House,
    the Garden, the Orchard, the Fields, the Hedges, on the Fences,
    the Heaths and Commons, the Downs, in the Woods, the Waters,
    or on the Sea Shore, or on Mountains. 12mo, stiff-paper wrapper,
    3s. 6d.
Siebold on True Parthenogenesis                          in the Honey-Bee and
     Silk-Worm      Moth.       Translated from the German by W. S.
    DALLAS, F.L.S.           8vo, 5s.
Hewitson's Exotic Butterflies.                      Vol. I., containing 398
    Coloured Figures of new or rare species, Five Guineas.
      " In this work there is a truthfulncss of outline, an exquisite     delicacy of
          pencilling, a brilliancy and transparency of colouring, t li.it has rarely
          been equalled and probably never aurpassed." — "l•.'/t PresidctU in his
          Addrets '•• the Entomological Sociely, 1856.
    Of Vol. II., Four Parts       (21 to 24       of     the entire work) are at this
       time published,      5s. each.
Manual of British Butterflies and Moths.       By II. T.
   STAINTON, Editor of 'The Entomologist's Annual.' 12mo.
    To   be completed    in 30 Numbers at 3d. each             ; 14   at this time pub
    lished.
Practical Hints respecting                   Moths and Butterflies, with
    Notices   of their Localities; forminga Calendar of Entomolo
    gical Operations throughout the Year, in pursuit of Lepidoptura.
    By RICHARD SHIELD.                     12mo, stiff-paper      wrapper,    3s.
Natural History of the Tineina. By H. T. STAINTOX,
   assisted by Professor ZELLER and J. W. DOUGLAS.        Vol. I.
   containing Nepticula, Part I. and Cemiostoma, Part with Eight        I.,
    Coloured Plates,        tfvo, cloth,     12s. Grf.
Entomologist's Companion (to the Tineina).                                By H. T.
   STAINTON. Second Edition, 12mo, 3s.
Geodephaga Britannica            :   a   Monograph of the Carnivorous
                Indigenous to the British Isles.
    Ground-Beetles                                 By            J. F.
    DAWSON, LL.B. 8vo, with Three Coloured Plates, 12s.
Insecta Maderensia          ;   being an Account of the Insects of
    the Islands of the Madeiran Group. By T. VERNON WOL-
    LASTON, M.A., F.L.S. 4to, with Thirteen Coloured Plates of
    Beetles, £2 2s.
      JOHN VAN VOORST,                   1   PATERNOSTER ROW.

         BOOKS      PUBLISHED BY MB. VAN VOORST.
                              BOTANY.
Manual      of British Botany;              containing    the   Flowering
    Plants and Ferns, arranged according to their Natural Order*.
    By C. C. BABINGTON, M.A., F.R.S., F.L.S., &c. 12mo, the
    Fourth Edition, with many additions and corrections, lOsi M.,
    cloth ; or copies on thin paper, for the pocket, 12s., roan.
Elementary Course of Botany: Structural, Physiological.
    and Systematic.        With a brief Outline of the Geographical and
    Geological Distribution of Plant*. By ARTHUR HENFREY.
    F.R.S., L.S., &c., Professor of Botany in King's College, London.
    Examiner in Natural Science to the Royal Military Academy
    and to the Society of Arts. Illustrated by upwards of 500 Wood"-
    cuta. Post 8vo, 12s. Qd.
                        Also by Professor Henfrey.
   Vegetation of Europe,                its Conditions       and    Causes.
       Foolscap 8vo,      5s.
   Rudiments of Botany.               A Familiar Introduction to the
       Study of Plants.         With Illustrative Woodcuts.     Second   Kdi-
       tion, foolscap Svo, 3s. (xf. In a fete days.
   A Set of Six Coloured Diagrams illustrative of the Ru-
       diments of Botany       ; for Schools and Lectures.    15s.
   Principles of the Anatomy and Physiology of the Ve
       getable Cell.       By HUGO VON MOHL. Translate, with
        the author's permission, by ARTHUR HENFREY, F.H.8.. A,-.
        Svo, with an Illustrative Plate and numerous Woodcuto, 7f. (W.
History of British Forest-Trees. By PRIDE AUX JOHN
    8ELBY, F.R.S.E., F.L.S., &c. Each species is illustrated by a
    portrait of some well-known or fine specimen, as a heail-pircr
    the leaf, Hi irilirn! ion, seed-vessels, or other embellishment* U'nd-
    ing to make the volume ornamental or useful, are embodied in
    tho text or inserted as tail-pieces.       Svo, with nearly 200 Illustra
    tions, £1 8s.
Manual Flora of Madeira and the adjacent Islands of
     Porto Santo and the Dczertas.         By R. T. LOWE, M.A. 12nio.
     Part I. Thalamiflone, 3s. 6rf.
PrimitiEB et Novitiae           Fauna et Flora Maderae et Portus
     Sivncti.   Two Memoirs on the Ferns, Flowering Plant*, and
     Land Shells of Madeira and Porto Santo. By R. T. LOWE,
     M.A. i .'mo, Gs. (id., boards (150 copies printed).
Growth of Plants in closely Glazed Cases.                        fly N. B.
     WARD, F.R.S., F.L.S. Second Edition, Illustrated. Post 8vo, <».
        JOHN VAN VOORST,                1 PATERNOSTEK ROW.

           BOOKS PUBLISHED            BY MB. VAN VOOBST.                7
The Sea- Weed Collector's             Guide; containing      plain   In
      structions for Collecting and Preserving ; and a List of all tho
      known Species and Localities in Great Britain.     By  J. COCKS,
      M.D. Foolscap 8vo, 2s. 6d.
Manual of the British Marine Algae, containing Generic
      and Specific Descriptions of all the known British Species of Sea-
      Weeds, with Plates to illustrate all the Genera.        By W. H.
      HARVEY, M.D., M.R.I.A., Keeper of tho Herbarium of the
      University of Dublin, and Professor of Botany to the Royal
      Dublin Society. 8vo, £1 Is. ; Coloured Copies, £1 lls. 6d.
Nereis Boreali-Americana           ; or, Contributions      towards a
      History of tho Marine Algae of the Atlantic and Pacific Coasts of
     North America. By W. H. HARVEY, M.D., M.R.I.A.. &c.
     Royal 4to. Part I. Melanospermete, with 12 Coloured Plates,
      15s. ; Part II. Rhodospermete, with 24 Coloured Plates, 30s.
Terra Lindisfarnensis.            The     Natural History of tho
     Eastern Borders. By GEORGE JOHNSTON, M.D., &c., &c.
     This volume embraces the Topography and Botany ; and gives
     the popidar Names and Uses of the Plants, and the Customs and
     Beliefs which have been associated with them. The chapter on
     tho Fossil Botany of the district is contributed by GEOKGE TATE,
     F.G.S. Illustrated with a few Woodcuts and 15 Plates, 8vo,
     10s. 6d.
History of British Ferns.              By EDWARD          NEWMAN.
     Comprising under each Species, Figures, detailed Descriptions,
     an ample List of Localities, and minute Instructions for Culti
     vating. 8vo, 18s.
Walks after Wild Flowers             ; or tho Botnny of the Bohe-
    reens.     By RICHARD DOWDEN. Foolscap 8vo, 4s. 6d.
Synopsis of the British Diatomaceae              ; with Remarks on
    their Structure, Functions, and Distribution ; and Instructions for
    Collecting and Preserving Specimens.      By the Rev. WILLIAM
    SMITH. Tho Plates by TLTFEX WEST. In 2 vols. royal 8vo ;
    Vol. I. 21s.; Vol. II. 30s.
   GEOLOGY, MINERALOGY, CHEMISTRY.
Handbook of Chemical Manipulation.                 By C. GREVILLE,
    WILLIAMS,         Lecturer on Chemistry in the Normal College,
    Swansea, lato Principal Assistant in the Laboratory of the Uni
    versity of Glasgow.      Post 8vo, with very numerous Woodcut
    Illustrations, 15s.
Manual of the Mineralogy of Great Britain and Ireland.
    By ROBERT PHILIP GREG, F.G.S., and WILLIAM G.
    LETTSOM.         8vo, with numerous Woodcuts.      Nearly ready.
        JOHN VAN VOORST,           1  PATERNOSTER ROW.
                                                                          .

8         BOOKS        PULIBSHED BY ME. VAN VOOEST.
Elementary Course of Geology, Mineralogy, and Physical
     Geography.         By DAVID T. ANSTED, M.A., F.RS., F.G.S,
     &c., Consulting Mining Engineer, Honorary Fellow of Kind's
     College, London, Lecturer on Mineralogy and Geology at the
     H.E.I.C. Mil. Sem. at Addisepmbe, late Fellow of Jesus College,
     Cambridge.        A Second Edition, post Svo, with many Illustra
     tions, 12s.
  The Ancient World.                  By Professor ANSTED.                 Second
        Edition, post 8vo, 10s. 6d., with 149 Illustrations.
         " The work may be described as an outline of the history of vegetable  and
           animal life upon the globe, from the carlr age when there were only
           sea-weeds and marine invertebrates as yet in existence, down to the en
           when the mammals received among them the king of speeies, Man. BT
           his intimate acquaintance wilh the subject, and power of arrangement
           and description, Professor Ansted succeeds in producing a narration,
           which tells in its entire range like a romance." — Manchester Ertnouter.
  Gold-Seeker's Manual.                  By Professor ANSTED.              Fools
        cap 8vo, 3s. 6d.
  Geologist's        Text-Book.           Chiefly intended as a Book of
        Reference for the Geological          Student. By Professor ANSTED.
        Foolscap Svo, 3s. 6d.
Notes on the Geology and Chemical Composition of the
    various Strata in the Isle of Wight. By CAPTAIN L. L.
    BOSCAWEN IBBETSON. With a Map in Belief, coloured
    Geologically, 8vo,       7s. 6d.
History of British Fossil Mammals and Birds.                             By Pro
    fessor   OWEN.         This Toluino      is designed as u companion to that
                                                                •
    by Professor Bell on the (Recent Mammalia)                    British Quadru
    peds and Cetacea.'          Svo, with 237 Illustrations, £1 11s. (id., or
    large paper (royal Svo), £3 3s.
Description of the Skeleton of an Extinct Gigantic Sloth
    (Mylodon robustus).              With Observations on the Osteology,
    Natural Affinities, and probable Habits of theMegathcrioid Qua
    drupeds in general.           By RIC1IARD OWEN, FiR.S., &e, 4to.
    £1 I2s.6d.
Geological      Inquiry respecting the Water-bearing Strata
    of the Country around London, with reference especially to the
                      " of the Metropolis, and including
    AVatcr Supply                                                  some Remarks
    on Springs.         By JOSEPH FRESTWICH,                   Jun., F.G.S.,   Ac.
   Svo, with a Map and Woodcuts, 8s. Gd.
Omphalos.          An Attempt to Untie the Geological Knot.
    By    P. H.   GOSSE,      F.R.S. In this work the author aims to over
    throw the received conclusions of geologist* as to the remote an
    tiquity of the earth, by the enunciation and illustration of a grand
    physical law, hitherto unrecognized, the law of Prochronism in
    organic creation.         Post Svo, pp. 370, with 00 Illustrations on
   wood, 10s. Gd.
        JOHN VAN VOOEST,                  1   PATERNOSTER ROW.

          BOOKS PUBLISHED              BY ME. VAN VOORST.               9
         WORKS ON GENERAL NATURAL
                           HISTORY,           &c.
The Micrographic Dictionary             :  a Guide to the Examination
      and Investigation of the Structure and Nature of Microscopic
      Objects. By Dr. GRIFFITH and Professor IIENFREY. Illus
      trated by 41 Plates, each with numerous Figures, some coloured,
      and 810 Woodcuts, 777 pages, 8vo, £'Z 5s.
Observations        in Natural History; with a Calendar of
      Periodic    Phenomena.     By the     Rev. LEONARD JENYNS,
      M.A.,  F.L.S. Post 8vo, 10s. 6d.
The Sea-side Book        : an Introduction      to the Natural History
      of the British Coasts. By W. H. HARVEY, M.D., M.R.I.A., &c.
      With a Chapter on Fish and Fish Diet, by YARRELL.
      Foolscap 8vo, with 83 Woodcut Illustrations, 4th Edition,    5s.
Natural History of Animals:                  being the substance       of
     Three Courses of Lectures delivered before the Royal Institution
     of Great Britain.    By T. RYMER JONES, F.R.S., Professor of
     Zoology in lung's College, London. Post 8vo. Vol. I. with 105
     Illustrations ; Vol. II. with 101 Illustrations, 13s. each.
General Outline of the Organisation of the Animal King
     dom, and Manual of Comparative Anatomy.             By T. RYMER
     JONES, F.R.S., Professor of Comparative Anatomy in King's
     College, London ; late Fullerian Professor of Physiology to tlw
     Royal Institution of Great Britain, &e. &c. Second Edition, 8vo,
     884 pages, 400 Woodcuts, £l Us. Qd.
First Steps to Anatomy.             By JAMES L. DRUHMOKD,
     M.D., Professor of Anatomy and Physiology in the Belfast Royal
     Institution.    With 12 Illustrative Plates.    12mo, 5s.
Great    Artists and Great Anatomists             : a Biographical and
    Philosophical Study.      By R. KNOX, M.D., F.R.S.E. Post 8vo,
    fe&&
Anatomical Manipulation            ;   or, The Methods of pursuing
     Practical Investigations in Comparative Anatomy and Physio
     logy. Also an Introduction to the Use of the Microscope, &e.
     By "ALFRED TULK. M.R.C.S., M.E.S. ; and ARTHUR HEN-
     FREY, F.L.S., M.Micr.S. With Illustrative Diagrams. Foolscap
     8vo, 9s.
Illustrations of Instinct,            deduced from the Habits of
    British Animals.      By JONATHAN COUCH, F.L.S., Member
    of the Royal Geological Society, and of the Royal Institution of
     Cornwall, &c. Post 8vo, 8s. 6d.
        JOHN VAN VOORST,             1  PATERNOSTER ROW.

10        BOOKS PUBLISHED                 BY MR. VAN VOORST.
The Powers of the Creator Displayed in the Creation ;
    or, Observations on Life amidst the various forms of the llunibler
    Tribes of.Animated Nature ; with Practical Comments and Illus
    trations. By Sir JOHN GRAHAM DALYELL, Knt. and Bart.
    In 2 vols. 4to, containing numerous Plates of living subject*,
    finely coloured, £8 8s.
Rare and Remarkable Animals of Scotland, with Prac
    tical Observations on their Nature. By Sir JOHN GRAHAM
    DALYELL, Knt. and Bart. In 2 vols. 4to, containing J1O
    Coloured Plates, drawn from the living subjects, £G                 Bs.
On the     Variation of Species, with especial reference to the
    Insecta     ; followed by an Inquiry into the Nature of Genera.             Bv
    T. VERNON WOLLASTON, M.A., F.L.S. Post Svo, 5s.
                       " No compound of this earthly ball
                         Is like another, all in all." — Tennyton.
Manual of Natural History for the Use of Travellers;
    being a Description         of the Families of the Animal and Vegetable
    Kingdoms, with Remarks on the Practical Study of Geology and
    Meteorology.         To which are appended Directions for CoHerting
    and Preserving.           By ARTHUR ADAMS. M.R.C.S. : W. BAL-
    FOUR BAIKIE, M.D. ; and CHARLES BARRON, Curator
    of the Royal Naval Museum at Haslar. Post Svo, 12.«.
Familiar Introduction to the Study of Polarized Light.
    By CHARLES WOODWARD, F.R.S.                               Svo, Illustrated, a«.
    Second Edition.
Letters of Rusticus on Natural History.                                Edited by
    EDWARD NEWMAN, F.L.S., F.Z.S., &c. Svo,                           8*. 6rf.
Natural History of the Varieties of Man. By UOHEUT
    GORDON LATHAM, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow of King's Collier,
    Cambridge ; Vice-President of the Ethnological Society of Lon
    don ; Corresponding Member of the Ethnological Society of New
    Yort Svo, Illustrated, £l             U
             Other Works on Ethnology, by                Dr. Latham.
   Ethnology of Europe.                Foolscap Svo, 5s.
   Ethnology of the British Islands.                         Foolscap 8vo, 5*.
   Ethnology of the British Colonies and Dependencies.
        Foolscap Svo,       5s.
   Man and his Migrations.                    Foolscap 8vo, 5s.
The Isle of Man           ;  its History, Physical, Ecclesiastical and
    Legendary.          By    J. G. GUMMING, M.A., F.G.S. Post 8vo,
     l-2s. (>d.
        JOHN VAN VOORST,                  1   PATERNOSTER ROW.

          BOOKS PUBLISHED            BY MR. VAN VOORST.                11
Handbook to the Marine Aquarium:                     containing    Prac
    tical Instructions for Constructing, Stocking, and Maintaining a
    Tank, and for Collecting Plants and Animals. By P. H. GOSSE,
    A.L.S. Foolscap 8vo, 2s. 6d.
   Mr. Gosse's Manual of Marine Zoology of the British
        Isles.  Parts I. and II., price 7s. 6d. each.
   A Naturalist's         Rambles on the Devonshire Coast.
        By P. H. GOSSE, A.L.S. With 28 Lithographic Plates, some
        coloured,  post STO, One Guinea.
   The Aquarium ; an Unveiling of the Wonders of the
        Deep Sea. By P. H. GOSSE, A.L.S. Post 8vo, Illustrated,
         17s.
   The Canadian Naturalist.                By P. H. GOSSE, A.L.S.
        With 44 Illustrations of the most remarkable Animal and
        Vegetable productions.     Post 8vo,    12s.
   Tenby ; a Seaside Holiday.               By P. H. GOSSE, A.L.S.
         Post 8vo, 400  pages, with 24 Coloured Plates, 2ls.
Natural History of the County of Stafford; comprising
     its Geology, Zoology, Botany, and Meteorology : also its Antiqui
     ties, Topography, Manufactures, &c. By ROBERT GARNER,
     F.L.S. 8vo, with a Geological Map and other Illustrations, 21s.
The Natural History             of Selborne.         By the late Rev.
     GILBERT WHITE, M.A.               A New Edition, with Notes by the
     Rev. LEONARD JENYNS, M.A., F.L.S., &c. ; with 26 Illus
     trations, foolscap 8vo, 7s. 6d.
Contributions to the Natural History of Labuan, and the
     adjacent Coasts of Borneo.      By JAMES MOTLEY, of Labuan,
     and     LEWIS LLEWELLYN DILLWYN, M.P., F.L.S.,                    &c.
     Part I,,  62 pages, 8vo, with 12 Coloured Plates, 10s. 6d.
Travels in Lycia, Milyas, and the Cibyratis, in company
     with the latoBev. E. T. Daniell. By Lieut, SPRATT, R.N., and
     Professor EDWARD FORBES.                Two vols. 8vo, with numerous
     Illustrations, including Views of the Scenery, Plans of Ancient
      Cities and Buildings, Plates of Coins and Inscriptions, Cuts of
     Rock Tombs, Fossils, and Geological Sections, and au original
      Map of Lycia. 36s.
Scenery, Science, and          Art ;  being Extracts from the Note
      book of a Geologist and    Mining Engineer. By Professor D. T.
      ANSTED,      M.A., F.R.S., &c. 8vo, with Woodcuta and Four
      Views in tinted lithography,    10s. 11(7.
 Bibliographical Catalogue of Privately Printed Books.
      By JOHN MARTIN, F.S.A. Second Edition, 8vo, 21s.
          JOHN VAN VOORST,            1 PATERNOSTER ROW.

12        BOOKS PUBLISHED                 BY MB. VAN VOORST.
Practical        Meteorology.            By JOHN DREW, Ph.D.,
     F.R.A.S., Corresponding Member of the Philosopliical Institute
     of Bile. Foolscap 8vo, with 10 Illustrative Plates, 5s.
Healthy Respiration.                 By STEPHEN H. WARD, M.D.
     Foolscap 8vo, Is. 6d.
Evening Thoughts.                 By a PHYSICIAN.                      Post 8vo,
     Second Edition, 4s. 6d.
         " We  cannot help exprcssmp a wish that these ' Eveninfr ThouffhU * mar
           not be the only contributions to gencral literature that we may have from
           a mind BO powerful, so cultivated, and BO gentle as that of the Physician
           whose pages we DOW elose." — Guardian,
Illustrations of Arts and Manufactures ; being                         a Selection
     from o Series of Papers read before the Society for the Encou
     ragement of Arts, Manufactures, and Commerce.                   By ARTHUR
     AiKIN, F.L.S., F.G.S., &c., late Secretory to that Institution.
     Foolscap 8vo, 8s.
The Poor Artist; or, Seven Eye-Sights and One Object.
     " SCIENCE IN FABLE."                   Foolscap 8vo, with a Frontispiece,
     5s.
Sunday       Book for the Young ; or, Habits of Patriarchal
     Times in    the. East.    With Woodcuta, 2s. 6d.
          Other Books      for   Young Persons, by Anne BuU<tr.
   Domestic         Scenes      in Greenland and Iceland.                     With
         Woodcuts,     2s.   Second Edition.
   Every-Day Wonders                ; or, Facts in Physiology which
         all should know.       With Woodcuts, 2s. 6d.
   England before the Norman Conquest.                           2s. &?.
Elements of Practical Knowledge                   ;  or,  The Young Inquirer
     Answered.        Explaining in Question and Answer, and in familiar
     language, what most things daily used, Been, or talked of, are ;
     what they are made of, where found, and to what u.«os applied.
      Including articles of food and aliment ; miscellanies in common
      uso ; metals, gems, jewellery ; and some account of the principal
     inventions and most interesting manufactures.                 Second Edition,
      18mo, with Illustrations, 3s. cloth.
The      Ground        beneath us ; its Geological Phases nnd
     Changes.       Three Lectures delivered at Clapham. By JOSEPH
      PRESTWICII, F.R.S., F.G.S. &c. 8vo. In a few davs.
         JOHN VAN VOORST,                 1  PATERNOSTER ROW.

          BOOKS PUBLISHED                     BY MB. VAN yOORST.                    13
ARCHITECTURE AND THE FINE ARTS,                                                   &c.
Instrument*            Ecclesiastica        ;  a Scries   of Working Designs,
     engraved on 72 Plates, for the Furniture, Fittings, and Decora
     tions of Churches and their Precincts. Edited by the Ecelesio-
     logical, late Cambridge Camdcn Society.                4to, .£1 11s. 6d.
  Tho Second Series contains a Cemetery Chapel, with Sick-house and
     Gateway Tower — A Wooden Church — A Chapel School — Schools
     and School-houses — A Village Hospital — An Iron Church — And
     Designs for Funeral Fittings, for Timber Belfries, nnd for a
     Variety of Works in Metal, Wood, and Stone.                          Price also
     XI 11s. 6rf.
Manual of Gothic Architecture.                       By F. A. PALEY, M.A.
     With     a full Account of Monumental Brasses and Ecclesiastical
    Costume.          Foolscap 8vo, with 70 Illustrations, (is. Orf.
        " To    the student of the arehitecture of old English churches this beautiful
           little volume will prove & most acceptable manual.       The two chapters
           on * • * form an epitome of the whole subject, so lucid, concise, and
           complete, that it may be regarded as n model of succinct and elear ex
           position,    linth in description and analysis, Mr. Poley is remarkable for
           neatness and perspicuity ; his style is terse and precise, yct withal easy,
           and elegant. The examples, engraved by Thurston Thompson, are the
           perfection of wood engraving, as applied to architecture : exact in de
           tail, picturesque in effect, and cut with equal firmncss and delicacy.'' —
           Spectator.
Baptismal Fonts.               A   Series of 125 Engravings,              examples
    of   the different periods, accompanied with Descriptions ; and
    with an Introductory Essay. By F. A. PALEY, M.A., Honorary
    Secretary of the Cambridge Camdcn Society.                   8vo, One Guinea.
Treatise on the Rise and Progress of Decorated Window
    Tracery in England. By EDMUND SHARPE, M.A., Architect.
    Hvo, Illustrated with 97 Woodcuts and Six Engravings on steel,
     10s. 6d.      And—
A Series of         Illustrations of the Window Tracery of the
    Decorated        Stylo of Ecclesiastical Architecture.        Edited, with de
    scriptions,      by Mr. SHARPE. Sixty Engravings on steel, 8vo, 21s.
Architectural Parallels              ;   or. The Progress of Ecclesiastical
    Architecture in England, through the Twelfth and Thirteenth
    Centuries, exhibited in a Series of Parallel Examples selected
    from Abbey Churches.               By EDMUND SHARPE, M.A. l-'L
    Plates in tinted outline, each 18 in, by 12 in., half mor., .£13 13s.,
    or large paper, i•10 10s.
Heraldry of Fish.               By THOMAS MOTILE.                    The Engra
    vings, 205 in number, are from Stained Glass, Tombs, Sculpture,
    and Carving, Medals and Coins, Rolls of Arms, and Pedigrees.
    8vo, 21s. A few on largo paper (royal 8vo) for colouring, £2 2s.
        JOHN VAN VOORST,                    1  PATERNOSTER ROW.

14           BOOKS PUBLISHED BY MB. VAN VOOB8T.
Manual of Gothic Holdings.                                   A Practical
                                                          Treatise on
      1   lirir
             formations, gradual development, combinations, and varie
      ties ; with full directions for copying them, and for determining
      their dates. Illustrated by nearly GOO example*.        By V. A.
      PALEY, M.A. Second Edition, 8vo, 7s. 6d.
            "   Mouldings are the scholarship of architecture.    The present is a most
                learned work, and displays an amount of practical Knowledge which
                those who know the difficulties of the subject alonc can appreciate."—
                Christian Remembrancer*
Gray's Elegy        in a Country Church-Yard. Each Stanza
      illustrated with an engraving on wood, from 33 original drawings.
      Elegantly printed, in post 8vo, 9s. cloth.
 A Polyglot Edition of    this volume, with interpaged Translations in
      the Greek, Latin, German, Italian, and French languages.    12s.
Gray's Bard.               With Illustrations by the Hon. Mr. JOHN
      TALBOT.             Post 8vo,       7s.
Shakspeare's             Seven Ages of Man. Illustrated by WK.
      MULREADY, K.A.              CONSTABLE, B.A. ; SIR DAVID
                                      ;   3.
      WILKJE. R.A. ; W. COLLINS, R.A. ; A. E. CHALON. RA. :
      A. COOPER, R.A. ; SIR A. W. CALLCOTT, RA. ; EDWIN
      LANDSEER, R.A, ; W. HILTON, R.A. Post 8vo, 6s. A few
      copies of the First Edition in 4to remain for sale.
The Vicar of Wakefield. With 32 Illustrations by WIL
   LIAM MULREADY, R.A. ; engraved by JOHN THOMPSON.
      Square 8vo, 10s. 6d.
        " And there are some designs in the volume in which art may justly boast
          of having added something to even the exquisite fancy of Goldsmith/'
          — Examincr.
The    Farmer's Boy and other                                Rural Tales and
                                                                 Poems.
      By ROBERT BLOOMFIELD.               Foolscap 8vo, 7s. (W.     A fr*
      copies  on large paper,  to correspond  with  the e<liliou of  'Tin•
      Vicar of Wakeueld,' lately illustrated by WILLIAM MUL
      READY, R.A. With 13 Illustrations                          by"
                                                  Sidney Cooper, Ilors-
      ley, Frederick Tayler, and Thomas Webster, A.R.A.
Watts's Divine and Moral Songs.                                 With 30 Illustrations
      by C. W. COPE, A.R.A.                   engraved by JOHN THOMPSON.
                                                ;
      Square 8vo, 7s. (W.         ;   copies bound in morocco, Ono Guinea.
The Economy of Human Life. In Twelve Books.                                      By R.
   DODSLEY. With Twelve Plates, engraved on steel,                  from ori
      ginal designs,        by   Frank Howard, Harvey, Williams, &C.    18mo,
      gilt edges, os.
Fifty-two Wild Flowers.                                 By    LADY     WILKINSON.
      Post 8vo, with Coloured Engravings and Woodcuto.                      At   Prew.
History      of the Principal Treaties of Medieval and
      Modem Times. By E.        CREASY, M.A., Professor of Ancient
                                           S.
      and Modern History in University College, London   lato Fel          ;
      low of King's College, Cambridge. In preparation.
           JOHN TAN VOORST,                         1   PATEBN03TEB BOW.

          BOOKS PUBLISHED               BY ME. VAN VOOEST.                   15
NATURAL HISTORY OF THE BRITISH ISLES.
This   Scries of Works is Illustrated       by many Hundred Engravings         ;
  every Species    has been Drawn       and Engraved under the immediate
  inspection   of the Authors   ;  the best  Artists have been employed, and
  no cure or   expense has been spared.
            A few   Copies have been printed on Larger Paper.
QUADRUPEDS, by Professor BELL. A New Edition preparing.
BIRDS, by Mr. YARRELL. Third Edition, 3 YOlB. .£4 14s. M.
COLOUBED ILLUSTRATIONS OP THE EGGS OF BIEDS,
  by Mr. HEWITSON. Third Edition, 2 vols., j£4 14s. 6d.
REPTILES, by Professor BELL. Second Edition, 12s.
FISHES, by Mr. YAUBELL. Second Edition, 2 vols., £3.                       •
CRUSTACEA, by Professor BELL. 8ro, £1 5s.
STAR-FISHES, by Professor EDWARD FOKBKS. 15s.
ZOOPHYTES, by Dr. JOHNSTON. Second Edition, 2 vols., £2 2s.
MOLLUSCOUS ANIMALS AND THEIR SHELLS, by Professor
   EDWARD FORBES and         Mr. HANLEY.         4 vols. 8vo, £6   10s.   Royal
   8vo, Coloured, £13.
FOREST TREES, by Mr. SELBY. £1 8s.
FERNS, by Mr. NEWMAN. Third Edition, 18s.
FOSSIL MAMMALS AND BIRDS, by Prof.                       OWEN.     £1   11s. Grf.
                         Students' Class-Books.
ELEMENTARY COURSE OF GEOLOGY, MINEEALOGY,
   AND PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. By DAVID T. ANSTED, M.A.
   &c.    Second Edition, 12s.
ELEMENTARY COURSE OF BOTANY:                              Structural, Physio
   logical, and Systematic.       By   ARTHUR HENFREY.        12s. 6W.
HANDBOOK            OF     CHEMICAL MANIPULATION.                         By C.
   GBEVILLE WILLIAMS.         15s.
 GENERAL OUTLINE OF THE ORGANTSATION OP THE
   ANIMAL KINGDOM, by Professor T. EYMKR JONES. 8vo,
   Second Edition,     £1  11s.   6ti.
 MANUAL OF BRITISH BOTANY.                         By  C. C. BABIMGTON,     M.A.
    &c.   Fourth Edition,    10s. txl.
          JOHN VAN VOOEST,               1  PATEENOSTEB KOW.

                                        INDEX.
                                           Page
Adams & Baikic'B Manual of Nat. Hist, 10 IhbetBon's Geology of Isle of Wight . . .              "i
Adams's Gencra of Mollusea                      4 Instrumenta Ecelesiastica                     u
Aikin's Arts and Manufactures                 12 Jcnyns's Observations in Nat. History..          9
Anatomical Manipulation                         (i Jesse's Angler's Rambles
                                                     "
Ansted's Ancient World                          S Johnston's British Zoophytes
•       Elementary Course of Geology ....      S           Introduction to Concholojry
        Geologist's Text- Book                            Terra Lindisfarncnsis
        Gold-Seeker's Manual                   S Joncs's Animal Kingdom
        Scenery, Science, and Art             11           Natural History of Animals             9
Ilahingtou's Manual of British Botany. . 0 Knox's (A. E.) Game Birds, &c                           1
                                             ""
                                              j.i
Baptismal Fonts                                            Rambles in Sussex                      5
Bnalc on Sjicnu Whale                           i Knox f Dr.), Great Artists & GrratAiut.         9
Bell's British Quadrupeds                       1 t Latham's Ethnology of British Ci>li*»t»      )<'
        British Reptiles                       a ;         Ethnology oi Britis-h l&lands.        ]«
        British Stalk-eyed Crustacea           4 !         Ethnolopy of Euroi>e                 10
Bloomfl eld's Farmer's Boy                    14          Man r.nd his Migrations                IP
Boccius on Production of Fish                  2           Varieties of Man                     II
Bonaparte's List of Birds                      2 Leach's Synopsis of British Mollusca ..           4
Burton's Falconry on the Indus                 2 Letters oi Rusticus                             Iff
Clark's Testaceous Mollusca                     4 Lowe's F.tume et Flora Maderee                  6
Cocks's Sea-Weed Collector's Guide. ...        7          Manual Flora of Madcim                   6
Conch's Illustrations of Instinct               i) M alan's Catalogue of Eggs                      I
Creasy 's History of Treaties                 14 Martini Cat. ot Privately Printed BooJu.        11
Camming' s Isle of Man                        10 Micrographic Dictionary
Dallas's Elements of Entomology                4 j Mohl on the Vegetable Cell                     6
DalyclK Powers of the Creator                10 Motley and Dillwyn's    "     Labuaji           11
      - Rare Animals of Scotland             10 Moulc's Heraldry of Fish                          3
Dawson's Geodcphujra Britannica                t Newman's British Ferns                           7
Domestic Scencs in Greenland & Iceland 12               - History of Insects             ,        3
Douglas's World of Insect*                     5        - Ixrttens of Rustirus                  II
Dowden's Walks after Wild Flowers . .          7 Owen's British Fossil Mammals                    *
Drew's Practical Meteorology                 12         - on Skeleton oi" Extinct Sluth           *
Drummond's First Steps to Anatomy . .          g Palcy's Gothic Moldings                        14
Economy of Human Life                        14 •       • Manual of Gothic Arehitecture ....    13
Elements of Practical Knowledge              12 Poor Artist                                     11
England before the Norman Conquest..         Id Prestwich's Geological Inquiry                    8
Entomologist's Annual                          4          Ground bencath us                     II
        Companion                              5 • Salvin and Brodrick's Falconry                 S
Evening Thoughts                             la i Srlatcr's Tanagers                              I
E very-day Wonders                           12 I Selhy's British Forest Tret*                    fl
Fly Fishing in Salt and Fresh Water . . :» Shaksprarc's Seven Ages of Man                       I*
Forbes' s British Star-fiahrs                  4 Sharpr's Architectural Parallels               U
        Malacologia Moncnsis                   4 ,        Decorated Windows                     11
—    -- and Hauler's British Mollusca          :t , Shield's Hints on Moths and Buiterdin
                                                  "
                                                                                                  5
        and Spratt's Travels in Lvcia .... 11 Siebold on True Parthenogenesis                     5
Garner's Nut. Hist, of Staffordshire. ... 11 J Smith's British Diatom act -re                     ,"
Goalie's Aquarium                            11 Sowerby's Thesaurus Conchyliorum ....             *
        Birds of Jamaica                       2 Spratt's .and FurbeVs) Travels in Lyru         U
        Canadian Naturalist                  11 Stuinton's Butterflies and Moths                  S
        Handbook to Marinc Aquarium      . . 11 j         History of the Tint-ina                  S
        Manual of Marine Zoology             l J Strickland's Ornithological Synonyms. .           •
        Naturalist's Rambles on Dev, Coast 11             and Melville on the Dodo                 *
        Omphalos                               K Sunday-Book for the Young                       U
        Tenbv                                11 Tugwrll's Soa-Anrmones                             *
Gray's Bard and Elegy                        14 | Vicar of Wakcfield, Illurtr. by Mul rcady      U
                                                  •
Gregg and Ix^ttsom's British Mincralogy        7 Wull on a new Sperm Whale".                      1
GrirHih & Hcnfrey's Mierographic Dict.         Q , Watls's Son^s, Illustrate<l by Cope ....      H
Harvey's British Marine Alga;                  71 Ward (Dr.) on Healthy Respiration              12
      . Ncrris Dor tali- Americana .                Ward ;N. B.; on the Growtn of Plant*,.        6
                                                                          ....................
                                                    -
      - Sea-side Honk                          0 White's Sclbnrne                               11
Henfrey's Botanical Diagrams                   6 Wilkinson's Fifty- two Wild Flowen ..          14
        Elementary Course of Botany ....       6 Williams's Chemical Manipulation           ..-
        Rudiments of Botany                    6 Wollaston•s Insecta Maderrrma                    8
                                                          on Variation of Species ..........
—       Translation of Muhl
        Vegetation of Europe
                                               6
                                               6 Woodward on Polarized Light
                                                                                                !•
        & Griffith's Micrographic Dict. . . 9 Yarrell's British Birds                             I
   twitso&'s Birds' Egg*                                  British Fishes    ..................    1
    -
                                               1
        Exotic Butterflies                     6          on the Salmon     ..................    3


                14   DAY USE
RETURN TO DESK FROM WHICH BORROWED
          Bblogy Ubrary
 This book is due on the last date stamped below, or
           on the date to which renewed.
   Renewed books are subject to immediate recall.

                                 BIOLOGY
                                 LIBRARY
  THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY
1
                                         I


