This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project
to make the world’s books discoverable online.
It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that’s often difficult to discover.
Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book’s long journey from the
publisher to a library and finally to you.
Usage guidelines
Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying.
We also ask that you:
    + Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for
       personal, non-commercial purposes.
    + Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google’s system: If you are conducting research on machine
       translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the
       use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help.
    + Maintain attribution The Google “watermark” you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find
       additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it.
    + Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just
       because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other
       countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can’t offer guidance on whether any specific use of
       any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book’s appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner
       anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe.
About Google Book Search
Google’s mission is to organize the world’s information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers
discover the world’s books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web
at http://books.google.com/


             KLIJK
Il l l l /WIT III

6%?
                ‘      ,.. '                                     -   I
                     .
. -;._.¢-- ¢.._-.,.,~:-W     ;*.“:\'.'--.*.'¥-"'."'-°*'-“""~-"":*""" ‘

            THE
YOUNG NATURALISTS JOURNEY.


___-—
                 >1
4/86;?/$
                             THE
    YOUNG               NATURALIST’S
                 JOURNEY;
                              on,
  THE TRAVELS OF AGNES MERTON AND HER MAMA.
                 BY MRS. LOUDON,
            AUTHOR or “ Tm:  LAD!ES' FLOWLR GARDEN."
         WITH   TWENTY-THREE            ENGRAVINGS.
                        LONDON:
       WILLIAM SMITH, 113, FLEET STREET.
                            MDCCCXL-

               LONDON 2
BRADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIAR8

                   TO
MY LITTLE DAUGHTER AGNES,
       (THE REAL mnzs MERTON,) _
    THIS LITTLE WORK
             XS DEDICATED
 BY HER   AFFECTIONATE      MOTHER,
                              THE AUTHOR.


                  P REFACE.
   NATURAL HISTORY has always appeared to me a
particularly suitable study for young people; as
it excites the youthful mind to the contemplation
of the in<U+FB01>nite wisdom which has been shown
in making all creatures form one vast whole; every
part of which is in some way connected with, and
dependent on, the rest. Nothing has been made
in vain.   Earth, air, and sea, are all peopled with
living things, suited to the different situations in
which they are to exist, and to the functions which
 they are destined to ful<U+FB01>l. The mole, for example,
 was intended to live under ground; and how
wisely and how wonderfully it is suited for this
purpose! Its long snout pierces into and loosens

viii                    PREFACE.
the earth, which its paws, armed as they are witl1
strong nails, scrape away; it has no visible eyes—
for eyes would be useless in the narrow cell which
serves for its habitation;      and its thick velvety
coat, while its softness, joined to the tapering form
of the body, enables the mole to glide through the
long galleries in which it resides, prevents it from
being hurt by any stones or hard substances which
it may meet with in its way.      The animals of very
hot and of very cold climates are both generally
covered with a thick coating of hair or fur, which
protects them alike from extreme heat or extreme
cold, by preventing them from being sensibly
affected by the atmospheric temperature. The
birds, which are intended to live principally in the
air, are gifted with extraordinary strength of
pinion, while their legs are short, so as not to
impede their <U+FB02>ying; their bodies are also of extra
ordinary lightness, and they are furnished with
long slender claws to enable them to grasp the
branch on which they perch. The duck, on the

                       PREFACE.                    ix
contrary, has broad webbed feet, which act as
paddles in the water to assist its swimming; and
the ostrich has long strong legs, each armed with
a single toe in front, to enable it to make its way
through deserts of moving sand.            When the
works of man are long and closely examined, some
tri<U+FB02>ing fault or error never fails to be discovered
in them ; but with the works of God the longest
and most minute examinations ‘only convince us
more and more of their excellence and perfection.
    Feelings of the above nature having often arisen
 in my mind when I have been turning over the
 volumes of the Magazine of Natural History, the
 idea struck me, that many of the papers contained
 in the earlier part of that work (while it was
 under the superintendence of my husband) might,
 if stripped of their technicalities, be rendered both
 interesting and amusing to children. This was the
  origin of the present work ; though the papers
  taken from the Magazine qf Natural History have
  been so changed in <U+FB01>tting them for the compre

X                         PREFACE.
hension of children, that, in most cases, it would
be di<U+FB02>icult for those who may have read them before
to recognise them. The adaptation of them has,
indeed, cost me quite as much time and labour as
the writing of an entirely new work ; and the
principal advantage I have reaped from the Maga
zine, is the power it affords me of assuring my
young readers that all the anecdotes here related
of the animals are strictly true; though the inci
dents of the journey, and the persons introduced,
are partly imaginary.
                                        J. W. L.
   Bayswater, October 28, 1839.

                      CONTENTS.
CHAPTER                                                                 PAGE
     I. THE MAMOZEET MONKEY AND THE MANGOUSTE                         .    1
    II. THE  VIRGINIAN    PARTRIDGES,     AND     THE        FLYING
          SQUIRRELS   .     .     .     .     .       .         .     .   15
  111. FALCONS AND FALCONRY          .      .     .        .          .   29
   1v. FALCONS AND FALCONRY CONCLUDED                 .        .      .   43
    v. msnns        .   .     .     .      .     .       .           . - 64
  V1. THE LEMUR AND THE CHAMELEON .                 .         .      .    80
 vn. THE DIANA MONKEY, AND ANIMAL FRIENDSHIPS                        .    92
vnr. THE LUMINOSITY 013- THE SEA        .     .      .         .      . 108
  11:. THE UNGKA APE or SUMATRA, AND THE NUTHATCH . 120
    X. THE  KINGFISHER,    AND  THE     KESTREL,        AND       THE
           SPARROW-HAWK .       .      .      .     .          .     . 138
 XI. THE SHRIKES, OR. BUTCHER-BIRDS, THE FLY-CATCHER,
          AND THE SKELETONS     .      .      .     .          .     . 155
 xn. THE DoDo, AND CONCLUSION             .     .        .           . 166


                         THE
                    Q
      <U+FB01>nmngr l5‘lPZ<U+FB01>I1IMlI£°8lll§§jl°§ <U+FB01>uuruag.
                  CHAPTER I.
    THE MAMOZEET MONKEY AND THE MANGOUSTE.
   Aeuss MERToN’s mama being about to make ,
a long journey through several of the counties of
England, determined to take with her her little
girl, who was then about seven years old, and who
was very fond of travelling. The <U+FB01>rst place they
were to go to was Birmingham, and as Mrs.
Merton had decided on travelling by the railroad,
she and her little daughter went on the appointed
day to the terminus in Euston-square.
   Agnes, who had never travelled by a railroad
before, was very much struck and almost fright
ened at the number of carriages; and still more
                          B

2         THE YOUNG NATURALISTN JOURNEY.
so at the crowd of people who bustled about, all
eager to secure their places, and all seeming in the
greatest hurry and confusion; while the porters
passed to and fro, each with a kind of wheelbarrow,
loaded with almost innumerable trunks and carpet
bags. Agnes clung close to her mama, and was
very glad when one of the men showed them the
carriage which was marked with the same num
bers as those on their tickets. They had scarcely
taken their places when a lady came on the plat
form, followed by a servant carrying a mamozeet
monkey, and Agnes soon became quite absorbed
in watching the antics of this curious little animal.
The monkey was very small, not larger than a
squirrel, and it was quite as active as one of those
nimble little creatures.  It was never still a mo
ment;     one instant it was peeping under the
servant's arm, then it was on his shoulder, and
then twisting round his body ; the servant, during
all these movements, keeping fast hold of a chain
which was attached to a black leather-belt, fastened
round the animal's body. Agnes was delighted
with watching this monkey, which was indeed a
very curious little creature.   It was covered with

--~
                 THE MAMOZEET MONKEY.                3
   long light brown hair, edged with grey, which made
   it look as though it was striped: its tail was very
   long, and distinctly marked with black and white
   rings; and its face was one of the sharpest and
   most cunning-looking that can possibly be con
   ceived. Its little twinkling black eyes were set off
  ,by a tuft of long white hair behind each ; and its
   ears, which were very large, went <U+FB02>apping up and
   down among this hair, as if it were listening to
   everything that was said. The lady appeared a
  long time in doubt where to go, but at last, to
  Agnes’ great delight, the porter opened the door
  of the carriage in which they sat, and the lady
  having entered it, the servant gave her the monkey
  and retired.
      “ Did you ever see a monkey like this before ?”
_ asked the lady of Agnes, as soon as she had seated
  herself, observing how intently the little girl was
  watching the antics of her pet.
      “ Never,” said Agnes. “He looks just like a
  little old man.”
      “ That,” said the lady, “is what the sailors
  called him on board the ship in which we brought
  him from his native country, Brazil. His curious
                          B2

4        THE YOUNG NATURALISTHI JOURNEY.
tricks made him the favourite of every body on
board.”
   “ Oh ! how I should like to hear all about them,”
cried Agnes.
   “ With your mamafs permission,” returned the
lady, “ I will tell you all I remember about
them.”
                      MAMDZEET.
   Mrs. Merton gladly consented, and thanked the
lady, who began as follows:—
   “ I had long wished for a Mamozeet monkey,

_-~
               rnn MAMOZEET MONKEY.               5
but though they are generally common enough in
Brazil, they happened to be scarce when we were
there, and we did not succeed in getting one till a
few days before we sailed for England. One day,
however, my husband happened to go into the
market-place in Bahia, the town in which we
resided, and there he saw a slave offering this
monkey, and several other wild animals, for sale.”
   “ What, was this monkey ever wild ?” asked
Agnes.
   “ Yes,” returned the lady. “ There are a great
many monkeys wild in the woods in Brazil; and
many persons make the catching of them a kind
of trade.”
   “ Then I suppose the monkey was frightened
at you at <U+FB01>rst, and would not let you stroke him
as he does now.”
   “ He would not let me touch him; but I had
not much time to try, for he was taken on board the
very day after we bought him. The monkey never
having seen a ship before, was very much terri<U+FB01>ed
at everything, and was at <U+FB01>rst so wild and <U+FB01>erce
 that everybody was afraid of going near him. He
 had a nice little kennel made on purpose for him,

 6          THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
 and placed on the deck ; but he would never remain
 still in it a single moment.     By degrees, however,
 our little old man, as the sailors called him, became
 less savage, though he never lost his activity and
 wildness. Even when he was being fed or caressed,
 if he saw a cockroach, he would dart away after it
 like lightning, whisking his long tail about, and
 springing from side to side like a cat at a <U+FB02>y, till
 he had caught his prey. The ship abounded with
 cockroaches, and some of them were above two
 inches long.    When the little old man had caught
 one of these large insects, he would glance his keen
little'eyes about from side to side, and if he was
satis<U+FB01>ed that he was not observed, he would sit
down and begin to prepare the cockroach for his
meal. He was very particular in his manner of
doing this: <U+FB01>rst, he hit the head off, then he drew
out the inside, and threw it on one side; then he
carefully stripped the insect of its wings, its wing
cases, and its legs, which are covered with short
stiff bristles ; and at last. <U+FB01>nished by devouring the
body with every appearance of satisfaction."
    “ I think he could not have been very hungry,”
said Agnes, “ to take so much time in preparing

               THE MAMOZEET MONKEY-                7
such a little creature .as a cockroach. He would
have hardly anything left to eat when he had
done.”
   “ You forget,” said the lady, “that I told you
some of the cockroaches were very large; and it
was with these only that he took so much trouble.
With the smaller cockroaches he was not so par
ticular, and his appetite for them was so keen, that
he would frequently eat a score or two of them in
a day. Nothing could exceed the vigilance and
activity of this Mamozeet as long as he remained
in a warm climate.      When he sat on the deck,
his little head was turning incessantly from side to
side, his keen sparkling eyes were always on the
watch, and his large ears were raised so as to       .
catch the slightest sound. Whenever he saw any
stranger approaching him he would dart off, utter
ing those shrill disagreeable cries which have pro
duced for this monkey, in Brazil, the name of
Ouistiti.”
   “ What a frightful name,” said Agnes.
   “ It is at any rate an expressive one,” said Mrs.
Merton; and then turning to the lady, she asked
what they fed the monkey with on board the ship!

8         THE YOUNG NATURALISTQS JOURNEY.
   “ His ordinary food,” replied the lady, “ con-
sisted of oranges, bananas, mangoes, and Indian
corn; but as the supplyiof these articles was
limited, he was fed, during the latter part of the
voyage, with milk, sugar, raisins, and crumbs of
bread. As the ship approached England, and the
climate grew colder, the poor Mamozeet seemed to
suffer exceedingly The cockroaches were now
unheeded, and their once indefatigable and active
enemy kept constantly in his kennel, mu<U+FB01>led up
in a piece of <U+FB02>annel which had been put in to
keep him warm, and in which he rolled himself,
only venturing out when the sun shone brightly
enough for him to bask in its beams; and
hurrying back to his den at the <U+FB01>rst breath of
cold wind.”
   “ Poor little fellow !’’ said Agnes.
   “ When our little old man arrived in England,
and was put into a warm room,” continued the
lady, “he gradually recovered some of his former
liveliness, and would run about, dragging his kennel
after him. He did not like, however, to be noticed,
and was very indignant when any one attempted
to touch or caress him; and he never recovered

              THE MAMOZEET MONKEY.                9
his appetite for cockroaches. I then began to feed
him myself, and found that he was particularly
fond of jelly and ripe fruit; I also gave him so
much milk and crumbs of bread, that he soon
became plump and healthy. He now grew tolerably
tame, and he was so fond of me that he would eat
out of my hand, and come to me when I called
him ; but he was still very violent with strangers.
Even after he had been long domesticated, if any
one attempted to handle or play with him, his
eyes sparkled, the long white hairs on each side of
his face stood erect, his nostrils dilated, and he
grinned and showed his teeth, while his little
wrinkled features assumed a most ludicrous expres
sion of rage.    He was, however, very fond of
playing with a cat, which is very remarkable, as
these monkeys are generally said to be great
enemies to cats.”
   “ That is very remarkable indeed,” said Mrs.
Merton; “but animals in a domesticated state
often appear to lose their natural antipathies. Do
you think it safe to allow my little girl to touch
your monkey?” continued she, observing that
Agnes wished very much to stroke it.

10       THE YOUNG NATURALISTGS JOURNEY.
   “ Oh!” replied the lady, “ there is not the
slightest danger. Since my husband’s death, Jacopo
has been my constant companion, and he is very
fond of children.”
   “ I remember to have read,” observed Mrs.
Merton, “ that these monkeys are very attentive
to their young. A pair of them, which were
kept in Paris, had three young ones, which I
believe were the <U+FB01>rst born in Europe. The
mother was rather careless, and seemed soon to
get tired of carrying them about; and when this
was the case, she would hold out the little crea
tures to their father, or would playfully put them
on his back. The male monkey generally took
them in his hands and nursed and played with
them, till they became restless for food, when he
gave them back to their mother.”
   “ How delighted I should have been to see them,”
exclaimed Agnes.
   “ As your daughter seems so pleased with what
I have been able to tell her about my monkey,”
said the lady, addressing Mrs. Merton, “ perhaps
she will like to hear something of another very
curious animal, called a Mangouste, that my brother

                    THE MANGOUSTE.               1I
 brought over from the East Indies, some years
 since, and that he still keeps, and is very
fond of.”
    “ I should, indeed,” replied Agnes; “ though I
 don’t exactly know what a Mangouste is.”
    “ The Mangouste,” said the lady, “ is a ferret
like looking animal, about two feet long, a native
of the East Indies, but covered with as thick a
coating of shaggy hair as though it came from a
                     THE MANGOUSTEL
cold country. The one I allude to, which is a
female, was brought to England from Madras.
Her colour is apparently a silvery-grey, but on a
nearer inspection every one of her hairs (which are

12       THE YOUNG NATURAL1sT’s munnnr.
long and coarse,) will be found to be marked with
bars of black, brown, and white, like the quills of
a porcupine; her head is small; her legs short
and strong; and her tail is long and very thick
near the body, but tapering at the end.”
   “ Is she intelligent ?” asked Agnes.
   “ She is very inquisitive,” replied the lady;
“ and she runs about the house of her master
searching into every corner and devouring all the
insects she can <U+FB01>nd. She is very light and active,
and after she has examined every part of the <U+FB02>oor,
she jumps upon the chairs and tables, springing
lightly from chair to chair, and poking her nose
into the pockets of those who are sitting on them.
She uses her fore-paws like hands, and with great
dexterity pulls clothes and other things about,
turning them over and seeming to be examining
them. Her tail seems to assist her in leaping and
turning; and in so doing, she frequently strikes it
against hard objects with such force as to make it
bleed at the extremity.”
   “ Does the Mangouste play with the cat like
your little Jacopo ?” inquired Mrs. Merton.
   “ N0,” replied the lady; “ but she has formed

__.-—
                  THE Mimeousru.                 13
an acquaintance with the dog. When she was
<U+FB01>rst brought to my brother’s cottage she growled,
and set up her hair, as a cat does, at the sight of
the dog kept there.   They had afterwards a slight
contest; but after the Mangouste had given the
dog a bite on the face, they became good friends,
and have continued so ever since. The Mangouste
possesses great strength and activity, and she is as
playful as a kitten, twisting her long body about
into the most curious attitudes, one of the most
remarkable of which is, her standing upon her tail
and hind legs, and leaping like a kangaroo.”
   “ I suppose this creature is too cat-like to live
on bread and milk?” said Mrs. Merton.
   “ You are quite right,” returned the lady, “in
calling the Mangouste cat-like; for the change
that takes place in her when she is fed is very
striking. At other times she is mild and docile,
but the moment she sees food, especially if a
live, bird be given to her, she becomes <U+FB01>erce
and ravenous: her eyes glare,-she utters a low,
savage growl, and, if any one approaches gnashes
her teeth and attempts to bite. One day a basin
 of water was offered to her, in which was an

14        THE YOUNG NArURALIs'1"s JOURNEY.
egg; when she eagerly dived for it, up to her
shoulders, as she did when some minnows were
substituted for the egg; but when a larger vessel
was presented to her, the water seemed to deprive
her of sight; and after a few ineffectual attempts
to dive for the minnows, she contented herself
with sitting close to the edge of the tub, and
watching till they came to the surface, when she
pounced upon them. She was very fond of birds,
and used to climb dexterously into bushes in search
of them. She was also very fond of mice, rats,
lizards, and frogs,. playing with them a long time
before killing them, and only giving their coup-de
grace when there appeared some chance of their
making their escape.”

                          15
                  CHAPTER II.
    THE VIRGINIAN   PARTRIDGES, AND THE FLYING
                      SQUIRRELS.
   THE conversation of the lady to whom the
Mamozeet belonged was so very interesting, and
the antics of the monkey itself so droll, that both
Mrs. Merton and her daughter were sorry when
they arrived at Birmingham, and found that they
must part, as the lady was going on to Liverpool.
Mrs. Merton and Agnes then proceeded to the
house of Mr. Linton, Mrs. Merton’s cousin, where
she intended to spend two or three days. Mr. and
Mrs. Linton lived at Edgbaston, a short distance
from the town, where they had a large garden;
and Mrs. Merton and Agnes had no sooner arrived
there, than George and Harriet Linton dragged
their cousin into the garden to show her a pair of
beautiful Virginian partridges that their papa had
lately had sent to him from America. The children
were so long admiring these birds and feeding them,

16       THE YOUNG NATUBALISTE JOURNEY.
that their parents began to be uneasy, and came
in search of them; when Agnes ran instantly to
her mama, and begged her to tell them if she knew
anything of the history and habits of the birds.
   “ These beautiful birds,” said Mrs. Merton,
“though generally called partridges, are in fact
quails.   They are natives of North America
throughout nearly its whole extent; being found
from the north of Canada to the south of Florida.
They generally appear in <U+FB02>ocks, or coveys, like the
partridge of Europe. The Virginian partridges
are easily domesticated, and even in a wild state
will occasionally approach the farm-houses, and
mix with the barn-door fowls to feed. When
alarmed they take shelter in the woods, perching
on the branches of the trees, or hiding themselves
among the underwood. They begin to build early
in May, and form their nests on the ground, but
with great care. They usually choose a thick tuft
of grass for a foundation, and make their nest of
leaves and dry grass, covering it over above, and
leaving an opening on one side for an entrance. The
female is very careful of her young, and counterfeits
lameness to lead sportsmen away from her nest, in

LJ
   A---u


               THE VIRGINIAN PARTRIDGE.            17
 the same way as the common English partridge.
 These partridges are often reared in America
 by placing the eggs under a common hen; but
 though when thus reared they appear very tame
 for a little time, as soon as they have attained
 their full growth they <U+FB02>y off to the woods.”
    “ Our birds,” said Mr. Linton, “ have laid eggs
 and hatched their young here. Last spring we
had in some pea-sticks, which were deposited till
wanted in the yard, where the partridges were
kept. Towards the latter end of May, I perceived
the male bird carrying straws about in his bill, and
twisting them about over his head in the most
conceited manner, as though he were doing some
thing that he was very proud of. I watched him,
and saw him deliver the straws to the female, who
was sitting among the pea-sticks ; and I soon_found
that they were about to build a nest.     Both male
and female worked very hard at this nest, and it
was indeed very neatly made. It was, as you
described their nests generally, arched over at the
top, and with a hole on the side for the birds to go
in and out, just like a wren’s; and when it was
<U+FB01>nished, the hen laid in it twelve eggs, which, at
                           e

18       THE YOUNG NATuaAr.1sT’s JOURNEY.
the proper time, she sate on, with as much assiduity
as the common hen. VVhen I thought it was time
for the eggs to be hatched, I examined the nest,
and found it deserted; though some egg-shells,
which had evidently contained young birds, were
lying about. Much pleased with this circumstance,
I cautiously looked about to try to <U+FB01>nd the mother
with her little brood; and, after searching a con
 siderable time, I succeeded, though the <U+FB01>rst inti
 mation I had of her presence was her <U+FB02>ying in my
 face with great agitation, just as a common hen
 would have done under similar circumstances. I
 then saw the young ones, nine in number, collect
 under the wings of their mother, whose attention
 to them was unremitting, and who reared them all
  with very little trouble. When they had moulted
  and assumed their adult plumage, from some cause
  which I could never ascertain, they began to droop
  one after another, and before Christmas all the
  young birds died. Though I examined the stomachs
  and gizzards of most of them, yet I never could
  <U+FB01>nd out the cause of their deaths; but I think it
  probable that so extraordinary a mortality must
   have been occasioned by some deleterious substance

___-,—
              THE VIRGINIAN PARTRIDGE.
‘that they picked up in the place into which I put
 them when I separated them from the old ones,
 as the old birds escaped uninjured.”
    “ Did the male bird assist the female in sitting?”
 asked Mrs. Merton.
    “ No,” returned Mr. Linton. “ I have heard of
 many birds, of which the male and female sit alter
 nately; but that was not the case with our
 partridges. The male bird con<U+FB01>ned his politeness
 to assisting his lady to build, and to serenading
 while she was sitting; which he did with the
 harshest and most singular notes I ever heard,
 some of which were very similar to the mewing of
 a cat. He had also the peculiarity of constantly
 running round in a circle, till the ground on which
 he performed his evolutions was worn as bare as a
 road, and the turf trodden down much in the same
 way as it is by the ruff in the fens during the
 hatching season. After the young birds were
 hatched, nothing could be more cordial and harmo
 nious than this happy family. When evening
 approached, they crowded together in a circle on
 the ground, and prepared for the slumbers of the
 night by placing their tails all together, with their
                          02

20       THE romve NATUBALIS'I"S JOURNEY.
pretty mottled chins facing to the front, in a watch
ful round-robin.”
   “ Was the male bird as kind to the young ones
as the mother?” asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ Oh yes,” returned her cousin. “ When their
food, which consisted of wheat, barley, and a little
bread, was thrown in to them, the male would not
eat anything till he had called all his family around
him to partake of it; and he did this with much
tossing of his head, and strutting, and spreading
out of his wings and tail.”
   They had walked on While they were talking,
and had now reached the farther end of the court
yard, where there was a kind of cage, something
like a rabbit-hutch, in which there appeared some
remarkably active little animals.
   “ What are you keeping here ?” asked Mrs.
 Merton.
   “ Some <U+FB02>ying squirrels,” answered Mr. Linton,
“ which were sent to me from America, at the
same time as the partridges.”
   “ Are they tame?" inquired Mrs. Merton.
   “ Perfectly so,” replied Mr. Linton; “ and when
we <U+FB01>rst had them, we used to amuse ourselves in

               THE FLYING soumnnn.                 21
the evenings by letting them play about theroom
in which we were sitting.”
   “ I should think they would be too tired~to play
much in the evening,” said Agnes.
   “ On the contrary,” said Mr. Linton, “they are
almost always asleep during the day, lying curled
round, with their tails covering their noses; but
in the evenings, and through the whole night, they
are in constant motion. At the time I speak of,
the moment I opened the door of their cage,‘ they
jumped upon me, and generally crept into my
waistcoat or coat-pocket : indeed, more than once,
after I have roused and fed them in the day-time,
I have found, to my great surprise, some hours
afterwards, that I had been carrying one about
with me in my pocket~handkerchief. Sometimes,
even when on horseback, on putting my hand into
my pocket I have felt a squirrel.”
   “ I can't say that I should have liked that,” said
Mrs. Merton.
   “ Neither did I,” replied Mr. Linton; “and in
the end, it led to their being shut up here.     But
while we kept them in the house, we used, as I
before observed, to let them out every evening go
                                                   {A11

 22       THE YOUNG NA'l‘URALIST’S JOURNEY.
run about; and we had constant opportunities of
seeing them jump, or (as it has been called) <U+FB02>y
across the room; though there is, in fact, no <U+FB02>ying
motion of the expansion of skin from the fore to
the hind legs.”
    “ How do they, then, contrive to move ?”
    “ When about to spring, they jerk their heads
up and down three or four times, as if to take
their distance, and increase the power of rising;
they then generally spring from some height down
wards, on some object which they appear to have
previously selected to reach. Their power of rising
appears to be very limited; as, indeed, will be
obvious when it is recollected that the expansion
of skin only acts as a parachute. They gradually ‘
fall, forming a curve in the air, the body being
kept in a perfectly horizontal position; and they
never descend headlong or sideways, as Landseer’s
spirited etching in the Fauna Borealis would lead
one to suppose. When they descend, their legs
are stretched out, and the under part of the body
appears a little hollowed, like the palm of the hand
with the <U+FB01>ngers nearly expanded.”
   “ I remember the print you allude to,” said Mrs.

                 THE FLYING SQUIRREL
Merton; “ and I have so often admired its beauty,
that I am quite sorry to <U+FB01>nd that it is incorrect.”
   “ I do not mean to assert,” replied Mr. Linton,
“ that in a wild state they never descend except
horizontally; but they certainly do not do so in a
general way. I have seen my squirrel come down
from the cornice of the room (twelve feet high)
upon the table; and in his descent, <U+FB01>nding that
if he continued in the direction in which he started,
he would fall upon the lighted candle, he has sud
denly thrown his body sideways, and thus turned
about a foot out of the <U+FB01>rst direction ; but he
never appeared to have the power of turning much
more than that. I can, however, easily conceive
that,in a wild state, descending from a great height
from some tree, they may, in some measure, guide
themselves by this power of turning sideways, and
be carried to great distances by the force of the
wind, and appear, as Bewick says, like numerous
falling leaves.”
   “ Squirrels are generally very fond of hiding
things,” observed Mrs. Merton. “ Have these
little creatures the same propensity?”
   “ Yes ; like all the squirrel tribe, they are in the

 24        THE YOUNG NATURALIsr's JOURNEY.
habit of hiding all the food they do not immediately
want to eat; and I have had many opportunities
of observing their recollection of the places in which
they had concealed their nuts and other things.
One evening they amused themselves with hiding
the nuts we had given them in my wife's cap ; and
four days afterwards, when they were let out of
their cage again, they went directly to my wife,
and carefullyexamined all the trimmings of her cap
in search of their hidden treasures. I found that
whenever they were abundantly supplied with food,
they were not satis<U+FB01>ed with the same quantity as
what they had been accustomed to take, but would
continue to fetch and hide what they could not
eat till all had disappeared.”
   “ Our friends,” said Mrs. Linton, “ were often
amused with watching the squirrels sitting quietly
on the cornice of the room over the curtain, till
tea was brought in; when, down they would come,
one after the other, either upon my head or upon
the table, and steal lumps of sugar so quickly that
we could seldom catch them. We were often
obliged to place a saucer on the top of the sugar
basin, to keep any sugar for ourselves. They would

               THE FLYING seumnnu                 25
then watch their opportunity, and take small pieces
of toast or cake, which they carried to the cornice,
and ran round the room till they thought they had
found a secure place to hide their stolen treasures
in ; when they used to scratch with their forefeet
till they had made a little opening, when they
would push the food into it with their mouths and
noses, and then stamp upon it.”
    “ I remember on one occasion,” observed Mr.
Linton, “ when our usual sitting-room was re
painted, we found eighteen pieces of sugar, besides
toast and pieces of cake, in the corners of the
cornice.    Of course, during the painting, the
squirrels were not permitted to have their evening
run; but after three weeks7 or a month’s con<U+FB01>ne
ment, they were allowed to come out again; and
we were much amused at their constantly running
round, and the anxiety they were in, when they
found their stores gone. As soon as tea was
brought in, they again stole the sugar, but hid it
in the corners of the room, under the carpet and
behind the books, as though they had sense enough
to discover that their former hiding-place was in
secure.”

26       THE YOUNG NATURALISTE JOURNEY
   “ Did they ever have any young ones ?” asked
Mrs. Merton.
   “Yes,” said Mr. Linton; “ in March of the
second year, I found, one day, just after the
squirrel’s cage had been cleaned, one young one,
which we reared. I had soon afterwards an oppor
tunity of procuring two more pairs, which, after
some <U+FB01>ghting, lived at last very contentedly all
together; but as the family was now too large to
be allowed to run about the room, I removed them
to their present cage. After this the squirrels
had several young ones, but I never saw more than
two at a time.   I found they were generally born
in March or April, and that they were always blind
for three weeks after their birth.”
   “ If on any occasion,” said Mrs. Linton, “we
disturbed the young in their nest, the mother
immediately afterwards removed them to another
part of the cage. The common squirrel of this
country is said to remove her young in the same
manner if disturbed. Finding this the case, we
often took the young squirrels out of their nest for
the purpose of watching the mother carry them
away, which she did by doubling the little one up

                THE FLYING soumann                27
under her body with her fore-feet and mouth till
she could take hold of the hind-thigh and the neck,
when she would jump away so fast that it was
di<U+FB02>icult to see whether she was carrying her young
one or not. As the young increased in size (which
they soon did), and of course in weight, this -under
taking became more di<U+FB02>icult. We then saw the
mother turn the young one on its back, and while
she still held the thigh in her mouth, the fore-legs
of the young one were clasped round her neck.
Sometimes, when she was attempting to jump
upon some earthen pots which I had placed in the
cage, she was overbalanced, and fell with her
young one ; but as soon as she was near the ground,
she would drop the young squirrel, so as to prevent
her own weight from crushing it, which would
have been the case if they had fallen together. I
have seen the young ones carried in this manner
till they were half-grown.”
    “ Poor thing !” cried Agnes; “ how very fond
of her young ones she must have been !”
    “ We often see cats carrying about their young,”
said Mrs. Merton. “ But pray go on,” continued
she, addressing Mr. Linton, “ and tell us anything
else you can recollect about these squirrels.”

28        THE YOUNG NATURAL1sr’s JOURNEY.
   “ I have little else to say,” resumed Mr. Linton,
“ except that we feed our squirrels on milk, sugar,
nuts, and any kind of grain; and also that they
require to be let out occasionally, as, like some
kinds of monkey, they are very apt to lose their
tails if kept in very close con<U+FB01>nement.”

                           29
                    CHAPTER III.
                 FALCONS AND FALCONRY.
     Arms spending a few days very agreeably in
  Birmingham, Mrs. Merton and her daughter went
  to visit Sir Edward Peregrine, an old gentleman
  who lived on a <U+FB01>ne estate which he possessed in
  Somersetshire, and who piqued himself on preserv
  ing as much as possible the customs of his ancestors.
  Among other things, Sir Edward had a <U+FB01>ne heronry
  on his estate, and he kept a number of hawks and
  falcons, which he occasionally <U+FB02>ew at these birds,
  imitating as closely as possible when so doing, the
  manner in which similar amusements had been
  conducted by his ancestors for centuries.
     The day after Mrs. Merton’s arrival,the baronet’s
  sister, Miss Peregrine, who lived with him, and kept
  his house, as his wife was dead, begged her visitor
  not to refuse being present at a hawking-match,
  should Sir Edward propose it.          Mrs. Merton
' answered that her only objection was on account

30       THE YOUNG 'NATuRALIsT’s JOURNEY.
of Agnes; as she thought it would pain her to
witness the sufferings of the poor birds struck
down by the hawks. However, when Miss Pere
grineinformed her that the birds were generally
killed at one blow, and consequently could not
suffer much, she promised to comply.
   Miss Peregrine had judged rightly of her brother;
for as soon as he supposed his guests to be suffi
ciently refreshed from the fatigues of their journey,
he proposed to them to <U+FB01>x a day for what he called
this noble diversion, and he was delighted with
Mrs. Merton”s ready compliance with his wishes ;
while his only son, a very <U+FB01>ne youth of about seven
teen, began in high spirits to talk to Mrs. Merton
and Agnes, to try to give them some idea of the
sports. Agnes listened with great attention to all
that was said; but, not quite understanding it,
she at last ventured to ask what was meant by
hawking.
   “ The noble art of Falconry, or Hawking, as it
is now called,” said Sir Edward, “ was formerly so
highly in repute, that no person of high rank was
thought properly quali<U+FB01>ed for his exalted station
who was ignorant of it. The length of time that

              FALCONS AND FALCONRY.                31
was required to train a falcon, and the consequent
expense of procuring one when trained, con<U+FB01>ned
the sport to the wealthy; and not only noblemen,
but kings and bishops, were devoted to it. Even
ladies partook of it; and we often see in old pic
tures a lady on her palfrey, followed by her falconer
hearing her favourite hawk upon his wrist, or
carrying it herself.”
   “ The birds used for this kind of sport,” observed
Miss Peregrine, “ all belong to the division which
is now called Raptores, from raptor, a robber or
plunderer; but by Linnaeus they were distinguished
by the term Accipitres, from accipio, to take; and
in the language of falconry they are known by the
general name of Hawks. The kinds most commonly
used are the Peregrine or common falcon, the
Ger-falcon, the Hobby, the Merlin, the Goshawk,
and the Fishing-hawk.      Of these, the Peregrine
falcon and the Ger-falcon were used for the nobler
kinds of game; the Hobby and the Merlin for the
smaller birds; the Goshawk for the particular kind
of hawking called raking, which consists in the
bird taking its prey sideways, and not by pouncing
upon it ; and the Osprey for <U+FB01>shing.”

32         THE YOUNG NATURALISTS JOURNEY.
    “ Still,” said Agnes, looking timidly at her
mother, “ I scarcely know what hawking means.
 What do the birds do '5”
    “Hawking, my love," said her mother, “is a
means of hunting birds in the air by other birds, as
 hares and foxes are hunted over the ground by
dogs. The hawks are carried out by the falconer;
and when a bird is seen that the falconer wishes to '
kill, he lets loose one of his hawks. The hawk
rises very high in the air, and then darts down
upon the poor bird, which it kills with a blow of its
beak, and brings down to its master in its talons.
There are, as Miss Peregrine has kindly told you,
several kinds of birds employed in this sport, most
of which you will see to-morrow.”
   “ She may see them now, if you please,” said
Miss Peregrine, taking Agnes by the hand. “ If
you will walk with me, I will show her all my
brother’s birds; and if my nephew Frederick will
accompany us, he and I will tell her a few particu
lars of each.”
   Mrs. Merton and Mr. Frederick gladly assent
ed, and they all proceeded together to visit the
falcons.

               FALCONS AND rALcoNRY.               33
   “ That bird which looks at us so keenly,” said
 Miss Peregrine, “is the common falcon. It is
one of what are termed the noble birds of prey,
and though not very large in its body, it has, from
the length of its wings, and the expression of its
eyes, a very grave and digni<U+FB01>ed air. It is a native
of the continent of Europe and the islands of the
Mediterranean, and it is always found in rocky
and mountainous places. It is perhaps the most
courageous of all birds for its size; and when it
attacks its prey, it <U+FB01>rst soars to a great height and
then drops perpendicularly upon it; rising again
majestically straight up to nearly as great a height
with its prey in its claws as it had soared before to
strike it. When the prey is too heavy for this,
the falcon tears it to pieces, and devours it on
the spot.”
   “ The nest, or eyrie of the falcon,” observed
Mr. Frederick, “ is built in the cliffs of the most
rugged rocks exposed to the south, and the female
lays three or four eggs, which are of a reddish
yellow with brown spots. As soon as the young
are able to procure their own food, the parent
birds drive them not only from the nest, but force
                           D

 34       THE YOUNG NATURALrsT’s munusr.
them to quit that particular district which they
reserve exclusively for themselves.”
   “ How cruel and how sel<U+FB01>sh !” cried Agnes.
   “ You forget,” said her mother, smiling, “ how
often I have told you we must not <U+FB01>nd fault with
animals for cruelty, as they act solely from the
dictates of instinct.  It is only a creature possesed
of reason, and will, that can be cruel.        But we
are interrupting Miss Peregrine, who, I hope, will
tell us something more about the falcons.”
   “ This kind of falcon,” continued Miss Pere
grine, “ is known to live to a very great age. One
was taken at the Cape of Good Hope in 1793,
which had a gold collar round its neck, on which
was engraved the name of James I. king of Eng
land, with the date of 1610. This bird must
consequently have been nearly two hundred years
old, and it was yet apparently healthy and
vigorous.”
   “ But the most curious thing about the hawks,"
said Frederick, “is the care that is taken in train
ing them. The young birds are taken before they
leave the nest, and are kept in darkness and with
out food for several days.     They are then fed by

               FALCONS AND FALCONRY.             35
the falconer, and are taught to know his voice, and
to leap on his hand when they are called. They
are afterwards exercised in the open air, and are
<U+FB01>rst <U+FB02>own at a pigeon tied by a string. If they
tear this to pieces when they have killed it, they
are beaten; but if they bring it uninjured to the
falconer, they are caressed and fed with raw beef,
which is a food that they are very fond of. At
last the falcon’s education is completed, and it is
ready to be <U+FB02>own at wild game.”
    “ Did you ever see that curious work on hawk
ing called the Booke qf St. Album 1?” asked Miss
Peregrine, addressing herself to Mrs. Merton.
    “ Never; though I have often heard of it, and
thought what a strange subject it was for a lady
and an abbess to write upon.”
    “We have the book,” said Miss Peregrine; “ and
 I suppose Dame Juliana Berners wrote it to show
 her gentle blood; for in those days hawking was a
 sport con<U+FB01>ned entirely to the higher classes. In
 this book we are told that the different kinds of
 hawks were reserved for different ranks in society,
 and that the common falcon was never <U+FB02>own by
 any one below the rank of a prince.”
                         D 2

36       THE YOUNG NATUnAI.IsT’s JOURNEY.
   “ How droll !” said Agnes, laughing.     “ What
bird did they give to the king F’
   “ The Ger-falcon,” said Miss Peregrine; “ that
noble bird which is now eyeing you so keenly, and
which is considered equal, if not superior, to the
common falcon for the purposes of falconry; it is,
however, much <U+FB01>ercer and less docile than that
bird, and consequently requires more care in train
ing. When taken from the nest, this bird is kept
on low diet and in darkness for about six weeks.
The falconer then ties down one of the bird's wings
with a thread, and throws water over its body with
a sponge. The head is then patted without re
moving the hood, and the beak rubbed with a
pigeon’s wing. If the bird bears this quietly, the
hood is loosened and the eyes gradually uncovered,
the beak being kept muzzled. By degrees, the,
Ger-falcon is accustomed to obey its keeper’s voice
and to leap upon his hand ; but it generally takes
two or three months before it is su<U+FB02>iciently tame
to be left unmuzzled. When the bird is thought
sui<U+FB01>ciently docile, a pigeon’s wing covered with
blood is presented to it, on which it falls eagerly,
tearing it to pieces with the greatest fury. After

               FALCONS AND FALCONRY.
this, the Ger-falcon is gradually trained to take
herons and other kinds of game; and when pro
perly educated, it is supposed to afford <U+FB01>ner sport
than any other kind of falcon. In former times,
the king of Denmark is said to have sent a vessel
annually to Iceland to obtain the true Iceland Ger
falcons, which were thought superior to all others.
These birds were afterwards sent as presents to the
different sovereigns of Europe ; and some of them
were in the royal hawking establishment of France
so late as the time of Louis XVI,”
   “Have you any other kinds of hawks?” asked
Agnes.
   “ Yes,” replied Frederick, “ we have a Hobby.
This bird is common in the northern parts of
Europe ; but it is said to leave England and some
of the colder places in winter for a milder climate.
It is generally found in woods, and makes its nest
on high trees. The eggs are whitish and spotted.
The Hobby is not particularly docile; and it is
used in falconry principally for taking larks, quails,
and snipes. It is very <U+FB01>erce, and has been known
to dash through an open window into a room to
attack a bird ina cage.”

38       THE YOUNG NATURALISTQS JOURNEY.
   “ We have also a Merlin,” said Miss Peregrine,
“ which, though a small bird, possesses great
courage, and being also of rapid <U+FB02>ight, ranks high
in the scale of falcons. Dame Juliana Berners,
indeed, gives it as one of the hawks for an emperor.
The Merlin is so excellent a bird for hawking, that
one not weighing more than six ounces has been
seen to strike and kill a partridge more than twice
its own weight ; but this bird is so tenacious of its
prey, that it is very di<U+FB01>icult to make it quit any
thing that it has taken.         The Merlin builds its
nest upon the ground, and the eggs are mottled
all over with a reddish brown.”
   “ I have heard,” said Mrs. Merton, “ that the
plumage of the full-grown bird is very beautiful.
Lewis has celebrated
                    ‘ the Merlin’s wing,
            With its pinions of glossy blue.’
   I believe it is called in France and Germany
the Stone Falcon, from its habit of sitting on a
bare stone or rock. It is said to remain in Eng
land only during the winter; and though it is met
with in various places on the Continent, it appears
not to be very common anywhere.”

                FALCONS AND FALCONRY.
    “ The Merlin,” observed Frederick, “is the
most docile of all the different kinds of hawks.
 When it is being tamed, or in the language of
falconry, ‘reclaimed,’ it is not necessary to cover its
eyes with a hood. When the falconer has carried
it occasionally on his hand, and enticed it with
little bits of meat, it will <U+FB02>y to him the moment it
sees him. It is easily taught to take the game
and return to its master”s wrist at the <U+FB01>rst call.
The Merlin is employed to take larks, blackbirds,
partridges, and quails.”
    “ Have you a Goshawk ?” asked Mrs. Merton.
    “Yes,” said Frederick, “ here it is; but we
seldom use it, as my father does not like its manner
of <U+FB02>ying.    It is indeed one of the most lazy of
birds; and instead of boldly soaring into the air
and descending on its prey like-the falcons, it
glides through the air on a line with it, and seizes
it stealthily, as you might suppose a robber to do
who crept behind the man he wanted to murder
before he knocked him down. It is also soon dis
couraged, and if it does not catch its prey at the
<U+FB01>rst attempt it gives up the pursuit, and perching
on a bough, waits till some new game presents

 , 40        THE YOUNG NATURALIS’l"S JOURNEY.
   itself, or till the old game which had taken cover
   is forced by hunger to move. The <U+FB02>ight of the
   Goshawk islow, and it always takes its prey near
, the ground .”
       “ In Hewitson”s work on the Eggs of British
   Birds,” said Miss Peregrine, “it is stated that the
   Goshawk, ifundisturbed in possession,will frequently
   occupy the same nest for several years,.making
   the necessary repairs. This nest is placed on some
   high tree on the outskirts of the forest, and is
   rarely found in the interior, except in those parts
   that are open and free from timber. The female
   bird lays only three or four eggs, which are of a
   very pale blue without any marks, and which are
    frequently hatched by the middle of May.”
        “ The Goshawk is a cowardly fellow, also, in its
   training,” said Frederick; “ as, though it is apt to
   be sullen when it is <U+FB01>rst caught, it no sooner suffers
    from hunger, than it will feed greedily and be per
   fectly obedient to any one who will give it food.
    Particular care must, however, be taken in training
    this bird, not to feed it with fowls or pigeons ; as,
    if it were once to taste these birds, it would soon
   thin all the poultry-yards and dove-cots in the
    neighbourhood.”

               FALCONS AND FALCONRY.              41
   “ I can't bear that Goshawk,” cried Agnes.
   “I remember when I was in Scotland,” said
Mrs. Merton, “seeing a bird that I think was
called an Osprey, or <U+FB01>shing-eagle. Have you one
of those birds here ?”
   “ No,” said Miss Peregrine; “though I men
tioned it when we <U+FB01>rst began to talk on the subject
under the name of the Fishing-hawk. It is a large
and rather elegant bird.   It lives on <U+FB01>sh, but as it
can neither swim nor dive, it only takes its prey
when it rises to the surface of the water. Thus,
when in search of food, the Osprey may be -seen
hovering over the waves, and darting upon any
unfortunate <U+FB01>sh that may rise in sight. Should
the <U+FB01>sh perceive its danger and dive into deep
water, the Osprey stops suddenly in its descent,
and hovers a few seconds in the air, like a kite or
kestrel, suspending itself in the same spot by a
quick <U+FB02>apping of its wings ; it then makes a second
dart upon its prey, and if again unsuccessful, it
regains   its former altitude by an elegant spiral
<U+FB02>ight.   When it seizes the <U+FB01>rst, it is with its
claws;   sometimes scarcely appearing to dip its
feet in  the water, and at other times plunging

42       THE YOUNG NATURALIsT's JOURNEY
under the surface with force su<U+FB02>icient to throw up
a considerable spray. It never goes to any depth,
however, for, as was before observed, it can neither
dive nor swim.                           _
   “ The Osprey,” said Frederick, “ builds its nest
on a rock, or in some old ruins near the sea.
While the female is sitting, the male hovers near
her, and he catches <U+FB01>sh for her, and brings every
thing she wants to the nest.   The parent birds are
also much more affectionate to their young than
the falcons; for they not only do not drive them
away as soon as they can <U+FB02>y, but have been seen to
supply them with <U+FB01>sh long after they have left the
nest, and even when they were both <U+FB02>ying about
on the wing together.”


Falconer, with Frame and Falcons
                          43
                  CHAPTER IV.
        PALCONS AND FALCONRY CONCLUDED.
   THE morning of the day appointed for the hawk
ing expedition was as bright and <U+FB01>ne as could be
wished by the most anxious of the party; and
even Mrs. Merton could not help feeling in some
measure excited by the scene. First a man
appeared in the great court of the castle, carrying
an oblong frame padded with leather, on which
four couple of falcons were perched, each bird
being fastened to the perch by a thong of leather.
Each bird had also a small bell on one leg; and a
leathern hood, with an oblong piece of scarlet cloth
stitched into it, over each eye, and surmounted by
an elegant plume of various-coloured feathers,
which waved gracefully to and fro as the bird
moved its head.     Next came four men, each wear
ing a large pocket or bag tied round his waist, in
which he carried a live pigeon, called a lure, which

4:4      THE YOUNG NATURALIST'S JOURNEY.
was attached to a long string that the man held in
his hand and kept twisted round his arm: these
men were all'dressed in green. Then came a
number of gentlemen, and among them Sir Edward
and his son, some on foot and others on horseback,
and most of them carrying bags and lures; while
behind was an elegant little pony-carriage for the
ladies.
    When all was ready, they proceeded to the
ground appointed for the sport; the falconer
walking in the centre of his frame, which was
suspended by straps that he carried over his
 shoulders, and the bells worn by the falcons jing
 ling as he went along. The gentlemen followed,
some on horseback and some on foot, but all
 dressed in green, and all with long brown leather
 gloves or gauntlets on their hands, drawn half way
up the arm over the sleeve of the coat, and looking
like what we often see in old pictures. The sun
shone brightly, and as the pony-carriage moved
 along Miss Peregrine pointed out a grove of <U+FB01>ne
old oaks, which she said was the heronry. At
 length they arrived on the ground, which was a
 piece of common-like land lying between the grove

               nwons AND FALCONRY.                45
of oaks already mentioned, and a piece of marshy
ground bordering a river, which there spread out
into a kind of lake, and on the banks of which
stood a crane-like looking bird, with one leg tucked
up, and its head drawn in between its shoulders,
apparently asleep.    The moment, however, that
the cavalcade appeared in sight the bird uttered
a shrill cry, and rising to an immense height, <U+FB02>ew
or rather sailed to the oak grove.
   “ Look, Agnes Llookl” cried Miss Peregrine,
“ that is a heron.”
   Agnes looked, and saw the falconer set down his
frame on four wooden legs with which it was pro
vided; and then take the falcons one at a time
from their perch and tether them, as it is called,
to the ground, by fastening their leathem thongs
to some bushes which shaded them from the sun.
Then there was a cry that several herons were in
sight, and each falconer took a bird upon his glove
holding the leathem thong in the other hand.
The birds sat with great dignity on the gloved
hands of their masters, nodding their plumed heads
and jingling their bells. Then there was a cry of
“ Hoods o<U+FB01>‘;” and Agnes saw two of the falconer-s

___46     THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY.
 who were on horseback take the hoods off their
 birds, and then gallop towards a spot where several
 herons had just appeared in sight. The falconers
 just let the birds see their prey, and then letting go
 the thong, they shook the falcons from their wrists.
 Instantly the noble birds rose in the air to an
 astonishing height, and made towards the herons.
 At this moment a crow happened to <U+FB02>y across, and
 one of the falcons darted at it like lightning, and
 struck it into a neighbouring plantation, where they
 both fell among the trees.      The other falcon had
 in the meantime overtaken one of the herons
 (which in its terror dropped two or three <U+FB01>shes
 which it was carrying), and after <U+FB02>ying in circles
 round and round for a short time, suddenly soared
 above its terri<U+FB01>ed victim, and darting down upon
 him, struck him violently on the back, and they
 both came tumbling down together from what ap
 peared an exceedingly great height. The heron
 was quite dead before they reached the ground;
 and as soon as the huntsman perceived that this
 was the case, he threw out the lure, that is, the
 pigeon, across the body of the heron ; and the
 falcon no sooner saw the pigeon than he darted at

              mwons AND FALCONRY.                 47
that, and left the more valuable bird, which was
instantly drawn away, when the falcon was suffered
to tear the pigeon to pieces and devour it. In the
meantime the other falcon having disengaged itself
from the crow, which escaped, attacked another
heron, which, -however, it did not succeed in bring
ing to the ground. ‘ Other falcons were afterwards
<U+FB02>own, though without much success, as, though
several rooks and crows were killed, only one heron
more was brought to the ground; and no more
lures were wanted, as the falcons were suffered to
devour their meaner prey without obstruction.
   On the whole, though neither Agnes nor her
mama liked to see the struggles of the poor birds,
the scene was brilliant and animating ; and once,
when the second heron was attacked, and it seemed
to be <U+FB01>ghting with the falcon in the air, and to be
alternately rising and falling, while the horsemen
galloped backwards and forwards according to the
movements of the birds, and shouted as one bird or
the other seemed to be getting the better, Agnes
stood up in the carriage watching them with the
most intense anxiety. Suddenly, a louder shout
than before announced that the contest was ended,

48       THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
and Agnes seeing the late combatants falling
together from the sky, shuddered as she turned
away and sat down.       This was the last of the
sport, the hoods were put again on the falcons, and
the birds were replaced on their frame ; while Miss
Peregrine proposed driving by the heronry on
their road home, that she might show it to Agnes.
The carriage had scarcely begun to move when it
was stopped by Sir Edward, who asked the ladies
if they could make room for him, as he was much
tired.
   “ I am not quite so young as I was,” said he,
taking his seat; “ but it is a comfort to see that I
have a son to succeed me whose tastes are like
mine, and who will keep up everything just the
same as it is now after I am gone.”
   Agnes, who understood that he alluded to the
hawking, could not help thinkingit rather singular
that he should rejoice in his son appearing fond of
so cruel a pursuit; but of course she did not
speak, and in a few minutes afterwards they
arrived at the heronry. After looking at the
birds <U+FB02>ying about among the trees for some time,
Sir Edward asked Agnes what she thought of his
heronry.

__-~
               FALCONS AND FALCONRY.
   “ It appears to me,” said she, timidly, “ very
much like the rookery that I have seen at Shen
stone.”
   “There is, in fact, very little difference,” ob
served Miss Peregrine; “ and some years ago
there was a deadly feud between some rooks and
some herons in West-orchard for the possession of
some trees.    Some <U+FB01>ne old oaks, which had been
occupied as a heronry for centuries, having been
felled, the herons assembled in a body and went to
attack a neighbouring rookery. The rocks, who
were certainly most unjustly invaded, endeavoured
to defend themselves, and a succession of battles
ensued, in the course of which many of the com
batants were slain, and in which the herons were
generally victors. In the end a truce was con
cluded between the contending parties, the result
of which was,the herons took one-half of the trees,
and the rooks the other; and the two kinds of
birds have continued to inhabit the grove between
them ever since."
   “This is certainly very curious,” said Mrs.
Merton; “ as it seems to imply not only that the
birds had some means of holding converse with
                         E

50        THE YOUNG NATuRALIsT’s JOURNEY.
each other, but almost that they were reasonable
beings.”
   At this moment the old baronet called Agnes to
look at a branch of one of the trees which had
been broken off by the wind, and which had fallen
without displacing a nest which had been built in
it. The nest, which was large and <U+FB02>at, was formed
of sticks and lined with moss, and it contained
four or <U+FB01>ve dull-looking bluish-green eggs.
   “ Are the eggs all spoiled ?” asked Miss Pere
grine. “ If not,” she continued, “ I should like to
take one home and to try to hatch it.”
   “ I have heard of herons being tamed,” observed
 Mrs. Merton, “ but never of any being hatched
 under a hen, though I do not know why they
 should not.”
    Miss Peregrine was not, however, fated to try
 the experiment, for on examining the eggs they
 were all found to be addled; so, having satis<U+FB01>ed
 their curiosity, they again seated themselves in the
 carriage and were driven homewards.
    “ VVhy are you looking so serious, Agnes P’
 asked Mrs. Merton, after a short pause.
   “I was wondering, mama," returned the little

               FALCONS AND FALCONRY.
girl, “why the herons are killed, and what they
are good for.    Is their <U+FB02>esh eaten ?"
   “It was formerly,” said Miss Peregrine, “ and
was a favourite dish at the tables of the great;
but now the only part of the bird that is valued is
the plume of feathers at the breast, which is sold
at a high price.”
   “ I remember eating part of a heron in my
youth,” said Sir Edward, “ and it was very good,
though it had somewhat of a <U+FB01>shy <U+FB02>avour. But
heron-shawes are frequently mentioned in the
records which have been handed down to us of the
feasts of our ancestors.”
   “ Ah ! that word heron-shaw,” cried Miss Pere
grine, “ which means a fat heron, reminds me of
the old adage, ‘ he does not know a hawk from a
hand-saw,’ which is often used in old plays to
express extreme ignorance. The true reading is,
no doubt, ‘ he does not know a hawk from a heron
shaw.’ ”
    “ That is very likely,” said Mrs. Merton; and
then, to give a turn to the conversation, which she
thought would be more interesting to her little
daughter, she asked Miss Peregrine if there were
                          E 2

52       THE YOUNG NATUI-'tALIST”S JOURNEY.
not some other birds used in falconry besides those
she had already told them of.
   “ There are some others,” replied Miss Pere
grine, “ but they are reckoned so inferior to the
proper falcons, that they are called the ignoble
birds of prey. The principal of these birds are the
buzzard, the hen-harrier, and the kite.”
   “ The buzzard,” said Sir Edward, “is easily
distinguished at <U+FB01>rst sight from the falcon, by the
smalh1ess of its head, and from the kite by the
evenness of its tail; its wings are also very long
in proportion to its body.   It is considered one of
the most cowardly of birds; but its sight is so
delicate that it cannot see well by daylight, and
this imperfection gives it an appearance of timidity
which does not really belong to it. It never
attacks any animals that are not much smaller
and weaker than itself; and even then it does not
pursue by <U+FB02>ight, but prefers waiting for hours
together, sitting upon the branch of a tree, till
some unfortunate animal comes within reach.”
   “ From the character of the buzzard,” continued
 Miss Peregrine, “it is evident that it can be of
little use in falconry, except for what is called

               FALCONS AND FALCONRY.
raking, which means gliding sideways to seize its
prey, instead of soaring above it, and then darting
down, like the falcons. The buzzard is, however,
generally considered a friend to the farmer, as it
destroys moles, mice, frogs, grasshoppers, and
other vermin. Young buzzards, also, when tamed,
may be employed in the destruction of worms and
hurtful insects in a garden ; but they will also kill
all the singing-birds. The buzzard may sometimes
be seen hovering heavily over woods and planta
tions to discover any of the smaller birds; but in
open places, as my brother told you, it <U+FB01>xes itself
on a tree or a bush, or even on a clump of earth,
to watch for its prey, which it darts upon the
moment it comes within reach. It constructs its
eyrie or nest generally on a lofty tree, and com
poses it of small branches which it lines with wool,
or some other soft materials; or it often takes
possession of the nest of a crow, which it
enlarges.
   “ There are seldom more than two or three eggs,
which are white with yellow spots. The buzzard
nurses its young for a longer time than any other
of the birds of prey; and if the mother he killed,

54       THE YOUNG NATURALIsr’s JOURNEY.
the male will take care of the young birds till they
can <U+FB02>y. When the latter <U+FB01>rst take their <U+FB02>ight,
they are heard perpetually sending forth sharp and
plaintive cries.”
   “ I remember,” observed Mrs. Merton, “ read
ing the other day, in Yarrell’s British Birds, a
curious instance of the fondness of the hen buzzard
for hatching and rearing young. A female buzzard,
kept in the gardens of the Chequers Inn, in Ux
bridge, showing an inclination to sit, by collecting
and bending all the loose sticks she could <U+FB01>nd : her
owner supplied her with materials, and she made a
nest, into which, as she had no eggs of her own, two
hen’s eggs were put, which she hatched, and after
wards reared the chickens. After that, she hatched
a brood of chickens every year; though one sum
mer, when, in order to save her the fatigue of
sitting, some young chickens just hatched were put
to her, she destroyed them all.”
   “ The common buzzard,” said Miss Peregrine,
“ is found wild in most parts of Europe, and even
I believe in Barbary; but the Honey-buzzard is
found principally in France, and is not common
even in that country; while it is very rare in all

               FALcoNs AND FALCONRY.               55
the other parts of Europe. It is usually found in
<U+FB02>at countries, sitting on trees and bushes; and its
<U+FB02>ight is low and of short duration.       It is said,
however, without the assistance of its wings, to be
able to run as fast as a dog. Its food consists of
<U+FB01>eld-mice, lizards, frogs, and insects ; and its nest
is composed of interlaced twigs, covered with wool
or some similar material. It feeds its young with
the larvae of wasps, and with pieces of comb from
the wasp’s nest, whence it takes its name of the
honey-buzzard.”
   “ Is there not a bird called the Moor-buzzard?”
asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ Yes," returned Miss Peregrine, “ and it is
known also as the Marsh-harrier, the Duck-hawk,
and the Harpy. It is the largest British falcon,
and requires a greater length of time than any
other before the birds come to a state of maturity.
The male birds assume a grey plumage when full
grown ; but the females always retain their reddish
brown tinge.    The name of the Marsh-harrier is
given to this bird because it is generally found on
low and level lands, or uncultivated heaths and
moors, and because it <U+FB02>ies near the ground, as

56       THE YOUNG NATURALIsr’s JOURNEY.
though hunting its prey, like a harrier at fault,
and trying to recover the scent of a hare. The
name of moor-buzzard alludes to the bird roosting
on the ground, and preferring a bush of gorse, or
a stone, to sit on, while it is watching for its prey,
to a tree.”
   “ I once observed,” said Sir Edward, “ one of
these birds, late in the afternoon, take its station
in its usual heavy listless manner, on an old ash
tree, which commanded a good view of a large
moor, where there were abundance of snipes ; but
when it saw me, not liking the appearance of a
gun, it went off. The next morning, happening to
be near the same spot, I saw it rise from a thick
patch of sedges ; and being at a considerable dis
tance, I was in hopes it was a bittern, a patch of
sedges being a much more likely place for that
bird, than for a bird of prey. The buzzard had,
however, no doubt, been led to the spot in search
of snipes; for I have remarked, that wherever a
marsh, or moor, is frequented by snipes, there are
sure to be several buzzards in the neighbourhood;
though I have often heard it asserted, that they
seldom succeed in taking any birds, but those

               FALCoivs AND FALCONRY.             57
which have been wounded by a sportsman, and
 escaped.”
   “ I have just had a letter about a moor-buzzard
from a friend of mine, in Monmouthshire,” said
young Peregrine, who had now joined them, and
was walking his horse by the side of the carriage,
as it ascended a hill; “ and my friend's experience
proves, that though this bird may be indolent in
taking its prey, it retains it with extraordinary
tenacity, when it has once obtained it. A neigh
bour of my friend’s, who was a keen sportsman, was
sitting one day by his kitchen-<U+FB01>re, when he heard
a great clattering in his poultry-yard. Suspecting
that the uproar was caused by some bird of prey,
he immediately started up, and seizing his gun,
determined to be revenged upon the aggressor.
When he reached the yard, he observed a moor
buzzard, just clearing the top of one of his barley
ricks, with a chicken in his claws. The buzzard
was immediately <U+FB01>red at, and wounded severely ;
notwithstanding which, he escaped with his prey.
The following day, however, the buzzard was found
dead, in a <U+FB01>eld at a considerable distance; and
the poor little chicken, which he had carried away

         THE YOUNG NATURALISTE JOURNEY.
with him, was running about in the <U+FB01>eld unhurt
by its aerial voyage, and wondering, no doubt,
where it was. Though this buzzard, in dying, had
released his prey, my friend adds, that he has
known similar instances, in which the captive has
been totally unable to escape; and where the
sportsman has actually been obliged to open the
claws of the dead bird, to set the prey at
liberty.”
   “ The nest of the moor-buzzard,” said Miss
Peregrine, “is generally built on the ground,
among long coarse grass, or a bunch of rushes,
fern, or furze, at the base of a bush.  The nest is
formed like those of most other birds of prey.
The eggs are three or four in number, and white.
The bird is a native of the whole of Europe, and
it has been also found in Smyrna, Egypt, and
India. Mr. Gould, in his Birds qf Europe, men
tions that he had received specimens of it from the
Himalayas.”
   “ There is another bird very much like the moor
buzzard,” said young Peregrine, “ which is some
times called the hen-harrier, and sometimes the
blue, or dove hawk, or the ring-tail.    It inhabits

                FALCONS AND FALCONRY.             59
marshy situations, fens, and heath, on covered
commons. It is particularly destructive to poultry
yards, whence its name of hen-harrier. It strikes
its prey on the ground; and though not so large
as the buzzard, having more courage, it will kill a
partridge, a red grouse, or even a pheasant.”
   “ Of all the birds we have spoken of,” said Sir
Edward, “ there is, however, none more injurious
to our poultry-yards, than the kite. This bird is
readily distinguished from all the falcons by its
forked tail. It is a native of Europe, Asia, and
the north of Africa. The kite is the most cowardly
of all birds; and it adds to this, extraordinary
greediness. It is as voracious as the crow; and
yet, though much more powerful than that bird, it
will suffer itself to be driven away, and pursued by
it. It will eat any kind of food, even dead <U+FB01>sh,
that are <U+FB02>oating on the surface of the water.     It
also approaches human habitations, to pick up any
offal that the cook may have thrown out, and to
attack young chickens; but if the hen perceives it
in time, her cries and resistance are almost always
su<U+FB02>icient to drive it away.”
   “ Yes, I can vouch for that,” said Mrs. Merton ;

50         THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
“for when I was a child I saw a battle between
a kite and a common hen, in a farm-yard in
Worcestershire, which will never be effaced from
my memory. The kite had seized a chicken, and
was carrying it away ; but he was forced to drop
it by the daring conduct of the hen, who <U+FB02>ew up at
the ravisher with her wings extended, her feathers
ru<U+FB02>led, and her whole appearance denoting the
greatest fury. The poor chicken was very much
injured by the claws of the kite, but by careful
nursing it recovered; and it had its life spared
from the usual fate of chickens, in consequence
of its adventure."
   “The kite does not pounce upon its prey like
the falcon,” said Miss Peregrine; “ but when, by
means of its piercing sight, it discovers a quarry,
as the falconers call it, it glides down to attack it,
as though it were sliding down an inclined plane,
so gently, that the motion of its wings is not per
ceptible.     It is this habit of gliding upon its prey,
which procured it its Saxon name of Glead; a
name yet preserved in many parts of England.
The kite was formerly also called the puttock, as
it still is in Hertfordshire and Essex; and as the

                 FALCoNs AND I-‘ALCONRY.                  61
buzzard is in some other parts of the country.
Shakspeare alludes to this when he says,
       “ ‘ Who <U+FB01>nds the partridge in the puttock’s nest,
           But may imagine how the bird was dead,
           Although the kite soar with unblooded beak.’ ”
   “ The kite is a native of Britain,” said young
Peregrine, “ as well as of most other parts of
Europe; but is not equally abundant in every
part of the country. My Monmouthshire friend
has often told me, that though he believes it to
be avery local bird, it i plentiful in his neighbour
hood,-the extensive woods in that country fur
nishing the bird with a secure retreat. The great
size and brilliant markings of this bird render it an
object of considerable beauty when dead; but I
admire much more its calm circuitous <U+FB02>ight, as it
wheels aloft in endless mazes, until it vanishes from
sight.”
   “ I have observed that myself,” said Sir Edward,
“and have heard it, on a bright summer’s day,
make the air resound with its mewings. The power
of <U+FB02>ight which this bird possesses is amazing; I
have frequently watched it wheeling round and
round and round, till my eye has been completely

62         THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY
fatigued, and yet not a feather has appeared to be
in motion, except the forked tail.”
   “ The kite,” said Miss Peregrine, “is sometimes
called the Royal Kite, in old English books, as it
still is Milan Royal by the French, from its having
been employed by Louis XVI., as an object of
pursuit to the large falcons, called Lanners. The
kite had been occasionally used in falconry, before
it was thus treated; but the French monarch
observing that, from its cowardly disposition, and
the great length and consequent weakness of its
legs, it was unable to do much service in securing
game, conceived the idea of making it the victim
instead of the pursuer. It is still occasionally used
in falconry; and only a few years ago, Sir John
Sebright tells us, that kites were <U+FB02>own at game
by the Earl of Orford, in the neighbourhood of
Alconbury Hill. In the second volume of the
Magazine of Zoology and Botany, an account is
given of two kites, that were taken from the nest
in Argyleshire, in the summer of 1833, and ren
dered so perfectly tame by training, that though
they were allowed every morning to take a <U+FB02>ight,
 they never <U+FB02>ew far ; but after soaring in repeated

                FALCONS AND FALCONRY.
circles to a great height in the air, and thus dis
playing their peculiar and graceful <U+FB02>ight, they
always returned as soon as they were called, either
to the barn, or to the <U+FB01>st.”
    “The nest of the kite,” said Sir Edward, “is
usually built in a hollow tree, or in some crevice
of the rock. It is very large, and is constructed
of small branches, curiously interlaced with dry
grass and herbs. The eggs are white, with some
spots of yellowish red. A variety of this species,
 called the Black kite, is common at the Cape of
Good Hope, where it is called the Kuyden Dief ;
 literally, the Chicken Thief. This bird is so <U+FB01>erce,
that it will seize raw <U+FB02>esh, even if in the hands of
a human being; it will plunge into the water to
 catch <U+FB01>sh, and it will <U+FB01>ght with crows for a piece
 of carrion, and force them to let it go. It builds
 its nest in marshy ground, among reeds.”
    The party had now arrived at the castle; and
 a few days afterwards, Mrs. Merton and Agnes,
 to their great regret, took leave of their kind‘and
 hospitable friends.

64‘       THE YOUNG NATURALIS'I’”S JOURNEY.
                  CHAPTER V.
                       FISHES.
    FROM Somersetshire Mrs. Merton and her
daughter went to visit a widow lady, named Wil
son, who resided in a beautiful cottage, on the
banks of the Dart, near Dartmouth. Here quite
a new scene presented itself to Agnes, who had,
till then, never beheld the sea, and who thought, at
<U+FB01>rst, that she should never be tired of watching
it. It is strange that the sea, which presents so
few objects to the eye, should generally be consi
dered so much more interesting than the land,
which presents so many; yet so it is, and probably
the true cause is its incessant motion, which con
tinually gives the idea of something new, while
the principal objects on land remain <U+FB01>xed. Be
this as it may, Agnes was delighted with the sea,
 and she enjoyed exceedingly wandering on the

                        rusnus.                    65
beach to collect shells, or to see the <U+FB01>shermen
mending their nets.
   One day Mrs. Wilson, having a few friends
to dinner, had a <U+FB01>sh served at table, which ap
peared to Agnes to have a very curious name,
and she asked her mama why any <U+FB01>sh could be
called John Dory?
   “ I can really hardly tell you, my dear," said
Mrs. Merton, “ nor why it is called in Italy the <U+FB01>sh
of St. Peter.”
   “ The name of St. Peter’s <U+FB01>sh,” said Mrs. Wil
son, “is supposed to allude to a black mark like
that of a thumb, on the side of the <U+FB01>sh, similar to
that on a haddock ; and hence they have been both
said to be the <U+FB01>sh mentioned in the New Testament,
as bearing the tribute-money. Have you never
heard the legend, Dr. Simpson?” continued the
lady, addressing one of her guests, who had tra
velled through great part of Italy.
   “ I have, madam,” returned Dr. Simpson; “and
also that the name of John Dory is a corruption
of iljanitore, the Italian for a door-keeper, in allu
sion to the Roman Catholic legend of St. Peter
keeping the gates of heaven.”
                            F

 66       THE YOUNG NATURALIS'1"S JOURNEY.
    “ Yes, said Mrs. Wilson, “ and the Popes, who
consider themselves as the successors of St.
Peter, still wear the semblance of two large keys,
embroidered on their robes, as emblematical of
their patron-saint’s o<U+FB02>ice.”
   “ I have heard,” said Captain Seymour, “an
other legend which says, that the black spots on
the sides of this fish are the marks of St. Christo
pher, who caught a dory, when he was wading across
an arm of the sea bearing our Saviour; whence his
Greek name of Christopheros, literally, Christ
bearer. According to this legend, the name of
the <U+FB01>sh is derived from the French word adoré.”
   “ A much more simple and more probable ex
planation,” said an old gentleman, who had not yet
spoken, “is, that John Dory is a corruption of
the French name for the <U+FB01>sh, Jaune Dorée, that is,
yellow gilt; a very expressive name, as the colour
of the <U+FB01>sh, when freshly caught, is actually of a
brownish yellow, with a brilliant tinge of gold.”
  “ Whatever may be the origin of the modern
name of the <U+FB01>sh,” said Dr. Simpson, “the ancients
held it in very high esteem, since they called it
Zeus, which was one of their names for Jupiter.”

                       nsnns.                   67
   “ I do not know what the ancients thought of
it," said the old gentleman, “but in modern times,
no one thought of eating it, till that prince of
epicures, Quin, found out its merits, and brought
it into notice.”
   “ Apropos of Quin,” cried Dr. Simpson; “ (lid
you ever hear the story of his coming down to
Plymouth, purposely to get a John Dory ?”
   “Never !” said Mrs. Wilson; and the whole
company expressing a wish to hear the story, the
doctor began as follows :
                         F2

68       THE YOUNG NATURALISTE JOURNEY.
   “ Quin, who, as you probably all know, was an
excellent comedian who lived about the middle of
the last century, was not more celebrated on the
stage, than he was as a lover of good eating ; and
being exceedingly fond of this <U+FB01>sh, he resolved to
make a journey from Bath to Plymouth, where it
is generally caught, on purpose to obtain one in
perfection. On his arriving at Plymouth, after
examining a great number of John Dorys, and
giving himself a great deal of trouble, at last he
found one which fully realised his most anxious
wishes. As the cooks at Plymouth were not
thought worthy to dress it, and as the Dory is a
 <U+FB01>sh which will keep a day or two without injury,
 Quin, having had it carefully packed up, and hav
 ing provided himself with a barrel of salt water
 (for the <U+FB01>sh ought to be boiled in salt water) re
 turned to Bath. The barrel of salt water was a
 most uncomfortable companion in a post-chaise;
 and as it rolled about, Quin, who loved his ease
 more than anything else, except his eating, and
 who was, moreover, troubled with the gout, was
 twenty times tempted to throw it out of the win
  dow. The tempting thought of the delicious John

                       msnns.                      69
 Dory, however, restrained him, and he bore his
 troubles with the patience of a martyr. At length
 he arrived at Bath, the dinner was ordered, the
-carriage was unpacked, the barrel of salt-water
 was taken out, and the <U+FB01>sh searched for,——but,
 alas! in vain.   It had been left behind——and all
 poor Quin obtained for his long journey and un
 speakable annoyance, was the barrel of salt-water,
 which he kicked over in the <U+FB01>rst transports of his
 rage and disappointment." -
    “ He was rightly punished for his gluttony,”
 cried Agnes, forgetting in the feeling of the moment
 the number of strangers by whom she was sur
 rounded. The company smiled, and Mrs. Merton,
 to turn the general attention from her blushing
little daughter, observed, “ that she believed the
 dory was considered one of the most delicious of
 <U+FB01>shes, except perhaps the red mullet.”
    “The Red Mullet,” said Dr. Simpson, “has
 long been considered a great delicacy for the table.
 It was highly esteemed by the Romans, and is
 frequently mentioned by their poets, particularly
 by Juvenal and Horace.        The prices for which
 these <U+FB01>sh sold in ancient Rome were so high as to

70       THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
be scarcely credible. A mullet, weighing six
pounds, was sold for £48 sterling; one still larger,
for £64¢ ; and three, of remarkable size, for £240.
It must be observed, however, that the sizes men
tioned show that the <U+FB01>sh were extraordinary ones,
as, at the present time, a mullet is rarely, if ever,
found which weighs more than three or four
pounds.”
                    THE RED M ULLET .
   “ The name of mullet,” said Captain Seymour,
“ is said to be derived from the sandals of the
Roman consuls, which were called mullens, and were
of a bright scarlet, nearly resembling the colour of
this <U+FB01>sh. The mullet is common in the shops of the
London <U+FB01>shmongcrs nearly throughout the year;
but its best season is in May or June. The <U+FB02>esh

                       nsnss.                    71
is <U+FB01>rm, white, and being free from fat, is thought
easy of digestion. The liver is the part most es
teemed, but the whole <U+FB01>sh is of good <U+FB02>avour, though
not so exquisite as to account for the partiality of
the Romans for it as a table delicacy.”
   The day after the party, Mrs. Merton and
her daughter were wandering on the beach by
themselves, when their attention was attracted
by a crowd which had gathered round a <U+FB01>sherman,
who had evidently caught something that his
companions considered extraordinary. “ What
can it be?" passed from mouth to mouth. “ I
never saw any thing like it!” said one; “ There
was only one in the net 1" cried another. Agnes’s
expectation was forcibly excited by these words;
but when an opening in the crowd allowed her
mother and herself to see the object which had
attracted so much attention, she was quite sur
prised to <U+FB01>nd it a very common-looking <U+FB01>sh.
   “ What ! can this be what they were so surprised
at?" cried Agnes; “ I have seen hundreds of
<U+FB01>shes like that !”
   “ Indeed you have not, my little friend,” said a
voice behind her, and turning, she recognised the

                    72 THE YOUNG NATURALIST,S JOURNEY.
                                   old gentleman who had dined
                                   with them the day before.
                                   She shrank back ashamed,
                                   when the old gentleman con
                                   tinued in a milder voice,
                                   “This is, in fact, a rare
                                   <U+FB01>sh in these seas, and it is
                                   called the Spanish Mackerel,
                                   though it is very different
"H1§3l\|NI\3‘ldJSVN
SH].                               from the common <U+FB01>sh of
                                   that name, and is of little
                                   value as food.”
                                      “ Are the common Mack
                                   erels ever caught here ?” ask
                                   ed Mrs. Merton.
                                      “ Yes,'H said the old gen
                                   tleman, “ they are caught on
                                   this coast, though they are
                                   not so abundant here as
                                   at Brighton. The common
                                   mackerel was formerly sup
                                   posed to be amigratory <U+FB01>sh,
                                   that is, one which visited
                                   our coasts only at certain

                       msnns.                    73
seasons of the year; but it has been lately dis
covered that it may be caught all the year round
at a little distance from land in the British seas.
At certain seasons, however, they approach the
shore in immense shoals, particularly in May and
June, in which months they are sometimes so plen
tiful that they have been sold sixty for a shilling;
and above ten thousand <U+FB01>sh have been brought
into one port in one day. Mackerel should always
be eaten quite fresh; and it is on account of its
keeping so badly that it is allowed to be cried on
Sundays, when people are punishable for selling
anything else. This custom has been established
since 1698.”
   “ I think 1 have heard,” said Mrs. Merton, “ of
a wonderful cast which some <U+FB01>shermen made at
Hastings for mackerel, a few years ago.”
   “ It was in February, 1834:, when a boat’s crew
cleared £100 bythe <U+FB01>sh caught in a single night;
and this was the more remarkable, as mackerel
are seldom caught before April or May. The
most common way of <U+FB01>shing for mackerel is by
what are called drift-nets, which are fastened by
means of a rope to the <U+FB01>shing-smacks, while to the

74!      THE YOUNG NATURALISTT JOURNEY.
other end of the net is a<U+FB01>ixed a large buoy. The
vessel then puts out to sea, dragging the net after
her, and the <U+FB01>sh roving through the water get
entangled during the night ; when the net is hauled
in in the morning they are found sticking in the
meshes, and <U+FB02>oundering and <U+FB02>apping themselves
about in their struggles to get free. Mackerel
are also caught with a rod and line, the hook
being generally baited with a piece of scarlet cloth.
Most mackerel are taken when the boat to which
the net is attached moves rapidly through with a
good deal of wind; and hence a smart breeze is
termed a mackerel breeze.”
                   THE MA CKEREL M1DGE
    “ The smallest <U+FB01>sh in the world,” continued the
old gentleman, apparently following the current of
his own thoughts as he walked slowly by the side
of Mrs. Merton and her daughter along the
beach, “is probably the mackerel midge of Corn
wall; at least it is the smallest of British <U+FB01>shes.

                          nsnns.                   75
  It is very slender, and seldom so much as an inch
“-in length. It is as delicate in its habits as in its
 form; it never appears till the bright sun of May
 tempts it from its winter quarters in the deep, and
 even then it keeps near the surface, and appears to
 seek shelter from everything it <U+FB01>nds <U+FB02>oating on
 the water. This habit, however, frequently leads
 to its destruction, as it is drawn in with the corks
 of <U+FB01>shing-lines, weeds, &c.; and is even sometimes
 thrown into boats by the breaking over them of a
 wave of the sea. It dies the moment it is taken
 out of the water."
    “ I have often heard persons express their
admiration of the monsters of creation,” said Mrs.
Merton; “ but for my own part I never feel so
deeply impressed with a sense of the wonderful
power and goodness of our great Creator, as when
I see little creatures like the midges you have been
speaking of, constructed with all the same care
and perfection as we <U+FB01>nd bestowed even on man
himself.”
    “ The midges,” returned the gentleman, “ are
indeed wonderfully and beautifully made; though
 0 minute in all their parts, that they require a

   76       THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
  microscope to examine them properly. From their
  minute size, and the multitudes in which they
  sometimes appear, they were supposed by the
  ancients to have been produced from the froth of
  the sea, or the putrefaction of marine substances.
  They make their <U+FB01>rst appearance about the middle
  of May; and through the summer, and particu
  larly in <U+FB01>ne weather, they are found in considerable
  numbers swimming near the surface, when they
  are followed by mackerel and other <U+FB01>sh, which
  devour multitudes of them. When winter ap
  proaches the midges disappear, and go to bury
  themselves in the depths of the sea till spring."
     They had now reached a spot where a <U+FB01>sherman
  was offering some <U+FB01>sh for sale. “ It is rather
  remarkable,” said the old gentleman, “ that we
  have to-day, in the course of half-an-hour's walk,
' seen three rare <U+FB01>shes, that I have not seen before
  for years. That,” continued he, pointing to one in
  the <U+FB01>sherman’s basket, “ is a Spanish bream, a <U+FB01>sh
  very seldom in our <U+FB01>sh-markets; but which is
  sometimes very abundant on the Sussex coast.      It
  is generally not highly esteemed for the table, and
  as it is not considered good when salted, it is

                        risnns.                  77
  ometimes sold as low as half-a-crown the hundred
weight. It may, however, be made tolerably palat
able by cooking it without taking any of the
scales off.  It should then be well <U+FB02>oured and
broiled, taking care to turn it frequently.  When
cooked in this manner, the skin and scales will all
                     SPANISH BIKE-AM .
come off together without di<U+FB02>iculty after it is
brought to table; and the <U+FB01>sh, saturated with its
own natural juices, which the outside covering has
retained, will be found of good <U+FB02>avour.”
 - Mrs. Merton could scarcely help smiling at the
old gentleman’s knowledge of cookery; however,

 78      THE YOUNG NATURALISTS JOURNEY.
 she checked herself, and only asked what the third
 rare <U+FB01>sh was.
    “ That one," said the gentleman, pointing to
 another <U+FB01>sh in the basket; “ it is called the dusky
 perch, and is a fresh-water <U+FB01>sh, so I suppose it has
                      DUSKY PERCE
been caught in some pond. " It is much larger than
the common perch, being often found to weigh
sixteen pounds.”
   “ And what weight is the common perch ?"
asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ A perch of three pounds’ weight,” returned
the gentleman, “ is considered of an extraordinary

                       rrsnns.                   79
size, though one is said to have been caught in the
Serpentine river, Hyde Park, which weighed nine
pounds. The perch was known to the Greeks and '
Romans, and is common in every part of Europe.
It is much esteemed for the table; and it is a
favourite <U+FB01>sh with anglers, as, from its being very
bold and very greedy, it is easily caught.”

80       THE‘ YOUNG NATURALlsT’s JOURNEY.
                  CHAPTER VI.
          THE LEMUR AND THE CHAMELEON
   WHEN Mrs. Merton and Agnes returned to the
house of Mrs. Wilson, they told her how much
they had been pleased with the conversation of
Mr. Trelawney, for that was the name of the old
gentleman.
   “ That reminds me," said Mrs. Wilson, “ that
you have never been to Mr. Trelawney’s villa,
where I must take you, as he has a collection of
animals that would quite delight your little girl."
  Agnes was delighted at the thought, and Mrs.
Wilson immediately wrote a note to the old gentle
man, begging permission to see his menagerie. No
answer arrived that evening, and the following
morning passed away without hearing from him;
but just as Agnes was beginning to despair, he
arrived himself to conduct them to his villa. On
their arrival, he <U+FB01>rst took them into a_court-yard,

                        .             .
 |i.a..i-         ,.
-    sf   .r|il\~.l.|N..|[bl.. . | F 1...

The Slow Lemur
               P. 81.

                        THE LEMUR.                   81
  around which were a number of cages, or rather
  dens, containing animals; in one of which Agnes
  saw an animal, something like a monkey, sitting
  on the branch of a dead tree (which had been left
  standing in the ground when his den was built),
  and looking keenly at her.
     “ VVhat creature is that ?" cried Agnes.
     “ It is called the Slow Lemur, or Tail-less Mon
  key,” said the gentleman, “ and it is a native of
  the East Indies. It is, as you see, about the size
  of a cat, and is of a dusky-ash colour, witha streak
  of rich dark brown down the back.          The fur is
  much thicker than it is generally on animals that
' are inhabitants of hot climates like the East Indies;
  but this warm clothing is beautifully adapted to
  the lemur, as from its sluggish habits, and want of
  activity, it is extremely susceptible of cold. Its
  eyes are round and shine brilliantly in the dark,
  especially when animated, glowing like heated fur
  naces. The eyelids are so situated, that when the
  animal closes them they appear to move obliquely,
  instead of upwards and downwards like that of
  other animals. The under or outer eyelid has also
  the greatest degree of motion; the upper or inner
                            G

82       THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
is nearly <U+FB01>xed.     The index toe, or fore-<U+FB01>nger of
the hind foot, has a claw, but the other toes have
nails like those of the human hand. The tongue
of this animal is also very remarkable. Beneath
the proper tongue, which is somewhat like that of
a cat, though not rough, is another tongue, white,
narrow, and very sharp~pointed, which the creature
projects whenever he eats or drinks, though he has
the power of contracting it at pleasure.
   “ The habits of the lemur are very peculiar. It
sleeps nearlyall the day, unless it is disturbed, either
rolled upon the <U+FB02>oor of its cage, or more commonly
suspended by its paws from the bars, with its body
drawn together, and its head folded on its breast.
Towards evening it rouses itself by degrees, and
its <U+FB01>rst care on awaking is to make itself clean,
which it does by rubbing itself with its paws, and
licking its fur like a cat.”
   “ That is the last thing I should have given it
credit for,” cried Agnes, laughing.       “ It does not
look the least bit like a beau !”
   “ The Dutch in Ceylon are of your opinion,”
said the old gentleman, “for they call it Loris,
that is, a clown; while the word Lemur, which

                      THE LEMUR.                  ‘ 83
signi<U+FB01>es a ghost, is said to be derived from its
shadowy resemblance to man.”
   “ What does it live on ?” asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ The food of mine,”said Mr.Trelawney,“consists
of mice and small birds; of the latter of which
he is particularly fond: when they are put into his
cage he kills them instantly, but plucks off all the
feathers, with the skill of a poulterer, before he
eats them, devouring the bones as well as the <U+FB02>esh.
He will eat any kind of meat if it be quite fresh
and raw, but will. not touch it if it has been cooked.
When food is given to him he seizes it eagerly
with both hands, but generally holds it only with
his left while he is eating. Very frequently he
will grasp the upper bars of his cage with his hind
feet, and hang with his head downwards while he is
devouring his food, appearing to enjoy this position
very much. He is exceedingly fond of oranges;
but when they are at all hard, he seems very much
puzzled how to extract the juice. On these occa
sions, he will lie at full length on his back at the
bottom of the cage, and <U+FB01>rmly grasping the piece
of orange with both hands, squeeze the juice into
his mouth.    He is exceedingly slow and heavy in
                          G 2

84       THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY.
his motions; and when he climbs a tree, he does
it with the greatest deliberation and care. First
he lays hold of a branch with one hand and then
with the other; he then slowly draws up his feet,
one at a time, and never loosens his hold of one
branch till he has taken possession <U+FB01>rmly of another.
When he walks, he drags his limbs along in the
same slow and methodical manner.”
   “ Did you ever keep this creature in the house '2”
asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ I have not,” replied Mr. Trelawney; “ but a
friend of mine in Edinburgh, who gave it to me,
did. The lemur was, however, very shy and timid
in company, and appeared well to merit the name
which the Indians give to animals of this species,
namely, the bashful ape. When touched, he
uttered a shrill cry, sounding like ai, ai, and bit
sharply.    When in China, he had agreed tolerably
well with a little Chinese dog that was put into the
same cage with him; but he could not endure my
friend’s cat. Puss, on the contrary, was very
anxious to be on friendly terms with him; and
when he was let out of his cage she used to follow
him up and down, occasionally patting him with

                  THE CHAMELEON.                85
her paw.    The lemur was very indignant at this
treatment, and once bit her severely; this made
pussey more careful, and she afterwards only
amused herself by leaping over him whenever he
lay down. The lemur disliked this even more than
patting; but he was so slow in his movements that
the cat leaped over him several times before he
could get up, and then ran away without his being
able to follow her; so that at last he contented
himself with crying ai, ai, and gnashing his teeth
at her whenever she approached him. His intellect
appeared as inert as his body, and almost the only
sign of intelligence he ever showed was, when he
saw his own image re<U+FB02>ected in a japanned tea
tray.   He was very much struck with this, and
<U+FB01>rst tried to grasp the <U+FB01>gure he saw re<U+FB02>ected, and
<U+FB01>nding it impossible, he deliberately walked round
and peeped behind the tray to see if any one were
there. He did the same with a looking-glass.”
   At this moment, Agnes’s attention was caught
by a very strange-looking creature in the next
cage, and she begged her mother to look at it.
   “ It is a Chameleon,” said Mrs. Merton; “ a
creature of which many strange tales are told; as

86        THE YOUNG NATURALISTE JOURNEY.
it is said to change its colour continually, and to
live on air.”
   “ It is indeed a very curious creature,” said Mr.
Trelawney; “ and though technically classed with
the saurians or lizards, it is yet very distinct from
all the other animals belonging to that family. Its
shape, it is true, somewhat resembles that of a
lizard, but its skin is shagreened like that of a
crocodile; and its tail, which is used by the animal
to retain a <U+FB01>rm hold of the branches which serve
it for a habitation, is round, strong, and <U+FB02>exible,
like that of some kinds of monkeys. It has no
visible external ear, and its skull is raised in a very
remarkable and pyramidal form. The skeleton of
the chameleon is indeed as curious as its external
form, for it has no breast bone, properly so called,
but the ribs are continued all round its body, so as
each to form an entire circle.”
   “ But is it true,” asked Agnes, “ that the crea
ture lives on air ?"                           '
   “ The lungs are very large,” replied Mr. Tre
lawney, “ so much so indeed, that when they are
<U+FB01>lled with air, the body of the animal becomes
nearly transparent ; and it was this peculiarity

                      THE GHAMELEON.                  87
  which gave rise to the fable of the chameleon living
  on air. The enormous size of these lungs is also
  supposed by some naturalists to be the cause of the
  curious change of colour observable occasionally in
  this animal, as when full of air they constrain the
  blood to <U+FB02>ow towards the skin, and even tinge it
  with a darker or paler line according to the quan
  tity of oxygen they have imbibed. The opinions of
  scienti<U+FB01>c men differ, however, very greatly on this
  subject; and from the uncertainty which prevails
  among them, it does not appear that the true cause
  of this curious change has been yet discovered, for
  it is one of the properties of truth to carry with
  it conviction.”
     “ That is quite correct," observed Mrs. Merton.
     “ But to return to the chameleon," continued the
  old gentleman. “Its eyes are very remarkable;
  not only from their being large and projecting,
- but from their being covered with skin, except a
  little circle in the centre, and from their motions
  being quite independent of each other. The
  animal, when in search of prey, hangs from the
  branch of a tree by its <U+FB02>exible tail, its colour being
  green, or brown, according as it is nearest the

88       THE YOUNG NATURALISTES JOURNEY.
leaves, or the bark ; and it rolls its strange-looking
eyes, one backward and the other forward, watch
ing in two opposite directions at the same time.
As soon as an insect appears, both the extraor
dinary eyeballs are rolled round so as to bring
them to bear on the devoted victim ; and as soon
as it arrives within reach, the tongue is projected
with unerring precision, and returns to the mouth
with the prey adhering to it, the tongue being
covered with a sticky juice. This tongue is <U+FB02>eshy
and cylindrical, except at the tip, and the animal,
by a curious mechanism, can project it above six
inches. It is, indeed, the only part of the chame
leon’s body that it can move with swiftness ; all its
other movements being languid and sluggish in the
extreme.”
   “ Was the chameleon known to the ancients ?”
asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ Oh yes,” returned the gentleman; “_and it
was accurately described by Aristotle under the
name of the little lion. The most common species
is a native of Egypt, Barbary, and the south of
Spain, and it has also been found in the East
Indies. I had two chameleons once that were quite

                  THE CHAMELEON.                 89
domesticated. The larger one was of a lightish
sap-green colour; the smaller one much darker.
They were kept in a wicker basket in the bay
window of the drawing-room, not con<U+FB01>ned; and
slept many hours a day, lying on a projecting ridge
of the wicker work. During the sunshine, the
animals rendered themselves <U+FB02>at, with a view to
expose themselves as much as possible to the in
<U+FB01>uence of the warmth; and they were at these
times often of a greenish stone colour, and pale.
If, however, they were disturbed, they contracted
the abdomen, expanding the ribs, and often became
instantaneously of a dark green, or even indigo
green colour. Sometimes only one side changed
colour, and one side, especially of the larger one,
was of a stone colour, while the other was of a
blackish green. The changes were always very
rapid, and accompanied with either elevation or
depression of the ribs. The larger was apparently
vigorous and in health; when awake, its eyes (of a
dark colour and very lustrous) were constantly
directed in every possible direction, the motions
being by a kind of jerk and very rapid, as if in
search of food, of which, however, it partook
sparingly. Six or seven beetles or cockroaches

         THE YOUNG NATURALISTE JOURNEY.
‘Were frequently put into a tin-vessel and the chame
leon placed on the edge, its head projecting over
the brim, to which its forceps were generally so
‘<U+FB01>rmly attached that it was often di<U+FB02>icult to remove
‘them. After making-a circle round some portion
of the tin the animal would distend the pouch
beneath its jaws, expanding them two or three
times in a tri<U+FB02>ing degree; and stretching forward
its body on the fore-legs, it would suddenly dart
out its tongue with such force as to make a very
sensible ring or noise on the opposite side of the
tin. It would then catch the beetle or cockroach
on the trumpet-shaped extremity of the tongue
and draw it back with the rapidity of lightning.
In this manner it would take three or four insects
from the vessel, one after the other; but it would
never take them from the hand, nor would it eat
 them when its mouth was opened, and the cock
 roach introduced with the <U+FB01>ngers: a mode which
 was had recourse to with a view to feed the smaller
 chameleon, which appeared languid, and died about
 two months after its arrival. The other chameleon
 would swallow the large <U+FB02>esh-<U+FB02>y, if introduced into
 its mouth, although there was some dit<U+FB01>culty in
 opening the jaws contrary to the will of the animal.

                  THE CHAMELEON.                 91
They slept generally, on the top of the basket,
their heads projecting over the edge and their tails
curled round one of the small divisions of the
wicker-work; and it was curious to observe the
<U+FB01>rm manner in which they attached themselves by
this means. On going into the room with a candle,
the creatures always appeared of a pale ashy stone
colour, or a spectral blue, precisely similar in
hue to the colour produced on the hand when held
before a blue glass as seen in the windows of
chemists.   Their motions were exceedingly slow;
and they always <U+FB01>rmly attached themselves by one
leg to whatever substance they could reach before
they let go with the other. They did not eat
more than once in three or four days; and they
would never touch any beetles with a hard covering,
many species of which were collected and exposed
to them in the tin vessel. Several times when the
chameleons were out, the family were afraid to step
about the room, lest from their variety of colour
they should be trodden on; but they were gene
rally found in the folds of the curtains, always on
the blue lining, and not on the chintz pattern.
For these reasons, when one of my pets died, I
removed the other to the cage where it now is.”

92        THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
                  CHAPTER VII.
   THE DIANA MONKEY,      AND ANIMAL FRIENDSHIPS
   “ As you have seen my tail-less monkey,” said
Mr. Trelawney, “ I must now show you one that
has a tail, and a very long one too; and I can
also tell you a long tale about it, which I had from
a lady who came over in the same ship in which a
monkey of this species was brought to England.
This is the animal I allude to,” continued the old
gentleman, pointing to a very beautiful monkey in
the next cage.
   “ I have seen monkeys of this kind before,” said
Mrs. Merton, “ though I don’t think I ever saw a
handsomer one than this, or one that looked more
sagacious.”
   “ It is quite as sensible as it looks,” said the old
gentleman. “ You see,” continued he, “ that I
have taken advantage ofthe trees that were stand
ing on this piece of ground before I made it my

The Diana Monkey
                 P. 92.


                 THE DIANA MONKEY.               93
menagerie, and that I have built my cages round
them, so that the animals they contain may climb
among the boughs and almost fancy themselves in
their native forests. This kind of monkey had the
name of Diana given to it by Linnaeus, from the
white crescent-shaped band on its forehead.    It is
generally about one foot, or one foot and a half,
high, and its tail is much longer than its body.
The body is of an ash colour, deepening almost into
black on the back and at the extremities. The
tail is darker than the body, and becomes quite
black at the tip. It is a native of Africa, particu
larly of Guinea.”
    “ What do you give it to eat ?” asked Mrs.
Merton.
    “ Linnaeus,” replied Mr. Trelawney, .“ tells us
that this monkey is fond of all kinds of vegetables,
and will eat eggs and bread, but it does not like
 animal food. However, I have found it eat any
thing, though it is very particular in what it eats,
 examining everything very carefully, and smelling
 it before it puts the food into its mouth. It is
 very inquisitive, and turns over everything set
 before it that it, sees for the <U+FB01>rst time. One

94!       THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
day my cook having given it some bread and
milk in a new basin, it actually upset the whole
in its endeavours to <U+FB01>nd out what it was like
below.”
    “ Oh ! do look at it,” cried Agnes. “ I declare
it seems to be laughing at us; and see how it nods
its head-”
    “ That is its way of telling you how glad it is to
see you. It is of a very lively and playful disposi
tion, and will be very friendly as long as you are
kind to it; but if you were to offend it, it would
directly try to bite. It likes warm weather, and
shows its dislike of the cold by mournful and
piercing cries. But I must read you what Mrs.
Bowdich says of its behaviour on board a ship. I
have the paper here, for I put it in my pocket
book as soon as I read your letter, that I might be
sure not to forget it.”
    So saying, the old gentleman opened his pocket
book, and taking out a piece of paper, unfolded it,
and read as follows :—
    “ This monkey,” says Mrs. Bowdich, “ had been
purchased by the cook of the vessel in which I
sailed from Africa, and was considered his exclu

                run DIANA MONKEY.                  95
sive property. Jack’s place then was close to the
caboose; but as his education progressed he was
gradually allowed an increase of liberty, till at last
he enjoyed the range of the whole ship, except the
cabin. I had embarked with more than a mere wo
manly aversion to monkeys, it was absolute antipa
thy; and although I often laughed at Jack’s freaks,
still I kept out of his way, till a circumstance
brought with it a closer acquaintance and cured
me of my dislike. Our latitude was three degrees
south, and we only proceeded by occasional torna
does, the intervals of which were <U+FB01>lled up by dead
calms and bright weather. When these occurred
during the day, the helm was frequently lashed,
and all the watch went below.      On one of these
 occasions I was sitting alone on the deck and
 reading intently, when, in an instant, something
jumped upon my shoulders, twisted its tail rouimtiiv
 my neck, and screamed close to my ears. My
 immediate conviction that it was Jack scarcely
 relieved me; but there was no help; I dared not
 cry for assistance, because I was afraid of him;
 and dared not obey the next impulse, which waste
 thump him off, for the same reason; I therefore

96       THE YOUNG NATURAL1sT”s JOURNEY.
became civil from necessity, and from that moment
Jack and I entered into an alliance. He gradually
loosened his hold, looked at my face, examined my
hands and rings with the most minute attention,
and soon found the biscuit which lay by my side.
When I liked him well enough to pro<U+FB01>t by his
friendship, he became a constant source of amuse
ment. Like all other nautical monkeys, he was
fond of pulling off the men’s caps as they slept and
throwing them into the sea ; of knocking over the
parrots’ cages to drink the water as it trickled
along the deck, regardless of the occasional gripe
he received from the offended birds; of taking the
dried herbs out of the tin mugs in which the men
were making tea of them ; of dexterously picking
out the pieces of biscuit which were toasting
between the bars of the grate; of stealing the
 carpenter's tools ; in short, of teasing everything,
 and everybody : but he was also a <U+FB01>rst-rate eques
 trian. \Vhenever the pigs were let out to take a
 run on deck, he took his station behind a cask,
 whence he leaped on the back of one of his steeds as
 it passed; of course the speed was increased, and
 the nails he stuck in to keep himself on produced

                 THE DIANA MONKEY.              97
a squeaking; but Jack was never thrown, and
became so fond of the exercise that he was obliged
to be shut up whenever the pigs were at liberty.
Con<U+FB01>nement was the worst punishment he could
receive, and whenever threatened with that, or
any other, he would cling to me for protection.
At night, when about to be sent to bed in an
empty hen-coop, he generally hid himself under
my shawl, and at last never suffered any one but
myself to put him to rest. He was particularly
jealous of the other monkeys on board, who were
all smaller than himself, and contrived to drown
two of them. The <U+FB01>rst instance of the kind was
performed in my presence; he began by holding
out his paw, and making a squeaking noise, which
the other evidently considered as an invitation;
the poor little thing crouched to him most humbly,
but Jack seized him by the neck, hopped off to the
side of the vessel, and threw him into the sea.
We cast out a rope immediately, but the monkey
was too much frightened to cling to it, and we
were going too fast to save him by any other
means.    Of course, Jack was <U+FB02>ogged and scolded,
                         H

98       THE YOUNG NATuRALisT’s JOURNEY.
at which he appeared very penitent; but three
days afterwards he murdered another monkey in
the same way. Another time, the men had been
painting the ship’s side with a streak of white, and
upon being summoned to dinner left their brushes
and paint on deck. Unknown to Jack, I was
seated behind the companion door, and saw the
whole transaction ; he called a little black monkey
to him, who, like the others, immediately crouched
to his superior, when he seized him by the nape of
the neck with one paw, took the brush, dripping
with paint, with the other, and covered him with
white from head to foot. Both the man at the
helm and myself burst into a laugh, upon which
Jack dropped his victim and scampered up the
rigging. The unhappy little beast began licking
himself, but I called the steward, who washed him
so well with turpentine that all injury was pre
vented; but during our bustle Jack was peeping
with his black nose through the bars of the main-top
apparently enjoying the confusion. For three days
he persisted in remaing aloft; no one could catch
him,' he darted with such rapidity from rope to rope;
at length, impelled by hunger, he dropped unex

                  ANIMAL rnmnnsmrs.               99
 pectedly from some height on my knees, as if for
 refuge, and as he had thus con<U+FB01>ded in me I could
 not deliver him up to punishment.”
    “ Well!” cried Agnes, “ I am sure I should
 have acted quite differently from that lady ; for I
 think such a wicked animal ought to have been
 hanged !”
    “ I quite agree with you, my dear," said Mrs.
 Merton; “ I think so dangerous an animal ought
 to have been destroyed directly after he threw the
<U+FB01>rst monkey overboard. Suppose a young child
had been on board, it might have been drowned
just like the monkey.”
   “ When I was looking for this paper,” said
 Mr. Trelawney, “ I found another on a much more
interesting subject. It is on animal attachments,
or rather friendships."
   “ I consider that an extremely interesting sub
ject,” said Mrs. Merton. “ Much might, indeed,
be written on the friendships, if we may call them
so, which are sometimes formed between animals
quite distinct in their nature and habits. Animals,
as I have often told my daughter, are generally
supposed to be guided by instinct alone; this
                        H 2

l0O       THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
instinct, though it prompts them to acts of extraor
dinary sagacity, in everything regarding the preser
vation of their lives, the care of their young', or their
peculiar use to man, is usually considered to go no
farther, and not to enable them to have the power
of reasoning.    The instances on record, therefore,
of cases in which animals have acted contrary to
instinct, and have formed a friendship with a
creature that it is their nature to destroy, are very
curious, and deserve to be recorded.”                .
   “ I am glad to <U+FB01>nd your ideas coincide with
mine on this subject,” said the old gentleman;
“ and if you will walk into the house and rest
yourselves, I will, while you are taking some re
freshment, read you an account that was sent to
me by a friend at Cheltenham, of a friendship of
this kind which was formed between a terrier dog
and a white rat; and which was the more re
markable, as terriers are usually employed to kill
rats.”
   Mrs. Merton gladly consented, for she really
felt tired; and as soon as she and Agnes were
comfortably seated and had begun to eat some
cake, the old gentleman read as follows :

                 ANIMAL FRIENDSHIPS.             101
    “ A white rat having been caught in some
 stables, and being from its colour considered a
great curiosity, it was brought to me, as it was
known that I felt a good deal of interest about
 animal curiosities.     It was about three-parts
grown, and exceedingly savage; and, when allowed
to go at large in my sitting-room, it <U+FB02>ew at me with
great ferocity. I put it into a squirrel-cage with
a turnabout-wheel, and for two or three days kept
it on short allowance, and gave it no food but
what it took out of my hands. At <U+FB01>rst it snapped
at the food, and endeavoured to bite my <U+FB01>ngers
through the wires, but very soon it came out of the
box on my approach, and evidently knew my
voice.
   “ By this time it began to feel the security of
the box, and would not come out unless forced to
do so. When I put my hand into the box to take
it out, it bit me severely, and did so two or three
times afterwards ; but <U+FB01>nding I took no notice of
its attacks, and that it was always treated with
kindness by me, it soon ceased to exhibit signs of
anger, and lay perfectly passive when I opened the
lid of the box to look at it.

102      THE YOUNG NATURALIsr’s munnnv.
   “ As I had no family, and sat the greater part
of my time alone, occupied in reading or writing,
I often turned the rat out of the box, and it soon
became familiar on <U+FB01>nding that I did not interfere
with it (for I carefully avoided letting it know that
it was watched), and would come to and cross
over my feet with impunity to pick up crumbs,
&c., which I purposely allowed to drop for it;
so that in about a fortnight it would approach
me when called, and take sugar or bread from my
hand.
   “ At this time I had a small white terrier dog,
called Flora, an excellent rat-killer and of great
courage, who was always with me, and lay on the
hearth-rug at my feet. When the rat was <U+FB01>rst
brought into the room in the cage, Flora was very
anxious to get at him; but the <U+FB01>rst time I took
the rat in my hand I called Flora, and introduced
her to my new acquaintance.       With that sagacity
 for which dogs are so celebrated, she immediately
 comprehended my meaning, and never afterwards
 showed the slightest wish to assail the rat ; on the
 contrary, they soon became very much attached;
 and when any stranger came in, the rat put him
                             I‘

                 ANIMAL FRIENDS!-IIPS.           103
self under Flora’s protection, by going into a
corner of the room; while Flora stood sentry,
growling and showing her teeth most furiously,
until satis<U+FB01>ed that no injury. was meditated against
her favourite.
   “ A high wall surrounded my garden at the back
of the house, and I frequently turned the rat and
dog out to amuse themselves, which they did by
playing at hide and seek amongst the <U+FB02>owers ; but
when my whistle was heard, they each endeavoured
to outstrip the other in the race to be <U+FB01>rst to pay
their respects to me.
    “ Scugg, the rat, as soon as I took my place at
table, would run up my leg, get on the table, and,
if not vigilantly watched, would carry off the sugar,
pastry, or cheese, of which it would nibble a little
and leave the rest to Flora ; but if, which was
sometimes the case, Flora was hungry, and anxious
to have the <U+FB01>rst bite, Scugg kept her in order by
striking her on the nose with his fore-paw, which
 Flora never resented, but would sit quietly looking
on until permitted to take her share. They lapped
milk out of the same saucer, and Scugg slept
between Flora’s legs before the <U+FB01>re.     The rat did

10%      THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY.
not from the <U+FB01>rst, that I recollect, show any fear
of the dog; which I account for by supposing that
the novelty of his situation made him desperate,
and insensible to fear.
   “ The presence of a stranger at the table did
not prevent him from foraging; but he would not
eat from any hand except mine. He was very
much attached to me, and would lie for hours
within my waistcoat, or, if I went out, in my
pocket. Many persons supposed that the colour
of the rat protected it, and that its being white
was the cause of the dog not destroying it; but in
November, 1824, another white rat was caught
and brought to me one evening, whilst Scugg was
at liberty and amusing himself with Flora in the
room.    I opened the trap, and shook out the
stranger to them : both the rats ran rapidly about
pursued by the dog, and one of them was almost
immediately caught, and as soon destroyed, to my
great consternation, for the two rats were so much
alike that I could not distinguish one from the
other; great, therefore, was my joy and surprise
to see Scugg run into the corner, and Flora
at her post to protect him, where she remained

                 ANIMAL rnmnnsnn>s.               105
so long as the man and the dead rat were in
the room.
   “ My white rat, in colour, was very like a white
ferret; that is, slightly tinged with yellow, but not
so much so as the ferret; its eyes were red, and
its countenance mild and placid. The animal was
also free from smell, and particularly clean in its
habits; indeed, it was highly offended if its fur
was wet or ru<U+FB01>iled the wrong way. The only
unpleasant thing connected with it was its tail,
against which I never could overcome my repug
nance; and when suddenly drawn across my face
in the rat’s frolicsome passages from one shoulder
to the other, it always made me shudder.
   “ When the farm, with the stables, kennel, &c.
&c. in which my rat had been caught were removed,
to make way for the Pittville pleasure-grounds,
the colony of white rats were dispersed, and took
up their quarters in various parts of the town;
and I suspect were <U+FB01>nally extirpated by the brown
rats. Some of them, however, were more kindly
received, and formed alliances with their brown
neighbours; for, about two or three years after
wards, two or three party-coloured rats were

  106      THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
  caught; since which they have disappeared alto
  gether. When the <U+FB01>rst white rat was caught, it
  was a matter of discussion whether it was a lusus
  nature or a distinct race: the question was set at
  rest by a man, who had formerly served as a
  marine, exclaiming, on seeing the tame rat, “ That’s
  a Guinea!” He said they were common on the
  coast of Guinea.   I have since been told, but I do
  not recollect on what authority, that they are met
  with in various parts of the globe. Some years
  since, they were to be found in considerable num
  bers   in Nelson-street, Bristol, brought there,
  probably, in some of the trading vessels; and
  thence it is likely they found their way to
  Cheltenham.
     “ On my marriage, I parted with my little
  friend;   but he did not survive the separation
  above three or four weeks. Whether he grieved
  at parting, or whether he was not kept sufficiently
  clean, or was not allowed su<U+FB01>icient liberty, I
» cannot tell. I sent for him occasionally, to show
  him to some of the numerous inquirers after him;
  and, on the last occasion, had great di<U+FB02>iculty to
  take him from my bosom and put him into his

                ANIMAL FRIENDSHIPS.           1
cage. He drew himself up in a corner of his box,
quite sulkily, and was found dead in the same
position next morning.”
   Mrs. Merton now departed, promising to return
another day to see the rest of the menagerie.

           THE YOUNG NA'l‘URALIST,S JOURNEY.
                  CHAPTER VIII.
              THE LUMINOSITY OF THE SEA.
    \VHEN Mrs. Merton and Agnes returned to
Mrs. VVilson’s, they found with her Captain Sey
mour; and when they were expressing the delight
they had experienced at Mr. Trelawney’s, Captain
Seymour inquired if Agnes had yet observed the
luminosity of the sea.
   “ Oh yes!" she exclaimed; “ we saw the sea
like rolling waves of gold the very <U+FB01>rst night we
came; and mama told me it was occasioned by
insects. It was very beautiful.”
   “ In warmer climates,” said Captain Seymour,
“ it is still more beautiful; and in these situations
it is impossible not to be struck with astonishment,
wonder, and delight, at the scenes which are fre
quently exhibited to the eyes of those who traverse
the broad seas in ships. On a serene and delight
ful evening, with a pleasant breeze just <U+FB01>lling the

            THE LUMINOSITY or THE SEA.           109
sails, and the bow of the vessel throwing the water
on each side as it gracefully parts the yielding
waves; all around the ship, far as the eye can
reach, may be seen innumerable bright spots of
light rising to the surface and again disappearing,
like a host of small stars dancing and sparkling on
the bosom of the sea. At another time, when
the night is dark and lowering, a fresh breeze
urging the ship rapidly onwards through her path
less track, upon looking over her stern, in addition
to the smaller specks just now mentioned, large
globes of living <U+FB01>re may be seen wheeling and
dancing in the smooth water in the wake of the
rudder; now, at a great depth shining through
the water, then rising rapidly to the surface, and
as they reach the top of the wave, <U+FB02>ashing bright
sparks of light su<U+FB02>icient almost to dazzle the eyes
ofthe beholder ; and now again they may be traced
<U+FB02>oating majestically along till they gradually dis
appear in the darkness of the water in the distance.
At other times, again, when light rain is falling,
or perhaps previously to the rain coming on, when
a dark cloud is overspreading the sky, upon the
water being agitated by the ship passing through

11O       THE YOUNG NATURALisT’s JOURNEY.
it, or curled up by a rope towing overboard in a
bight, a beautiful general luminosity is diffused
all round, bright enough to illuminate the whole
ship’s side, and the lower large sails which may be
set at the time; and it is no unusual occurrence
to have this appearance so bright that a person
with little difficulty, and near the surface of the
water, might be enabled to read a book by its aid.”
   “ What is the cause of this singular appear
ance ?” asked Mrs. I/Vilson.
   “ That is a question,” returned Captain Sey
mour, “ which it has often been attempted to
solve, but which has, till lately, been generally
attempted in vain.      Formerly it was alleged by
some authors that it was from the solar light,
which the sea had absorbed during the day, being
given out at night ; by others, that the phenomenon
was altogether electrical, and excited by the friction
of the ship passing through the waves. One set
of philosophers asserted that the waters of the sea
were possessed of themselves of a phosphorescent
nature, and that the appearance was purely phos
phoric; and they sat down quite contented with
having given it a name, without troubling them

           THE LUMINOSITY on THE sum           111
selves much about the proper meaning of that
name; while another party, again, attributed the
phenomenon to the putrefaction of sea-water,
equally contented with the last-mentioned theo
rists, with assigning a cause which satis<U+FB01>ed
themselves, although it was only in other words
confessing to the world their ignorance upon the
subject. Nay, though the luminous bodies them
selves had been examined by some naturalists, and
their animal nature made obvious to their eyes,
assisted by the microscope, the conclusions drawn
from the examination were still wrong, and they
were styled particles of an oily or bituminous
nature, in order to coincide with the preconceived
opinions of the observer.   It was not, indeed, till
lately that the real cause of this appearance was
discovered, and that it was acknowledged by most
authors that it proceeded from animalcules. This
opinion has been slowly and gradually making its
way, and, like others of this kind, has from that
very circumstance only the more surely acquired
strength and solidity.    Every day’s examination
of the waters of the ocean establishes it the more,

  112      THE YOUNG NATURALisT’s JOURNEY.
 and already various species of these interesting
 little animals are known to naturalists.H
   , “ Then my mama was quite right,” cried Agnes,
 “ in what she told me.”
     “ It would be a needless and unpro<U+FB01>table task,”
 said Captain Seymour, going on without noticing
‘this interruption, “ to refute the theories of the
 various authors who have written upon the cause of
 the luminosity of the sea, some of which I have
 already stated. It cannot proceed from putrefac
 tion, for we do not <U+FB01>nd the ocean ever in a putrid
 state; and moreover, it is now clearly ascertained,
 that when <U+FB01>shes and other marine animals have fairly
 commenced the putrefactive process, their luminos
ity ceases altogether. No attempt has ever been
made, I believe, to prove that sea-water contains
phosphorus in its composition; it is therefore need
less to refute an opinion which has no foundation.
The idea of the sea giving out the light during the
night which it had absorbed during the day, is so
utterly irreconcileable with the appearance itself,
that it were of as much use seriously to refute it,
as to sit down and cavil with the opinion of the

              THE LUMINOSITY or THE sEA.                       113
poet who describes the luminous nature of the
sea to be,
    “ ‘ As though the lightnings there had spent their shafts,
        And left the fragments glittering on the <U+FB01>eld.’
   “ It is equally unpro<U+FB01>table to take notice of the
other theories ; they are all vague and unsatisfac
tory, they are all unsupported by facts; while the
true cause—the existence of animalcules—receives
support and con<U+FB01>rmation by every day’s experi
ence, and rests upon facts numerous and easily
proved. Su<U+FB02>ice it at present to say, that the ani
malcules have been caught in the very act of giving
out the luminous appearance, and in vast numbers;
and that in every instance where the water has
been properly examined when luminous, great
quantities of animalcules have been seen ; and that,
on the contrary, when the water has not been
luminous, the animalcules have not been present,
thus affording satisfactory proof that they are the
 cause of the light so given out. During a late
 voyage to India and China, I had various oppor
 tunities of observing the animals which produce
 this effect, and of a good many of these I made
 sketches as accurately as I could. Upon examin
                                 I

-‘------‘-—---- -.      _______---_u—-um-1
          114      THE YOUNG NATURALIST'S JOURNEY.
         ing the sea-water at various times, and in various
         parts of the ocean, I generally found that when
         the, water was most luminous, there then was a
         greater abundance than at other times of small
         round globular bodies, of the size of grains of sand,
         or varying from that size to a very small pin’s
         head. I drew several as they appeared when
         examined through a microscope. A number of
         little animalcules found near the Cape of Good Hope
         looked like grains of gold sand. They were like little
         balls, and were covered all over with innumerable
         small spots; they had also a larger dark circular
         spot in the centre, with a rim round it. This rim
         was rather opaque ; the rest of the creature, how
         ever, with the exception of the little round spots,
         was perfectly transparent. At times, instead of
         the circular spot in the centre, the animalcules had
         a dark streak running through them throughout
         their whole breadth; and frequently I observed
         that they were enveloped, as it were, in a gelati
         nous-looking bag, very thin and transparent.”
            “ I should like to see them in the large micro
        scope at the Polytechnic Institution in Regent
        street,” said Agnes.                                    C

ch__
     .---."_-—
               H4.
               P.

- -*—"'—'—*——---—'I'-‘III-q-——--r—.—* - -
             THE LUMINOSITY on THE sex.         115
   “ These little bodies,” continued the Captain,
“ were generally to be seen when the water was
luminous, and at times were very abundant, espe
cially in straits and near land. Their real size, I
have already said, was about that of a grain of
sand; but when seen shining in the water, they
appeared much larger. Upon taking up a bucket
full of water from the sea near the ship and pour
ing it upon the deck, innumerable spots might be
seen about the size of small peas, which when taken
upon the <U+FB01>nger and carried to a light were scarcely
discernible by the naked eye. Magni<U+FB01>ed thus by
the refraction of the water, and their own light
when the countless millions of them are scattered
about upon the surface of the sea, upon its being
agitated and set in motion by the ship’s way
through it, the appearance then presented is beau
tiful in the extreme.”
   “ Were all the animalcules like balls?” asked
Mrs. Wilson.
   “ No,” said the Captain; “ some were very
large, and radiated from the centre like stars.
These occurred very frequently in straits and near
land, and were most abundant at those times when
                    $12

116      THE YOUNG NATUn.iLIsT’s JOURNEY.
the sea was very luminous.      The natural size of
these bodies is about half that of a pin's head ';
they seem to consist almost entirely of numerous
tentacula or arms, each one of which is composed
of numerous joints. These apparently spring
from a dark spot in the centre, which is, most
probably, the body of the animal, though I could
not make out distinctly any particular organs be
longing to it. In general, when under the micro
scope, there were to be seen a considerable number
of very small round bodies (invisible to the naked
eye) attached to the tentacula, or swimming round
about them, and which I only saw in company
with this animal. They were wheel-shaped, trans
parent, with a dark streak running through the
centre, and were always in motion, whirling round
incessantly like little wheels. Another body, which
evidently belongs to the same family as the last,
occurred also very frequently in company with it.
It is about the fourteenth of an inch in length,
and apparently consists of tentacula alone, no
central body being observable. Each of the ten
tacula is jointed numerously, and the whole were
arranged somewhat in the form of an hour-glass,

            THE LUMINOSITY OF THE SEA.
or like a bundle of faggots loosely tied in the
middle and spreading out at each end. The ten
tacula evidently appeared to be connected in the
centre, but were loose and unattached at the
extremities. These curious creatures occurred
principally in the Straits of Malacca, but were
also frequently seen in the open ocean.       Along
with these last, in the Straits of Malacca, two
other kinds occurred in considerable abundance.
The one was composed of short, thick, curved
tentacula, disposed in a circular manner, all
meeting in the centre, and entwining with each
other like a bur. They were not jointed, differing
materially in this respect from the two already
described. The other was composed of short,
straight tentacula, not jointed; sometimes dis
posed in a circular or oval shape, and at others
appearing as it were double, as if one were
attached to and growing out of the other. The
natural size of these species scarcely exceeded that
of a very small pin’s point, but the last was about
double the size of the others.”
   “ Did you ever attempt to preserve any of
these animalcules?” asked Mrs. Merton.

 118     THE YOUNG NATURALISTE JOURNEY.
   “ I did once,” said the Captain. “ I found an
exceedingly interesting little animal, a Medusa,
in the Straits of Banca, which evidently possessed
a luminous property. I only procured one speci
men, and it was during the day. After examina
tion it was removed into a wine-glass full of clear
sea-water, and kept till evening. VVhen taken
into a dark place, the water, upon its surface being
struck and agitated by the <U+FB01>nger, immediately
gave out several bright sparks. This luminous
ness, however, soon ceased when the agitation of
the water was long continued ; but when left un
disturbed for some time, it seemed to recover its
power, again emitting vivid <U+FB02>ashes of light upon
being struck smartly with the top of the <U+FB01>nger.
The animal itself, as seen by the microscope, ap
peared to consist of a hollow transparent gelatinous
bag, open in the centre, and containing within it
an elongated body, <U+FB01>xed, as it were, upon a pedes
tal, and divided at the summit into four lobes.
The mouth of the bag was set all round with
curved tentacula, somewhat resembling tadpoles,
and attached by their largest extremity, in number
about fourteen.    The whole of these bodies during

            THE LUMINOSITY or THE sun.            119
the time the animal was under the microscope
were in constant motion, the edges of the bag
contracting suddenly, and as quickly opening
again; the central body and the tentacula also
moving simultaneously. The natural size of this
interesting little animal was about that of a small
pin’s head.”
   The Captain now left; but in the evening he
sent sketches of the appearance, when magni<U+FB01>ed,
of all the different curious little creatures he had
described.

120      THE YOUNG NA-rvEALisT’s JOURNEY.
                 CHAPTER IX.
       THE UNGKA APE OF SUMATRA, AND THE
                     NUTHATCH.
   THOUGH Captain Seymour had told them many
curious, amusing, and instructive things, Agnes did
not like him half so well as the “ dear old gentle
man," as she called Mr. Trelawney; and she was
quite impatient for the next day to arrive, when
they were to pay him another visit. The morning
came, and Agnes had scarcely patience to wait till
her mother thought it a proper time to make a
visit: all the way, too, she had di<U+FB02>iculty in con
straining herself to walk, as she felt much more
inclined to jump and run. The distance also
appeared much greater than before ; but they did
arrive at last, and old Mr. Trelawney met them
with a smiling countenance. He was indeed fond
of Agnes, from the evident pleasure she showed in

v_, I.
                    The Ungka Ape
                                  Plate 1. I’. 121.
-_~..__.-l*_l-a‘k-_

                   THE UNGKA APE.                 1221
his society; and she was fond of him, from the
kindness with which he treated her. When they
entered the house, Mr. Trelawney conducted them
<U+FB01>rst to the library; and Agnes was very much
struck, almost as soon as she entered, with a curious
looking monkey sitting on a chair, with its arms
folded across its breast, and its feet crossed over
each other, looking at them as slyly as possible.
   “ Ungka !” cried Mr. Trelawney, “is that the
way you receive ladies when they come to see you?
Pray get up directly, and make them a bow."
   The ape instantly started off his chair, and,
stretching himself out to the utmost, made the
ladies a low bow. Ungka was about two feet and
a half high, with very long arms—so long indeed
that he could touch the ground without stooping;
and these frightfully long arms he raised as high
as possible above his head before he made his bow.
 His whole body was covered with rather stiff hair
of a beautiful jet black. The face was, however,
bare, except some enormous whiskers; and the
hair stood out from the forehead as if it had been
brushed up. The feet were just like hands.
   “ Now, sir,” said Mr. Trelawney, when Ungka

 122       THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY
had made his obeisance to his visitors, “ come
and shake hands.”
    Ungka approached and offered his hand, which
was smooth and covered with a shining black skin
quite free from hairs, to Agnes.        “ Oh! oh!”
said Mr. Trelawney, laughing; “ what, you like
the young lady best, do you ?” and Ungka grinned
and showed his white teeth as though he perfectly
understood what his master was saying to him.
“ Now, sir, show your gloves,” said Mr. Trelaw
ney; and he made the ladies observe that the
hair on the upper part of the arms ran downwards,
while that of the lower part ran upwards, thus
giving the ape the appearance of having on a pair
of gloves. Ungka seemed much pleased at the
delight his visitors expressed at seeing this, and he
stroked his long arms with every appearance of
 satisfaction.
    “ He seems to like being noticed,” observed
 Mrs. Merton.
    “ Oh yes,” returned the old gentleman; “ Ungka
 is rather vain, and he has some reason to be so.
 You see his hands are very handsome; his <U+FB01>ngers
-are long and tapering, and his thumb much shorter

                   THE UNGKA APE.                  123
than the <U+FB01>ngers, as in the human hand.       His face,
also, covered as it is with a clear shining black skin
and adorned with large whiskers, is ratlier good
looking; while his ears are small, and resemble
those of a human being. Both his <U+FB01>ngers and
toes have nails, and not claws ; and he always walks
upright. I am sorry, however, I cannot say        any
thing in praise of his mode of walking, as        it is
certainly not the most graceful in the world.       He
has a curious way of twisting his legs and        feet,
that makes him walk as if he were bow-legged;
while from his stepping on the whole <U+FB01>at surface
of his foot at once, he makes a strange pattering
noise on boards.     In his native forests, however,
there is no awkwardness, and he swings from
branch to branch with inconceivable agility. His
foot is as <U+FB02>exible as his hand, and he can hold a
branch equally well with either.”
   “ It is a beautiful exempli<U+FB01>cation of the Al
mighty wisdom,” observed Mrs. Merton, “ that
we always <U+FB01>nd wild creatures provided with some
means of protecting themselves. If they walk
badly, they are gifted with powers of springing and
climbing; and even those birds that have feeble

12%      THE YOUNG NA'rUxALisT’s JOURNEY.
powers of <U+FB02>ying, can walk with extraordinary
rapidity, like the ostrich.”
   “That is exactly the case with Ungka,” re
turned his master. “ He walks so badly, that he
would soon be run down even by a man ; but his
powers of swinging and climbing are astonishing.
Here is a sketch of him which was made by a
gentleman who saw him in his native forests.”
   “ Was he very wild when <U+FB01>rst taken?” asked
Mrs. Merton.
   “ I believe not.   At least, he was tame from
the <U+FB01>rst moment that the gentleman who gave
him to me procured him. He had been caught by
some Malays, and was sold by them to my friend.
But I have some particulars about him, which, if
you please, Iwill read to you before we go into
the menagerie.”
   Mrs. Merton declared it would give her great
pleasure to hear these particulars. Mr. Trelawney
took some papers out of his desk and began to
read; Ungka seating himself on a footstool, with
his arms folded across his breast as they had <U+FB01>rst
seen him, and resting his chin on the edge of the _
table, as though he were eagerly listening to all


---.
                  THE UNGKA APE.                125
 that was said.    Mr. Trelawney began as fol
lows :—
   “ On entering the yard in which Ungka was
tied up one morning, I was not well pleased at
observing him busily engaged in removing his belt
and cord, at the same time whining and uttering
a peculiar squeaking noise. When loose, he walked
in his usual erect posture towards some Malays
who were standing near the place ; and after hug
ging the legs of several of the party, he went to a
Malay lad, climbed upon his neck and hugged him
closely, having an expression in both the look and
manner of grati<U+FB01>cation at being once again in the
arms of his former master. After this lad sold
him, whenever the animal could get loose he would
make for the water-side, the Malay lad being
usually on board the prow in which they had
arrived from Sumatra; and the animal was never
taken until, having reached the water, he could
proceed no farther. On sending him on board the
ship in which we came to England, he, on arriving,
after rewarding his conductor with a bite, escaped,
and ascended the rigging; but towards the evening
he came down on the deck and was readily secned.

‘                                 Y
  126      THE YOUNG NATURALIST s JOURNEY.
     “ Ungka’s food consisted chie<U+FB02>y of vegetables,
  and he was particularly fond of carrots; when he
  took animal food, he preferred fowl; but one day
  a lizard having been caught on board and given to
  him, he devoured it greedily. When sleeping, he
  used to lie generally on his side, resting his head
  on his hands, and always retiring to rest if possible
  at sunset : in the morning, however, he did not ap
 pear always ready to rise with the sun; and some
 times after he had been awakened, he would lie on
 his back, with his long arms stretched out and his
 eyes wide open, as though thinking whether he was
 ready to get up or not. When any friend ap
 proached him, he would utter a peculiar chirping
 kind of sound; but when angry or frightened, he
 made a hollow barking noise, which was followed
 by the loud guttural syllabfes ra, ra, ra. He was
 not generally mischievous, but he had one singular
 propensity : he was very fond of ink, and whenever
 he could <U+FB01>nd an opportunity, he would drink all
  the ink in an inkstand and suck the pens. He
  soon knew the name of Ungka which had been
 given to him, and would come when called by that
 name.

                  THE UNGKA APE.                 127
   “ There was a little girl on board, a native of
 Erromango, one of the group of the New Hebrides
 among the South Sea Islands. This child Ungka
 was very much attached to, and she seemed equally
fond of him. They would often sit together for
hours near the capstan, the animal with its long
arms round the child’s neck, lovingly eating biscuit
together; and at other times she would lead him
about by one of his paws, like a child learning to
dance. This was a very droll exhibition, as Ungka
turned in his knees and toes instead of turning
them out ; and his broad <U+FB02>at foot pattered on the
deck, when he attempted to dance, like that of a
duck. They would also roll on the deck together,
the animal pushing the child with his feet, and
pretending to bite her; then, seizing a rope, he
would swing round her, eluding all her attempts
to catch him : when she turned on one side think
ing he was there, he would suddenly swing round
and pretend to bite her on the other; and then,
when at last she stood quite bewildered, with both
her arms raised, he would drop into them and
cling round her neck.    If an attempt, however,
were made by the child to play with him when he

128      THE YOUNG NATUuALisT’s JOURNEY.
had no inclination, or after he had sustained some
disappointment, he usually made a slight impression
with his teeth on her arm, just suf<U+FB01>cient to act as
a warning that no liberties were to be taken with
his person ; or to give her a hint, as the child would
say, that ‘ Ungka no like play now.’
   “ There were several small monkeys on board,
with whom Ungka evidently wished to form a
friendship; but they repelled his advances by chat
Man inand
tering      various
         Black,      hostile
                 as the      movements.
                         sailors used to callThe
                                              him,little
                                                    did i
not approve of this treatment ; and the <U+FB01>rst time
he could <U+FB01>nd an opportunity, he seized a rope, and
swinging himself near the spot where they were all
gathered together, he seized one of them by the
tail with his left foot and ran up the rigging with
him ; the unfortunate monkey, who was carried
along, dangling by his tail, and whisked about in a
very awkward and uncomfortable manner, chatter
ing and grinning all the time, in impotent rage at
his tormentor. Ungka appeared to think the joke
so good, that he afterwards treated several of the
other monkeys in the same manner, and thus
effectually punished them for their impertinence.”

                   THE UNGKA APE.               129
                                   '59
    “ Do look at Ungka, mama           cried Agnes.
“ He seems to understand every word Mr. Tre
lawney says, and to be quite amused at the recol
lection of his pranks.”
    Ungka did indeed look as if he understood and
enjoyed every word; and when Agnes spoke, he
stretched out one of his long arms to shake hands
with her. Mr. Trelawney looked kindly at the
ape, and patting him, continued as follows :—
    “ There was a little pig on board that used to
run about the deck, and that had a curly tail;
this curly tail Ungka did not like, and he used to
run after the pig and pull its tail to endeavour to
make it straight ; but, of course, all his efforts
were in vain, though piggy did not at all resent
his interference, and only grunted and gave himself
a shake when the ape let go his tail, as though to
put it all right again before he trotted away.
    “ Ungka did not like to be laughed at, and one
day, when he was at dinner, some persons looking at
him and laughing,he ceased eating, uttered his pecu
liar barking noise, ending with the guttural notes
1-a, ra, m, and in<U+FB02>ated a large bag or pouch under
his chin ; he then <U+FB01>xed his eyes with a most
                          K

                THE YOUNG NATURALIST,S JOURNEY.
   serious and solemn look on the persons who had
   attended him, and did not resume his dinner till
   they had ceased laughing. He disliked con<U+FB01>ne
   ment, or being left alone, and could not bear
   disappointment. He was very fond of sweet cakes,
  and when they were refused him, or he was shut
  up, or vexed in any way, he would give way to the
  most violent display of ill-temper. In these <U+FB01>ts
  he rolled about on the deck, kicking and screaming
  ra, ra, Ta, and dashing everything about that came
  within his reach. At sunset, when he wanted to
  go to rest, he would approach one of his friends,
  uttering his peculiar chirping note, as if beseeching
  to be taken into their arms; his request once
  acceded to, he was as di<U+FB02>icult to remove as Sin
  bad’s old man of the sea; any attempt to take
  him away being followed by violent screams, and
  his clinging still closer to the person in whose arms
  he was lodged, and whence it was almost impossible
  to remove him until he fell asleep.”
      At this part of Ungka’s history, Agnes could
  not help looking at him, and shaking her head;
  and Ungka, as if very much ashamed, stretched out
  his long arm, and catching hold of a corner of one
LL--..I.A._Hx_ _x.._;. -' —._H.;x._. - -. .pr--.---J--T---_'—___'

                     THE NUTHATCH.                131
 of the bookcases, he swung himself up to the top,
 knocking down a stuffed bird that stood in his way.
    “ Oh Ungka ! Ungka !” cried his master, “ see
 what you l1ave done to the poor Nuthatch.”
    But there Ungka sat with his arms crossed on
 his breast, and looking not at all inclined to come
 down.     In the mean time, Mrs. Merton had raised
 the Nuthatch, which was not at all injured; and
 had pointed out to Agnes the great strength of
 its beak.
    “ Yes,” said Mr. Trelawney. “ This curious
 little bird is about the size of a sparrow; its body
 is thick in proportion to its length, and its tail is
 short. Its beak is about three-quarters of an inch
 in length, and is very strong. The bird itself is
 not a songster, having only a few short notes,
 and none of them peculiar, though so loud, that
 they may be heard at a considerable distance. It is
 a busy and cheerful bird, particularly just before
 the breeding-time. It prefers nuts and tree-seeds
_to any other kind of food; and its manner of
iiracking them is very curious: it <U+FB01>xes the nut ina
 crevice in some old tree or -post, and placing itself
 above it, head downwards, strikes with great force
                          K2

]32     THE YOUNG NATURALIST’S JOURNEY.
and rapidity with its strong wedge-shaped bill on
the edge of the shell till it splits open. VVhen the
food of these birds is plentiful, sometimes as
much as a peck of broken shells is found under
one tree.”
   “ The nest of the nuthatch,” said Mrs. Merton,
“ is curiously constructed. The bird frequently
chooses a hole in some old tree, or the deserted nest
of a woodpecker, at the bottom of which it lays
some thin bark from the branches of a Scotch pine,
when it can be procured, and above it a quantity
of dead leaves, generally those of the oak, heaped
together without much appearance of order. The
bird then closes the entrance with clay, leaving as
small an opening as possible to allow itself to
squeeze its body through.”
   “ Why is the hole made so small ?” asked
Agnes.
   “ To prevent the attacks of the starlings,” said
 Mr. Trelawney. “ It is very curious to see how
these birds, with their strong beaks, will attempt
to break down the mud-wall of the nuthatch, and
how hard the poor nuthatch will labour to repair
it. Sometimes the nuthatch takes possession of

                  THE NUTHATCH.                  133
the deserted nest of some other bird; altering
and improving it to suit his particular fancy by
adding a mud-wall.”
   “ Is any particular interest connected with this
stuffed bird ?” asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ Yes,” said the old gentleman. “This bird
was sent to me after its death, by one of my
friends, with some anecdotes respecting it, which
I will read to you ;” and so saying, Mr. Trelawney
again opened his desk, and taking out a paper, read
the following letter from his friend :—
   “ One day, as I was expecting the transit of
some wood-pigeons under a beech tree. with a gun
in my hand, I observed a little ash-coloured bird
squat himself on one of the large limbs of the tree
above my head, and begin to tap loudly upon the
wood, and then proceed round and round the
branch, still tapping, and it being clearly the same
thing to him which side of his body was upper
most.    I shot, and the bird fell: there was a lofty
hedge between us, and when I had climbed over it,
he was gone. It was some time before I secured
him; and the manner he eluded me was charac
teristic of his cunning.   He concealed himself in

134      THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY
holes at the bottom of a ditch, attempting, when
ever all seemed still, to scud away; but as his
wing was broken it impeded his efforts, and I at
last caught hold of him. He was small, but very
<U+FB01>erce, and his bite would have made a child cry
out. The elbow-joint of the wing being thoroughly
shattered, and <U+FB01>nding that he had no other wound,
I cut off the dangling limb, and put him into a
large cage with a common lark. The wound did
not in the least diminish his activity, nor yet his
pugnacity, for he instantly began to investigate all
possible means of escape; he tried the bars, then
tapped the wood-work of the cage, and produced
a knocking sound which made the room re-echo;
<U+FB01>nding his efforts vain, he then turned upon the
lark, and ran under him with his gaping beak to
bite.   I was consequently obliged to separate
them, and I put the nuthatch into a smaller cage
of plain oak wood and wire. Here he remained
all night; and the next morning his knocking or
tapping with his beak was the <U+FB01>rst sound I heard,
though sleeping in an apartment divided from the
other by a landing-place. He had food given to
him—minced chicken and bread crumbs, and water.

                   THE NUTHATCH.               135
He ate and drank with the most perfect assurance,
and the moment he had done, began again to
work at battering his cage, which he did with such
effect, that, though he only occupied the cage one
day, the wood is pierced and worn like an old
piece of worm-eaten timber. His hammering was
peculiarly laborious, for he did not peck as other
birds do, but grasping his hold with his immense
feet, he turned upon them as upon a pivot, and
struck the whole weight of his body, thus assuming
the appearance, with his entire form, of the head
of a hammer; or, as I have sometimes seen, birds
on mechanical clocks made to strike the hour by
swinging on a wheel. We were in hopes when the
sun went down that he would cease from his
labours and be at rest; but, no ! at the interval
of every ten minutes, up to nine or ten o’clock at
night, he resumed his knocking, and strongly re
minded us of the co<U+FB01>in-maker’s nightly and dreary
occupation. It was said by one of us—-‘ He is
nailing his own coi<U+FB01>n°—and so it proved. An
awful <U+FB02>uttering in the cage, now covered with a
handkerchief, announced that something was
wrong: we found him at the bottom of his prison

136       THE YOUNG NxTURALIsT’s JOURNEY.
with his feathers ruf<U+FB02>ed, and nearly all turned
back.    He was taken out, and for some time
he lingered amidst convulsions and occasional
brightenings up; but at length he drew his last
gasp.”                   _
   “ Poor thing!” cried Agnes; “ how sorry I
am it died.”
   “ My friend was very sorry,” said Mr. Trelaw
ney.    “ And as he knew I was fond of preserving
various things in my collection, he sent the body
of the poor nuthatch to me, and I have had it
stuffed. I keep the papers that are sent with
the different animals composing my menagerie
and museum;      and I often amuse myself with
reading them over to any friends who, like your
selves, may be interested in subjects of natural
history.”
   “ Have you a museum then, as well as a mena
gerie 2" asked Mrs. Merton.
   “ Yes,” said the old gentleman, “if a few
stuffed birds, and a few other curiosities of dif
ferent kinds, can be called so. My collection
contains few objects of value; but everything in
it is interesting to me from some circumstance

                   THE NUTHATcH.             137
connected with it.   Here are some of my birds,”
continued he, opening the door of an adjoining
apartment. But at this moment he was called
out to see a person on business, and he was com
pelled to leave Mrs. Merton and Agnes to enter
the museum by themselves.

                          138
                   CHAPTER X.
    THE KINGFISHER,   AND THE KESTREL,   AND THE
                   SPARROW-HAWK.
   Mas. Mnnron and Agnes were just about to enter
Mr. Trelawney’s museum, when Ungka, seeing the
departure of his master, swung himself down from
the top of the book-case, where he had taken
refuge, and put his long arms round Agnes, mut
tering m, m, m, and rubbing his head against her.
   “ Poor Ungka !’’ said Mrs. Merton, patting him.
“ He takes you for his old play-fellow, Agnes ; and
knowing that he did wrong in knocking down the
stuffed bird, he is come to ask you to intercede for
him.” Agnes smiled at this, and patted the ape, who,
hearing a noise in the hall, immediately swung him
self back to his old place. Agnes looked after him
with regret; but <U+FB01>nding that they could not tempt
h.im to come down, she and her mother went into
the next room, and began to examine the stuffed
birds. The <U+FB01>rst that attracted their attention was

                   THE KINGFISHER.                139
‘labelled the King<U+FB01>sher, and as Agnes had never
 seen one of these birds before, she begged her
 mother to tell her something about it.
  ' “ The King<U+FB01>sher,” said Mrs. Merton, “ though
 not very elegant in shape, is beautiful from the
 brilliancy and variety of its colours. Its head is of
 a changeable olive-green, resembling a richly shot
 silk, streaked with bars of bright blue, and under
 the eye is a patch of orange-brown, passing on the
 neck into white; the breast is orange, deepening
 in some places almost into red; and, in, others,
 particularly towards the upper part of the neck,
 softening into yellow, and a yellowish-white; the
 back is of a bright blue, shot with white ; and vary
 ing in shade and richness, with every motion of the
 bird, as the light strikes it in a different manner;
 the tail is of a very dark blue ; and the wings are
 of an olive-green, like the head: the beak is dark
 brown, and the eyes orange-red. The bird is very
 active, and, on a <U+FB01>ne day, may be seen hovering
 over a running stream; when, as it darts after
 its prey, with the rays of the sun <U+FB02>ashing on its
 plumage, and re<U+FB02>ected by the water, it looks like
 a <U+FB02>ying gem. Its food consists of small <U+FB01>shes,

          THE YOUNG NATURALISTFS JOURNEY.
slugs, and worms, and it appears very voracious.
When about to feed, it is generally found on the
border of a clear stream, alone, perched on the
branch of a tree projecting over the water, where
it sometimes remains motionless for hours, watch
ing till a <U+FB01>sh of suitable size glitters through the
water: it then darts down, dives into the water,
and brings up its prey with its feet; carries it to
the shore, where it beats it to death, and swallows
it entire, afterwards casting up the scales, bones,
and other indigestible parts, generally in the form
of balls.”
                                              '1’
   “ Oh, mama, what a curious nest it has
   “ The nest of the King<U+FB01>sher is said by Montagu,
in his Ornithological Dictionary, to be constructed of
<U+FB01>sh-bones mixed with earth ; but the observations
of modern naturalists appear to contradict this
supposition. Of whatever material the King<U+FB01>sher
constructs his nest, it always chooses a hollow in a
rock or bank, frequently an old rat-hole, for the
site.    The eggs of this bird are very delicate,
almost transparent, and have a larger air-bag than
those of any other British bird, in proportion to its
size.”

                  THE KINGFISHER.                   141
   “ It is remarkable,” said Mr. Trelawney, who
now entered the room, “ that the eggs of all birds
that build their nests on the ground, contain a
larger quantity of air in the receptacle, than those
of birds which build their nests upon trees; and
the young of the former are invariably produced in
a much more perfect state (supposed to be owing
to the in<U+FB02>uence of a greater portion of oxygen)
than the young of the latter; which remain help
less and naked for several days, while the young of
the ground-nestbird are covered with down, andable
toquit the nest with part of the shell on their backs.”
   “ The King<U+FB01>sher,” said Mrs. Merton, “is sup
posed to have been the halcyon of the poets; and
that the halcyon days were so called, from the days
on which the King<U+FB01>sher is generally seen on the
watch for his prey being particularly calm. The
ancients believed that this bird built its nest on
the ocean, and that its presence would quell the
wildest storm. \/Vhatever branch it perched on
was supposed to become withered ; its body after
death was dried to preserve clothes from the moth;
it was supposed to avert thunder, to augment
hidden treasures,to preserve peace in families ; and,

142      THE YOUNG NATunAL1sT’s JOURNEY.
more than all, to bestow grace and beauty on the
person carrying it about him. Aristotle, Virgil,
Ovid, Pliny, and     many other ancient writers,
relate these, and numerous other extravagant
stories of the halcyon. Even in modern times,
several barbarous nations have strange supersti
tions about the King<U+FB01>sher. The Tartars believe
that if they cast the feathers on the water, and
carefully preserve those that <U+FB02>oat, any woman they
may touch with one of these feathers must fall in
love with them. The Ostiaks carry the skin about
their persons as an amulet to preserve them from
every evil ; and, so late as the last century, it was
supposed by some that the body of a King<U+FB01>sher
dried and hung up by a piece of string, would
always turn its breast to the north, or to the point
from which the wind blew. Mrs. Charlotte Smith
mentions this last superstition, and informs us that
she actually saw a stuffed King<U+FB01>sher hung up to
the beam of a cottage, which the inhabitants
assured her, though sheltered from the immediate
in<U+FB02>uence of the wind, never failed to show every
 change by turning its beak to the quarter whence
 the wind blew !”           ‘

                   THE KINGFISHER.                143
   “ Another superstition respecting the King
<U+FB01>sher,” said Mr. Trelawney, “is, that it hovers
over the water in order to attract the <U+FB01>sh by the
brightness of its plumage ; and another, that if it
dried after it is dead, and its body kept, it will
renew its feathers every season at the usual period
of moulting.”
   “All these superstitions,” said Mrs. Merton,
“ are the relics of a barbarous age, and as such,
not more extraordinary than others that might be
enumerated; but why the King<U+FB01>sher should be
<U+FB01>xed upon as the subject of these extraordinary
fancies, it would now be di<U+FB02>icult to ascertain.     It
is probable, however, that its habit of poising
itself in the air, in clear weather, gave rise to the
<U+FB01>rst fables; and the extraordinary beauty and
brilliancy of its plumage to the last.”
   Agnes’s attention was now attracted by what
appeared to her to be a stuffed hawk; and she
eagerly pointed it out to her mother, as since their
visit to Sir Edward Peregrine’s, she had felt a
particular interest in all kinds of hawks. Mr.
Trelawney heard the exclamation, and observed
smilingly, that it was singular that she should

14%       THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOUBNEY.
have noticed this bird immediately after they had
been speaking of the hovering of the King<U+FB01>sher.
“ This hawk,” continued he, “ is one of the com
monest of the British species, and consequently one
of the best known. It is peculiarly graceful in its
motions, and handsome in its shape; and it may
be known, even at a considerable distance, by its
habit of poising itself in the air, with its tail out
spread, and its head pointing to the wind; from
which it has acquired the name of Windhover.
These birds sometimes soar to a great height, <U+FB02>ying
in circles like the kite, and every now and then
pausing and balancing themselvcs in the air, as
though to reconnoitre, and to ascertain if they
had reached a proper elevation. ‘Vhile they are
rising they utter frequently, and with a sharp
sound, a cry resembling pri, pm’, pri! and when
they perceive their prey, they dart upon it with
the directness and rapidity of an arrow.”
   “I have often seen one of these hawks in the
country," observed Mrs. Merton, “ sometimes
hovering for a long time over one part of a <U+FB01>eld ;
and then taking a rapid sweep to another part, and
hovering there for another long period, apparently

                     THE KESTREL.                 145
immoveable. This hawk is called a Kestrel in the
county where I was born; and in many other parts
of England.”
   “ Some doubts,” said Mr. Trelawney, “ have
arisen as to the food of this species. It is generally
said to feed entirely on mice ; and though feathers
are never found in its stomach, it is aid to devour
small birds. Some naturalists explain this by
saying, that the Kestrel plucks the small birds it
catches, before it devours them.      The remains of
coleopterous insects, caterpillars, and earth-worms
are often found in its stomach; and Mr. Selby
states, that it is fond of cockchafers.  He watched
it with a glass, and saw it ‘ dart through a swarm
of cockchafers, seize one in each claw, and eat them
while <U+FB02>ying.’ "'
   “ Is this bird ever used in falconry ?” asked
Agnes.
   “ But very seldom,” replied Mr. Trelawney,
“ and it is perhaps in consequence of the compa
ratively harmless habits of this bird, that it is said
to be best for a priest to use in hawking, by Dame
Juliana Berners, a lady who wrote on falconry
in the 15th century.”
                            L

 1&6      THE YOUNG NA'l‘URALIST’S JOURNEY.
    “Oh,” said Mrs. Merton, “we have heard of
 Dame Juliana before; and, I assure you, we are
 quite learned in every thing relating to hawking.
 We had just left Sir Edward Peregrine’s when we
came into Devonshire ; and, if you know that
worthy gentleman, you must be aware, that no one
can be staying long in his house without becoming
fond of hawking.”
   “That being the case,” said Mr. Trelawney,
“ you will probably not only like to look at a stuffed
Sparrow-hawk which I have in my collection, but to
hear some anecdotes of it when it was alive; You
are no doubt aware,” continued he, addressing Mrs.
Merton, “how very seldom birds of prey are tamed;
and so you will easily comprehend the interest I
feel in the Sparrow-hawk, which I am going to
show you, and which was tamed completely.        This
is my poor pet!” and, as he spoke, he unlocked
the door of one of the presses, which contained
only this bird.     Agnes looked at it eagerly,
and then seemed about to speak, but checked
herself.
   “ WVhat do you think of my Sparrow-hawk_?”
asked Mr. Trelawney.

                   THE SPARRO\VHAWIL
    “ ls it not very like the Gos-hawk ?” said Agnes,
 timidly, looking at her mother.
    “ Very much indeed, in appearance,” said the
 old gentleman, smiling. “ I see your eye is tole
rably accurate already. And yet the character of
 the two birds is as different as possible. The Gos
hawk, as no doubt you know, is a coward ; but the
Sparrow-hawk is bold and active, the terror of all
mice and small birds, and a dangerous enemy occa
sionally even to birds superior to itself in size and
strength.”
   “ As a proof of its activity and courage,” said
Mrs. Merton, “it has been known to dash at a
group of fowls, while they were being fed in a farm
yard, and to carry off a chicken, in spite of the
shrieks and cries of the astonished dairy-maid, or
whoever else might have been feeding the fowls,
and the cackling and commotion it has occasioned
among the cocks and hens.”
   “ The courage of the Sparrow-hawk,” resumed
Mr. Trelawney, “ would render it an admirable
bird for falconry, were it able to <U+FB02>y against the
wind. Its <U+FB02>ight, though rapid, cannot be continued
long ; and thus it is only useful in taking small
                           L2

148      THE YOUNG NATURALJsT’s JOURNEY.
birds, or birds that <U+FB02>y low. The Sparrow-hawk
seldom takes the trouble to build a nest for itself,
but generally takes possession of an old and
deserted one belonging to some other bird; usu
ally that of a crow. The eggs are of a pale bluish
tint, blotched and spotted with a dark reddish
brown.    The parent birds take great care of their
young, and certainly supply them abundantly with
food, for Mr. Selby tells us that he found a nest
with <U+FB01>ve young Sparrow-hawks, which also con
tained a dead lapwing, two blackbirds, a thrush,
and two green-linnets, all recently killed, and
partly divested of their feathers ; and all, no doubt,
provided by the parent birds for the nourishment
of their young.”
    “The Sparrow-hawk,” said Mrs. Merton, “is
not only a common bird in England, but it is found
in almost every part of the world. In Egypt it-is
considered as a sacred bird; and seamen, in the
 Mediterranean, call it the corsair, from its boldness
 and voracity. Falconers considered Sparrow
 hawks very di<U+FB02>icult birds to train for the purposes
 of falconry; as, from their natural <U+FB01>erceness, their
 education takes more time, and even when it is com

                 THE SPARROWHAWK.                 14:9
pleted, if not kept in constant training, they are
apt to relapse. As an instance of their eagerness
in pursuit of prey, it is said that they are taken on
the shores of the Mediterranean by no other arti
<U+FB01>ce than that of causing some small birds, attached
to a cord, to <U+FB02>utter about under suspended nets,
into which the imprudent hawk precipitates itself
impetuously."
   “A friend of mine,” said the old gentleman,
“ told me that he once saw a Sparrow-hawk in
pursuit of a robin, and just on the point of catching
it, when the robin <U+FB02>ew abruptly round the angle
of a building, and the hawk missing it, <U+FB02>ew with
such force against the wall, that it absolutely
dashedout its brains! And now,” continued he,
“ having had so much conversation about the
Sparrow-hawk in its wild state, I will, if you please,
read to you my friend’s anecdotes of a tame one,
which are very interesting, as they show how com
pletely the habits, even of a bird of prey, may be
altered by education.”
   Thus speaking, he led the way into the library,
where they had scarcely seated themselves, when
the ape, Ungka, who had watched his opportunity,

150       THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY
sprang down from his hiding-place, and nestling
close up to Agnes, crouched in his favourite pos
ture at her feet, unseen by Mr. Trelawney, who
was busily searching for his anecdotes of the tame
Sparrow-hawk. At last he found the paper; and
began to read as follows :—
   “ About three years since, a young sparrow
hawk was purchased and brought up by a gentle
man in Suffolk. This was rather hazardous, as
he, at the same time, had a large stock of fancy
pigeons, which, in consequence of their rarity and
value, he greatly prized. It seems, however, that
kindness and care had softened the nature of the
hawk, or the regularity with which he was fed had
rendered the usual habits of his family unnecessary
to his happiness; for, as he increased in age and
size, his familiarity increased also, leading him to
form an intimate acquaintance with a set of friends
who have been seldom seen in such society. When
ever the pigeons came to feed, which they did often
times from the hand of their master, the hawk
used also to accompany them. At <U+FB01>rst the pigeons
were shy, of course; but, by degrees, they over
came their fears, and ate as con<U+FB01>dently as if the

                THE srxnnownmvx.                 151,
ancient enemies of their race had sent no repre
sentative to the banquet. It was curious to
observe the playfulness of the hawk, and his perfect
good-nature during the entertainment ; for he
received his morsel of meat without any of that
ferocity with which birds of prey usually take their
food; and merely uttered a cry of lamentation
when his feeder disappeared. He would then
attend the pigeons in their <U+FB02>ight round and round
the house and gardens, and perch with them on
the chimney-top or roof of the mansion; and this
voyage he never failed to make early in the morn
ing, when the pigeons always took their exercise.
At night he retired with them to the dove-cot;
and though for some days he was the sole occu
pant of the place, the pigeons not having relished
this intrusion at <U+FB01>rst, he was afterwards merely a
guest there ; for he never disturbed his hospitable
friends, even when their young ones, un<U+FB02>edged and
helpless as they were, offered a strong temptation
to his appetite. He seemed unhappy at any sepa
ration from the pigeons, and invariably returned
to the dove-house, after a few days’ intentional con
<U+FB01>nement in another abode, during which impri

152      THE YOUNG NATURALIsT's JOURNEY.
sonment he would utter most melancholy cries for
deliverance ; but those were changed to cries of
joy on the arrival of any person with whom he was
familiar. All the household were on terms of
acquaintance with him; and there never was a
bird who seemed to have won such general admira
tion. He was as playful as a kitten, and, literally,
as loving as a dove.
   “ But that his nature was not altogether altered,
and that, notwithstanding his education, which, as
Ovid says,
          ‘ Softens the mind, and cruelty subdues,’
he was still a hawk in spirit, was proved on an
occasion of almost equal interest. A neighbour
had sent us a very <U+FB01>ne specimen of the smaller
horned-owl, which he had accidentally shot in the
wing while it was <U+FB02>ying in the midst of a covey of
partridges ; and after having tended the wounded
limb, and endeavoured to make a cure, we thought
of soothing the prisoner’s captivity by a greater
degree of freedom than he had had in the hen
coop which he inhabited. No sooner, however,
had our former acquaintance, the hawk, got sight
 of him, than he fell upon the poor owl most unmer

                 THE srumownxwx.                 I53
cifully ; and from that instant, whenever they came
in contact, a series of furious combats took place.
The defence of the poor little owl was admirably
conducted : he would throw himself upon his back,
and await the attack of his enemy with patience
and preparation; and, by dint of biting and
scratching, would sometimes win a positive, as he
often did a negative, victory. Acquaintanceship did
not seem, in this case,' likely to ripen into friend
ship; and when his wing had gained strength,
taking advantage of a favourable opportunity, the
owl decamped, leaving the hawk in possession of
his territory.
   “ The fate of the successful combatant was,
however, soon to’ be accomplished; for he was
shortly after found drowned in a butt of water,
from which he had once or twice been extricated
before, having summoned a deliverer to his assist
ance by cries that told he was in distress.    There
was great lamentation when he died, throughout
the family; and it was observed by more than one
person that the portion of the dove-cot in which
he was wont to pass the night was for some time
unoccupied by the pigeons, with whom he had

154      THE YOUNG NArURAI.1sT’s JOURNEY.
lived so peaceably, even during his wars with the
unfortunate owl."
   “ The dead body of the poor hawk," continued
Mr. Trelawney, “ was sent to me, and I had it
stuffed as you now see it.    Indeed, I value it
highly.”

                          155
                   CHAPTER XI.
THE SHRIKES,    OR BUTCHER-BIRDS;   THE FLY-CATCHER;
                  AND THE SKELETONS.
   “ I THINK I know this bird,” said Mrs. Merton,
as they approached another case of stuffed birds.
“ Is it not the Butcher-bird ?”
   “ Oh, mama!” cried Agnes, “ what can such a
pretty-looking bird as this have done to deserve so
frightful a name ?”
   “ It is the Butcher-bird,” said Mr. Trelawney;
“ and I think even my little friend here will allow
that it is well named when she hears what I have
to say of it. There are several kinds of butcher
birds, all of which are also called Shrikes ; and all
which, from their great courage and ferocity, ap
pear very nearly allied to the birds of prey, and,
in fact, they were classed in the order Accipitres
by Linnaeus.     Modern naturalists, however, who
consider the leg, or tarsus, as naturalists call it,

 156      THE YOUNG NATURAL1sT’s JOURNEY.
 and the shape of the claws, as essential character
 istics of the order to which a bird belongs, have
 removed the butcher-birds from the hawks on
 account of their slender tarsi and long <U+FB02>exible
 talons, though they have not quite settled where
 to put them ; for Cuvier has classed them with the
 passeres, or sparrow-like birds, while still later
 naturalists, according to the modern quinary sys
 tem, consider them to belong to the insessores, or
 perching-birds.   The perching-birds are again sub
 divided, and in the <U+FB01>rst of the subdivisions, namely,
in the tribe dentirostres, which resemble the birds
of prey in their beaks, are placed the butcher-birds.
The shrikes have indeed a very strong and crooked
bill, and a great deal of courage and cruelty in
their dispositions.”
    “ But you have not told Agnes why they are
called Butcher-birds,” said Mrs. Merton.
   “ It is," resumed Mr. Trelawney, “ because
they hang the small birds and mice which they
kill, on a thorn before they tear them to pieces and
devour them; just as a butcher hangs up a calf or
sheep when he has killed it, before he cuts it up.
They are called Shrikes from the piercing cries

                     THE smuxn.                  157
they utter when <U+FB02>ying, which they always do
unequally and precipitately, as if pursued. The
Latin name of this bird, Lanius, signi<U+FB01>es to cut or
tear to pieces. The shrikes are gregarious; that
is, they live together in families, like rooks; they
build their nests in trees, and they take great care
of their young. The great grey shrike, a speci
men of which I have here, stuffed, is the largest of
the genus. It is rare in Britain, and is only found
here between autumn and spring; but it is much
more common in France, where it remains the
whole year. It feeds on small birds, mice, frogs,
lizards, and large insects; and after having killed
its prey, it hangs it upon a sharp thorn, or in a
forked branch, in a very butcher-like manner, so
that it may more readily tear pieces of meat
from it.”
   “ Can these birds ever be tamed ?" asked Mrs.
Merton.
   “ I have heard of one,” replied Mr. Trelawney,
which a gentleman, a friend of mine, had in his
possession nearly twelvemonths, and Which became
very tame, and would readily take its food from its
master's hands.     When a bird or a mouse was

 158    - THE YOUNG NATURALIsT's JOURNEY.
given to it, it would always force part of it through
the wires of the cage, and then pull at it. It
always left what it could not eat, hanging up on
the sides of the cage. Falconers on the Continent
use this bird to enable them to take hawks. The
shrike is fastened to the ground, and when it sees
a hawk, it utters its shrill and piercing cry, and
thus apprises the falconer of the hawk's approach.
It is on this account that the great grey shrike
has received its Latin speci<U+FB01>c name of excubitor,
which signi<U+FB01>es the sentinel.”
   “ But still I do not understand how this enables
the falconers to catch the hawks,” said Mrs. Merton.
   “ I will read you what a friend of mine says on
the subject,” returned Mr. Trelawney, “ and then
you will know as much of it as I do myself.”
   So saying, he went into the library, and brought
back with him a roll of papers, from one of which
he read as follows :
   “ The village of Falconswaard, in North Bra
bant, has been long famed for its falconers; it
formerly sent out men well-practised in this art to
every country in Europe ; and the few ef<U+FB01>cient
falconers still remaining (as this diversion has

                     THE snmxn.                159
been of late years almost wholly laid aside on the
Continent as well as in this country) are natives
of the village of Falconswaard. The hawks are
generally caught during the months of October
and November, when they are on their passage
towards the southern parts of Europe. The falconer
constructs a low turf hut in an open part of the
country, with a small opening on one side; at
about a hundred yards’ distance from the hut a
light-coloured pigeon is placed in a hole in the
ground covered with turf, with a string attached to
it which reaches to the hut; another pigeon is
placed in a similar situation on the opposite side
at the same distance. At ten yards’ distance
from each pigeon a small bow-net is <U+FB01>xed on the
ground, so arranged as to be pulled quickly over
by means of a small iron wire made fast to the net,
and reaching to the hut ; the string by which the
pigeon is held passes through a hole in a piece of
wood driven into the ground in the centre of the
bow-net. The falconer has also a decoy pigeon in
a string at a short distance from the hut, and
several tame pigeons at liberty on the outside,
which, on sight of a hawk, immediately take shelter

         THE YOUNG NA'I’URALIST’S JOURNEY.
within.   The butcher-bird (Lanius ezcubitor) is
fastened by a leather thong on a hillock of turf, a
yard in height and a few yards distant from the
hut; a small hole is made, and a piece of turf laid
over, for a place of retreat in case of danger.
   “ The falconer, employing himself in some seden
tary occupation, observes every motion of his little
watch, and it is almost incredible at how great a
distance he will point a falcon in the air. If it
approaches, he shows symptoms of alarm, drawing
in his feathers, and <U+FB01>xing his eyes in the same
direction : on a nearer approach, he screams aloud;
the falcon being then perhaps not less than three
or four hundred yards distant: on its closer ap
proach he retreats under the turf, and quite con
ceals himself. It is then the falconer draws out
the pigeons to where the nets are <U+FB01>xed, which <U+FB02>ut
tering round, generally tempt the hawk to make a
stoop at one of them, which if he takes he is inevi
tably ensnared. While the falcon is near, the
shrike continues in his hiding-place, hardly daring
to show his head at the entrance of his retreat;
should the falcon be taken, or pass over without
attacking the pigeons, he cautiously creeps out,

                     THE snmxn.                  161
yet almost afraid to trust himself on his hillock,
looking on every side, and does not during some
time rec’over from his alarm. He is greatly terri<U+FB01>ed
at the sight of the goshawk, screaming, and
endeavouring to escape ; as this hawk would even
seize him in his hiding-place, should he catch sight
of him, which the falcon would not.     He does not
show much alarm at sight of the kite and different
species of buzzards, unless they are very near to
him; so that, by the motions of the butcher-bird,
the falconer can tell almost with certainty the
species of hawk which is approaching him. Were
it not for the penetrating eye of this watchful
bird, the falconer would sit many dreary hours to
no purpose, as he would not know when to pull his
pigeons out to lure the hawk.”
   “ Is this grey shrike the one that is often found
in the neighbourhood of London?” asked Mrs
Merton.
   “ No,” replied Mr. Trelawney; “that bird is
called the red-backed shrike; and it is only found
in England in the summer.       The male birds of
this species have occasionally a kind of song, and
the French naturalists assert that they sometimes
                          M

162      THE room; NATuBAL1sT’s musnnr.
imitate the voice of small birds in order to decoy
them. They kill their prey and hang it up like the
grey shrike; they also impale insects on thorns,
and frequently leave them there uneaten. The
wood-chat is another kind of shrike, which gene
rally builds its nest on trees, preferring the oak.
The nest is placed in the fork of ‘a projecting
branch, and is composed of sticks mixed with
white moss from the trunk of the tree, and lined
with <U+FB01>ne grass and wool. It lays four or <U+FB01>ve
bluish eggs, generally encircled at the larger end
with a band of rust-coloured spots. This bird
often builds close to houses and public roads. It is
abundant in some parts of the Netherlands, but,
like the red shrike, only remains in England during
the summer.      M. Viellot, a French naturalist.
 attributes rather an extraordinary degree of re
<U+FB01>nement to this bird, as he tells us that it always
makes choice of sweet-smelling plants to build part
of its nest.”               ,
   Agnes and her mama both laughed at this; as
such delicacy seemed very unsuitable to the habits
of a bird like the shrike.    In the mean time, Mr.
Trelawney had opened another case.

                     THE snmxn.                    1 63
   “ This,” said he, “ is called Geo<U+FB02>'ry’s Shrike, and
it is a very curious little bird.   It is distinguished
from the other shrikes by its straight and slender
bill, and its long waving crest of recurved feathers.
Its colour is a bluish black, curiously marked with
a brilliant white. I have now only one more bird
of this family to show you, and it is called the Pied
 Fly-catcher. The <U+FB02>y-catchers are very nearly
allied to the shrikes, but are less powerful. They
do not attack the smaller birds, but content them
selves with <U+FB02>ies and other insects; whence their
name.     The pied <U+FB02>y-catcher is rather a rare bird
in England, and only stays with us during summer.
 It is most abundant near the Lakes in Westmore
 land and Cumberland.”
    Agnes's attention was now attracted by some
 skeletons of birds, and she eagerly asked what
 they were.
    “ They were sent to me by a friend,” said Mr.
 Trelawney, “ and were discovered in the church
 tower at Oswestry, in Shropshire, when it was found
 necessary to cut out a decayed portion of the
 pilaster of the frame of the clock.       The pilaster
 did not accurately <U+FB01>t into the wall, so that there
                           M 2

164      THE YOUNG NATURAL1sT’s JOURNEY.
was room between for birds to <U+FB01>nd an entrance;
and indeed ‘it had been observed that the birds
were constantly in the habit of resorting to it for
building.   When the decayed wood was cut out, a
small chamber was laid open between the pilaster
and the other frame-work, rather more than half
a square foot in size, in which the workman dis
covered a great number of the skeletons of swifts
 and starlings. He took out <U+FB01>fty-seven : but as he
 did not remove the rubbish with any degree of care,
 or clear it quite out to the bottom, there were
probably many more in the cavity. He did not
<U+FB01>nd them separately in the chinks of the old wall,
but all in the hollow place above described, be
tween the wall and the frame of the clock, mixed
 up with a quantity of mortar-rubbish that had
fallen into the cavity, and with loose bits of straw
and feathers. The skeletons appeared to be those
 of different years; and among them were some
 dead birds with the feathers on in a tolerably
perfect state. My friend happened to be con<U+FB01>ned
to the house at the time by illness, and he did not
become aware of the fact till some weeks after
wards; when only four of the specimens taken out

                 A Bmn’s CEMETERY.               165
could be found, all the rest having been lost. These
four specimens which he sent me are skeletons of
swifts, and appear, as far as I am able to judge, to
be those of full-grown birds. Indeed, I understand
that all who saw the rest of the skeletons considered
them to be those of old birds; and thus the old
clock appears to have been a kind of cemetery for
the patriarchs of the swift family to return to
before they died.”

 166     THE YOUNG NATURAI.1sT’s JOURNEY.
                 CHAPTER XII.
            THE DOD0,—AND CONCLUSION.
   MR. TRELAWNEY now took down a picture, which
was hanging against the wall, and which he showed,
asking them if they knew what it was. Agnes
thought it was a large turkey-cock; but Mrs.
Merton asked if it was not a Dodo, a kind of bird
now extinct.                                      .
   “ Yes,” said Mr. Trelawney.         “It is well
known that some kinds of animals, which were
once common, have become extinct; leaving traces
of their existence, however, in the fossil skeletons
and other remains which have been from time to
time discovered. The period in which these ani
mals lived is, generally speaking, so far removed
from the present day, as to make their skeletons
the only means we have of obtaining information
respecting them.     One animal, however, has be
come extinct almost within the memory of man,

The Dodo.
          P. I66

   l.L
. HM

                     THE none.                   167
and this animal is the Dodo. This creature was a
bird greatly resembling a turkey, but much larger,
totally incapable of <U+FB02>ying, and which, as it was
well adapted for food, and so unwieldy as to be
easily run down, evidently could not long continue
to exist in any inhabited country. But I will read
you some observations sent to me on the Dodo, by
the friend who sent me the picture ;” and so saying,
the old gentleman took a paper from his roll and
read as follows :
    “ The Dodo was only found in those islands of
the Indian Ocean which, on their <U+FB01>rst discovery
by Europeans, were uninhabited or difficult of
 access to the nearest people. The group which is
 situated to the eastward of Madagascar, consist
 ing of Bourbon, Mauritius, and Rodrigue, were
 almost the only islands of this description met with
 by the early circumnavigators of the Cape; and it
 is there that we <U+FB01>nd the last traces of this very
 remarkable bird, which disappeared, of course,
 from Bourbon and the Mauritius <U+FB01>rst, on account
 of their being more visited and <U+FB01>nally colonised by
 the French; and lastly from Rodrigue, an island
 extremely di<U+FB02>icult of access, and without any bay

~-__
    168      THE YOUNG NATUnALIsT’s JOURNEY.
    or safe anchorage for shipping. Having resided
    some years amongst those islands, inclusive of
    Madagascar, and being curious to <U+FB01>nd whether any
    testimony could be obtained on the spot as to the
    existence of the Dodo in any of the islands of this
    or the neighbouring archipelagoes, I may venture
   to say, that no traces of any kind could be found,
   no more than of the truth of the beautiful tale of
   Paul and Virginia, although a very general belief
   prevailed as to both the one and the other. I
 . there discovered, however, a copy of the scarce and
_ curious voyage of Leguat, who, and his companions,
   appear to have been the <U+FB01>rst residents of Rodrigue;
   and, although some allowances appear to be neces
   sary on account of the period in which he wrote,
   for descriptions and drawings apparently from
   memory, and a somewhat traveller-like stretch of
   imagination to enhance the value of his book, yet
   his evidence must be deemed conclusive, strength
   ened as it is by the collateral testimony of other
   voyagers, and by all the facts and statements
   brought forward by Mr. Duncan, in a paper upon
   this subject, published in the Zoological Journal,
   from_all which it appears, that a bird of corre

                    ' THE none.                    169
sponding size and character did actually exist, of
which the only remains are a bill and foot in the
Ashmolean Museum at Oxford, and a foot in the
British Museum, all of which I had the satisfaction
of examining on my return from the Mauritius
in 1816.
   “ Mr. Duncan, in the paper alluded to, proves
that a specimen of this bird existed in Tradescant’s
Museum at Lambeth, where it was seen by Ray
and Willoughby. This museum being subsequently '
removed to Oxford by Dr. Ashmole, we‘ <U+FB01>nd ‘the
specimen there in 1700, by the testimony of Hyde ;
and in a catalogue of the museum, drawn up since
1755, it is stated that ‘ the numbers from 5 to 46,
(No. 29 being that of the Dodo) being decayed,
were ordered to be destroyed at a meeting of the
visitors, January 8, 1755.    It is, therefore, almost
certain that the bill and foot still to be seen in
that depository were those of the above specimen.
To verify the painting, which is also to be seen in
the British Museum, Mr. Duncan appears to have
taken all the pains possible, and states it to have
been drawn from a living bird sent from the Mauri
tius to Holland, the Dutch being the <U+FB01>rstcolonists
                                       n

170       THE YOUNG NATUEALIsT’s JOURNEY.
of that island; to dissipate all doubts as to its
accuracy, however, it should be collated with a
description taken from the Ashmolean specimen,
should such be found to exist.
   “ The following testimonies, set down in chrono
logical order, may be added to those brought
forward by Mr. Duncan; namely, Vasco de Gama,
in 1497, after doubling the Cape of Good Hope,
found a bay at sixty leagues, Angra de San Blaz,
near to an island, where they saw a number of
birds which the Portuguese call Solitarios, of the
form of geese, but with wings similar to those of a
bat. On their return in M99, they touched
again at St. Blaz, where they took a number of
solitarios.
   “ In the voyage of Castleton in 1614!, he touched
at Bourbon (Mascarenhas of the Portuguese), at
that time still uninhabited, although occasionally
visited by the early voyagers. Amongst the birds,
he particularises a kind of bird of the size of a
goose, very fat, with short wings, which do not
permit them to <U+FB02>y. ‘ They have since (he says)
been called the giant; and the Isle of France
(Mauritius) also produces plenty of them. They

                      THE none.                   171
are white, and naturally so tame as to allow them
selves to be taken by the hand; or, at least, they
were so little afraid at the sight of the sailors, it
was easy for them to kill great numbers with sticks
and stones.’
   “ We come now to Leguat, who, with seven
others, was left upon Rodrigue with a view to
colonisation, May 1691 ; and we may judge of the
impression which this singular bird must have made
upon the mind of the narrator, when we perceive
that he has introduced <U+FB01>gures of it into his frontis
piece, his general chart of the island, and his plan
of their little colony; in the latter, twelve, and in
the former sixteen, individuals being distributed
over their respective surfaces.
   “ The island of Rodrigue, or Diego Ruys, al
though seen by several of the earlier voyagers, after
the discovery of the route to India by the Cape,
does not appear to have been visited anterior to
the voyage of Leguat; from its unapproachable
appearance, and the apparent continuity of the
extensive madreporetic reef which everywhere
surrounds it, and upon which the sea continually
breaks, at a very considerable distance from the

  172      THE YOUNG NATUEALIsT’s JOURNEY
  shore.   The same causes still operate in repelling
  the tide of colonisation; as at the time of our late
  conquest of the group to which it belongs, a single
  French family constituted the whole of its popula
  tion. Leguat and his companions, then, may be
  presumed to have seen the island before it was
  inhabited, a circumstance which makes his narra
  tion doubly interesting, and shows not only the
  abundance of its animal productions, but the para
  disiacal peace and amity which appeared to reign
  amongst them, ‘and the little dread they seemed to
_ possess at the presence of their destined destroyer.
  Of the Dodo, the subject of this paper, he says :
     “ ‘ Of all the birds which inhabit this island, the
  most remarkable is that which has been called
  Solitaire (the solitary), because they are rarely seen
  in <U+FB02>ocks, although there is abundance of them.
     “ ‘ The males have generally a greyish or brown
  plumage, the feet of the turkey-cock, as also the
  beak, but a little more hooked. They have hardly
  any tail, and their posterior, covered with feathers
  is rounded like the croup of a horse. They stand
  higher than the turkey-cock, and have a straight
  neck, a little longer in proportion than it is in that

                      THE none.                 173
bird when it raises its head. The eye is black and
lively, and the head without any crest or tuft.
They do not <U+FB02>y, their wings being too short to
support the weight of their bodies ; they only use
them in beating their sides and in whirling round;
when they wish to call one another, they make,
with rapidity, twenty or thirty rounds in the same
direction during the space of four or <U+FB01>ve minutes;
the movement of their wings then makes a noise
which approaches exceedingly that of a kestrel,
and which is heard at more than two hundred
paces distant.     The bone of the false pinion is
enlarged at its extremity, and forms, under the
feathers, a little round mass like a musket-bullet;
this and their beak form the principal defence of
this bird. It is extremely di<U+FB01>icult to catch them
in the woods ; but as a man runs swifter than they,
in the more open spots it is not very di<U+FB02>icult to
take them; sometimes they may even be approached
very easily. From the month of March until Sep
tember they are extremely fat, and of most excel
lent <U+FB02>avour, especially when young. The males may
be found up to the weight of forty-<U+FB01>ve pounds;
Herbert even says <U+FB01>fty pounds.

174       THE YOUNG NA'rUnALIsT’s JOURNEY.
   “ ‘ The female is of admirable beauty. Some are
nearly white, others of a brown colour. They have
a kind of band, like the bandeaus of widows, above
the beak, which is of a tan colour. One feather
does not pass another over all their body, because
they take great care to adjust and polish them
with their beak. The feathers are rounded into
a shell-like form, and, as they are very dense, pro
duce a very agreeable effect. They walk with so
much stateliness and grace combined, that it is
impossible not to admire and feel compassion for
them; so much so, that the appearance of one of
these birds has often saved its life.
   “ ‘Although these birds approach, at times, very
familiarly when they are not chased, they are inca
pable of being tamed; as soon as caught, they drop
tears, without making any noise, and refuse obsti
nately all kind of nourishment, until at last they
die. There is always found in their gizzard a
brown stone, the size of a hen’s egg; it is slightly
tuberculated, <U+FB02>at on one side, and rounded on the
other, very heavy and very hard. We imagined
that this stone was born with them ; because,
however young they might be, they always had it,

                      THE none.                    175
and never more than one ; and, besides this circum
stance, the canal which passes from the crop to the
gizzard, is by one-half too small to give passage to
such a mass. We used them, in preference to any
other stone, to sharpen our knives.
   “‘When these birds set about building their
nests, they choose a clear spot, and raise it a foot
and a half off the ground, upon a heap of leaves of
the palm-tree, which they collect togetherfor the
purpose. They only lay one egg, which is very
much larger than that of a goose. The male and
female sit by turns, and it does not hatch until
after a period of seven weeks. During the whole
period of incubation, or that they are rearing their
 young one, which is not capable of providing for
itself until after several months, they will not suffer
 any bird of their own kind to approach within two
 hundred paces of their nest; and what is very
 singular is, that the male never chases away the
 females; only, when he perceives one, he makes,
 in whirling, his ordinary noise, to call his com
 panion, which immediately comes and gives chase
 to the stranger, and which she does not quit until
 driven without their limits. The female does the

 176      THE YOUNG NATURALIsT’s JOURNEY.
same, and allows the males to be driven off by her
mate. This is a circumstance that we so often
witnessed, that I speak of it with certainty. These
combats last sometimes for a long time, because the
stranger only turns off, without going in a straight
line from the nest ; nevertheless, the others never
quit until they have chased them away.’ale
   “ We have, in this last relation of Leguat, who
resided in the midst of them for a considerable
period, a detailed, though rude, description, and a
natural history of the Dodo, probably the only one
that was ever penned under such favourable circum
stances.    No doubt, this <U+FB01>rst colony, in so small
an island, considerably reduced the number of the
Dodo; but when they <U+FB01>nally disappeared does
not appear to have been anywhere recorded. From
the nature and habits of the bird, it is clear that
the duration of the species was wholly incompatible
with the dominion of man: had it been capable
of domestication, or had it possessed the swiftness
of foot of the ostrich, or the aquatic habits of the
penguin, to compensate its want of the power of
  ' Voyage de Franpois Leguat, Gentilhomme, Bressau, 1708.
                                                       i   O

                       THE none.                   177
<U+FB02>ying, they might still have shared some of the
possessions originally assigned to the race; or, even
like the turkey-cock and goose, have administered
to the wants of mankind, in every temperate region
of the globe; under existing circumstances, how
ever, they appear to have been what may be truly
termed a paradisiacal bird, and predestined to
disappear at their proper time.”
   “ This is very curious,“ said Mrs. Merton, “and
it appears to me that the same circumstances which
led to the extinction of the Dodo, are now tending
towards that of the Kangaroo. The wild animals
are continually sought after in the Australian set
tlements for food ; and, as no attempt is made to
tame them, or breed them in con<U+FB01>nement, in time
the race must become extinct. At presenttheir
numbers appear inexhaustible, but, if the present
mode of hunting them be continued, they will gra
dually diminish; and, probably, in the course of two
or three hundred years from the present time, some
antiquarian naturalist will be collecting facts for
writing a history of the extinct race of Kangaroos,
in the same manner as the above facts have been
 collected, relating to the extinct race of the Dodo.”
                            N

 178       THE YOUNG NATUEALISTE JOURNEY.
    At this moment a servant entered the room with
 a letter for Mrs. Merton, which, as it was marked
 “immediate,” had been sent after that lady by
 Mrs. Wilson; and Agnes saw her mother’s coun
 tenance change as she opened and read it.
    “ No bad news, I hope ?” said Mr. Trelawney.
    “ No other,” returned Mrs. Merton, “ than that
 I <U+FB01>nd I shall be obliged to return to town imme
diately.”
    “ Oh that is bad news, mama ! ” cried Agnes,
“ when we were all so happy and comfortable here;
and we have not seen half Mr. Trelawney’s museum,
nor his menagerie. Oh, my dear mama I are you
really obliged to go? ”
   “ I am indeed,” said Mrs. Merton, “ and, I hope,
greatly as I know you will feel the disappointment,
to see you bear it like a woman.”
   “ A few disappointments in childhood,” observed
Mr. Trelawney, “ have often a good effect in pre
paring our minds to meet the more serious evils of
mature life; and thus, though I greatly regret
your departure, I am partly reconciled to it, in
the hope that the present disappointment may be
of lasting service to my young friend. I hope,

                    THE CONCLUSION.               1 79
 however, we shall meet again; and, in the mean
 time, I should be only too happy if there were any
thing that I could present to you, to retain a place
for myself in your memory.”
    At this moment, Ungka, who was tired of lying
still, and who did not much like to see Mrs.
Merton and Agnes going, uttered his peculiar
cry, so as to attract his master’s attention; and as
much as to say, “ Give me to them.”
    ‘-‘ Ah, Ungka,” said the old gentleman, “ are you
there ?” and then turning to Mrs. Merton, he con
tinued. “ \Vill you let your little daughter accept
this ape as a memorial of me? He seems to have
taken quite a fancy to her; and he is an intelligent
faithful creature, and not at all vicious.”
   Agnes was inexpressibly delighted, she thanked
the good old gentleman again and again ; and her
mama having given her consent, Ungka was placed
in the carriage that Mrs. Wilson had sent for
them, and they bade Mr. Trelawney adieu, assur
ing him that they should never forget the pleasure
they had experienced at his house. _
   The following day they returned to town,Ungka
behaving extremely well during the whole journey;

180      THE YOUNG NATUnAL1sT’s JOURNEY.
and, when they arrived at Bayswater, a little
kennel was placed for him under the veranda,
where he lived in summer, playing with Sandy, the
cat, and both of them running races with Agnes
round the garden, when she had <U+FB01>nished her
lessons. In winter he wore a little jacket, that
Agnes had made for him, and generally sate in a
corner in the library; where he behaved so well as
seldom to disturb any one, so that neither Mrs.
Merton nor Agnes had any reason, on his account,
to repent having taken their journey.
                        THE END.
                           LONDON Z
          BHADBURY AND EVANS, PRINTERS, WHITEFRIARS.



l\
                 . ,.
   '.-‘i-”.l"  i
              -d
   .-J|_.          .
'.;""-‘* .







