This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
http://books.google.com

familiar
a
science
book
The
magnetism
galvanism,
electricity,
optics,
pyronomics,
acoustics,
pneumatics,
hydraulics,
hydrostatics,
mechanics,
comprising
people,
young
comprehension
adapted
philosophy,
natural
of
principles
the
to
introduction
Moffatt
M
John

f
7
  Y$&.


',

/ , . ! '/<,•
           '
   I
 , :'\^"i


THE BOOK OF SCIENCE.
PRINTED BY C. WHITING, OEALFORT HOUSE.
     THE ENGRAVINGS BT E. LANDELLS.

   ASTOB. LeNOS
TILDEN FOUNDATIONS
                  ]


                             THE
A FAMILIAR INTRODUCTION TO THE PRINCIPLES OF
    SUlapteto to tfic Comprrfiension of Young people.
                           COMPRISING
             MECHANICS                PYRONOMICS
             HYDROSTATICS             OPTICS
             HYDRAULICS               ELECTRICITY
             PNEUMATICS               GALVANISM
             ACOUSTICS                MAGNETISM
             BY JOHN M. MOFFATT.
                        SECOND EDITION.
                          LONDON:
    CHAPMAN AND HALL, 186, STRAND.
                                            •• * • • • •
                              1834.     : •    ...

..
   V

                         CONTENTS.
   Prifack.
   Introduction.
                               MECHANICS.
   Preliminary Observations, l —Mobility, 3— Inertia, 5—Correspondence of
Action and Reaction, 7—Elasticity, 8—Velocity of Motion, 11 —Laws of Mo
tion, 13 — Equilibrium, 15 — Parallelogram of Forces, 16 — Composition of
Forces, 19—Resolution of Forces, 21—Gravitation, 22—Velocity of Falling
Bodies, 29—Accelerated Motion, 34—Attwood's Machine, 40—Retarded Mo
tion, 41—Curvilinear Motion, ib.—Central Forces, 45—Oscillation of the
Pendulum, 48—Centre of Gravity, 55—Mechanic Powers, 62—Lever, 64—
Balance, 72—Steelyard, 73—Wheel and Axle, 74—Machine of Oblique Action,
79—Pulley, 80—Inclined Plane, 83—Wedge, 85—Screw, 86—Compound Ma
chinery, 91 — Wheel-work, 92— Gridiron Pendulum, 96 — Concentrator of
Force, 97—Governor, 98—Effect of Machinery, 99—Obstacles to Motion, 101—
Friction, 102—Rigidity of Cordage, 104—Strength of Materials, 105—Moving
Powers, 106—Human Strength, 108—Horse Power, 111—Powers of various
Animals, 112—114.
                             HYDROSTATICS.
   Preliminary Remarks, 117—Properties of Liquids, 118—Hydrostatic Pres
sure, 124 — Hydrostatic Bellows, 128 — Hydrostatic Press, 129— Centre of
 Pressure, 133—Art. of Diving, ib.—Water and Spirit Levels, 134—Aqueducts,

                                 CONTENTS.
 135—Rain, 13?—Springs and Rivers, 139—Canals, 142—Specific Gravity, 144—
Table of Specific Gravities, 150—Art of Swimming, 155—Centre of Buoyancy,
 159—Hydrometer, 161—Capillary Attraction, ib.—Hydraulics, 166—Hydrau
lic Machines, 173—Chain Pump, 174—Persian Wheel, 175—Screw of Archime
des, ib.—Undershot Wheel,l76— Overshot Wheel, 177—BreastWheel, ib.—Cen
trifugal Mill, 178—Hydraulic Ram, 179.
                                PNEUMATICS.
   General Observations, 185—Common Properties of Aerial Fluids, 187—Dif
ferent kinds of Airs, 190—Elasticity of Air, 193—Air-pump, 195—Bellows, 199
—Hero's Fountain, 201—Weight of Air, 203—Magdeburg Experiment, 205—
Atmospherical Pressure, 206—Barometer, 208—Air-gun, 212—Altitude of the
Atmosphere, 214—Wine -taster, 220—Siphon, ib.—Suction-pump, 223—Lifting-
pump, 225—Forcing-pump, 226—Fire-engine, 227—Aerostatics, ib.—Air-
balloon, 230—Parachute, 233—Sky-rocket, 235—Paper-kite, ib.—Diving-bell,
237—Diving-jackets, 239—Torpedo, ib.
                                 ACOUSTICS.
   Cause of Sound, 243—Sonorous Vibrations, 245—Range of Audible Per
ception, 249—Velocity of Sound, 250—Theory of Musical Sounds, 254—Mu
sical Scale, 257—Musical Intervals, 259—Distinction between Harmony and
Melody, 260—Concords and Discords, 261 — Numerical Relation between
Tones and Vibrations, ib. —Harmonics, 263—Figures formed by Light Bodies
on Vibrating Plates, 264—Musical Instruments, 266—Stringed Instruments,
267—Pulsatory Instruments, 268—Harmonica, ib.—Wind Instruments, 269;—
Different Modes of Vibration of Columns of Air, 27 1—yEolian Harp, 273—
Peculiar Sounds emitted by certain Insects and Birds, 274 —Human Voice, ib.
—Organs of Speech, 275—Speaking Automata, 277—Reflection of Sound, 279
—Echoes, 281 -—Acoustic Tubes, 284—Speaking Head, 285—Invisible Girl, i&.—
Speaking Trumpet, 286—Ventriloquism, 287.
                                PYRONOMICS.
  Causes of Heat and Cold, 293—Effects of Change of Temperature, 296—
Sources of Heat, 297—Heat of the Sun, ib-—Temperature of different Lati
tudes, 300—Central Heat of the Earth, 301—Thermometrical Observations, 303

                                   CONTENTS.
 —Production of Heat by Friction, (6.—by Compression, 304—Fire Syringe,
 305—Combustion, ib.—Effects of Heat, 306—Expansion of Solids, ib.—Dilata
 tion of Liquids, 309—Dilatation of Gases, ib.—Instruments for Measuring
 Temperature, 310—Various kinds of Thermometers, 312—Newton's, ib.—Reau
 mur's, 313—Fahrenheit's, ib.—Delisle's, ib.—Centigrade, 314—Comparison of
 Thermometrical Scales, ib.—Wedgwood's Pyrometer, 316—Metallic Pyrome
 ters, 317—Fusing Points of various Bodies, ib.—Differential Thermometer, 318
 —Rate of Expansion of Solids, Liquids, and Gases, 319—Expansion of certain
Bodies in passing from the Liquid to the Solid State, 320—Latent Heat, 321—
Specific Heat, 323—Melting of Solids, 324—Freezing Mixtures, 325—Evapora
tion, 326- Ebullition, 328-Distillation, 329-Papin's Digester, ib— Formation of
Steam, 330—Steam-engine, 332—Steam-carriages, 336-Newly-invented Caloric
Engine,*337—Modes of Propagation of Heat, ib.—by Conduction, 338—by
Circulation, 339—Power of the Human Body to withstand the Influence of
highly-heated Air, 341—Sir H. Davy's Safety-lamp, ib.—Radiation of Heat,
342—Concentration of Heat by Lenses and Concave Mirrors, 343—Alleged
Radiation of Cold, 345—Comparative Effects of Surfaces on the Absorption
and Emission of Heat, 346.
                                     OPTICS.
   Observations on Light and Vision, 349—Luminous and Non-luminous
Bodies, 350—Transparent and Opaque Bodies, ib.— Sources of Light, 352—
Phosphorescence, ib.—Mode of Propagation of Light, 355—Theory of Emission,
ib.—Theory of Undulation, ib.— Radiation and Relative Intensity of Light,
356—Velocity of Light, 359—Shadows, 361—Catoptbics, 364—Effects of Plane
Mirrors, 367—Theory of the Kaleidoscope, 368—Atmospheric Reflection, 369—
Aerial Spectra, 371«Convex Mirrors, 373—Curious Chinese Mirror,375— Concave
Mirrors, 376—Optical Deceptions, 379—Spectre of the Brocken, 380—Anamor
phoses, 381 —Dioptrics, ib.—Atmospheric Refraction, 383—Optical Lenses, 386
—Convex Lenses, 388—Concave Lenses, 390— Effect of Magnifying Lenses, 391
- -Organs of Vision, 392—Description of the Eye, 393—Theory of Vision, 395—Op
tical Illusions, 400—Thaumatrope, ib.—Phantascope, 401—Insensibility of the
Retina at the Basis of the Optic Nerve, 403—Theory of Colours, ib.—Effect of
Triangular Prisms, 404—Solar Spectrum, ib.—Chromatic Refraction, 407—
Chromatic Diffraction, 409—Dispersive Power of different Bodies, 411—Achro
matic Lenses, 413—Rainbow, 415—Iridescent Circles, 417—Green Clouds, 418

                                  CONTENTS.
 —Colours of thin Plates, 419—Colours of fine Fibres and Striae, 423—Double
 Refraction of Light, ib.— Polarization of Light, 426—Varieties of Optical In
 struments, 427—Spectacles, <&.—Microscopes, 432—Telescopes, 433— Refract
 ing, 434—Reflecting, 435—Camera Obscura, 436—Magic Lantern, 437—Phan
 tasmagoria, ib.— Solar Microscope, 438.
                                 ELECTRICITY.
   Miscellaneous Observations, 441—Theory of Electricity, 445—Positive and
 Negative Electricity, 447—Conductors and Non-conductors, 449—Induction,
 451 —Electroscope, 452—Electrometers, 453— Electrical Machine, 454—Leyden
 Phial, 45/—Electrical Bells, 459—Dancing Figures, 460—Thunder-house, ib.—
Electro-galvanism, 461—Discovery of the Effects of the Transmission of
Electricity through the Nerves and Muscles of Frogs, by Galvani, 462—Simple
Galvanic Circles, 463—Galvanic or Voltaic Pile, 464—Voltaic Battery, 466—
Del ac's Electric Column, 467—Animal Electricity, 468—Torpedo, 469—Gym-
notus Electricus, and other electrical Fishes, 470—Chemical Effects of Elec
tricity, 471—Identity of the different Modifications of Electricity, ascertained
by Dr. Faraday, ib.—Electro-magnetism, 472— Polarity of the Magnetized
Needles or Bars, 474—Discovery of the Relation between Electricity and Mag.
netism, by Prof. Oersted, ib.—Electro-dynamic Cylinder of Ampere, 476—
Mode of constructing powerful Electro- magnets, ib.—Natural Magnet, or
Loadstone, 479—Mode of preparing Artificial Magnets, ib—Mariner's Compass,
480—Dip of the Magnetic Needle, ib.—Secular and Diurnal Variation of the
Needle, 481.
     -V-.

                         PREFACE.
   It will readily be admitted that the progress of science requires,
from time to time, new arrangements of the elements of knowledge
for the use of the young student, as well as more detailed and ela
borate announcements of important discoveries, for the general in
formation of those who are engaged in scientific inquiries. In no
department of knowledge have greater advances been made, within
the last fifty years, than in Natural Philosophy. And it cannot be
denied that the press, during that period, has supplied the cultiva
tors of literature with abundance of valuable treatises on various
subjects connected more or less intimately with the physical sciences.
Besides many works in other languages, may be specified the ele
mentary treatises of Nicholson, Adam Walker, Dr. T. Young, Play-
fair, Robison, and Leslie, in English ; and those of Hauy, Biot,
Beudant, Despretz, and Pouillet, in French. These works, how
ever, as well as several others that might be mentioned, valuable
as they confessedly are, by no means furnish the mere tyro in
                                    b

  11                             PREFACE.
 science with such plain and concise outlines of the first principles
 of Natural Philosophy as he will necessarily require. Most of the
 treatises just mentioned were intended as text-books for the use of
 students who had the advantage of obtaining such explanations, il
 lustrations, and additional information, from the lectures of a pro
 fessor, as would supply the want of more familiar written instruc
 tions.
     Several works, however, have been published with the view to
assist those who can have recourse to books alone for the means of
 pursuing their studies. Such are the highly useful productions of
Mrs. Marcet, Mr. Joyce, and .Dr. Arnott; which are here men
tioned as corresponding considerably in object and design with
the little volume now submitted to the public. The present work,
however, possesses some distinguishing features, without which the
compiler would not think himself justified in committing it to the
press. Mrs. Marcet's "Conversations on Natural Philosophy," like
all the productions of her pen, furnish clear and concise views of
the first elements of the sciences on which she treats; but beyond
the mere groundwork of science she does not extend her investi
gations. Mr. Joyce's " Letters on Natural and Experimental Phi
losophy," contain much important information; but the work is
become necessarily imperfect, in consequence of the rapid progress
of scientific discovery since the appearance of the last edition of the
Letters, in 1 82 1 . Of Dr. Arnott's " Elements of Physics," it may be
sufficient to observe, that while the praise bestowed on the work by
Sir John Herschel cannot but be regarded as the strongest evidence
of its merit, its size and price must prevent many persons from avail
ing themselves of the information it affords. The treatises on the

                                PREFACE.                            Ill
  physical sciences published by the Society for the Diffusion of
  Useful Knowledge, and those parts of Dr. Lardner's " Cabinet
  Cyclopffidia" which relate to Natural Philosophy, are, like the
  French and English works mentioned above, more adapted to the
 use of those who have some previous acquaintance with the sciences,
 than to those who are just commencing their studies. Hence it has
 been conceived, that notwithstanding so many introductory trea
 tises have already been published, there is still room for a brief
 yet perspicuous exhibition of the first principles of the physical
 sciences, including accounts of the most important discoveries
recently made in the several departments of natural knowledge,
and comprehending as great a number as possible of curious and
instructive facts and experiments. Such is the purpose of the
Book of Science, which it is presumed may be perused with
interest and profit by youths who, having acquired a knowledge of
those branches of literature usually taught in schools, are prevented
by circumstances from obtaining a collegiate education; and to
them, therefore, it is peculiarly recommended, as a work comprising
much information in a small compass, and one which may enable
those who attentively study it to pursue with advantage their
inquiries into any or all the respective departments of philosophy
brought under review, and to avail themselves of the information
contained in periodical journals and other works which record the
progress of science.
 . In the composition of the following elementary treatises informa
tion has been freely borrowed, chiefly however from original sources,
and due acknowledgments have been made wherever they seemed
to be required. It has been the particular object of the compiler
                                  b2

IV                             PREFACE.
to adapt the style and matter of the following pages to the capacity
of the young reader; who, however, will do well to consider that
some parts of an elementary treatise on science must necessarily
be more abstruse than others, and will therefore require more close
attention. Should he, therefore, occasionally meet with state
ments or passages which he cannot immediately understand, they
should be marked for future examination, when a more general
knowledge of the subject having been obtained from going through
the volume or treatise, what at first seemed difficult will be readily
comprehended.
   The rapid sale of a large impression of this work, in a short
time after its publication, may be considered as affording the most
satisfactory evidence of its general merit and utility. In the speedy
production of a second edition, both the compiler and the pub
lishers have been encouraged, by previous success, to make every
 exertion for the purpose of improving the book, and rendering it
 deserving of the patronage of the public. Some inaccuracies in
 the first impression have been corrected, and various additions
 have been made, especially relating to capillary attraction, colours,
 double refraction of light, and animal electricity ; a few of the cuts
have been replaced by others, and one has been added representing
the caloric engine, newly invented by Mr. Ericsson, with a de
 scriptive account of this curious machine obligingly furnished by
that gentleman.

                    INTRODUCTION.
   Science admits of numerous distinctions according to the nature of
the objects to which attention is directed. Thus human knowledge
has been divided into two kinds, namely, Physical and Metaphysical
science ; the former relating to those objects which are more or less
readily cognizable by our senses, and the latter to such topics as can
only be investigated by reasoning and reflection. Most branches of
knowledge, however, may rather be regarded as belonging to the class
of the mixed sciences ; the principles of which are to be discovered
and illustrated by joint reference to the works of nature as they affect
our senses, and to the truths for a knowledge of which we are chiefly
indebted to the exercise ofjudgment, or the operation of our intellectual
faculties.
   The circle of human knowledge, however, admits of a variety of ar
rangements, all of which perhaps possess relative advantages and dis
advantages. Among the several distinctions which have been made

VI                       INTRODUCTION.
those of most importance to be noticed at present regard the discrimi
nation between the mathematical and the physical sciences. The latter
are so far dependent on the former that some knowledge of mathematics
is absolutely necessary previously to entering to any extent on the
study of physical or natural philosophy. A general acquaintance with
at least the elementary branches of mathematics, as arithmetic, geo
metry, and trigonometry, may be expected to have been acquired by
all tolerably well educated persons, as usually forming a part of a
common school education. Physical science, or natural philosophy,
constitutes the exclusive object of the present volume, in order to
the perusal of which with profit and advantage, it will be requisite
that the reader should not be ignorant of the names and general pro
perties of geometrical lines and figures. The following diagram and
explanatory observations are therefore introduced, as they may be
useful to those who are but slightly acquainted with mathematics, and
may sometimes save the better informed student the trouble of referring
to other books for information, respecting the signification of particular
terms.
                                    A a Circle.
                                    A a its Diameter.
                                    B the Radius.
                                    C a Chord.
                                    D an Arc.
                                    E a Tangent.
                                    F a Secant.
                                     G a Co-tangent.
                                                                          i
                                     H the Sine of Arc a b.
                                     I the Co-sine.
                                     K the Versed Sine.
                                     L the Sine of complimental Arc t> c.
   Every circle is supposed to be divided into 360 degrees, and the line
       .

                             INTRODUCTION.                               YU
 which bounds the circle, and on which therefore these degrees may be
 marked, is called its circumference. Any lines equidistant from each
 other throughout their whole extent are termed parallel lines. Two
 lines not parallel but in the same plane must, if sufficiently pro
 duced, meet in a point, which is called an angle. Angles are princi
 pally distinguished by the relative inclinations of the lines by which
 they are formed. When one line meets or crosses another perpendi
 cularly, the angles they form are called right angles ; and any angle
 smaller than a right angle, is styled an acute angle, and any greater an
obtuse angle. But angles are more precisely measured by reference to
the number of degrees contained in an arc of a circle joining the two
lines by which an angle is formed. Thus a right angle must be in
cluded within an arc of a circle equal to a quadrant, or the fourth part
of 360 degrees, namely 90 degrees ; and an acute angle included
within an arc only half the extent of a quadrant will, of course, be an
angle of 45 degrees.
    A space or fiat surface, inclosed by three lines, is the most simple of
all definite figures, and is called a triangle. Among the varieties of
these figures are the rectangular triangle, so named because it has one
right angle ; the equilateral triangle, which has three sides of equal
extent; the isosceles triangle, which has only two equal sides; and the
scalene triangle, all the sides of which are of different lengths. Any
space inclosed by four lines is called a quadrilateral, or four-sided
figure. Among such are included the square, having four equal sides
and right angles ; the rectangle, or oblong square, having only the
opposite sides equal ; the lozenge, which has equal sides and unequal
angles; and the trapezium, which has only two of its sides parallel.
When the sides of a quadrilateral figure are parallel, it is termed a pa
rallelogram. A line joining two opposite or alternate angles, is called
a diagonal. Any figure having several angles, and consequently several
sides, is named a polygon.
   Solid figures include the tetraedron, or four-sided solid, which is the
most simple figure of the kind, as no solid can have less than four si ties ;
and when the number of sides is greater, the figure is called either a
hexaedron, an octaedron, an icosaedron, ora polyedron, according to the
number of its sides.
   Among polyedrons may be distinguished the prism, formed of paral
lelograms only, or of parallelograms and two polygons of any number

Vlll                        INTRODUCTION.
of sides. Among the prisms may be specified the parallelopiped,
formed of six parallelograms only ; and among the parallelopipeds may
be noticed the cube, having six square sides. The pyramid is a polye-
dron, formed by a polygon of any kind as its base, and as many trian
gular planes as the polygon has sides : the point where all the triangu
lar planes unite is called the summit of the pyramid. The most simple
solid of this kind is the tetraedron, or four-sided pyramid, including
the base.
   The terms sphere, cylinder, and cone, designate solid figures, having
either entirely or partially curved surfaces ; and the expressions sphe
roid, cylindroid, and conoid, are used to denote solid figures, more or
less resembling a sphere, a cylinder, or a cone, respectively.
   Natural Philosophy is the science which explains the causes of the
various properties of bodies in general, as shown by the changes which
they undergo in any particular circumstances, or the changes which
they may occasion in other bodies, under certain circumstances. The
province of natural philosophy does not extend to the explanation of
the doctrine of final causes, or the immediate and positive reasons why
particular effects take place, or why certain bodies possess the peculiar
properties with which they are endowed ; but it enables us to appre
ciate the consequences of any body being placed in a given situation,
or to foretel what will be the result of any body acting on another in a
certain manner. Thus, we know nothing of the absolute cause of gra
vity or weight, which is that property of bodies in consequence of which
they fall towards the surface of the earth, if raised in the air by any
force and then dropped ; but natural philosophy, while it leaves us in
ignorance of the final cause of gravity, enables us to determine a vast
variety of curious circumstances with respect to falling bodies. Thus,
it is found that a heavy body, as for instance a marble or a musket-ball,
dropped from the balcony of St. Paul's, would fall faster as it ap
proached near to the ground than it would in passing through the for
mer part of its descent ; and the rate at which a body falls through a
given space has been ascertained by experiment, and can be calculated
with the utmost exactness. So as to the final cause of electric and
magnetic attraction various opinions have been advanced, and it is still
involved in obscurity ; but we know by experience that a magnet at
tracts iron with considerable force, and that a thin, bar of magnetic iron,
accurately poised on its centre, will, when left free, point towards the

                             INTRODUCTION.                              lit
north with one end, and towards the south with the other; and on
the latter property depends the action of the mariner's compass,
by means of which the sailor, crossing the pathless sea, is able to
ascertain in what direction his vessel is steering ; and to this little
instrument, which was unknown to the ancients, we are in a great degree
indebted for the important discoveries of modern navigators. Whether
light and heat are owing to matter or motion has been left among the
questions which philosophy has hitherto been unable satisfactorily to
decide; but the effect of light on bodies, whether opaque, transparent,
or semi-transparent, the velocity with which it passes through space,
and the manner in which it is modified by optical glasses of various
forms, are among the numerous interesting and surprising properties of
light, which natural philosophy has laid open to our investigation,
and which we are enabled to verify and illustrate by means of mathe
matical calculation ; and the phenomena of heat and cold, with which
we are so intimately familiar, from the sensations they occasion, are
equally bidden as to their final cause, and equally wonderful and cu
rious as to their effects, the latter of which alone afford an ample field-
for the experiments and deductions of the philosophical inquirer.
   Astronomy presents a boundless field for research, and notwithstand
ing it has been explored with signal success in modern times, yet the
most important discoveries that have been made only serve most dis
tinctly to evince that the wisest and most successful investigators of
the phenomena of the science have merely entered on the confines of
knowledge, and«nabled us to form some imperfect estimate of those
boundless regions which display an inexhaustible field for future spe
culation and inquiry. It has indeed been ascertained that the sun and
the planetary and other bodies which constitute the solar system, are
influenced by the same moving power as that which causes the fall of
an acorn to the ground, when detached from the oak on which it was
produced ; and that the attractive force which retains the moon in her
orbit, and causes her reaction on the fluid parts of the terrestrial globe
we inhabit, producing the tides, may he estimated with accuracy, and
subjected to mathematical calculation. But there are numberless topics
of inquiry—with regard to the constitution of the sun, the nature of
comets, and the causes of their peculiar motions, the kind of medium
which occupies the space beyond the atmospheres of the earth and

X                           INTRODUCTION.
planets, and the relations that may exist between our solar system and
the numberless other systems, the existence of which may be inferred
from the appearance of the starry heavens—which may for an indefi
nite period serve to exercise the talents of men of genius and learning,-
but concerning which we can hardly hope to attain any knowledge ap
proaching to certainty, till discoveries and inventions in other sciences
provide us with means for investigating the works of nature, as much
superior to those which we at present possess as our instruments of
research surpass those employed by the ancients.
   Abundant illustrations of the activity of the human mind might be
drawn from astronomical discoveries, which as they relate to objects
at an immense distance from us, and only cognizable by the sense of
sight, may be regarded as constituting a department of knowledge
intermediate between those sciences which are founded on reasoning
alone, as logic, mathematics, and metaphysics, and the sciences which
refer to the properties of such bodies as those which constitute the-
planet we inhabit, or which are so intimately connected with it as to
come within the immediate sphere of our observation and experience.
These latter are the peculiar objects of what have been termed the.
physical sciences, from the Greek word $v<nc, nature; and they
are thus designated, because they treat of the properties of natural
productions, or of natural phenomena.
   The illustration of this department of human knowledge, and of the
means which have been employed to extend and improve it, with re
ference to the arts, whether curious, ornamental, or useful, originat
ing from phvsical science, or the result of the examination of the works
of nature, will furnish the subjects of discussion to which the attention)
of the reader is invited in the ensuing essays on the different branches
of natural philosophy.
    " The proper business of philosophical inquiry," says Sir John Les
lie, " is to study carefully the appearances that successively emerge,
 and trace their mutual relations. All our knowledge of external objects
 being derived through the medium of the senses, there are only two
 ways of investigating physical facts—by observation or experiment. Ob
 servation is confined to the close investigation and attentive examina
 tion of the phenomena which arise in the course of nature ; but experi
 ment consists in a sort of artificial selection and combination of circum

                             INTRODUCTION .                            Xt
stances, for the purpose of searching minutely after the different
results.
   " The range of observation is limited by the position of the spectator,
who can seldom expect to follow nature through her winding and in
tricate paths. Those observations are of the most value which include
the relations of time and space, and derive greater nicety from their
comprising a multiplied recurrence of the same events. Hence Astro
nomy has attained a much higher degree of perfection than the other
physical sciences.
   " Experiment is a more efficient mean than observation for explor
ing the secrets of nature. It requires no constant fatigue of watching,
but comes in a great measure under the control of the inquirer, who
may often at will either hasten or delay the expected event. Though
the peculiar boast of modern times, yet the method of proceeding by
experiment was not wholly unknown to the ancients, who seem to have
concealed their notions of it under the veil of allegory. Proteus sig
nified the mutable and changing forms of material objects ; and the
inquisitive philosopher was counselled by the poets to watch that slip
pery daemon when slumbering on the shore, to bind him, and compel
the reluctant captive to reveal his secrets.* This gives a livelypicture
of the cautious but intrepid advances of the skilful experimenter. He
tries to confine the working of Nature— he endeavours to distinguish
the several principles of action— he seeks to concentrate the predomi
nant agent—and labours to exclude as much as possible every disturb
ing influence. By all these united precautions, a conclusion is ob
tained nearly unmixed, and not confused, as in the ordinary train of
circumstances, by a variety of intermingled effects. The operation of
 each distinct cause is hence severally developed."— Introduction to
 Elements of Natural Philosophy.
    The object of Natural Philosophy may be stated to be the study of
 the general properties of unorganized bodies, or inert substances in
 the state of solids, liquids, airs or gases, and those which have been
 termed incoercible or ethereal fluids. It is also within the province of
 the physical sciences to examine the mechanical action which bodies
 in their different states may exercise on each other, and the different
 circumstances connected with their movements.
    The various effects of the motions and operations of bodies depend-
                          * V. Virgil. Georgic, lib. iv.

X"                          INTRODUCTION.
ing on their general properties have hence been made the foundation
of several distinct sciences or branches of knowledge, which have
been usually classed with reference to the several forms of matter called
solids, liquids, and airs, or to certain kinds of phenomena, supposed
to depend respectively on the presence and action of some imponder
able modification of matter or ethereal fluid, to which have been re
ferred thermometrical, optical, electrical, and magnetic phenomena.
Hence a treatise on Natural Philosophy may be conveniently arranged
under the different departments of (1.) Mechanics, or the doctrine of
equilibrium and motion as respects solids, including Statics and Pho-
ronomics or Dynamics ; (2.) Hydrostatics, including Hydrodynamics
or Hydraulics, relating to the equilibrium and motion of liquids; (3.)
Pneumatics, including Aerostatics, and Aerodynamics, or the effect
of forces on air and other gaseous fluids; (4.) Acoustics, or the theory
of sound, comprehending observations on musical and vocal sounds ;
(3.) Pyhonomics, or the investigation of the causes and effects of
heat, or more generally of change of temperature ; (6.) Photonomics,
or Optics, including the theory of light and vision ; (7.) Electro-
magnetism, which treats of the causes of electric and magnetic attrac
tion and repulsion.
   The idea of absolute or infinite space is obtained by abstraction, or
conceiving in imagination the absence of all bodies, or of all the pro
perties of matter. Every part of this space, or rather of this imaginary
void or vacuum, which can be conceived to be included in any way
between limits is called relative space. The term body is used to desig
nate limited extension, to which are attached any of the properties of
matter. That which distinguishes in general a simply extended body
from a void space or vacuum is the property of impenetrability, that is,
the quality in consequence of which a body occupies a certain space,
and excludes from it all other bodies.
    We acquire a knowledge of the properties of matter through our
 senses, either by immediate observation, or by experimental inquiry
with the aid of instruments. The senses of sight and feeling afford us
abundance of information concerning the properties of bodies around us,
but our knowledge may be vastly extended when we assist the former
by means of optical glasses, which open new worlds to our view, or
when by means of delicate instruments we measure degrees of tem
perature, electricity, or magnetic power.

                            INTRODUCTION.                            XUI
    Solid bodies are those which, like stone or wood, present a sensible
resistance when touched, pressed, or handled. They may be cut into
various forms, and preserve without difficulty the figures which are
given to them, or which they possess naturally. Sand, powders, and
similar substances consist of small particles not united together; yet,
though collectively masses of sand present but little resistance to pres
sure, the individual minute particles have all the characteristics of
solid matter, and though readily dispersed by force, they may be assem
bled in heaps more or less considerable.
    Liquid substances are those which, like water, manifest immediately
to the touch but a very feeble resistance, but quite sufficient to indi
cate their presence, even when in a state of repose. They cannot be
grasped between the fingers like solid bodies, nor can they be collected
in heaps, or made to take any particular figure, except that of the ves
sel in which they may be included.
    Aeriform fluids are in general invisible bodies, which like the air
surrounding us cannot he felt, and afford no evidence of their presence
to the sense of touch when in repose. But their existence is ascer
tained with abundant certainty when they are in motion ; thus no one
can doubt the materiality of atmospheric air after experiencing the vio
lent exertion necessary in walking against a high wind. Aeriform
bodies may be confined in vessels, whence they exclude liquids or other
bodies, demonstrating their impenetrability, though they readily be
come compressible to a great extent, but there are limits beyond which
it is impossible to reduce them.
    Incoercible or imponderable fluids do not manifest their existence
by the exhibition of impenetrability or weight, which have usually been
regarded as essential properties of matter ; and they must, therefore,
be considered as bypothetically admitted, in order to account for cer
tain phenomena, which appear to depend on the presence and action of
 one or more ethereal media. That light is such an imponderable fluid,
emanating from the sun, was one of the generally received doctrines of
the Newtonian Philosophy ; the caloric or matter of heat of the French
 chemists was supposed to be a fluid of a similar nature ; and men of
 science who have written concerning magnetism and electricity have
 vaguely employed the terms magnetic fluid and electric fiuid to desig
 nate the unknown causes of the phenomena they describe. At present
 it is perhaps the more prevalent opinion of philosophic inquirers that

 XIV                        INTRODUCTION.
 there exists at least one kind of ethereal, imponderable medium, the
 different modifications and modes of action of which give rise to the
 various phenomena of light, heat, and electro-magnetic attraction and
repulsion. Thus it may be supposed that as sound is conveyed to our
 ears by the vibrations of the air, so light affects our eyes through the
immensely more rapid vibrations of the electro-luminous ether. The
existence of such a medium, manifesting neither weight nor impene
trability capable of being appreciated by the most delicate instruments,
 may be fairly inferred from the movements which take place in bodies
under certain circumstances when all the ponderable and coercible
 kinds of matter have been carefully excluded, and these movements
therefore must be ascribed to the presence of an ethereal influence,
which can penetrate glass and other dense substances which are imper
vious to the rarest gases or most attenuated and subtile vapours with
the existence of which we are acquainted.
   But such speculations, if not rather curious than useful, would, if
extended, be incompatible with the plan and objects of the present
work. Therefore, though it would have been improper to have omitted
all mention of them, they must be dismissed for the present, with the
preceding short notice ; especially as opportunities for resuming them
will occur in some of the ensuing treatises.

MECHANICS.
IL N*BST GUERE D'EFFORTS QU'ON N'AIT INUTILEMENT TENTES POUR DECOUVRIR
  LA NATURE DES FORCES; NOUS IGNORONS COMPLETEMENT LA CAUSE DE CETTE
  MODIFICATION SINGULIERE, EN VERTU DE LAgUELLE LA MATIERE DEVIENT
  ANIMEE.   MAIS HEUREUSEMENT LES PRINCIPES DE LA MECANIQUE NE SONT
  NULLEMENT INTERESSES A CETTE DECOUVERTE, ET NOUS POUVONS V RENONCER
  SANS REGRETS.   LES FORCES NE NOUS IMPORTENT QUE PAR LES MOUVEMENS
  QU'ELLES SONT CAPABLES DE PRODUIRE; LEURS EFFETS ET LES LOIS DE LEUR
  ACTION SONT LES SEULES CHOSES QUE l.'nN CONSIDERE; LA MECANIQUE EST LA
  SCIENCE QUI A POUR OBJET DE PREVOIR ET DE CALCULER LES EFFETS DES
  FORCES.
                          Francaur Traité de Mécanique Elémentaire.

                         MECHANICS.
   There is perhaps no department of Natural Philosophy of such
extensive importance as Mechanics, since its principles are founded
on those properties of matter which are among the most obvious and
essential,—namely, Mobility and Weight; and the effects produced
by the operation of these properties are so distinct and certain, that
they can be subjected to mathematical calculation. Hence Dr. Wallis
has described Mechanics, with some degree of propriety, as the " Geo
metry of Motion."
   The designation of this branch of knowledge, like most other scien
tific terms is derived from the Greek : the word Mijvovi), signifying
a Machine ; and Mechanics may be considered as the Philosophy of
Machinery, or the Theory of Powers or Forces. Many writers have
treated of this science under two heads, regarding these principles
which relate to the gravity or weight and to the equilibrium of bodies,
 or the powers which preserve bodies in the state of rest, as the subject

 I                              MECHANICS.
 of the doctrine of Statics :* and the principles relating to the causes of
 movement, or the forces producing motion, acting by means of solids,
 as forming the subject of the doctrine of Dynamics- f But, as the
 respective states of bodies at rest, and bodies in motion, may be
 correctly considered as the consequences of different modes of action,
 of the same causes, they may be instructively illustrated by showing
 their relations to each other, for which reason it will be proper to
 treat of them in conjunction, rather than separately.
     From this statement of the nature and objects of Mechanics, it will
 at once appear that we have by no means overrated the importance of
an acquaintance with this science to the Student of Natural Philoso
phy. For all' motions are more or less subject to the laws of Mecha
nics, and without a knowledge of those laws, it is impossible to appre
ciate the effects or calculate the consequences of those motions of the
celestial bodies which occasion the phenomena of Astronomy ; or of
those properties of fluids, whether liquid or gaseous, on which depend
the principles of Hydrostatics, Hydraulics, and Pneumatics ; or in
deed of any circumstances affecting the ponderable forms of matter.
And those sciences which relate to Heat, Light, Electro-magnetism,
Vital Power, either in Animals or Vegetables, or any other pheno
mena which appear to be independent of the force of gravitation, yet
derive most important aid from Mechanics ; for it is chiefly by means of
mechanical instruments tbat the influence of heat, light, electricity, mag
netism, or the effects of vitality, as in the motion of the blood in ani
mals, or of the sap or other fluids in vegetables, can be estimated.
Mechanics may therefore be considered as the basis or groundwork of
the other Physical Sciences, or branches of Natural Philosophy.
    Previously to entering on the consideration of the Theory of Mecha
nical Powers, it will be necessary to show the nature and effects of
Mobility, or the capacity for motion, and of Weight, or the gravitation
of bodies,—as these are the general properties of matter on which, as
already stated, the phenomena of Mechanics depend.
    Every individual body, or portion of matter, must take up a certain
space. This may be considered as the absolute place of the body, in
   * From the Greek verb Sraw.to stand, or be fixed ; or from Sraroc, standing-
  t From the Greek word AvvajiiQ, power, or force.

                  NATURE Of RELATIVE MOTION.                               3
reference to its situation simply and singly ; or as its relative place, or
situation with respect to other bodies. The relative situation of a body
may be changed either by its own motion, or by the motion of the
bodies around it. A body may exhibit the appearance of actual motion,
or absolute change of place, while it remains at rest, its change of place
being only relative. Thus, the moon, when a train of thin fleecy
clouds is passing over its face, if we attentively fix our eyes on it, seems
to move, and the clouds to stand still, though this is only an apparent
motion of the moon, in a direction contrary to that in which the clouds
are really moving. And if we hold a common magnifying-glass a few
inches before the eyes, and move it backwards and forwards, looking
through it at any object, as an inkstand or knife, which remains un
moved, it will, as in the former case, exhibit an apparent motion,
arising from the actual movement of the glass.
    Mobility is the capacity of a body for change of place by its own
motion, it therefore infers the capability of real or actual motion, and not
 of relative motion only. Yet this change of place may sometimes be most
 readily estimated by the consequent relative motion which accompanies
 it. Thus, a person sailing in a boat on a smooth stream, or going
 swiftly in a coach along an even road, would hardly perceive the mo
tion of the vehicle except by the change of scene, and trees or build
 ings on the banks of the stream, or by the road-side, would seem to
 move in an opposite direction from that of the real motion of the boat
 or carriage. Every tolerably well-informed person now admits that
 the earth moves, and the sun stands still ; but the motion of the for
 mer is not perceptible, and the apparent daily motion of the latter,
 being so obvious to our senses, was, till within the last three centuries,
 considered as a real motion, the existence of which could not even be
 questioned with impunity.
    Without some active cause motion can neither commence nor cease ;
 since a body in the state of rest would always remain unmoved, if
 never subjected to the influence of a moving force, and on the contrary,
 a body when set in motion would go on to move for ever, if it met
 with no opposition to its progress. It may seem inconsistent with
 this doctrine that any body set in motion, within the range of our ob
 servation, will continue to move without a fresh impulse for a time,
 but at length will slacken its speed, and finally resume the state of
 rest. Thus, a cannon-ball will pass a certain distance when discharged
 from the mouth of a cannon, but if it does not strike a solid body, still
                                     b2

 4                              MECHANICS.
 it will ultimately fall to the ground ; and a marble or a cricket-ball
 thrown forwards with the hand, if it meet no obstacle, will reach only
  a certain distance, proportioned to the force used in throwing it. In
 both these and all similar cases, the termination of the motion of the
 moving body is owing chiefly to two causes. The first of these is
 gravitation towards the earth's centre, common to all bodies, and
 which constantly tends to keep them at rest, pressing on the surface of
 the earth with a degree of force proportioned to their weight and bulk ;
 or, if, as in the case of the cannon-ball, they pass through the air, the
 force of gravitation then tends to draw them continually nearer to the
 earth, till at length they fall and rest upon it. But the second and
 more obvious cause of the decay of motion is the resistance of the
 medium through which the moving body takes its course ; and thus,
 a body moving through the air, like the cannon-ball, gradually becomes
 less and less able to pass forward till its moving force is destroyed.
 It will he readily perceived that the resistance of the medium to the
 body which passes through it, must depend much on its density or
 consistence : thus, a ball driven by a certain force would pass further
 through the air than through water, and further through the latter than
 through a denser fluid, as brine or syrup, or through solids, as sand or
 clay. Another circumstance which will affect the motion of a body,
 with relation to the medium through which it travels, must be taken
into the account, and this is the form of the moving body. A small
body will meet with less resistance than a large one of the same weight ;
and a body which presents an extensive surface to the medium through
which it moves, will be retarded in its passage much more than one
with a small surface. A sheet of paper stretched out to its full extent,
and suffered to fall a few feet, and then folded up into a small compass,
and again suffered to fall from the same height, will afford an exempli
fication of the resistance of the atmosphere to falling bodies ; and an
illustration of a different kind, but to the same purpose, may be drawn
from the advantage which sharp-edged and pointed instruments have
over blunt ones in penetrating hard or tough substances. A body
moving in contact with a solid substance, as when it is rolled or
dragged along the ground, is also affected by friction. This obstacle
to motion is proportioned to the roughness or smoothness of the surface
over which the body passes : thus, a marble thrown with any given
force will run a certain distance over a level gravel-walk ; it will be
driven to a much greater distance, by the same force, along an even

                                   INERTIA.                                 5
    pavement ; a»d still further along smooth ice. Here again the form of
   the moving body has much influence on the velocity and extent of
   motion ; for the fewer the points of contact between the surface and
   that which passes over it, the more freely will motion take place.
      All bodies subject to our control are exposed to the operation of
   gravity, in various degrees, and from this cause, independent of the re
   sistance of the medium which they traverse, or of the effect of friction,
   their motions cannot be indefinitely continued, but must decline and
   terminate in a given time, according to the circumstances in which
   they are placed. But though perpetual motion cannot be exhibited by
   any methods which human skill or industry can contrive, yet we have
  continually before us the display of bodies which have been moving
   with undiminished velocity for ages past, and which no power but that
  which governs all nature can prevent from moving in the same maimer
   for innumerable ages to come. The bodies to which we refer, as wiH
   probably be anticipated, are those whose motions are the objects of
  the science of Astronomy ; and though that subject will not come
  under our immediate discussion, yet the general nature of the forces
  which occasion the revolution of the celestial bodies will be subse
  quently explained, and the causes of their uniform and uninterrupted
 motion will be illustrated.
  - That state of bodies just described, in which motion or the cessation
   of motion can take place only in consequence of an extraneous cause,
   has been termed Inertia, which signifies inactivity, equally opposed to
   motion when at rest, and to rest when in motion ; so that if a given
   force is required to make a body move with a certain velocity, the same
   force will be required to destroy its motion.* When a garden-roller is
   being drawn along a level grass-plot, the exertion necessary to stop it
   suddenly, at any given point, would be precisely the same as would be
   required to move it backward, if it were at rest, and of course the
 ' same that was applied to set it in motion at first.
      Any force applied to produce motion may be called Power, or im
   pulse, which may be either continued, as in the case of pressure, or
   intermitting, as in the case of impact or percussion. Whatever opposes
   motion so as to retard the moving body, destroy its motion, or drive
   it in a contrary direction, may be termed Resistance, and its effect, re
   action or counteraction. It is one of the laws of motion that action
•           * V, Laplace Exposition du Systeme du Monde, liv. ill. chap. 2.

 6                              MECHANICS.
 and reaction are always equal and contrary. Thus, in pressing down
 the empty scale of a balance, while the other scale held a five-pound
 weight, it is obvious that the force exerted must be,equal to five pounds ;
 but if one scale had been loaded with fifteen pounds, and the other
 with only ten, the equilibrium might still be preserved by pressing on
 the latter with a force equal to five pounds only. And it' a man, sit
 ting in a boat on a canal, draws towards him, by means of a rope,
 another boat of equal weight, they will meet at a point half-way from
 the places whence they began to move. Suppose, however, the second
 boat to be so laden as to be twice the weight of the first, it must move
 the slowest of the two, and consequently the point of meeting would be
 nearer the second boat than the first. If a body in motion strikes ano
 ther body of equal mass at rest, the two bodies will move together, but
 with only half the original velocity of the first, the other half having been
 expended in overcoming the inertia ofthe second body. Corresponding
 effects will take place, whatever difference there may be between the
masses of the two bodies ; for if the second body should be double the
mass of the first body, the common velocity after the impact of the two
bodies would be one-third that of the first ; and if the mass of the first
body be to that of the second as 5 to 7, the common mass after impact
will be 12, and as the second will deduct from the motion of the first
in proportion to its mass, the motion lost by the first body will be seven-
twelfths, and the motion retained by both would be five-twelfths. If
two bodies are both in motion in the same direction, and one overtake
and impinge on the other, suppose the masses of the two bodies to be
the same, and the velocity of the first to be 7, and that of the second to
be 5, their common velocity after impact will be 6, or half the sum of
the two velocities. But if the masses are unequal, the mass of each
must be multiplied separately by its velocity, and the products added
together, and their sum divided by the sum of the two masses will give
the common velocity. When two bodies are moving in opposite direc
tions, with the same velocity, and having equal masses, action and re
action being equal, both motions will be destroyed. Suppose, however,
the masses to be alike, and the velocity of the first body to be 10, and
that of the other to be 6, the first body will lose 6 parts of its velocity,
which will be requisite to neutralise or destroy the opposite velocity of
the second body, and the remaining 4 parts of the velocity of the first
body being divided between the two, they will move together in the
direction taken by the first body with a common velocity equal to 2.

                        ACTION AND REACTION.
 When the masses, as well as the velocities, are unequal, the common
 velocity of two bodies after impact may be found by multiplying the
 numbers denoting the masses by those expressing the velocities re
 spectively, subtracting the lesser product from the greater, and divid
 ing the remainder by the sum of the numbers denoting the masses : the
 quotient will then show the velocity with which the bodies will move
together, in the direction of the body having the greatest quantity of
motion.
    An experimental illustration of the equality of action and reaction
in the collision of bodies may be thus exhibited :
                         Suppose a and 6 to be two inelastic balls,*
                      suspended together at c, by threads of equal
                      length, so that they may be in contact when
                      at rest ; and let 1/ e be a graduated arch, over which
                      the balls may swing freely ; then, if the ball 6 be
                      moved a certain number of degrees towards e, and
                      let fall so that it may impinge on the ball a, both
                    ' together will move towards d, through a number of
                    1 degrees proportioned to their common velocity.
                         Since it appears from the foregoing observations
                      to be an established principle of Mechanics, that the
force or impetus of a body in motion is to be estimated by its mass and
velocity, it must be concluded that a body, the mass of which is very
inconsiderable, may be made to act with the same force as another body
the mass of which is much greater, provided the smaller body has a
velocity communicated to it greater than the velocity of the larger body,
in the same proportion that the mass of the latter surpasses that of the
former. Thus, a pincushion weighing half an ounce might produce as
great an effect as a cannon-ball weighing thirty-six pounds, provided
the pincushion had 1152 times the velocity of the cannon-ball; for
1152 half ounces being equal to 36 pounds, it must be obvious that
the velocity of the pincushion would be just so much greater than the
velocitv of the cannon-ball, as the mass of the latter would be greater
than that of the former.
    Hence as the momentum or effect of moving force is to be estimated
   * No substance in nature Is wholly destitute of elasticity, but soft clay,
which is among the least elastic of solid bodies, may be used to make the balls
for the above experiment.

8                             MECHANICS.
by the velocity of the motion and the weight or mass of the moving body
taken together, it may be perceived how it happens that a small mass
may produce an extraordinary effect when moving with great velocity.
Thus, a tallow candle fired from a gun will pierce a deal board. On
the other hand a great effect may be produced by a small velocity if the
moving mass is extremely great. As for instance, a heavily laden ship
of great burden, afloat near a pier wall, may approach it with a velocity
so small as to be scarcely observable, yet its force will be sufficient to
crush a small boat.
    When two bodies meet in consequence of moving from opposite di
rections, each body will sustain a shock as great as if one body at rest
had been struck by the other with a force equal to the sum of both their
forces. Suppose two persons of equal weight walking in opposite di
rections, one at the rate of two miles an hour, and the other at the rate
of four miles, if they should suddenly come in contact, each would re-
oeive a shock as great as if he had been standing still, and another had
run against him moving at the rate of six miles an hour. In the ancient
tournaments, when mailed knights met in full career, prodigious must
 have been the shock when the collision was direct, and both would often
be overthrown with a force proportioned to their joint weights and ve
 locities. So when two vessels under sail run foul of each other, sup
pose one of them eight hundred tons burden, and the other twelve
hundred tons, their velocities or rates of sailing being equal, each
would sustain a shock equal to that which a vessel would receive if at
anchor, and struck by another vessel of two thousand tons burden,
sailing at the same rate with the vessels in question. Yet though the
shock would be the same, the consequences would be most disastrous
 to the smaller vessel, the other being protected in a greater degree
from injury by its superior strength and bulk.
    In the preceding observations the phenomena of moving forces
 have been considered simply and independently of circumstances, by
which in practice they are influenced ; and among which must ba
 noticed the texture and other properties of moving bodies. Elasticity
 being a common property of matter, and many substances employed
 for a variety of purposes, as several kinds of wood and metal, pos
 sessing that property in a high degree, its influence in modifying the
 operation of moving forces requires particular attention.
    The different effects exhibited by bodies almost inelastic and those
 which are highly elastic may be illustrated by the simple experiment

                              •ELASTICITY.
of dropping a ball of soft clay or wax from any given height on a solid
pavement, and then letting fall from the same height a ball of box-wood
or ivory of equal weight with the clay. The first ball will give way to
the pressure of the pavement, and become dented or flattened on the
side on which it rests, while the latter ball will rebound from the pave
ment with a force proportioned to the height from which it fell. This
resiliency or rebound, in an ivory ball, is partly occasioned by its giving
way to the pressure of the pavement, but unlike the clay it recovers its
shape almost instantaneously, its surface thus acting as a spring against
the pavement. That a hard substance like ivory is compressed by
striking against a similar substance, may be shown by making a small
dot with ink on the surface of one ball, and then bringing it gently in
contact with another ball at that point, when a small mark will also
appear on the latter ball ; but if the balls, one being marked as before,
be brought into contact with considerable force, as by pressure or col
lision, a much larger mark will be found on the latter ball than before ;
proving that, though both have recovered their shape, they must have
undergone some degree of compression.
                                Let two ivory balls of equal weight, a b,
                             be suspended by threads, as in the an
                             nexed figure, if the former be then drawn
                             aside to c, and suffered to fall against
                             the latter, it will drive it to d, or a distance
                             equal to that through which the first
                             ball fell ; but it will itself rest at a,
                             having given up all its own moving power
                             to the second ball.
                                If six ivory balls of equal weight be hung
                                       by threads of the same length, and
                                       the ball a be drawn out from the
                                       perpendicular, and then let fall
                                       against the second, that and the
                                       other three, c d ef will continue
                                       stationary; but the last ball, b, will
                                       fly off to B, being the same dis
                                       tance as that through which the
                                       first ball fell. Here the motion or
rather the moving forte of the ball a is propagated through the whole
train to the ball b, which finding no resistance is acted on by the whole

10                                MECHANICS.
force. This experiment repeated with any number of balls would give
the same result. It is proper to observe that in stating the effect of the
collision of the balls in these experiments, they are supposed to be
perfectly elastic bodies : such, however, do not exist among the sub
stances with which we are acquainted ; the phenomena exhibited by
ivory balls would therefore be nearly, but not exactly, such as stated.
   The effect of elasticity in modifying the propagation of motion is
curiously displayed in those exhibitions of human strength, which have
occasionally taken place, and of which remarkable instances are related
by some authors. Vopiscus, the Roman historian, mentions a circum
stance of this kind, in his Life of Firmus, who, in the reign of Au re-
linn, endeavoured to make himself emperor in Egypt, and who has
therefore been reckoned one of the Thirty Tyrants. He was a native
of Seleucia, in Syria, who espoused the cause of the famous Zenobia,
Queen of Palmyra ; and having been taken prisoner, he was executed
by order of the emperor Aurelian. The historian says of Firmus, that
he was able to bear an anvil on his breast, while others were hammer
ing on it : he lying along, with his body in a curved position.* And
Beckmann, in his History of Inventions, notices the extraordinary
feats of John Charles von Eckeberg, a German, who travelled over
Europe about the beginning of the last century. After mentioning
other feats, he adds, " But what excited the greatest astonishment was,
that he suffered large stones to be broke on his breast with a hammer,
or a smith to forge iron on an anvil placed upon it."t A part of the mys
terious effect produced in these cases is to be accounted for by the po
sition of the exhibitor, which may be thus described : He must place
himself with his shoulders resting on one chair, and his feet upon
another, both chairs being fixed so as to yield firm support ; and thus
his backbone, thighs, and legs would form an arch, of which the chairs
would be the abutments. The anvil also must be so large as, by its
inertia and elasticity, nearlv to counterbalance the force of the hammer ;
and thus the strokes would be scarcely or not at all felt ; besides which
the elasticity of the man's body, as well as his position, would contri
bute to his security against the effect of the blows.
  * "Incudem superpositampectori constanter aliistundentibus pertulit, cum
ipse reclivus ac rt-supi mis et curvatus in maims penderet potlus quam jaceiet."
— Vopiscus in Vita Firmi.
  t Hist, of Invent., Eng. Trans. 1797, vol. iii. p. 303.

                        VELOCITY OF MOTION.                             11
                         Velocity of Moving Bodies*
   Communication of motion, however rapid, must take up some portion
of time ; for as there can be no such thing as instantaneous motion,
much less can motion be propagated instantaneously from one body to
another. Hence motions performed with great velocity sometimes pro
duce peculiar effects, as may be shown by the following experiments.
                               EXPERIMENT I.
   A long hollow stalk or reed, suspended horizontallv by two loops of
single hairs, may, by a sharp quick stroke at a point nearly in the cen
tre, between the hairs, be cut through, without breaking either of them.
The hairs in this case would have been ruptured, if they had partaken
of the force applied to the stalk ; but the division of the latter being
effected before the impulse could be propagated to the hairs, they must
consequently remain unbroken.
                              EXPERIMENT II.
   A smart blow, with a slight wand, or hollow reed, on the edge of a
beer-glass, would break the wand, without injuring the glass.
                              EXPERIMENT III,
   A shilling, or any small piece of money, being laid upon a card placed
over the mouth of a tumbler-glass, and resting upon the rim of the
glass, the card may be withdrawn with such speed and dexterity that
the piece of money will not be removed laterally, but will drop into
the glass.
                              EXPERIMENT IV.
   A bullet discharged from a pistol, striking the panel of a door half
open, will pass through the board, without moving the door ; for the
velocity of the bullet will be so great that the aperture is completed
in a space of time too limited to admit of the momentum of the moving
body being communicated to the substance against which it is impelled.
   It is an effect of the principle just illustrated, that the iron head of
a hammer may be driven down on its wooden handle, by striking the
opposite end of the handle against any hard substance with force and

12                             MECHANICS.
speed. In this very simple operation, more easily conceived than
described, the motion is propagated so suddenly through the wood that
it is over before it can reach the iron head, which therefore, by its own
weight, sinks lower on the handle at every blow, which drives the
latter up.
   The velocity of motion is measured by time and space taken con
jointly or relatively. Thus, a body moving through a given space, in
a certain time, and supposed to pass through every part of that space
at a uniform rate, is said to move with a velocity denoted by the ratio of
the time to the space ; and therefore a uniformly moving body will
describe equal spaces in equal times, and different bodies relative spaces
in relative times. Hence a horse that will trot eight miles in an hour,
would trot sixteen miles in two hours, and twenty-four miles in three
hours, if he could traverse the distance with unabated speed. If in
this case the three distances mentioned be considered as three distinct
journeys, it will readily be perceived that the horse must have passed
through the same distance, in each of the two hours of the second jour
ney, and each of the three hours of the third journey, as in the single
hour of the first ; and this is what is meant by the statement that equal
 spaces are passed over in equal times ; so that when the distance tra
velled is doubled or tripled, the time will be doubled or tripled alsoj
and if the distance is reduced to one-half or one-fourth, the time will
be reduced in the same proportion. The relative velocities of different
bodies must be estimated in a similar manner. A man walking three
miles in an hour would require double the time to perform a journey of
eighteen miles, that would be taken up by another man running six
miles an hour ; and a horse galloping twelve miles an hour would com
plete the journey in one-fourth of the time of the first man, and one-half
 the time of the second man. The minute-hand of a common clock or
watch has twelve times the velocity of the hour-hand, since the former
 passes through a whole circle, while the latter is passing through the
 twelfth part of it.
   The velocity of a uniformly moving body may be discovered by
 dividing the space passed through by the time consumed : thus, the
 velocity of a steam-boat, going eighteen miles in two hours, will be
 found to be nine miles an hour. The velocity being known, the dis
 tance passed over in a given time may be discovered, by the contrary
 operation of multiplying the space by the time : thus, the steam-boat,

                           LAWS OF MOTION,                               13
with a Telocity of nine miles an hour, will of coarse run twice nine-
miles in two hours, and forty-eight times nine miles in forty-eight
hours.
                        Different Kinds of Motion.
   Motion may be uniform or variable with respect to its rate or relative
velocity. The nature of uniform motion has been just pointed out ;
and that of variable motion will be subsequently investigated. But
motion may be different in one case from what it is in others, when
considered with regard to the manner in which a body moves : as
whether in a straight line, in a circle, or in any other curve. The line
described by a body, in passing from one point to another, is called its
direction, or line of motion. The direction of a moving body may be
either a right line, across a level surface or plane ; a curved line, pass
ing over a similar plane ; or a curved line, the different parts of which
are not on one plane.
   Curvilinear motion is of a more complicated nature than motion in a
straight line, the circumstances relating to it therefore cannot he pro
perly explained without a previous investigation of rectilinear motion.
   Sir Isaac Newton, in his great work entitled " Principia Philosophic
Naturalis"—" Principles of Natural Philosophy," has laid down three
general positions, styled Laws of Motion, which have been considered
as the foundation of mechanical science. These laws are the follow
ing :
                                      i.
   " Every body must continue in its state of rest, or of uniform motion
in a straight line, unless it is compelled to alter its state of rest or
motion, by some force or forces impressed upon it."
                                     ii.
   " Every change of motion must be proportional to the impressed
force or forces, and must be in the direction of that force."
                                     m.
   " Action and reaction are always equal and contrary to each other."
   Both the first and the last of these laws or positions, relating to mov
ing bodies, have been already discussed, and their consequences
pointed ont: they may therefore be admitted as propositions not
requiring further demonstration.

14                             MECHANICS.
   The second law of motion is of the highest importance, as it relate*
to compound motion, and the direction of a body acted on bytwo forces
in different but not contrary directions. The effect of forces thus ap
plied will be most readily understood after a short explanation of the
nature of reflected motion, which affords a familiar example of action
and reaction, the subject of the third of the preceding laws.
    If a cricket-ball, or any similarly shaped elastic body, be dropped
perpendicularly on a smooth pavement, it will rebound to a certain
 point in the same straight line in which it descended ; but if it be im
 pelled obliquely against the pavement, it will not rise in a perpendicu
lar line, but in a line having the same degree of obliquity as that in
which it struck the pavement.
                                 Thus, if the ball were dropped from o, to
                              the pavement at 6, its upward course would
                              be in the same line, 6 a ; but if it be thrown
                              in the line c b, it will rebound in the line 6 d.
                              In this case the angle formed by the line c b,
                              with the line a b, is called " the angle of
                              incidence," and that formed by the line d b,
                              with the line a b, " the angle of reflection ;"
                              and it is to be observed that these angles will
                              always he precisely equal. For it signifies
                              not whether the obliquity of the line of in
                              cidence be great or small, since the line of re
 flection will in every case have the same obliquity, and consequently
 form a similar angle with the surface from which the body rebounds.
                                  Suppose the parallelogram in the margin
                              to represent a bill innl-table, ifa ball standing
                              on it be impelled in the direction a b, it will
                               strike against the end cushion and return in
                            . the line b c, and either of those lines would
                               form a similar and very acute angle with a
                               line drawn between them, parallel to the
                               sides of the table ; but ifthe ball were driven
 from a against the side cushion at d, it would return in the correspond
 ing line d e.
     Equal weights, or equal forces of any kind, acting on a body, in a
  similar manner, but in opposite directions, will keep it in a state of

                              EQUILIBRIUM.                                15
 rest, or equilibrium, like the scales of a common balance each loaded
 with a weight of one pound. But when the arms of a balance are of
 unequal lengths, as in the steelyard, a small weight fixed at the end of
the longest arm will counterpoise a much greater weight at the end of
the short arm.
                                                     Let a represent a globe
                                                  of lead resting on a level
                                                  surface, and having an
                                                  iron rod passing exactly
                                                  through its centre, the
                                                  extremities of which e
                                                  and f are equidistant
                                                  from the ball ; if threads
of equal lengths be fixed at those points with hooks at the lower ends,
for the suspension of weights, the globe and rod will be kept in equi
librium so long as the weights b and c are equal ; but if a longer rod be
passed through the ball, projecting further from it towards g than to
wards e, a smaller weight d will then counterbalance the weight b, and
the relative number of ounces or pounds contained in these weights
will always bear certain proportions to the number of inches or feet in
the respective parts of the rod a e, and a g.
   Here the equilibrium is maintained by equal forces acting in opposite
directions ; and the illustration of this simple principle is deserving
of attention as it leads to the consideration of the case of equilibrium
maintained by the application of three forces.
                             In the annexed figure the weight a being at
                         tached to the centre of a cord passing over two
                          small wheels, and the weights b and c to either
                          end of the cord, the equilibrium will be main
                          tained only while the central weight counter
                          balances those at the ends, in order to which,
                          exclusive of the effect of friction, the weight a
                         must be just as heavy as the equal weights b and
                          c taken together. For if the weight a be much
increased the cord will sink in the centre, and the weights b and c be
drawn up to the wheels ; and weight added on either side will drag
down the cord on the side of the additional load and raise the central
and opposite side weight.

  16                            MECHANICS.
                               Suppose a cord, as in the marginal figure,
                            stretched over the wheels E F, attached to an
                            upright board, and having fixed to its ex
                            tremities the weights B C. From any part of
                            the cord, between the wheels, as at H let a
                            weight be suspended, it will then draw down
                            the cord so as to form an angle, E H F, and the
                            weights* will remain in equilibrium. It is
                            obvious that in this case the weight A acting
                            in the direction H A will counterbalance the
                            weights B and C, acting in the directions H E
 and H F, and their joint forces must be equivalent to a force equal to A,
 acting in the direction H G. To ascertain the relative effect of the
weights thus operating, it will be necessary to complete the figure, by
 drawing on the board the dotted line H G, in the direction of the cord
A H ; and lines under the cords H E and H F. Then on the line H G
mark the point o, and H a must be supposed to represent as many inches
as the number of ounces contained in the weight A. From a draw the
dotted line a b, parallel to H F, and the dotted line a c, parallel to H E ;
then if the diagram were in the proportion just described, the line H 6
would contain as many inches as there were ounces in the weight B ;
and the line H c as many inches as the number of ounces in the weight
C. A moment's reflection will show that the relative weights and
lengths might consist of any denominations of weight and longitudinal
measure; so that feet and pounds, or any greater or smaller denomina
tions might have been substituted for inches and ounces ; only in every
case the same denomination of longitudinal measure must be applied to
all the lines, and the same denomination of weight to all the gravitating
forces.
   The case just considered affords an experimental illustration of what
is called the Parallelogram of Forces, a principle of the utmost import
ance in mechanics, since it enables us to estimate the joint operation
of moving powers, as well as their relative effect or influence.
    In the preceding diagram, the parallelogram of forces is represented
by the lines a b, b H, H c, and c a, and the line H o, joining the opposite
angles, which is called the diagonal. The sides of the parallelogram, o b
and a c, will represent the quantity and direction of the two forces acting
together, and the diagonal H a will denote the equivalent or counterba

                    PARALLELOGRAM OF FORCES.                                17
 lancinf force. This last force is styled the resultant, and the two
  forces opposed to it are its components.
    In the preceding examples, the object has been to show the effect
 of opposing forces in producing equilibrium; but precisely the same
 method may be taken to explain the operation of forces applied in dif
 ferent directions, when their effect is to produce motion, instead of re
 straining it.
                              If a body A be impelled at the same time by
                           two forces, which would separately cause it to
                           describe the lines A B and A C of the parallelo
                           gram ABDC, the body will, by their joint ac
                           tion, describe in the same time the diagonal A D.
                           For if the body had been previously moving with
                           the velocity, and in the direction A 13, and had
 been acted on at A by the force A C, it would have described A D in
 the same time. So that, whether the forces begin to act simultaneously
 or successively, their effects may be calculated on similar principles.
                                          When the angle at which the differ
                                        ent forces meet is very acute, they act
                                        with greater power on themoving bo
                                        dy : thus, as the angle CAB, made by
                                       the directions ofthe composing forces,
           c                           decreases, the effect arising from their
                                      joint impression will be increased ;
 and hence the diagonal A D, which expresses that effect, will likewise
 be increased. Therefore, when the angle CAB vanishes, or in other
 words, when the sides A C and A B coincide with the diagonal, the joint
 forces will have their full effect ; but this would no longer be a case of
the composition of forces, but of the junction or union of two forces.
                             £        When the angle B A C, made by the
                            ~     directions of the two forces, is very ob
                                  tuse, their effect is diminished, and the
                                  diagonal, representing the resultant of
 jj ,¦=            "D             the forces, is consequently contracted.
                                  It will be obvious, therefore, that when
the sides A B and A C meet without forming any angle, the forces will
act in opposite directions ; and provided they were equal forces they
would destroy each other, no motion taking place ; but if one force
                                       c

IS                             MECHANICS.
be superior to the other, the body will move on, not m a diagonal line,
but in the direction of the greater force.
   The combined effect of three or more forces acting on a body in dif
ferent directions, may be discovered by means of the parallelogram of
forces ; and a single force maybe thus assigned which will be the result
ant of those forces. This may be done by obtaining first the diagonal re
presenting the resultant of the combination of two forces, and consider
ing that diagonal as the side of a parallelogram, of which a line repre
senting a third force will form one of the other sides, and the parallelo
gram being completed, the diagonal will be the resultant of the first
three forces; and the operation may be extended in the same man
ner, so as to discover the ultimate resultant of any given number of
forces.
                                     Let the point A be impelled by forces
                                  in the directions A B, A C, A D.and AE;
                                 then, to find out the resultant of these
                                  combined forces, complete the parallelo-
                                 g ram C A B F, andthe diagonal A F will
                                  exhibit the result of the forces A B and
                                 AC . Complete the parallelogram DAFG ,
                                  and its diagonal A G will denote the re-
                              jH suit of the three forces A B, AC, and
                                  AD. In the same manner, complete
                                   the parallelogram E A G H, and the dia
 gonal A H will represent the force compounded of all the four forces,
 AB,AC,AD, and A E. But the construction may be simplified by
 merely drawing the lines B F, equal and parallel to A C ; F G, corre
 sponding with A D ; and G H, bearing the same relation to A E ; then,
 the line joining A and H , which as before will express the resulting force.
           q                               g     It may be demonstrated by
                                        ' ' means of the parallelogram
                                              of forces, that from three
                                              forces acting in the directions
                                               A B, A C, and A D, in the
                                              proportions of the length,
                                               breadth and depth of a paral-
                                               lelopiped ,w ill result a motion
 in the diagonal A F of that parallelopiped ; for A B and A C compose

                     COMPOSITION OF FORCES.                           19
 A E, and A E and A D compose A F ; which last is the resultant of the
moving forces in the directions of the three sides of the parallelopiped.
   The effect of the composition of forces, when a body impelled in
different directions takes its course in a diagonal line between the
two impelling forces, may be thus experimentally exemplified :
                                         On a billiard-table, A B C D,
                                 „C place a ball at G, equally distant
                                      from the side B C, and the end
                                      C D, then let two spring guns,
                                      capable of communicating equal
                                      impulses, be placed so that when
                                      the ball is impelled by E, it will
                                      move along the side A D, and
                                       that when the ball is impelled by
                                       F only, it will move in the line
                                       G H : then if the ball be struck
                                       by both the guns at the same in
stant, it will be found to move in the diagonal line G C, in the same
time in which it would have moved from G to D, impelled by the
gun E alone ; or from G to H, if acted on only by the gun F. From
the observations which have been already made on the relations be
tween the extent of the lines described by moving bodies, and the
amount of the forces by which they are impelled, it will be apparent
that this experiment may be so modified as to show what would be
the direction of the ball, when the impelling forces, or the angles at
which they acted, were variously adjusted.
   The operation of the principle called the Composition of Forces may
be perceived in numerous cases of frequent occurrence. Indeed there
are no motions with which we are acquainted that can be considered,
strictly speaking, as instances of simple motion ; for the effects of
gravitation and the diurnal motion of the earth are alone sufficient to
occasion some degree of complexity in all motions taking place on the
earth's surface. Simple motion therefore is only relative.
    Suppose two persons to be seated on the opposite sides of an omni
 bus, or any other oblong carriage, and to pass a ball forwards and
 backwards, from one to the other, in a level line. Now, if the car
 riage were four feet wide, and the ball were passed across that space
 in precisely the same time that (he carriage would be going four feet
                                   c2

20                            MECHANICS.
along an even road, the real motion of the ball through the air would
be in a zigzag line.
   A stone dropped on the deck, from the mast-head of a ship under
sail, would be affected by the motion of the vessel, as well as by the
force of gravitation, and would therefore fall, not in a perpendicular,
but in a diagonal line.
                             Let A represent the mast, C the stone, D
                          the deck, and the line C E will be the distance
                          that the mast-head will have moved, while the
                          stone would have fallen, by the force of
                          gravity alone, from C to the point under it
                          on the deck ; the mast being fixed is carried
             \            forward by the ship, and therefore the foot of
                          the mast will have moved equally with the
                          head, and will have reached the point vertically
                          beneath E when the stone touches the deck : the
                          stone will also be found at the foot of the mast,
                          having taken a diagonal direction, in conse
                 k        quence of its being impelled at the same time
                          by the ship's motion and by its own weight.
For, if it had not been affected by the former as well as the latter, it
would have fallen where the foot of the mast was when it began to
fall, and not at the actual foot of the mast.
   Any one who has witnessed the common feats of equestrian exhi
bitors at Astley's amphitheatre, or elsewhere, may have seen a man
leap from the back of a horse over a garter or handkerchief stretched
horizontally across the track in which the horse was galloping, round
the border of a circular area, and the horse passing under the garter,
                                          the man comes down again on
                                          the saddle, after finishing his
                                          leap. To do this, it is only ne
                                          cessary for the rider to spring up
                                          right from the saddle, on which
                                          he was previously standing, and
                                          suffer himself to sink by his own
weight on the saddle again ; for as his body would partake of the
motion of the horse, that force would be sufficient to carry him for
wards, and his motion in rising, by an impulse which would carry him

                        RESOLUTION OF FORCES.                           21
 from A to B if the horse were standing still, would be nearly in the
 line E, while he would descend in the corresponding line F, through
the joint effect of the force derived from the horse, and his own weight,
the latter of which alone would occasion him to sink in the direction
G H, or C D.
   As it has been observed that all motions are really of a compound
nature, resulting in a greater or less degree from combined forces,
it may sometimes be requisite to ascertain the separate effects of acting
forces ; or to determine what portion of any given force acts in some
direction different from that in which motion takes place. The opera
tion requisite for this purpose is called the Resolution of Forces, the
object not being as before to discover the resultant from the combining
forces, but to discover one or both of those forces from the resultant.
                       If a compound force, acting upon a body, pro
                     duces motion in the direction A B, and it is required
                    to find the part of that force which affect? this body
                    in any other direction, as D C ; by drawing A i)
                     perpendicular to D C, will be found the proportion
                     which the absolute force bears to that part, which
                     acting alone would produce motion in the proposed
direction. Hence the force which was the subject of inquiry is to the
whole force as D B to A B.
   A boat may be moved across a river by the current passing in a
direction parallel to its banks. To effect this the boat must have a
rope fastened to it, the other end of which is connected with another
rope extended directly across the stream, a noose or ring being fixed
to the first or boat-rope, through which the stretched rope is passed in
such a manner that the ring may slide freely in either direction. Then
the rudder of the boat being properly turned to receive the impulse of
the current, it will pass across the river, for the ropes will prevent it
from being carried down the stream, while it glides with ease trans
versely as the ring of the boat-rope slides from one extremity to the
other of the extended rope. Part of the force of the current in this
case is destroyed, and the remainder is made to produce a motion in a
direction different from that in which the water is flowing. The ve
locity of the current and that of the boat being ascertained, it would
be easy to calculate what proportion of the moving force acted on the
 boat.

22                             MECHANICS.
                    A     The navigator, in crossing the wide ocean,
                       from observing the course of his ship, ascertains
                       the longitude and latitude at different periods of
                       his voyage. Thus, supposing the course of a
                       ship for a certain time to be towards the south
                       west, then, if D A and B C represent parallels of
                   JC latitude, and D B and A C parallels of longitude,
the diagonal line A B will describe the ship's path through the sea ;
and the difference of longitude and latitude at certain points of the
vessel's track, may thus be estimated.
   When the impulse of air and water is employed as a moving power,
either can seldom act directly and with full force, some portion being
lost, and the effect consequently diminished. A ship sailing with a
side wind has the sails set obliquely with respect to the course pursued ;
so the vanes of a windmill, and the float-boards of an undershot water-
wheel are moved in general by a force applied in a slanting direction.
Indeed the motion of a windmill would be prevented, by setting the
surface of the sails perpendicular to the direction of the wind. In
these and many other cases, only part of a moving force is brought into
action, the other part being dissipated and lost, because it cannot be
made to act in the required direction.
                               GRAVITATION.
   Among the causes of motion, or moving forces, there are some the
effects of which are simple and uniform, producing movement in a
single direction or straight line, and for a given time, proportioned to
the degree of impulse. Others act in more than one direction, but
with combined effect, so as still to produce uniform motion. Nature
however, presents to our notice motions which are not uniform, the
velocity of the moving body varying in different parts of its course,
so that the velocity or rate of motion may gradually increase to a cer
tain point, and be suddenly terminated ; or first increase, and then
decrease till it ceases altogether. Motion with a perpetually increas
ing velocity is called accelerated motion. The phenomena of simple
and compound rectilineal motions have been already described ; but
those of accelerated motion, which come next to be considered, cannot
be fully understood without a previous acquaintance with the laws of
gravitation, with which they are intimately connected. So general

                              GRAVITATION.                              23
indeed is the effect of the property of gravity or weight on all bodies,
within the reach of our observation, that its influence is perpetually
interfering with our operations and experiments ; and hence references
have necessarily been made to it in the preceding pages, as in explain
ing the cause of the decay of motion, and elsewhere ; but it will be
requisite here to take a more extensive view of the nature and effects
of this important principle.
    Gravitation or Gravity is a species of attraction, and is sometimes
styled gravitative attraction, by which appellation it is distinguished
from cohesive attraction, capillary attraction, magnetic attraction, and
other forces which tend to bring bodies into contact. Most of these forces
or kinds of attraction are perceived only under particular circumstances ;
as cohesive attraction, which seems to act on solid and liquid substances
alone, and not on gases ; and capillary attraction, which only takes
place between certain fluids and solids. But the attraction of gravita
tion differs from other attractive forces, in being a common property of
all bodies, since every thing to which we can attach the idea of mate
riality is affected more or less by gravitation.
    It is by no means inconsistent with this statement that some bodies,
possessing all the characteristics of solid matter, capable of being seen
 and felt, yet in certain circumstances, instead of exhibiting the common
 effect of gravity, in falling towards the earth or pressing on it, display
the contrary phenomenon of ascending from it. Thus, smoke will be
 seen, in some states of the atmosphere, rising in a column to a consi
derable height ; and it must be readily conceived that all the moisture,
which falls to the earth in the forms of rain, snow, or hail, must have
previously risen, by evaporation, from the surface of the earth. Even
solid masses of no small bulk and weight may be made to ascend to a
great height, as by means of an air-balloon. But all these and similar
phenomena are in fact so many instances of the effect of gravitation ;
for the ascending bodies are driven upward solely by the force of the
medium through which they pass ; since the particles of smoke or
 vapour, or the balloon with its car and contents, cannot advance
upward in the most minute degree without displacing, or thrusting
downward, portions of atmosphere equal to their own bulk. Hence it
will be perceived that aerostatical bodies do not ascend because they
possess absolute levity, but simply because, bulk for bulk, they are
lighter than the air. A cork or a piece of deal, for the same reason,
                                                                            s

 24                            MECHANICS.
 will float on water, and if pressed down in it will rise again to the
 surface, by the effect of relative levity.
    All substances, then, gravitate towards the earth ; that is, thev have
 weight, which occasions them to fall to the earth when dropped from
 a height above it ; to rest upon it with a certain degree of pressure,
 according to circumstances ; or if rendered buoyant, to rise in the at
 mosphere surrounding the earth, till they reach a part of it where it
 is less dense than near the surface, so that a portion of it, precisely
 equal to their hulk, would exactly counterpoise them, and there of
 course they could neither rise nor fall, without an alteration of their
 own weight taking place. In the case of an air-balloon, the aeronauts
have the means for lessening its buoyancy whenever they may find it
convenient, by opening a valve, and letting out a part of the coal-gas,
or light air, to which it owes its ascending force ; thus they can, at
nny time, render the weight of the whole apparatus much greater than
that of an equal bulk of atmospheric air, and then it must fall to the
jrround. Smoke only remains suspended till its particles unite, and
thus becoming heavier than the air, they descend in the form of small
flakes of soot, covering with a dingy coat or incrustation all buildings,
after a time, in large and populous places. Watery vapours are merely
portions of water formed into very minute bubbles by the influence of
heat : and when great multitudes of them meet together at a certain
elevation, where they are of nearly equal weight with the air, thev
float about for a while in the form of clouds, till at length, from causes
with which we are but imperfectly acquainted, the clouds become
condensed into drops of water, which being heavier than the air, fall
in the state of rain or hail, according to the temperature of that part
of the atmosphere through which they pass.
   Lot us suppose for a moment that while a mass of smoke, a cloud of
Tapour, and an air-balloon were hovering in the air near together, and
nt precisely the same height, it were possible to withdraw from under
them the support of the atmosphere, it will he immediately perceived
that they must fall : but probably the young reader will be surprised
to learn, that they would not only fall, but likewise that they would all
fall through the same space in the same time ; so that, if their com
mon height had been five hundred feet, the smoke and the cloud would
liave reached the surface of the earth at the same instant with the
balloon, though the latter might in weight far exceed the other two

           UNIVERSAL INFLUENCE OF GRAVITATION.                          25
 bodies. It must not be imagined that the circumstance just stated is
a mere philosophical conjecture, or that it cannot be confirmed by the
test of experiment ; for, though it is impossible to annihilate the at
mosphere, or effectually remove it from beneath an air-balloon, or any
other body suspended in it, yet on a small scale, appearances precisely
similar to those just described may be easily exhibited
                                Let A represent a tall bell-glass, open at
                             the bottom, and having the top closed, so as
                             to be air-tight, by a brass cap or cover, B,
          rfti               through which passes the wire C, fitting
                             close, but capable of being turned without
                             admitting the air. The lower end of the
                             wire must be made to support a small stage,
                             the two sides of which D D, will fall and
                             separate, when the wire is turned in a
                             transverse direction. Then, the stage being
                             fixed, a sovereign and a feather, E and F, or
                             any two small bodies differing greatly in
                             their comparative weight, may be laid on the
                             stage, and the bell-glass, or as it is called,
                             receiver, being placed on the plate, G, of an
                             air-pump, must be exhausted of the air it
                             contained. This being done, if the two
bodies E and F are made to fall by turning the wire, it will invariably
be found that they will both strike the plate of the air-pump beneath
them at the same point of time.
   The influence of gravitation is not only extended to all bodies on or
near the surface of the earth, but likewise, as we have the utmost reason
to believe, to all bodies in the universe. This is not the proper place
to describe the nature and operation of those forces which regulate
the orbits of the moon, the planets, and the comets belonging to the
solar system ; but it may be here observed that Sir Isaac Newton
discovered gravity to be the cause of all the motions of the heavenly
bodies ; and that the laws of gravitation displayed in the monthly
revolution of the Moon round the Earth, the annual circuit of the
Earth round the Sun, and the corresponding motions of the other
planets and their satellites are capable of the strictest mathematical
demonstration.

26                            MECHANICS.
   Gravitative attraction acts upon all bodies, with forces proportioned
to their masses. Thus suppose two bodies so situated as to be wholly
exempt from the influence of any attraction except that resulting from
their gravitation towards each other, they will then approach with
velocities corresponding with their respective forces. If the larger
of the two bodies be double the size of the smaller, the former will act
with twice the force of the latter ; and therefore while the small body
will move two feet in consequence of the double power of the larger
one, the larger will move but one foot drawn by the single power of the
smaller. If the larger body be four times the size of the other it will
exert four times as much attractive force, or make the smaller body
move with four times as great velocity as it would if the masses of the
bodies were equal. Hence it may be regarded as a general law of
gravitation, that while the distance between two bodies remains un
altered, they will attract and be attracted by each other, in proportion
to their respective masses ; and therefore any increase or decrease of
the mass must occasion a corresponding increase or decrease of the
amount of attractive force, as measured by the velocity.
   Since gravitative attraction is a common property of all bodies, it
may naturally be inquired why all bodies not fastened to the earth's
surface do not, by their mutual attraction, come in contact ; or by
what means the force which they derive from gravitation is prevented
from appearing in their relations to each other. A little reflection
will show that the cause of this seeming inactivity of bodies at rest is
the overpowering influence of the earth's attraction. If a small par
ticle of matter were placed at the surface of a solid sphere or globe of
gold, one foot in diameter, its gravitation to the earth would be more
than ten millions of times greater than its gravitation to the gold. For
the diameter of the earth is nearly forty millions of feet, and the density
of gold is nearly four times the medium density of the earth ; therefore
in a second, the particle would approach the gold less than the ten
millionth part of sixteen feet, a space utterly imperceptible. It is also
owing to the immense difference in the mass of the earth and that of
any one body on its surface that the attractive influence of bodies falling
towards the earth produces an effect in drawing the earth upwards so
insignificant as to be infinitely beyond the reach of our observation.
   Though we cannot institute direct investigations of the comparative
effect of gravitation, by making experiments on detached masses whose

            GRAVITATIVE ATTRACTION OF MASSES.                           27
magnitude bears any considerable proportion to that of the earth, yet
it may be shown that partially isolated portions of the earth's surface
exhibit a sensible degree of gravitative attraction, when small bodies
are brought near them. A mountain two miles in height anil of a
hemispherical figure, rising in a level country, would cause a plummet
suspended beside it to deviate one minute of a degree from the per
pendicular direction which gravitation towards the earth would other
wise produce. Observations of this nature have been actually made
on more than one occasion. The French Academicians, Bouguer, De
la Condamine, and others, when employed in measuring a degree of
the meridian, in Peru, towards the middle of the last century, having
placed their observatory on the north and then on the south side of the
vast mountain of Chimborazo, found that the plummets of their quad
rants were deflected towards the mountain . The manner in which these
philosophers ascertained the amount of the deflection of their plummets
may be thus concisely explained :
                                     Their object being to determine the
                                  zenith distance of a star, I, it was ne
                                  cessary to regulate the position of a
                                  telescope by means of a quadrant, the
                                  plummet of which instead of hanging
                                  in the vertical lines A F, and C H, on
                                  the opposite sides of tie mountain,
                                   was found to take the positions A B,
                                   and C D, and thus the star seemed to
                                   have the zenith distances e I, and g I,
                                  instead of E I , and G I, which it ought
                                  to have had : hence it is obvious that
                                   the plummet was drawn aside, by the
                                   attractive force of the mountain, from
                                  its proper direction perpendicular to
                                  the earth's surface, through a space
                                   capable of being estimated by the
                                   differences perceived in making ob
                                   servations on the star I from the op
                                   posite sides of the attracting mass.
   The phenomenon thus observed by the French philosophers having

28                             MECHANICS.
given rise to discussion among men of science in different countries,
it was thought desirable to ascertain, by experiments made for that
particular purpose, the validity of the cause assigned. King George
III. therefore was induced to send the Astronomer Royal, Dr. Mas-
kelyne, to Scotland, in 1772, to make similar experiments on the north
and south sides of Schehallien, a lofty and solid mountain in Perth
shire, well adapted for the purpose. The deviation towards the moun
tain on each side, was found, after the most accurate observations, to
exceed seven seconds ; thus confirming the inferences of preceding
observers," and proving the universal operation of gravitative at
traction.
   The influence of general gravitation was also experimentally
demonstrated in a different manner, by Mr. Henry Cavendish, in
 1788.
                                             Two small metallic balls, C
                                          and D, were fixed to the oppo
                                          site ends of a very light deal rod,
                                          which was suspended horizon
                                          tally, at its centre E, by a fine
                                          wire. This arm, after oscillating
                                          some time horizontally by the
twisting and untwisting of the wire, came to rest in a certain position.
Two great spherical masses, or globes of lead, A and B, were then
brought into such a position, that the attraction of either globe
would turn the rod C D on its centre E, in the same direction. By ob
serving the extent of the space through which the end of the rod moved,
 and the times of the oscillations when the globes were withdrawn, the
proportion was discovered between the effect of the elasticity of the
wire, and the gravitation of the balls towards the leaden globes ; and
 a medium of all the observations being taken, the experimentalist was
enabled to ascertain not only the actual influence of gravitation on
 terrestrial bodies in general, but likewise its relative influence as de
pending on the density of the attracting body.
    As gravitative attraction draws bodies towards the centre of the
 attracting mass, it might be expected that bodies under the influence of
 gravitation would diverge somewhat from a line perpendicular to an
 horizontal plane beneath them.

                  VELOCITY OF FALLING BODIES.                           29
                             This indeed is precisely what takes place ;
                          and if we imagine a pair of scales, as in the
                          marginal figure, to be formed in such a manner
                          as to bear a certain proportion to a sphere
                          towards the centre of which each scale was
                          attracted, the effect would be obvious. But
                          the magnitudes of any bodies which we can
                          make the subjects of experiment are so ex
                          tremely inconsiderable when compared with
                          that of the earth, as to render the deviation
                          from the perpendicular in lines which are
                          actually convergent quite imperceptible.
                             It must also be considered that though the
grand and preponderating force of gravitation is directed towards the
centre (and all bodies, like those just mentioned, are attracted towards
the earth's centre), yet every particle likewise has an attractive power,
therefore the gravitation of bodies on the earth's surface is the effect of
the attraction of its entire mass. Hence in the investigation of the
phenomena of falling bodies, it may be assumed that all the particles of
the same body are attracted in parallel directions, perpendicularly to
an horizontal plane; for the spaces through which bodies fall, while
under our observation, are not of sufficient extent to render it neces
sary that any allowance should be made for the effect of direct attraction
towards the centre.
   The slightest observation will enable any one to ascertain that the
force of a falling body increases in proportion to the height from which
it has fallen. When bodies are precipitated from a great height, they
will strike with violence against a resisting surface, or penetrate deeply
into a yielding mass. Aerolites or meteoric stones, which are heavy
bodies, resembling iron ore, several of which have fallen from the
sky at different periods, have sometimes been found to sink deeply
into the earth ; as was observed with regard to a meteoric stone,
fifty six pounds in weight, which fell in a ploughed field in Yorkshire,
in 1795.
   Experiments serving to illustrate the effect of accelerated velocity
on falling bodies may be made by observing the rebound of an elastic
body, when dropped from different heights. A marble or a cricket-
ball successively suffered to fall on a pavement, from the respective

30                             MECHANICS.
heights of a foot, a yard, and double or treble that height, would rise
higher and higher at each trial, according to the extent of the space
through which it had fallen. More exact experiments might be insti
tuted by forming three or four balls of soft wax or moist clay, exactly
of equal weight, as one pound each, and letting them drop from differ
ent heights on some smooth hard surface ; when it would be perceived
that each ball was indented or flattened, on the side on which it had
fallen, more or less deeply in proportion to the extent of the space it
had fallen through.
    Having thus ascertained that the velocity of a falling body, as de
noted by its final force, is increased by the augmentation of the distance
passed through, it becomes an interesting speculation to determine
what are the relative degrees of velocity produced by given distances and
times of descent. In other words, it is desirable to know whether a body
falling through a space during two seconds, or two minutes, would
fall as fast again in the second period as it did in the first, or three
times as fast, ten times as fast, or in what other ratio of acceleration.
This is obviously a question of the relation between time and space,
for velocity is the measure of that relation. Now the motion produced
by gravitative attraction is a continually increasing motion, so that a
body under the influence of gravitation will not fall through exactly the
same space in any two consecutive periods of time, however inconsider
able. For if we could suppose a single second to be divided into a
thousand parts, a falling body would pass through a greater space in the
second thousandth part of the second, than in the first thousandth part,
and so on in like manner throughout its course. However, in order
to find out the rate or ratio of the increasing velocity of falling bodies,
it will be sufficient to know what is the distance passed through by a
descending body in each succeeding second, minute, hour or any other
equal portion of the time of its whole descent.
    When we consider the various circumstances which interfere with
 tli» motion of falling bodies, some arising from the resistance of the
 medium through which they pass, and other incidental sources of
 irregularity, others from the varying force of gravitation itself, at dif
ferent distances from the centre of attraction, it will be at once per
 ceived that the inquiry before us is surrounded with difficulties. It
 is no wonder then that very confused and erroneous notions concern
ing this subject prevailed till a comparatively recent period. Aristotle,

                        LAWS OF GRAVITATION.                                  31
  whose opinions were long regarded as indisputable, states, in bis phi
 losophical writings, that if one body has ten times the density of another,
 it will move with ten times the velocity ; and that both bodies being
 let fall together, the first will fall through ton times the space that the
 other will in the same time ; besides other erroneous doctrines, which
 were generally received till his theory was overturned by the discove
 ries of the celebrated Italian philosopher Galileo, towards the end of
the sixteenth century. He showed that bodies, under the influence of
 gravitation alone, would fall through spaces as the squares of the times
 of descent : that is that a body, which would fall through one inch in
 one instant, would fall through four inches in two instants, and nine
inches in three instants ; for the square of any number is the product
of that number multiplied by itself, so four is the square of two, nine
the square of three, &c. The principle thus laid down by Galileo,
though disputed by some later philosophers,* has not only been trium
phantly established as a positive law of nature, with regard to falling
bodies, but, as already mentioned, it has been shown by Sir Isaac
 Newton that it is a general law of nature, extending to the motions of
the celestial bodies composing the solar system.
    In order to apply this principle to the purpose of ascertaining the
precise ratio of the accelerating velocity of falling bodies, it is neces
sary to fix on some measure of time as the unit from which calculations
must commence, and to determine what space a body will fall through
in that portion of time ; and these data being furnished, the application
may be readily explained.
    But before we proceed to the further consideration of the velocity
   * The following quotation will evince that the authority of Galileo was
questioned, and that different opinions were maintained by philosophers
concerning the ratio of the acceleration of the velocity of falling bodies, even
till the time of Newton's discoveries. " Corporum decidentium motus accele
rator, secundum Galileum, juxta progressum numerorum imparium, 1, 3, s, 7, 9,
&c; ita ut spatia decursa sint inter se ut quadrata temporum, hoc est, si cor
pus grave uno momento pedem unum percurrerit, duobus percurrat quatuor,
tribus novem, &c. Secundum alios, qui concedere noluerunt corporum caden-
tium cclcrttat em sequabiliter augeri, juxta progressum numerorum, 1 , 2.}, 3J,
3|, &c."—Vid. Regis Physic, lib. ii. cap. 23. The above passage is taken from
the annotations of Dr. Samuel Clarke, on Rohault's treatise on Natural Philo
sophy, a work which was considered as of standard authority in the beginning
of the last century.                                             .

 32                            MECHANICS.
of falling bodies, as the effect of a uniformly accelerated force, it will be
proper to observe that it can only be thus strictly estimated with re
spect to bodies falling through limited spaces, as short distances from
the surface of the earth, where the intensity of the gravitating force
 may be regarded as continuing the same during the whole period
 of descent. For not only does the velocity of gravitating bodies
 in descent become accelerated as they approach the centre of attrac
 tion, but the intensity of the accelerating force is also continually in
 creasing. And on the contrary, the intensity of the force diminishes
as the distance increases. Hence the velocity of a body falling from
 a great height, as fifty miles from the earth's surface, would increase
 in a smaller ratio at the beginning of its descent, and in a much greater
ratio towards the end of its descent, than that of a body falling through
only as many feet. The force of gravitation is to be estimated by the
same rule that has been already stated as applicable to the velocity of
falling bodies. It increases as the squares of the distances of bodies
decrease, and decreases as the squares of their distances increase.
Thus, if oue body attracts another with a certain force at the distance
of one mile, it will attract with four times the force at half a mile, nine
times the force at one-third of a mile, and so on in proportion ; and on
the contrary, it will attract with but one-fourth the force at two miles,
one-ninlh the force at three miles, one-sixteenth of the force at four
miles, and so on as the distance increases. Applying this principle
to the gravitative attraction of the earth, it follows that its force must
be four times greater at the earth's surface than at double that distance
from its centre ; and as the weight of bodies is estimated by the pres
sure or gravitating force with which they tend towards the earth, a
body weighing one pound at the earth's surface would have only one-
fourth of that weight, if it could be removed as far from the surface of
the earth as the surface is from the centre. And at the distance of
the moon from the earth, which is 240,000 miles, the weight or gra
vitating force of the same body, as affected by the attraction of the
earth, would be equal to only the 3600th part of a pound. For reckon
ing the distance of the earth's surface from its centre to be 4000 miles,
that is, half its diameter,* the distance of the moon would be sixty
   * The mean semi-diameter of the earth may be estimated more exactly at
3056 miles.

          GRAVITATIVE ATTRACTION OF THE EARTH.                          33
times as great, and the square of that number, or 3600, would, as just
stated, indicate the decrease of gravity, at the distance of 240,000
miles from the surface of the earth. This decrease of weight, in pro
portion to the squares of increasing distances, might in some situations
be made the subject of experiment. A ball of iron, weighing a thou
sand pounds at the level of the sea, would be perceived to have lost
two pounds of its weight, as ascertained by a spring balance, if taken
to the top of a mountain four miles high. The same body removed
from Edinburgh to the north pole would gain the addition of three
pounds ; and if conveyed to the equator, it would suffer a loss of four
pounds and a quarter. To account for the loss of weight in the last-
mentioned situation, it must be recollected that the earth is not a
perfect sphere, but that its figure is spheroidal, the diameter of the
earth from pole to pole being somewhat less than in the line of the
equator ; the equatorial regions therefore must be more distant from
the centre of attraction than the polar regions, and the force of gravi
tation at the former consequently less than at the latter. Hence the
point of greatest attraction must be at either of the poles ; for if the
iron ball just mentioned, could be conveyed to the depth of four miles
within the bowels of the earth, it would be found to be lighter by one
pound than at the surface ; since it would be attracted on every side,
and the force of gravitation upwards would in some degree counteract
the preponderating force with which it would press downwards. If it
were possible for the iron ball to reach the centre of the earth, it would
necessarily there lose the whole of its weight, for the attraction of gra
vitation acting equally in every direction, no effect would he produced,
and the ball would be fixed, as if encircled by an infinite number of
magnetic points.
    Connected with this part of the subject there are some curious pro
 blems, the solution of which requires mathematical calculations, but
 the results alone are here introduced, as furnishing interesting illustra
 tions of the power of gravitation.
    Suppose the axis of the earth were perforated from pole to pole : a
 body falling through the perpendicular hole, being attracted on all
 sides, would be urged downwards only by a predominating force, pro
 portional to its distance from the centre. The velocity acquired at
 this centre, reckoning the length of the axis 7900 miles, would be
                                     a
                                                                           s

34                              MECHANICS.
equal to 25,834 feet each second. The time of descent would be 1268£
seconds, or 21' 8"J ; and the whole time of passing to the opposite
pole 42' 16"$.*
   Conceive a body, under the mere influence of terrestrial attraction,
to fall from the orbit of the moon to the earth's surface. At the mean
distance of sixty semidiameters of the earth from its surface, the initial
force would be diminished 3600 times : with the same continued ac
celeration, therefore, it would consume a period of 526,578 seconds, or
six days, two hours, sixteen minutes, and eighteen seconds, in per
forming the whole descent. The final velocity, on this supposition
being 4680 Mg feet each second. Such would be the time of descent
under the influence of uniform acceleration; but the time required
with an acceleration inversely as the square of the distance from the
centre would he only 414,645 seconds, or four days, nine hours, ten
minutes, and forty-five seconds. And in this case the final velocity
would be 36,256 ,4050 feet, or about seven miles each second. Abstract
ing then, from the resistance of the atmosphere, a body propelled
directly upwards, with this last velocity of 36,256i^ feet in a second,
would mount to the orbit of the moon ; but with the addition of one
hundred and twentieth part more, or 305 feet to every second, it
would reach the sun ; and with the farther acceleration of less than
one foot, amounting to 36,562,$ each second, the body would be
enabled to continue its flight into the regions of boundless space. t
                              Accelerated Motion.
    The increase or acceleration of velocity, from the force of gravita-
tive attraction, has been stated to be as the squares of the numbers re
 presenting equal portions of the time during which a body falls. It
 has been found convenient to consider the time of descent of falling
bodies as divided into seconds, so that if a body, under the influence
 of gravitation alone, falls one foot in one second, it must fall four feet
   * In the hypothetical case here propounded, it must be admitted that the
acquired velocity of the body at the centre of the earth would overcome the
obstacles to its ascent, and enable it to complete its passage.
   t Leslie's Elements of Natural Philosophy, Snd edit. Edinb. 1820. Vol. i.
p. 106, 7.

                        ACCELERATED MOTION.                              35
 in two seconds, nine in three seconds, sixteen in four seconds, and so
 on, in progression ; the squares of the numbers of the seconds showing
 the number of feet passed through by the falling body at the end of
each second.      In order to discover the distance passed through
in each particular second of the time, it is merely requisite to sub
 tract, from the whole distance completed at the end of that second,
the number of feet at the end of the preceding second. Thus, from
4 feet, the distance in two seconds, take 1 foot, the distance in the first
second, and 3 the remainder, will be the number of feet passed through
in the second second only ; from 9, the distance in three seconds, take 4,
the preceding distance in the first two seconds, and the remainder 5
will be the distance in the third second ; so from 16, the distance in
four seconds, the preceding distance of 9 being subtracted, will leave 7,
the distance in the fourth second.
    Gravitation being a continually acting force, a body falling through
its influence alone would in every instant of its descent move faster
than in the preceding instant, and consequently, at the end of any
given time, it would be impelled by a force beyond that which carried
it through the preceding space. This force may be estimated in the
following manner. Suppose a body, after having fallen during one
second, by the impulse of gravitation, to be no longer acted on by an
accelerating force, but to continue its motion with the velocity already
acquired, describing through the remainder of its descent equal spaces
in equal times. In such a case it would be found that the falling
body, in every successive second of its descent, after the first, would
pass through twice the space through which it had fallen in the first
second by the force of gravitation. And the velocity being estimated
by the space described uniformly in one second, it follows that the
velocity acquired in one second must be equal to double the space
through which a body would fall freely by the action of gravity in one
second. Since then the velocity increases in the same proportion as
the time, it would be twice as great at the end of the second second, as
at the end of the first, thrice as great as at the end of the third second,
and so on.
   The following table, constructed on the supposition that a body
would fall through one foot in the first second of its descent, as fur
nishing the most simple results, will afford some further illustrations
of the positions laid down.
                                     d2

  6                            MECHANICS.
    Number of se-         Entire space        Velocity esti    Space in feet
     conds of the        fallen through       mated by feet,  fallen through
   period of descent.  in feet at the end      at the end of in each second
                        of each second         each second.
          1                    1                      2             1
          2                    4                     4             3
          3                    9                      6             5
          4                   16                      8            7
          5                  25                     10             9
          6                  36                     12            11
          7                  49                     14            13
          8                  64                     16            15
          9                  81                     18            17
         10                 100                     20            19
   It will at once appear from the inspection of this table, that the
time of descent of falling bodies increasing as the numbers 1, 2, 3, &c.,
and the entire spaces passed through as the squares of those numbers,
the augmentation of velocity will be represented by the even numbers,
in regular progression, and the spaces passed through in each second
by the odd numbers. The sum of the number of feet in the fourth co
lumn will of course give the number of feet fallen through in the whole
time ; and the distance fallen through in any part of the time may be
found in the same manner. Thus, 1 +3 +5, &c. to 19 inclusive will
amount to 100. So the space fallen through in any number of seconds
may be ascertained by adding the corresponding numbers in the se
                                        cond and third columns, together
                                        with the number representing the
                                        space fallen through in the first
                                        second of descent. Thus 4+4
                                        =8+1 = 9; 12+36=48 + 1 =
                                        49 ; 18+81 = 99+1 = 100. And
                                        the same results may be obtained
                                        in any similar cases.
                                           The nature of accelerating velo
                                        city, as exhibited in falling bodies
                                        may , perhaps, be somewhat eluci
                                         dated by reference to the series of
                                         triangles in the annexed diagram.

                  LAWS OF ACCELERATED MOTION.                           37
 Let the line A B denote the time of the descent of a falling body,
divided into equal portions, as seconds ; then the small numbered
triangles may represent the space fallen through, under the in
 fluence of gravitation : the number of the triangles in each lino
showing the number of feet passed through in each second, and the
entire number the whole space described in five seconds. By com
pleting the square, as with the dotted lines.it maybe perceived how it
happens that the velocity, acquired by a falling body at the end of each
second, is more than is expended in its passage through the next se
cond ; and also it will appear that a body, moving uniformly with the
velocity acquired at the end of any given second of time, will describe
double the space described in the same time by a body falling under
the influence of gravitation alone. For suppose the triangles a, b, c, d, e,
to denote the surplus velocity at the end of each second, which must be
sufficient to carry the falling body through one foot, they will, if added
successively to the numbered triangles in each line, show the velocity
acquired in each succeeding second ; and therefore the triangles 17,
 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, and « will be ten in number, the amount
of the velocity acquired at the end of five seconds. Now a body
moving with the uniform velocity of ten feet in a second would pass
through the distance of fifty feet in five seconds ; while a body falling
through gravitation only would pass through but twenty-five feet in
the same time : and the space described by the uniformly moving body,
at the rate of ten feet in a second, may be represented by the square
A B C D ; while the triangle ABC would represent the space de
scribed by a body moving with accelerated velocity, in the same time ;
and as the square is equal to the doubled triangle, so the former space
would be double the latter. Hence likewise a body moving uniformly,
with half the velocity it would acquire at the end of any given time,
would pass through a space exactly equal to that which it would de
scribe moving with accelerating velocity during the same time. Ac
cording to the preceding table, the velocity of a body at the end of ten
seconds would be equal to twenty feet ; now half that velocity, or ten
feet in a second, would carry a body through one hundred feet in ten
seconds, which is precisely the space it would have fallen through in
that time, by the effect of gravitation.
   Thus, the velocity acquired at the end of any given time being suffi
cient to have carried a body twice the distance it would reach with

 38                            MECHANICS.
gradually accelerated velocity, it follows that the velocity actually ex
pended in the latter case is only half the velocity that has been ac
quired; and since the final velocity in each second is represented by a
number double that denoting the time, the real amount of accelerating
velocity may be expressed by a number equal to the time. Hence as
the space fallen through by a gravitating body is equal to the square of
the time, that is the number representing the time multiplied by itself,
so the time and the velocity being equal, the space must be as the
square of the velocity, or as the time multiplied by the velocity.
   We have already taken occasion to observe that the force of gravi
tation varies at different distances from the centre of attraction ; and
hence the absolute effect of gravitative influence must vary also. The
consequence of this principle, as exemplified in the augmentation or
reduction of the weight of bodies in different situations, has been
pointed out. And since bodies in motion are acted on by gravitation
in the same manner as bodies at rest, it follows that falling bodies will
describe greater spaces in equal times, according to the increased in
tensity of gravitation, as occasioned by the diminution of the distance
through which it acts. In order therefore to discover by experiment
the force of gravitation, as measured by the space through which a
body would fall, in a given time, as one second, we must know what is
the distance of the gravitating body from the centre of attraction. If,
as already remarked, the earth were a perfect sphere, every part of its
surface would be equidistant from its centre ; but, since it is an ob
late spheroid, or globe flattened at the poles, the attraction must there
be strongest, and must decrease in the intensity of its force, in the
direction of a line from either of the poles to the equator. Such a
line would be a meridian of longitude, and the degrees of latitude mea
sured on it would be so many points at which the intensity of gravi
tation was progressively diminishing. Hence, in experiments made to
ascertain directly the amount of gravitative force as measured by the
space a body would fall through in one second of time, regard must be
had to the latitude of the place where the experiment might be made,
and if the utmost accuracy were required, the height of the spot above
the level of the sea must also be taken into the account. These ob
servations will be sufficient to show that no small degree of skill and
attention would be requisite in order to ensure the perfect exactness of
such experiments. Instead therefore of pursuing this train of in

             RATE OP VELOCITY OF FALLING BODIES.                        39
vestigation farther at present, we shall proceed to state that numerous
and very accurate experiments have been made, whence it appears that
in the latitude of London, which is near the level of the sea, a heavy
body falls, from the action of gravity, in the first second of its descent,
through the space of sixteen feet and one inch, or 193 inches.
   In making calculations relative to the phenomena of falling bodies,
when extreme accuracy is not required, the space passed through in
one second of time may be estimated at 16 feet ; and taking this as the
common multiple of distances and velocities, a table similar to that
already given may be constructed, by means of which the spaces fallen
through in any given time may be ascertained with sufficient exact
ness. The following short specimen of such a table may be easily ex
tended by the young student, so as to afford data for the resolution of
several interesting questions.
     Seconds of     Feet passed       Final velocitv       Feet passed
         1      -    -     16     -    -     32       -    -     16
         2      -    -     64     -    -     64       -    -     48
         3      -    -    144     -    -      96      -    -     80
         4     -     -   256      -    -    128                 112
         5               400                160                 144
    Suppose now we wish to discover the height of an eminence, or the
 depth of a well ; by dropping a leaden bullet from the top of either,
and observing how many seconds elapsed before it reached the bottom,
 a table like the above would show by inspection how many feet the
 space amounted to in either case. No notice, however, is here taken of the
 resistance of the air, which would greatly affect the motion of bodies
 falling from a considerable height. Several years ago a man dropped
 from the balcony of the Monument, near London Bridge, a height of
 about 200 feet : he would therefore have fallen to the pavement below
 in nearly three seconds and a half, but for the resistance of the atmo
 sphere : notwithstanding which he must have been whirled downwards
 with a velocity, which perhaps rendered the miserable being insensible
 of the appalling catastrophe that awaited him. Sometimes aerolites
 have exploded in the air, and fallen in showers of meteoric stones, as
 happened near Sienna, in Italy, in 1794; and at L'Aigle, in France, in
 1803. If the moment of such an explosion could be observed, and
 also that at which the stones, or any one of them, came to the ground

40                            MECHANICS.
the height at which the phenomenon took place might be estimated with
tolerable accuracy.
   The obstacles which occur in the experimental investigation of the
laws of gravitation are partly owing to the very extensive space that
would be required for direct experiments on falling bodies, even for a
few seconds; and to these would be added the variable effect of atmo
spheric pressure against bodies moving with great velocity. The con
sideration of these difficulties led Mr. George Attwood, an ingenious
philosopher who died in the early part of the present century, to con
trive a machine in which the influence of gravitative force might be
moderated without destroying its characteristic efficiency, in the pro
                          duction of an accelerated motion. This piece
                          of machinery was very elaborately constructed,
                          and some parts of it could not be correctly de
                          scribed without entering into extensive details,
                          and giving delineations on a large scale ; but
                          the principle on which it acted may be con
                          cisely explained. Equal weights, A and B,
                          being suspended by a 6ne silken cord, passing
                          over a wheel moving with the least possible
                          degree of friction ; then by adding a certain
                          quantity to one of the weights, as by placing
                          on it a small bar C, descending motion may be
                          produced, differing in intensity from that
caused by the unrestrained power of gravitation, but obeying the same
law of accelerating velocity ; so that, though the loaded weight might
be made to descend only one inch in one second, its continued motion
would be found to proceed in the regular ratio of the squares of the
times of descent. It might be imagined, that as the large weights
counterbalance each other, the small bar ought to descend as freely as
if they were removed ; but the gravitating force expended in producing
motion is partly consumed in overcoming the inertia of the large
weights, and therefore the portion of it which acts as a moving power
will bear the same proportion to the whole force, as the weight of the
bar alone bears to the entire moving mass, for it is expended in
drawing down the loaded weight A on one side, and raising the weio-ht
B on the other side, at the same time. Thus if the weights were two
pounds each, and the bar weighed but half a pound, the force expended
would be but one-ninth part of the whole force ; and the loaded weigh*

                        RETARDED MOTION.                                41
A would descend but one-ninth part of sixteen feet in the first second
of time, and with the same reduced velocity, as the squares of the
times, throughout its descent. By means of this machine a variety of
most interesting and important experiments may be performed, and
the laws of gravitation satisfactorily demonstrated.
   Bodies projected directly upwards will be influenced by gravitation
in their ascent as well as in their descent ; but its force must be calcu
lated inversely, producing continually retarded motion while they are
rising, and continually increasing motion during their fall. So that
a body propelled perpendicularly through the air, leaving out of the
question the resistance of the medium through which it passed, would
rise to a height exactly equal to that from which it must have fallen to
acquire a final velocity the same as it had at the first instant of its as
cent. And the velocity would be the same in the corresponding parts
of the ascent and descent. The time likewise which the propelled body
required to attain its utmost height would be just equal to that during
which it would be falling to the ground. Hence the laws which
regulate uniformly accelerated velocities will apply equally to uni
formly retarded velocities : that is, the velocity lost in any given time,
by the influence of a uniformly retarding force, will be as the time ;
the space passed through as the square of the time, or the square of
the velocity : and so on, as in the case of accelerating forces.
             Motion of Bodies on inclined Planes and Curves,
   Among the varieties of accelerated motion depending on the influence
of gravitation, that of bodies passing along inclined planes requires to
be noticed, as exhibiting the modified effect of a most extensively
acting force. When pressure is applied in a vertical direction to a
body supported by an horizontal plane it is manifest that no motion can
ensue ; and the force of gavitation thus acting can be measured only
by the direct weight of the body so situated. But if the plane surface
on which the body rests be inclined in any degree, the efficient weight
will be proportionally diminished ; and if the inclination of the plane
be sufficient to enable the body to overcome the resistance to its motion
arising from friction and similar causes, the body will move down the
plane with a velocity so much the greater as the surface over which it
moves approaches to a vertical direction. The motion in this case
will be a continually accelerated motion, differing in degree of relative

42                              MECHANICS.
velocity from that caused by the direct influence of gravitation, but
subject to the same law of acceleration.
   In order to estimate the force with which bodies are impelled down
inclined planes, we omit for the present all consideration of the resist
ance occasioned by friction : and therefore suppose a plane to have a
perfectly smooth surface, and the figure of the moving body to be
globular, and of the same density in every part, so as to be capable of
motion in any direction.
                                       Let A C represent the declivity of
                                    an inclined plane, A B its perpendicu
                                    lar height, and D E the absolute weight
                                    of an ivory ball on its surface ; now
                                    this weight, by the parallelogram of
                                    forces, will be found to act in two direc
                                    tions ; D F, or G E, denoting the direct
                                    pressure perpendicular to the declivity
                                    of the plane, and D G, or F E, in the
                                    direction of that declivity : the former
                                    force it is obvious will be destroyed
by the resistance of the plane, and the ball will consequently move
down the plane with a force bearing the same relation to the force of
gravity that D G does to D E, that is, it would move down the plane
through a space equal to D G, while it would fall through a space
equal to D E by the force of gravitation.*
                      Whatever may be the declivity or inclination of
                   the plane, the force of a body moving down it may
                   be estimated on the same principle. Thus suppose
                   the obliquity of the plane to be very considerable,
                   as represented in the margin, the line D G would be
                  nearly equal to D E ; and the force of the body mo
                   ving on such a plane would manifestly be little in
                   ferior to that of the same body falling freely.
                      As the force of a body moving on an inclined
                   plane is less than that of a body moving by the in
                   fluence of gravitation, its final velocity in a given
                  time must also be less ; and the distance through
                  which it must move on a declivity to acquire a cer-
                 * See page 21 on the resolution of forces.

          MOTION OF BODIES ON CURVED SURFACES.                          43
tain final velocity must be greater than that through which it must fall
freely by the effect of gravity to acquire the same velocity.
   A                                 It may be demonstrated that a body
        JD                        moving down any inclined plane will
                                  acquire the same final velocity, in pass
                                  ing from A to C, that it would have
                                  gained in falling through the relative
                                   distance A B. For let A D be the
                                   space through which the body would
move down the plane in the same time that it would fall from A to B,
it follows that, in order to acquire the same velocity that it would gain
by falling from A to B, it must pass through a space bearing the same
proportion to A B that A B does to A D ; and as the triangles A D B
and ABC are similar, their corresponding sides must have the same
relations to each other ; therefore A D will be to A B, as A B to A C.
Hence the proposition will universally hold good, that a body rolling
down an inclined plane of any extent or obliquity, but for the effect of
friction or similar causes, would acquire the same final velocity, as if it
had fallen directly through a space equal to the perpendicular height of
the summit of the plane.
   Bodies moving on curved surfaces would not exhibit uniformly
accelerated velocity, like those moving on inclined planes ; for the re
sistance occasioned by the peculiar form of the curve in which any such
body might move would be continually changing, and the result of that
resistance would be a consequent change in both the velocity and the
direction of the moving body.— Some idea of the nature of this perpetual
change may be obtained from considering what would be the effect of
presenting to a moving body a succession of inclined planes, either

44                              MECHANICS.
ascending or descending, the outlineof which would form a rude resem
blance to a curved surface. From the mere inspection of the preceding
figures, it may be comprehended that a body passing over a convex sur
face, as from A to B, would encounter a perpetually diminishing re
sistance ; and in passing over a concave surface, as from C to D, the
resistance would progressively increase. For in the former instance,
the effect would be as if the moving body rolled down a number of
declivities, each one more oblique than the preceding ; and in the latter,
it would be as if the body passed over a series of declivities, each of
which approached nearer than the preceding to the figure of an hori
zontal plane.
    Having thus endeavoured to explain the manner in which curvilinear
motions are produced by the constant action of variable forces, we can
now proceed to investigate the phenomena of curvilinear motions in
general. When a body moves through an entire circle," with uniform
velocity, as it must be impelled by forces continually varying in inten
sity and direction, those variations must be supposed to take place
momentarily, or in inconceivably minute portions of time and space.
So that such a body might be considered as moving in the circumference
 ofa polygon having an infinite number of sides.
    In the case of a body moving over a curved surface and in contact
with it, there must be a certain pressure of the body on the surface
 over which it passes, and a corresponding resistance, or pressure on
the body, in every instant of its progress. Now this pressure shows the
degree of force to which the continual variation of direction, or de
 flection of the moving body is to be attributed. Suppose a leaden
bullet or a billiard-ball to be made to move round within a hoop laid
flat on a table or any level surface, it would obviously press against the
inside of the hoop, thus manifesting a constant tendency to escape from
the circle in which it was moving, and only withheld by the counter-
pressure, or resistance of the hoop. If then the hoop were suddenly
lifted while the ball was passed round within it, the circular motion
would no longer be continued ; but the ball would fly off in a right line
from the point where it was set at liberty. The force operating on the
moving body in this case would be precisely similar to that which would
propel forwards a stone discharged from a sling, on letting go the cord
which detained it during the previous circular motion or whirling,
 whence it would acquire its subsequent velocity.

                          CENTRAL FORCES.                               45
   The forces which act on bodies revolving in circles or other orbits
may be regarded as antagonist powers, one of which perpetually im
pels the moving body in a right line from the centre of motion, and the
other draws it towards that centre ; and by the joint action of these
forces curvilinear motion is produced. The former, or the repellant
power, is named centrifugal force, or force causing bodies to fly from a
centre ; and the latter is styled centripetal force, or that which attracts
moving bodies towards the centre of motion. These opposing forces
have also received the common appellation of central forces. It may be
here observed that the line in which a body will move, on escaping
from the circle around which it must have been previously whirled, will
always form a tangent to that circle, or in other words, it will extend
in a direction perpendicular to another line drawn from the centre of
the circle to the point of escape. Hence this force has been sometimes
called a tangential force ; but its usual appellation is that of centri
fugal force.
   These forces must necessarily differ in degree according to cir
cumstances— such as the mass of the moving body, the extent of the
circle in which it may move, and the velocity of its motion.
                                Thus a ball, B, of two pounds weight,
                             would require a greater centrifugal force to
                             make it revolve round the circle A, in any
                             given time, than another ball weighing only
                             one pound. The extent of a circle is to be
                             estimated by its radius, or the line C B,
                             passing from its centre to some point in its
                             circumstance, and consequently always
                              equal to half the diameter. Now the cen
                              trifugal force or pressure must increase, as
the radios of a curve in which a body moves increases. In a circle
the same mdius will apply to every part ; but if a body should move
in any other curve, as an ellipse, the degree of curvature, and con
sequently the length of the radius will differ in different parts. Hence
the expression, radius of curvature, has been used to denote the line
which may be drawn from the centre of motion to any given point of
the curve described by a revolving body. The velocity of revolving
bodies may be estimated by the actual space passed through in a given
time, or by reference to the time in which any such body would pass

46                            MECHANICS.
from one point in the circuit in which it moved toanother point. These
distances, being measured by the angle formed by lines drawn from the
oentre of motion to the points just mentioned, the velocity indicated
may be styled the angular velocity of the moving body.
   The amount of centrifugal force in different circumstances' may be
experimentally determined by means of a machine called a Whirling-
table, which is so constructed that different weights may be whirled at
any given distance from the centre of motion, and with any required
degrees of velocity ; and the measure of the centrifugal force expended
is obtained by causing the revolving weights, by their rotatory motion,
to draw up other weights, which are suspended freely : and thus the
effect of centrifugal force may be ascertained in a satisfactory manner.
From the results of experiments with the whirling-table, it appears, that
the centrifugal force will increase as the mass of the moving body
increases ; that the centrifugal force will be doubled, other circum
stances remaining the same, if the radius of curvature be doubled ; that
if the radius of curvature remain the same, and the angular velocity be
doubled, the centrifugal force will be quadrupled ; and that if equal
masses be made to revolve within circles, the radii of which are as t to
3, and with angular velocities as 1 to 2, the centrifugal force will be as
2 to 12, or as 1 to 6. Hence it appears that the centrifugal force in
creases in direct proportion to the mass of the moving bodv, and to the
distance from the centre of motion, and also as the square of the angular
velocity. Thus : the radius of the circle being 2—the angular ve
locity 1, the square of which is 1—the centrifugal force will be the
product, 2 X 1—2 ; the radius of the circle being3 —the angular velocity
2, the square of which is 4 — the centrifugal force will be the pro
duct, 3x4~12; thus, as above, the centrifugal force in the different
eases would be as 2 to 12.
   In order to obtain the amount of centrifugal force at any given point,
the square of the number of feet expressing the angular velocity in one
second of time must be divided by the number of feet denoting the
radius of curvature, and the dividend will give the centrifugal force, as
estimated by the number of feet a body impelled by it would describe
in one second. Thus, a sling, two feet long, circling vertically, with
the velocity of eight feet each second, would communicate to a stone
a centrifugal force equal to thirty-two feet in a second, which would be
the final velocity of a body falling during one second, and the centri

                        CENTRIFUGAL MOTION.                               47
 fugal force therefore would be just sufficient to counteract the influence
 of gravitation, and enable the sling to support its load. If the motion
 of the sling were accelerated so as to perform a complete revolution in
 one second, the tension of the string would uphold the stone with a force
  2| times greater than the attraction of gravitation.
     An amusing experiment, illustrative of the influence of centrifugal
 force in overcoming that of gravitation, may be performed by placing a
 tumbler filled with water, in a sling, or fixing it upright in the bottom
 of a net, when it may he whirled round with such velocity that not a
 drop of the water will be spilled, though the mouth of the glass will be
 turned downwards during a part of each revolution.
     The centrifugal force at the equator may be computed by taking the
 time of one diurnal revolution — 86,t64 seconds, the equatorial radius
  of the earth — 20,921,185 feet, and the ratio of the earth's circumfe
  rence to its diameter=3. 14,159:1. Then 4 X 3.14,1592 x 20,921,185
  -t-86,1642—0.1,112,259, which is the centrifugal force at the equator
  Now as the actual force of gravitation, determined by experiments, the
  nature of which will be subsequently described is, 32.08,818 ; and there
  fore, if the earth were at rest, it would be 32.08,818 + 0.1,112,259
  — 32.1 ,994,059, it follows that the centrifugal force at the equator is to
  the force of gravity in the proportion of the numbers 0.1,112,259 to
  32.1 ,994,059, or nearly as 1 to 289. So that the force of gravitation is
  289 times greater than the centrifugal force, at those parts of the earth's
  surface where the action of the latter is most powerful. Now since
  289 is the square of 17, it will follow that if the diurnal revolution of
  the earth had been completed in one-seventeenth part of the time which
  it now takes up ; that is, had the earth revolved on her axis in eighty-four
  minutes, instead of nearly twenty-four hours, the centrifugal force would
  have counteracted that of gravitation, and all bodies would have been
  absolutely destitute of weight ; and if the centrifugal force were further
  augmented, the earth revolving in less time than eighty-four minutes,
  gravitation would be completely, overpowered, and all fluids and loose
  substances near the equinoctial line would fly off from the surface, just
  as the drops of water are scattered around when the busy housemaid
  dexterously twirls her drippingmop. "On such a supposition, the waters
  of the ocean must have been drained off, and an impassable zone
  of sterility interposed between the opposite hemispheres. By a similar
• calculation, combined with the decreasing force of gravity, at great

48                      -\      MECHANICS.
distances from the centre, it may be inferred, that the altitude of out
atmosphere could never exceed 26,000 miles. Beyond this limit, the
equatorial portions of air would have been. shot into boundless space.'*
   Among the abundant examples of the effects of centrifugal forces
that might easily be adduced, a few may here be noticed, in addition to
those already given. The astonishing power of this force, even when
exerted on a small scale, appears from its destructive influence on hard
solid bodies ; as when grindstones are whirled about with extraordi
nary velocity in our manufactories, they will sometimes split, and
pieces ',fly off with amazing force. The more regulated, but no less
powerful operation of centrifugal force may be observed in some parts
of the machinery employed in certain branches of the arts : as in the
fly-wheel which regulates the motion of a steam-engine, and in the
coining-press ; but these and other modifications of mechanical power
will be noticed elsewhere. Semifluid and soft but tenacious substances,
under the influence of centrifugal force, assume in a greater or less
degree the form of a compressed globe ; and thus a rudely-shaped ball
ofclay, placed on a potter's wheel, with the assistance of gentle pressure
while in the state of revolution, gradually acquires a symmetrical form ;
and globular glass vessels owe their figure to the analogous manipula
tions of the glass-blower. Liquids exposed to a whirling motion are
similarly affected ; as may be perceived if a glass of water be suspended
by threads, and made to turn with great velocity by the twisting and
untwisting of the threads, when the water would sink in the centre,
and rise on the sides so as to escape in part over the edge of the glass.
In all cases centrifugal force tends to make bodies under its influence
recede from a central point, and when it acts in conjunction with a cen
tripetal force, the effect will be revolving motion, whether those powers
be exerted in keeping a peg top or a tee-totum spinning on a floor or
table for a few minutes ; or in causing the vast globe which we inhabit
to revolve with undiminished energy through countless ages.
                        Oscillation of the Pendulum.
   Oscillation or vibration is a peculiar kind of curvilinear motion, de
pending on the influence of gravitative attraction, and it not only af-
  * Leslie's Elements of Natural Philosophy, v. i. p. 111. See also Encyclo
pedia Metropolitana: Mixed Sciences, v. i. p. 121, 122; and Francceur Trait e
de Mecanique Element- sme. edit. 1825, p. 287, 288.

                      VIBRATION OF PENDULUMS.                              49
fords the means for ascertaining the variation of the force of gravitation
in different latitudes, hut likewise furnishes the most accurate method
for measuring time, and leads to various important results in the investi
gation of many natural phenomena.
   When any beavy body is suspended by a string or small wire, it will
take a direction in a line vertical to that point of the earth's surface over
which it hangs, as in the case of the plumb-line of a mason's level
when placed on an horizontal plane. Now the laws of oscillation are
those which would regulate the motion of a body thus suspended, if
drawn aside from the vertical line in which it would rest, and then let
go and suffered to oscillate or swing forwards and backwards undis
turbed. In treating this subject it will be most convenient to consider
the phenomena of oscillatory motion simply and independently of the
effects of the resistance of the air, the friction of the suspending line
on the point of suspension, and the varying extension of that line ; all
which it is obvious would affect the results of actual experiments, and
would therefore require attention in making calculations founded on
them.
                                 Suppose A B to represent a pendulum at
                              rest in the vertical position, if it be then
                  v           drawn from B to C and let fall, it will return
                    \         to B, with an accelerated motion, which, how
                              ever, will not be uniformly accelerated, since
                      \       it must depend partly on the gravitation of
                              the pendulum towards the earth, which acting
                         '-• alone would cause it to fall perpendicularly
                            o from the point C, butwhich being modified bv
 &                         c the tension of the line, it is forced to describe
                              the arc C B. Now at B the direct power of
gravitation will be not merely modified but destroyed, for the line
being stretched to its full extent would prevent any further descending
motion ; but when arrived at B, the pendulum would have acquired a
certain degree of velocity during its previous descent, which would be
just sufficient to overcome the force of gravity tending to retain it at
the point B, and make it move forward from that point to D, with a
retarding velocity, which would there be entirely expended ; and since
the pendulum at D would be in a situation exactly corresponding with
that in which it was placed at C, it must again describe the same arc

50                            MECHANICS.
 D B C, but in a retrograde direction, first with a gradually accelerated
velocity, and then with a velocity progressively retarded. Thus, but
 for the obstacles already mentioned, and the wear and tear of materials,
a pendulum once put in a state of vibration, would go on regularly
oscillating for ever.
   The vibrations of any one pendulum will be described in equal
times whatever be the extent of the arc through which it moves, pro
 vided that arc do not exceed a certain limit.
               A.                 Thus when the vibration of a pendulum
                               is progressively weakened by the resist
                               ance of the air, every succeeding arc
                               passed through will be less than the fore
                                going; and yet it will be found that though
                                the pendulum moves slower and slower
                                continually, there will be but little dif
                                ference in the time taken up by the ball
                                in moving from 5 to 5, 4 to 4, &c., on
                                each side of the line A B, till it stops en
                                tirely. It is this remarkable property of
               R                the pendulum that makes it so useful as a
measure of time ; and clocks, or time-keepers, regulated by a pen
dulum, are nothing more than trains of wheel- work kept in motion by
weights, and so arranged as to register the beats of pendulums which
oscillate seconds or half-seconds. This equality of vibration of bodies
in certain curves was discovered by Galileo, whose attention is said to
have been ex cited by remarking the motion of a chandelier hanging from
the ceiling of a church at Pisa ; for, noticing that it moved with unifor
mity as to time, independent of the space passed through, he was in
duced to make experiments, which established what has been termed
the law of Isochronism, or equality of time.*
   As it is only when oscillating in very small arcs of circles that pen
dulums preserve this regularity of vibration, it became a subject of in
quiry among philosophers whether a curve could not be found in which
the isochronism of a pendulum would be perfect ; and such a curve was
discovered by the celebrated Dutch mathematician, Huygens, the con-
             * From the Greek I*c°£, equal, and Xpovoc, time.

                NATURE OF OSCILLATORY MOTION.                           51
temporary of Newton. It has been named a cycloid,* and from its pro
perty an isochronal CHrve, and it differs little from an arc of a circle,
except in rising somewhat more abruptly at each extremity. But it is
the less necessary to enter into any further description of its nature and
properties, as it has been found after all to be less adapted for practical
purposes than small circular arcs, in which therefore the pendulums of
time-keepers are made to oscillate.
   The vibrating weight of a pendulum does not influence its motion ;
for whether a great or a small weight be affixed to a vibrating line, its
oscillations will be similar, provided the length of the line, measured
from the point of suspension to the centre of oscillation, remains the
same. Sir Isaac Newton made experiments on a great variety of sub
jects, as metals, stones, woods, salts, portions of flesh, &c., whence
he ascertained that how greatly soever they might differ in weight, the
addition of any of them to a pendulum would not interfere with its rate
of oscillation, so long as its length remained unaltered. Thus, as
heavy bodies and light ones would fall to the earth, through a given
space, in the same time, but for the resistance of the air, so they would
be found to vibrate in equal times at the end of a line of a given length,
provided atmospherical resistance could be made to act on them in the
same manner, or be entirely excluded, as by inclosing the vibrating
bodies in an exhausted receiver.
   It is on the length of the pendulum that the rate of oscillation prin
cipally depends : that is, the greater the distance between the point of
suspension and the point of oscillation, the longer will be the period of
each vibration ; and on the contrary, the shorter that distance, the
quicker will the vibrations take place. Now, as gravitation is the
power on which oscillatory motion depends, so the same law that re
gulates its operation on falling bodies is observable in its action on
oscillating bodies : for as the intensity of gravitative force decreases as
the squares of the increasing distances of bodies, thus the time of a
vibration will increase as the square root of the length of the pendulum,
 or the distance from the point of suspension to the point of oscillation
 increases. If then a pendulum 1 yard in length, would make one
 vibration in one second, a pendulum J of a yard long would vibrate
 half-seconds, one 4 yards long, would vibrate once in two seconds, one
       * From the Greek KOkXoc, a circle, and EWoc, a resemblance.
                                     ¦3

52                             MECHANICS.
9 yards long, in three seconds, and so on ; for * is the square root of £,
2 of 4, 3 of 9, etc. But in order to obtain the absolute length of a
pendulum that would swing seconds, it is necessary to take into con
sideration the intensity of gravitation, which, as already stated, varies
at different parts of the earth's surface, depending on their relative dis
tance from the centre of gravitative attraction. The greater the inten
sity of gravitation at any place, so much the quicker will be the vibra
tions of a pendulum of a given length ; so that a pendulum which would
oscillate seconds at London would perform each of its oscillations in
somewhat less than a second if it could be removed to the north pole ;
and on the contrary, would take up more than a second in one vibration
under the equinoctial line. The intensity of gravitation at any given
point of the earth's surface thus corresponding with the vibrations of a
pendulum of a given length, it follows that if the intensity of gravita
tion at any place, as estimated by the space which a body falling freely
would describe in any time, as one second, be known, the length of a
pendulum, which would vibrate seconds at that place, may be ascer
tained by computation. For since the time of vibration is to the time
of descent through half the length of the pendulum, as the circumference
of a circle to its diameter, that is, as 3.14159 to 1, let the time of vibra
tion be 1 second, then the length of the pendulum may be thus found.
The time of descent of a body during 1 second, in the latitude of Lon
don, by the influence of gravitation, has been already stated to be about
16,'j feet, or 193 inches; and since the spaces of descent are as the
squares ofthe times, therefore 3.14159* : l2 : : 193 : 19.0625 = 1 9i',=
half the length of the pendulum, which must therefore be 19i'6 X 2=
394 inches. In order to determine the length of a seconds' pendulum
by experiment, a pendulum of a known length must be made to oscil
late for a certain time, as one hour ; then the square root of its length
will be to the square root of the length of the required pendulum, in
versely, as the number of vibrations performed in an hour, by the pen
dulum which has been the subject of the experiment, to the number of
seconds in one hour. Thus, if in any latitude it could be ascertained that
a pendulum 9 yards in length oscillated 1 200 times in an hour, then as
the number of oscillations, 1200, to the square root of the length of the
pendulum, 3, the square root of 9, so inversely would 3600, the number
of oscillations required to be performed by the seconds' pendulum, be

                RELATIVE LENGTHS OF PENDULUMS.                          53
  to the square root of its length : that is, as 1200 : 3 : : 3600 : 1 ;
 since 1200x3-7-360=1, the square of which would be 1 ; therefore a
  pendulum 1 yard long would swing seconds in any place where a pen
  dulum 9 yards in length would make but 1200 vibrations in an hour.
    It will be obvious, from what has been already stated, relative to the
 effect of friction, atmospheric resistance, and the extensibility of the
 line of suspension of a pendulum, that a multitude of precautions
 would be requisite in making direct experiments on the lengths of
 pendulums, with reference to the times of vibration at any given place.
 Dr. Halley, in the early part of the last century, estimated the length
 of a seconds' pendulum at 39.125 inches, =39J inches; and that esti
 mate has been generally adopted, as sufficiently correct for most prac
 tical purposes. From the most recent and accurate researches of men
 of science, it appears that the length of a pendulum which oscillates se
 conds, in vacuo, at the mean temperature of 62 degrees of Fahrenheit's
 thermometer, in the latitude of London, 51° 31' 8'' N., must be
 39.13929 inches : and as the further result of experimental investiga
 tion, it may be added that at Melville Island, in the Polar Sea, Lat. 74°
 47' 12" X., the length must be 39.207 inches ; at the Galapagos
 Islands, Lat. 3s;' N., 39.01719 inches ; and at Rio Janeiro, Lat. 22°
 55' S„ 39.01206 inches.*
    As the force or intensity of gravitation decreases as the distance
 from the earth's centre increases, it follows that a pendulum, which
would oscillate seconds at the bottom of a mountain one mile in per
 pendicular height, would not perform so many complete oscillations as
there are seconds in an hour, if removed to the top of the mountain.
Suppose the radius of the earth's circumference to be 4000 miles, as a
seconds' pendulum would at that distance from the centre of attraction
vibrate 3600 times in an hour, and therefore 86400 = 3600 x 24 in a
day, it follows that it would lose the 4000th part of 86,400 seconds in
a day, at the distance of 4001 miles from the earth's centre. Now
86400 -f- 4000 = 21.6, that is, the loss would be 21 £ seconds in a day.
    The length of a pendulum vibrating seconds being known, that of
one which will vibrate half-seconds, like those of most table clocks,
or any other portion of time, may be readily calculated. For the times
of vibration being as the square roots of the length of the pendulum,
   * See Abstracts of Papers printed in the Philosophical Transactions from
1800 to 1830, vol. ii. p. 144, and p. 194.

 54                             MECHANICS.
 hence, as one second to 6.255, the square root of 39.125, so will half
 a second be to the square root of the pendulum required ; that is as
 1 : 6.255 : : 0.5 : 3.1275, the square of which will be 9.78. But the
 length of the half-seconds' or any other pendulum, may be also found
 by taking the squares of the times, which will be directly as the lengths
 of the pendulums ; thus as 1=12 sec. : 39.125 : : .25= J2 sec. : 9.78,
 as before, or 9,'0 inches, the length of a half-seconds' pendulum.
    A pendulum may be so constructed as to have its centre of oscilla
 tion far beyond the limits of its actual dimensions ; and thus a pen
 dulum only one foot in length, may be made to oscillate as slowly as
         I)         another 12 feet long. Suppose a rod of iron, A B, to
         A.         be loaded at both ends, and suspended at C, so that it
                    might vibrate freely, it is manifest that though the
                    arc described in each vibration would be limited by
                    the length measured from the point of suspension, the
                    velocity of the ball B, would be checked by the coun
                    terweight of the ball A, and the latter being moveable
                    on the rod, the rate of vibration might be regulated
                    at pleasure. An instrument of this kind, called a
             _..-- Bletronome, is used to mark, by its oscillations, the
        ^^          time in performing pieces of music.
   A rod of uniform dimensions might be made to vibrate as a peudulum,
without any ball or appendage whatever ; but in that case the centre
of oscillation would be raised, and such a pendulum must consequently
be longer than one of the usual form. In a uniformly shaped rod or
bar suspended at one extremity so that it might vibrate freely, the
centre of oscillation would be at two-thirds of the distance between the
point of suspension and the other extremity of the rod. Force applied
at that part to arrest the motion of the rod would take complete effect,
but at any other part a stroke would cause a tremour or irregular action
of the moving body. Hence this point has been called the Centre of
Percussion. In using a weapon of considerable length and nearly the
same size throughout, as a cudgel or a sabre, the most effective stroke
would be when the point of impact coincided with the centre of per
cussion ; the situation of which must be at about two-thirds of the
length of the weapon, its exact place depending chiefly on the relative
weight of that extremity with which the blow is inflicted.

                        CENTRE OF GRAVITY.                              55
                             Centre of Gravity,
   In every body or mass of matter at rest, there must be a certain point,
in the direction of which, any force acting parallel to the surface on
which the body is placed, will either be resisted by the weight and
friction of the mass, so as to produce no effect, or if it be sufficiently
powerful to overcome the resistance, the body will move in trie direc
tion of the force applied ; but the same force acting against any part
of the surface of the mass, not horizontally or perpendicularly oppo
site to the point already mentioned, may cause the body to vibrate or
be overturned, according to circumstances. This point is commonly
called the centre of gravity, and sometimes the Centre of Inertia ; and
from the property just stated it might be termed the point of greatest
                       resistance. The annexed figure will serve to ex
                       emplify the phenomenon now described. Let A
                       be the centre of gravity of a solid body with a
                       hemispherical base resting on an horizontal plane,
                       then if pressure be applied vertically at E, it is
                       manifest that it can produce no motion; but if
                       applied at B, directly opposite to the centre of
                       gravity, its effect will depend on the degree of
force, as a small force will be destroyed by the inertia of the solid mass,
while a great force will be partly employed in counteracting the inertia,
and partly in propelling the mass steadily along the level plane. Now
if force be applied at C or D, or any other point above or below B, it
will have some effect, however inconsiderable, causing the body to
rock or vibrate, if the force be small, and to be overturned if the force
be great.
   The centre of gravity in all bodies is that point at which the influence
of gravitation seems to be concentrated ; and hence, in any body,
unless that point be supported, motion will take place, and be con
tinued till the body settles in a position in which the centre of gravity
cannot sink lower.      Therefore when no obstacle is opposed to the
motion of a body, either by its peculiar figure or that of the surface
beneath, it will always take such a position that a line drawn from the
centre of gravity to the point where the body comes in contact with
the surface below it will be the shortest that can be drawn from the
centre to any part of its superficies. Thus an oviform body, placed
as in the annexed figure, would not stand in the position represented,

56                              MECHANICS.
but would turn till the shorter line A C became perpendicular to the
supporting surface, instead of the longer line A B.
                          If a body be supported from above, that is, if it
                       be suspended from a fixed point, hanging freely,
                       the centre of gravity will always settle in a vertical
                       line beneath the point of suspension.
                         The exact situation of the centre of gravity must
                       depend partly on the figure and partly on the uni-
          B           form or varying density of the whole mass of any
                      body. Suppose a body to be of uniform density
throughout, its centre of gravity may be experimentally ascertained by
balancing it on the edge of a square table, in two positions, when the
lines of equilibration will intersect each other at a pointover the centre of
gravity, which manifestly must be in the centre of the mass. A body
of small dimensions may be more accurately balanced on the edge of
a knife ; or if the body can be conveniently suspended, and a plumb-
line let fall from the point of suspension, its direction being traced from
two such points, will be found to intersect each other as before, at a
point on the superficies which will indicate the situation of the centre
of gravity. If a body varied in its density in different parts, and pos
sessed considerable thickness in proportion to its length and breadth,
holes bored through the mass in directions vertical to different points
of suspension, would meet at the centre of gravity of such a body.
   When the density of a body is uniform and its figure regular, the
centre of gravity will be the central point of the mass ; as in a globe, an
elliptical or oviform spheroid, or aparallelopiped.
   The surface of a triangle, its three sides, and its angular points, will
all have the same centre of gravity, situated at two-thirds of the length of
a right line passing from the vertex of the triangle to the middle of the
base line. The centre of gravity of a cone will be at three-fourths of
the length of its axis ; and that of a hemispherical solid at five-eighths
                     of the radius. A pyramid and its four terminating
                     points will have the same centre of gravity. The
                     figure of a body may be such that the centre of
                     gravity will not be included within the mass. Thus a
                     hollow cone, as a common extinguisher, or any body
                     of similar shape, would obviously have its centre of
                     gravity in the void space within it ; and so would a
                     basin-shaped body or hollow hemisphere. A piece

                        CENTRE OF GRAVITY.                                57
of wire twisted into the form of a horseshoe, or of a hoop, would also
have its centre of gravity, not in the wire, but in the open space
within it.
   The manner in which the centre of gravity of a body, when unsup
ported, tends towards the lowest point it can reach, may be illustrated
by an amusing experiment, made with a piece of wood or any suitable
substance turned in the shape of a double cone united at the base, then
if a jointed two-foot rule be opened a little way, and raised at the open
end, so as to form a sort of inclined plane, the piece of wood on being
                                      placed at the bottom of the plane,
                                      will roll along to the raised extremitv
                                      of the rule, seeming to ascend the in
                                      clined plane, passing as in the an
                                      nexed figure, from A to B. This is,
however, merely an optical deception, for the centre of the double cone,
which must be its centre of gravity, really sinks lower and lower be
tween the sides of the rule as it advances to the open end. A somewhat
similar experiment with an inclined plane, serves to show the effect of
the different distribution of density or weight in different parts of the
moving body. Suppose a cylinder to be made of light wood or cork,
                    and to have a plug of lead passed through it from end
                    to end, so that its centre of gravity would be near its
                    surface : if then it were placed on a moderately in
                    clined plane with the loaded side towards the ascent,
                    it would necessarily turn till that side rested on the
plane ; but it could plainly move no further, unless replaced, as in the
marginal figure.
   The necessity of supporting the centre of gravity in every situation
appears from the manner in which we move in the act of rising from
a seat. When a person is sitting the centre of gravity of the body will
be supported by the seat, from which it will be impossible to rise with
out bending the body forward so as to bring the centre of gravity over
the feet, previously to assuming the erect position : or else lifting the
body by resting the hands on the back or sides of the seat or some other
point of support. The utter incapability of locomotion that takes place
when an animal is so situated that it cannot by its own efforts raise the
centre of gravity of its body, is strongly exemplified in the case of a fat
sheep, or ewe with lamb, which has been so unlucky as to lie down on
the border of a shallow ditch or trench in a field, and roll over on its

58                              MECHANICS.
back into the hollow, where, in spite of its utmost efforts, it would lie
with its feet in the air till it perished with hunger, if not assisted to
rise.
   From what has been stated it is evident that the stability of a body
must be increased by lowering its centre of gravity. A cylindrical
                vessel A B, suspended by a handle turning on pivots
  /         \ fixed near the bottom, would inevitably overset when
                empty, as the centre of gravity C would then be above
                the points of suspension ; but if a very heavy substance
                as quicksilver, or steel-filings, were poured into it, so as
                to fill it to the line D E, the centre of gravity would be
                reduced to F, and the vessel might be suspended with
                safety. Hence it may be perceived why vans and stage
coaches, if heavily loaded at the top, will be very liable to be over
turned, while a similar or greater weight placed low down will prove
                                     a security from danger; and on this
                                     principle " safety coaches" have been
                                     constructed, with receptacles for heavy
                                     luggage under the bodies of the
                                     vehicles.
                                        The effect of placing the centre of
                                     gravity of a body in a very low situation
                                     is shown in vibrating figures, such as
                                     that represented in the margin, and
                                     other toys forthe amusement of children,
                                     formed on similar principles. Thus
                                     likewise a long stick or ruler, placed
                                     loosely on a bench or table, with more
                                     than half its length projecting beyond
                                     the edge of the board, may be made to
                                     support a bucket of water or a half-
 hundred weight suspended on it. The manner in which this is effected
                                will be easily comprehended from the an
                                nexed figure, in which let A B represent
                                the stick, which must have a notch or noose
                                at the end B, against which rests another
                                stick or prop, and the handle of the bucket
                                being suspended by a string from the first
stick, the prop pressing against the string at its junction with the handle

  NECESSITY OF SUPPORTING THE CENTRE OF GRAVITY. 59
 C, fixes the bucket in such a position that the greater part of its weight,
and consequently the centre of gravity of the whole apparatus, is sup
ported by the table ; and therefore, so long as the parts remain con
nected, the equilibrium will be preserved, for the end of the stick B
cannot be depressed without raising the centre of gravity- A common
tobacco-pipe, in the same manner, may be made to sustain any weight
short of that which would completely crush it.
   As a body of any kind cannot retain its position unless its centre of
gravity be supported, it follows that stability may be preserved so
long as a line directed from that centre vertically towards the surfacu
below falls within the polygon formed by the base of the body in ques
tion. Hence the broader the base of any body the more securely will
it stand; and on the contrary when the base is extremely narrow a
body will easily be thrown down. If a portion of any mass overhangs
its base, it may still remain standing so long as the vertical line from
the centre of gravity falls within the base. Thus a column, an obelisk,
                         or a steeple might incline somewhat from the
                         perpendicular, and yet stand firm. From the
                         inspection of the annexed figures it will appear
                         that the inclination of a column might be greater
                         than is represented in the first figure, where the
                         line A B falls within the base, without endan
                         gering the stability of the body ; but it must be
                         less than that in the second figure, where the
                         corresponding line C D falls without the base.
                            Most very lofty buildings swerve in some de
                         gree from the perpendicular after a time, yet
                         there can be no hazard of their destruction if
                         properly erected. The monument built by Sir
                         Christopher Wren, near London Bridge, to
commemorate the great fire in 1666, and the elevated spire of Salis
bury Cathedral, have both become slightly inclined, but they will pro
bably long remain to afford standing evidence of the consummate skill
of their respective founders. Travellers have frequently noticed the
leaning towers of Bologna and Pisa, especially the latter, which is one
hundred and thirty feet high, and inclines so much that the summit
overhangs the base fifteen or sixteen feet ; yet the line of direction
from the centre of gravity dropping within the base, the structure has

60                              MECHANICS.
continued to stand or rather to lean for some centuries, and will pro
bably endure centuries longer.
   A change of the position of a body, which leaves its centre of gravity
unsupported, must necessarily destroy its stability. Hence a high
carriage is liable to be overset when one side is raised more than the
other by the wheels passing over a bank or by the sloping direction of
the road ; and an over-freighted boat may be capsized somewhat in the
same manner, by a sudden lurch throwing the weight on one side.
Such an accident may likewise happen in consequence of a person in
cautiously rising when a boat inclines to one side, the situation of the
centre of gravity being thus altered, so as to swamp or upset the boat.
The impossibility of preserving any position without keeping the line
of direction of the centre of gravity within what may be termed the
area of stability, or polygonal surface by which the body is supported,
maybe experimentally illustrated by observing the effect of placing a
person to stand with his heels close together and in contact with a
perpendicular wall ; for with such a position of the feet it would be
found that he was unable to stoop sufficiently to touch the floor with
one hand. The act of stooping is performed by bending the lower part
of the body backward while the upper part is inclined forward, and
thus though the situation of the centre of gravity is lowered, its line of
direction still falls vertically between the feet. Now a person with his
heels and of course his back also against a perpendicular wall could
not possibly bend backward, and in attempting to lean forward he
would inevitably lose his balance and fall down. So that one might
scatter a handful of silver or gold on the floor before a person stationed
as just described, and offer him all that he could pick up, while he
kept his feet unmoved, without the smallest risk of losing one's mo
ney. For the sake of any one who might choose to try the experiment
it should be remarked that the terms specified must be strictly adhered
to ; for if the heels are raised so that the body is supported by the toes,
it will no longer be impossible to stoop sufficiently to touch the floor
without falling : the requisite condition therefore should be that the
heels must remain in contact with the wall.
    A body will remain at rest, or in the state of equilibrium only in two
 cases, namely, when the centre of gravity is either as near as possible
to the point of support, or as far from it as possible. In the former
 case, the stability of the body will be secure; in the latter, extremely

                         FEATS OF DEXTERITY.                            61
insecure ; thus a heavy elliptical solid laid lengthwise would require a
considerable force to remove it from its place, but poised endwise the
slightest impulse would cause it to roll over. When the centre of
gravity is at the lowest point, a body is said to be in the state of stable
equilibrium ; and when it is at the highest point, in the state of instable
equilibrium.
   Many feats of dexterity, as walking on stilts, dancing on the tight
rope, standing on a slack wire, and balancing bodies either in motion
or at rest, depend chiefly on the power of maintaining the state of in
stable equilibrium. Walking on stilts, sometimes practised by school
boys, as an amusement, is adopted as a matter of convenience by the
shepherds in a district called the Landes in the south-western part of
France. The country there being a sandy level sometimes covered
with water, the shepherds on leaving home take their lofty stilts, as a
woman might a pair of pattens in wet weather ; and they may be often
 seen striding along, on their artificial supporters, at an immense rate.
The art of rope-dancing is facilitated by holding in the hands a long
pole in a transverse direction ; for a trifling elevation of one end of the
pole and consequent depression of the other may be made at any time,
to prevent the lateral deviation of the centre of gravity from its pro
per position vertically above the rope. Standing or walking on the
slack wire appears to be a more arduous feat than moving on the tight
rope ; yet it is practised merely by keeping the arms extended to pre
 serve the equilibrium ; and sometimes in that altitude the performer
 will make a further display of skill by balancing bodies, one above
 another, on his chin. Occasionally an exhibition of dexterity on the
 slack wire is made to appear more difficult, by the performer having
 handed to him a chair, and a small table which he fixes across the
 wire, by resting on it the rails which connect the legs of the chair and
 of the table, then seating himself in the chair and placing his feet above
the front rail of the table, he keeps the whole accurately equipoised
 even when the wire is made to swing from side to side. But though
 this feat has a more imposing effect than standing alone on the wire,
 there is no doubt but it may be performed with greater facility ;
 for the table, and in a less degree the chair also serve, like the pole in
 the bands of the rope-dancer, to assist in maintaining the centre of
 gravity in its proper place.
   These feats, curious as they are, appear much less wonderful than
the exhibitions described by some ancient writers of respectability, in

 62                              MECHANICS.
which elephants are represented as walking on a tight rope. The
difficulty of preserving the centre of gravity of so un wieldly an animal,
moving on such a narrow line seems nearly to approach impossibility;
but the evidence of the fact appears to be deserving of credit.*
                              MECHANIC POWEBS.t
    Nature presents to our notice force capable of producing motion,
under various modifications. The weight of solid bodies, the impulse
of flowing water, the pressure of currents of air, the muscular exertions
of men or brute animals afford familiar examples of different kinds of
forces or means of originating motion ; and it is the peculiar province of
mechanical science to supply rules for the accumulation, distribution,
application, and expenditure of these or any other forces, in the most
advantageous manner, by means of mechanic power or machinery.
    In investigating the effect produced by any machine, there are three
things to be considered : 1. The nature of the force applied, generally
styled the power ; 2. The force opposed to it, called the resistance ; and
3. The point or points of connexion between the power and the resist
ance, which when there is only one point, as in the most simple ma
chines, may be termed the centre of action, and where there are two or
more such points, the action of the antagonist forces must be distri
buted over those points.
    Weight being in itself one of the most efficient kinds of force, and at
the same time a common property of all bodies to which force can be ap
plied, it has been very properly adopted as a convenient measure or me
dium of comparison ofmoving forces in general. But as the mere weight
of a body in motion can afford no just indication of its impulsive force,
the term moment or momentum has been adopted to denote the absolute
force of a moving body with reference to the effect it is capable of pro
ducing. The difference between the force of a body at rest and that of
the same body in motion, that is between its weight and its momentum ,
in different circumstances, will be obvious on the slightest considera-
   * " Notissimus Eques Romanus elephanto supersedcns per catadromum, id
est funem, decurrit."—Suetonius in Vita Neronis. References to other wri
ters, ancient and modern, who have noticed the exhibitions of elephants on the
tight rope, are given in Beckmann's Hist, of Invent. Eng. Tr. vol. iii. p. 311.
   t It may be proper to caution the young reader against confounding the
terms mechanic power and moving power. Mechanic powers arc machines
which facilitate motion, as the lever and the screw ; while moving powers are
the original sources of motion, as animal strength, flowing water, and currents
of air.

              THEORY OF THE MECHANIC POWERS.                          63
tion. Thus a musket-ball which might not be heavy enough to break
through a sheet of tissue-paper, when laid gently on it, would perforate
a much firmer substance, if dropped on it from a considerable height,
and fired from a gun it would penetrate a thick deal board. The mo
mentum of a body then must be estimated by its weight and velocity
taken together. From what has been stated elsewhere it may be in
ferred that any force which would drive a body weighing two pounds a
given distance in one minute, would drive a body weighing but one
pound twice as far in the same time ; and hence the velocity of the lat
ter body would be double that of the former, though both impelled by
the same force. Both bodies also would have the same momentum, as
will appear on multiplying the velocity of each body respectively by its
weight : for the velocity of the firstmentioned body may be represented
by 1, and that of the lastmentioned, being double the other, by 2 ;
then 2lb. xI = 2, and lib. x2 = 2. And the same result will be
obtained if we take the whole distance passed through by each body in
a given time as the measure of its velocity : for suppose the body
weighing two pounds to run a quarter of a mile in a minute, and that
weighing one pound half a mile in the same time ; then Jm. = .25 x 2
 = 50, £m. = .50 X 1 = 50 ; the sum expressing the momentum of
either body being the same. Since the momentum of a moving body
is to be estimated by its weight multiplied into its velocity, it follows
that a comparatively small body may by the celerity of its motion pro
duce a much greater effect than a body of far superior bulk moving
slowly. Suppose the weight of a battering ram (such as was anciently
used in war) to be 20,000 pounds, and that it moved at the rate of one
foot in a second ; and the weight of a cannon ball to be 32 pounds, and
 that it moved 1000 feet in a second, then the momentum of the former
 would be 20,000 X 1 = 20,000, and that of the latter 1000 X 32 =
 32,000; and consequently the effective force of the cannon-ball would
 be more than half as great again as that of the ram, notwithstanding its
immense superiority of weight.
   The mechanic powers are simple machines, or instruments, by means
of which the acting force technically styled the power, is to be applied
to the force which must be overcome, or that called the resistance. The
advantage which is obtained by using these mechanical agents arises
from the distribution of the resisting force among the different parts of
 the machine, so that the portion of it which is directly sustained r

64                            MECHANICS.
counterbalanced by the power bears but a small proportion to the
whole ; and thus a power insufficient to communicate motion to a body
or support its pressure, without mechanical assistance, may effect the
purpose for which it is employed, by transferring a part of the weight
to one or more of those points already noticed, whether it be the fulcrum
of a lever, the wheels of a pulley, or the surface of an inclined plane.
Different authors have varied considerably in the enumeration of tha
simple machines or mechanic powers, from the combination of which
and their several modifications all other machines, including those of
the most complicated nature, are produced. Considered as modes of
the application of impulse to overcome resistance, all the mechanic
powers may perhaps be most correctly arranged under three divisions :
1. The Lever ; 2. The Multiplied Cord ; 3. The Inclined Plane. To
these some have added the Wheel and Axle, the Pulley, the Wedge,
and the Screw. But the wheel and axle is only a variety of the lever,
the principle which regulates the action of both machines being pre
cisely the same. The pulley, so far as it possesses any distinguishing
property, must be considered as a multiplied cord ; but in practice it is
 always used with wheels, and consequently it partakes in some degree
of the nature of the lever. The wedge is nothing more than a double in
clined plane applied in a peculiar manner, and acting exactly as a single
inclined plane, but with twice the effect. The screw is a modification of
the inclined plane, usually operating through the assistance of a lever.
All these instruments have been commonly regarded as so many simple
machines ; it may therefore be as well to describe them separately, and
 in such order that the development of their respective properties may
illustrate the analogies among them which have been just pointed out.
                                  The Lever.
    The principle of action of all the mechanic powers is founded on the
 doctrine of equilibration, and is therefore intimately connected with the
 theory of the centre of gravity, which has been already explained. As
 no single mass of matter can remain in the state of equilibrium unless
 its centre of gravity be supported, so any number of bodies connected
 together must have some common centre of gravity on which they will
 rest securely, if undisturbed, or oscillate round that centre, when im
 pulse is applied on either side of it.

                              THE LEVER.                                65
                                           Suppose two balls of iron, A,
                                        weighing three pounds, and li,
                                        weighing but one pound, to be
                                        fixed to the opposite ends of an
iron bar ; then whatever might be the length of that bar (provided it
was of equal diameter throughout), the centre of gravity of the three
connected bodies would be situated at a part of the bar j ust three times
as far from the lighter ball as from the heavier, the weight of the latter
being three times as great as that of the former ; and the bar being sup
ported at that point the equilibrium would be maintained. Such a bar
would be a kind of lever, with respect to which the large ball might re
present the resistance, or force to be overcome ; the small ball the
power applied ; and the supporting point the prop or centre of action,
technically styled thefulcrum, which is a Latin word, signifying a prop.
   The mode of action of the lever may be further illustrated by ob
serving what takes place when two or more boys amuse themselves
with a seesaw, or vertical swing.
                                                 Here the plank A B forms
                                              a lever, of which the block
                                              C is the fulcrum, and in or
                                              der for the plank to be equi
                                              poised, it must be shifted
                                              into such a position that the
                                               greater weight of the boy D
                                              nearest the fulcrum, maybe
compensated by the greater distance from that fulcrum of the boy E.
Any number of boys might be placed at either side of the fulcrum, pro
vided that the sum of the weights of all the boys on one side, multi
plied by their respective distances from the fulcrum, were equal to the
sum of the weights of the boys on the other side, multiplied by their dis
tances respectively from the same point. Thus, suppose the plank to
be twelve feet long, and the fulcrum to be placed four feet from the end
A, then a boy weighing thirty pounds at the end B would counterpoise
another weighing sixty pounds at A ; or the same boy at B would sup
port two boys weighing forty pounds each, one being placed at A, and
the other two feet nearer the fulcrum. This will appear from calcula
tion, for the weight of the boy E, 30 X 8, his distance from the ful
crum gives for the product 240 ; the weight of the boy D, 60 X 4 his

  66                                  MECHANICS.
 distance from the fulcrum, also gives 240 ; and the weight of one boy
 at A, 40 X 4 = 160, and another at two feet from the fulcrum, 40 x 2
  = 80, will by the addition of the products make 240. The plank
 being thus brought to a state of equilibration must, in order to make it
 vibrate, have some impulse given to it, either by the boys moving simul
 taneously upward on one side and downward on the other, and so on ;
 or by pressing alternately with their feet against the surface below, as
 either end preponderated ; or by any corresponding motion.
    It has been proposed to adopt the principle of the seesaw in the
 construction of machinery for economical purposes. In the Journal
 des Scavans, June 13, 1678, an engine is described, by means of which
 cripples, if even deprived of their limbs, being placed on the extremi
 ties of a long lever, might, by the alternate inclination of their bodies in
 opposite directions, produce sufficient effect to work the pistons of
 pumps for raising water. And in the same journal a description is
 given of a vibrating quadrangular frame, at one end of which four per
 sons standing or sitting, might by their regulated efforts, in depressing
 and raising the frame, communicate a vertical motion to a saw for cut
 ting timber ; horizontal motion to surfaces for polishing marble, or
 levigating powders ; force to a pair of shears for cutting through plates
 of metal ; or rotatory motion to a wheel for any purpose.
                                g,          Since the momentum of a body is
                             .-'''"''.   always to be estimated by its weight
      /--.             ,---'         \   and velocity multiplied together, and
           ' -..p.,-''                 ' the velocity by the space described by
          TT^i ,•-.                      a moving body in a given time, it will
                                         follow that the momentum of bodies in
                                         a state of equilibration must be the
                                         same. For let A B represent a lever
                                         kept in equilibrium by two leaden balls,
the larger weighing two pounds, and the smaller one pound ; then sup
pose the weights were removed, the lever would take the direction ED,
the extremity A would describe the small arc A E, and the extremity B
the arc B D, and those arcs would denote the spaces moved through by the
respective ends of the lever. Hence the momentum of the two weights
necessary to preserve the equilibrium of the lever may be found by
multiplying the absolute weight of each by the number representing
the velocity, or space described : if therefore the arc B D be two inches,
and A E one inch, it must be obvious that the products of the respec

                              THE LEVEU.                               67
 five weights and velocities multiplied together will in each case be two,
 which would express the momentum or moving force exerted by each
weight to preserve the equipoise of the lever. It must also be noticed
that the arc B D, or F D, will always be in a direct proportion to the
Hne G B, and the arc A C, or E C, will bear the same proportion to
the line G A ; so that, whether the number of pounds in each weight
be multiplied by the number of inches in its corresponding arc, or by
the number expressing its distance from the fulcrum, the result will
show the momentum of both weights to be the same. For let G B be
12 inches, and G A 6, then 12x1 = 6X2 = 12.
   A lever theoretically considered must be an inflexible rod, of uni
form weight in every part, turning freely on a fixed point or fulcrum.
There are three kinds or orders of levers : 1. That in which the power
P and the resistance R act in the same direction, having the fulcrum
 F between them ; 2. That in which the power and the resistance are
in opposite directions, the latter being between the fulcrum and the
power ; 3. That in which the power and the resistance are also op
 posed, the former occupying the intermediate position, and being
opposed to the fulcrum.
             1
   In a lever of the first kind, those parts on each side of the fulcrum
are termed the arms of the lever ; and the greater the relative length of
that arm with which the power is connected compared with that to
which the weight or resistance is attached, with so much stronger effect
will the power be enabled to act. As the power will retain the lever,
in equilibrium when its momentum is barely equal to that of the resist
ance, it must have a greater momentum in order to produce motion.
Now its momentum or acting force, so far as it depends on the lever,
is derived from the superior length of the arm with which it is con
nected ; and therefore in order to raise the weight or resistance, the
power must descend through a space as much greater than that through
which the weight rises, as the length of the arm to which the power is
applied is greater than the length of that arm to which the weight is
                                   f2
                                                                          J

63                            MECHANICS.
appended. Thus, by means of the lever, a small power can move a
great weight ; but in this case the space passed through by the power
will always be greater than that through which the weight moves ; and
the greater the advantage which the power derives from the lever,
the greater must be the difference of the lengths of its arms, and conse
quently the less will be the motion of the weight.
                                                  A long lever turning on a
                                               strong iron pin, as shown in
                                               the margin, is used by ar
                                               tillery-men to raise pieces
                                               of ordnance or other great
                                               weights. Wheelwrights and
coachmakers employ a lever of similar construction, but having a
shorter handle, and a higher fulcrum, and with this they raise a car
riage on one side, when they want to remove a wheel. Crowbars and
handspikes are levers of a similar kind, as also is the instrument called
a jemmy, used by thieves, in breaking open doors or wrenching off
locks or other fastenings. A pair of scissars, snuffers, or pincers, con
sists of two levers turning on a rivet, which serves as the fulcrum, on one
side of which power is applied to overcome resistance on the other side.
      Jl          A common claw-hammer may be employed as a lever,
  H^lu'A.       acting with considerable effect in drawing ont nails.
  " "           In this case the line of direction of the power will be
                perpendicular to that of the resistance, as appears from
                the marginal figure.
                   Here the advantage obtained by the power is to be
                estimated by its vertical distance from the fulcrum AC,
         ji<3 compared     with the horizontal distance C D, between
the fulcrum and the resistance, represented by the weight 13.
   When the power, or resistance, or both act obliquely, their effect
will be diminished, according to the degree of obliquity.
                 „                       Suppose A B to represent a lever
                                      turning on a fulcrum at F, and let
                                      A R be the direction of the power
                                      P, and B S that of the weight W ;
                                      then if the line R A he continued to
                                      C, and the line S I! to I), and the
                                      perpendiculars F C and F D be
                                      drawn from the fulcrum to meet the

                               THE LEVER.                                69
lines of direction in the points C and D, the momentum of the power
Trill be as its weight multiplied by the number denoting the length
of C F, and the momentum of the resistance will be as its weight mul
tiplied by the number denoting the length of D F.
                                           A bent lever will afford less ad
                                        vantage than a straight one of the
                                        same length. Thus, let B E be a
                                        curved lever supported at F, and
                                        having the power suspended at E,
                                        and the weight at B ; then the mo
                                        mentum of the former will be found
                                        by multiplying its weight by the
                                        line F G, or D E, and that of the
                                        latter by multiplying its weight by
                                        the line AF, or BC.
    Whatever may be the nature of the lever employed, as whether it
be of the first, second, or third kind, its mode of action is in every case
to be explained according to the principles already laid down. Thus in
a lever of the second kind, in which the resistance, or weight to be
overcome, is placed between the fulcrum and the power (see p. 67),
the advantage of the latter will be increased in the same ratio, as that
of the distance or space between the power and the fulcrum to the
space between the resistance and the fulcrum.
   The annexed figure (1) represents the manner of using a handspike
or bar as a lever of the first kind ; (2) shows how a similar bar may be
employed as a lever of the second kind ; the point of the lever here
being fixed against the ground or surface below the body to be moved,
and the power applied to the opposite end of the lever. Among the
various examples which might be adduced of levers of the second order,
may be mentioned the knife used by druggists for chipping sassafras,
quassia, and other medicinal woods ; one end being connected with a
table by a hinge on which it moves as its fulcrum, the power is ap

70                             MECHANICS.
plied to the handle at the opposite extremity, and the substance to be
chipped, forming the resistance, is placed between them, and is cut
through by the edge of the knife pressing it against the table. The
cutting-blade used by chaff-cutters, and those of coopers, and patten
and last makers are likewise made to act on the principle of a lever of
the second order. In rowing a boat, regarding it as the weight or re
sistance to be moved, the water must be considered as the fulcrum,
against which the pressure of the blade of the oar, acting as a lever of
the second kind, moved by the hand of the waterman, as the power, at
the opposite extremity, produces the motion of the boat. A pair of nut
crackers is formed by two levers of the kind just described, moving
on a hinge as a fulcrum; and so likewise is a lemon-squeezer. When
two men bear a weight on a hand-barrow, one of them may be con
sidered as occupying the place of the power, and the other that of the
fulcrum. If they have both the same degree of strength, and can sup
port the barrow in a horizontal direction, the weight or burden should
be exactly between them ; for if it be placed nearer to one than to the
other, an advantage will be given to the man stationed farthest from
it • and in going up or down hill, the bearer of the lower end of the
barrow must support the greater part of the resistance.
   In a lever of the third kind, the power being nearer the fulcrum
than the weight or resistance (see p. 67), the advantage lies on the
side of the latter ; and therefore a greater degree of force would be re
quisite to support or move the weight by means of such a lever than
that which would suffice to produce the same effect without the aid of
any machine. But in this case the power will raise the weight through
a greater space than that through which the power itself passes, and
will consequently cause the weight to move with a velocity beyond its
                               own. This will appear from the inspection
                               of the marginal figure, in which the power
                               P, acting over a pulley, from the point of
                               the lever p, will, in moving the lever to the
                               position FpW, raise the weight or resist-
        ^                       ance from w to W, while the power only
  F /»                    1o passes through the space from p to p ;
or more accurately the line described by the weight will be the arc w W,
and that described by the point from which the power acts, will be the
very small arc p p. This kind of lever therefore is not used to over

                          SYSTEM OF LEVERS.                               71
 come great resistance, but either to move a weight with great speed, or
 from its peculiar adaptation to some particular purposes. Thus, a builder
 in. raising a long ladder from the horizontal position, to place it against
 a wall, finds it convenient to fix the foot of the ladder against a block or
 stone, as a fulcrum, and laying bold of the ladder at half or three-fourths
 of its length, he supports at first the greater part of its weight, but gra
dually bringing it nearer and nearer to a perpendicular position, he
shifts his hands accordingly from the point where be first grasped it, till
 he can bring them low enough to keep the ladder upright, and then it
maybe removed to the required situation. The treadle of a turning-
lathe, or grinding-machine affords a familiar example of a lever of the
third order, in which the pressure of the foot becomes the power,
which, acting between the fulcrum and the resistance, sets the machine
in motion. In a pair of tongs, or shears used in clipping the wool from
sheep, two such levers are connected so as to have the fulcrum at the
point of junction, and the hand in using one or the other, acts as the
power between the fulcrum and the resistance.
    But the most interesting examples of the application of such levers
may be found in the structure of animals. Thus, the fore-arm, connected
with the upper part of the arm by the elbow-joint, moves on that joint
as a fulcrum, the power that lifts or bends it being supplied by the
contraction of muscles, acting from points between the elbow and the
wrist. The whole arm is raised from the side of the body to an hori
zontal position in the same manner, chiefly by the action of a strong
muscle, called the Deltoid, forming the fleshy part of the shoulder, and
stretching down on the outside of the arm, with the bone of which it is
firmly connected. The bending of the knee-joint and the hip-joint in
walking, is performed by the corresponding action of strong muscles ;
and in various parts of the human frame motion takes place in a similar
manner. In the lower orders of animals an analogous kind of machinery
may be discovered, as in the wings of birds, which are thus made to
move with extraordinary velocity, that they may be enabled to act on
a medium having so inconsiderable a degree of density as the air.
   Any number of levers may be connected together, so as to constitute
a composition or system of levers, the power acting on the end of the
first lever raising the end of the second, and that depressing the end of
the third, so as to raise a weight at the opposite extremity ; or the al
ternate action may be continued through a great number of levers, the

72                           MECHANICS.
effect of which would be to augment vastly the momentum of the power,
and to diminish in the same proportion the velocity of the weight, or
resistance, so that the space through which that resistance would be
moved would in general soon become very insignificant. The effect of
such a system of levers must be estimated according to the relative dis
tances of the power and the weight respectively from the fulcrum,
whether the levers were all of one kind, or some of one kind and some
of another.
   Among the various applications of the lever, one of the most useful
and important is in the construction of the common balance, styled, from
its adventitious appendages, a pair of scales. The beam, which is the
essential part of the machine, is nothing more than a lever of the first
order, having equal arms, and turning freely on its fulcrum, or centre
of action. It is hardly necessary to add that its use is to ascertain the
weight of bodies by equipoising them with an authorized standard ; and
the principle on which this is effected has been already amply illus
trated. There are, however, some circumstances requisite to ensure
the accuracy of a balance, which deserve to be noticed. The beam
of the balance should be so formed that its centre of gravity may be
placed just below the axis or centre of motion ; for if the centre of
gravity and centre of motion coincided, it must be obvious that the
beam would rest in any position instead of assuming the horizontal
direction necessary to indicate the equality of weights on each side.
However, when a very delicate balance is required, its beam must be
so constructed that the centre of motion may be as near as possible to
the centre of gravity, but somewhat above it. The extremities of the
arms of a balance are named the points of suspension, to which are
fixed the scales ; and those points should be so situated that a straight
line extending from one to the other would touch the point on which
the beam turns. The sensibility of the balance is likewise influenced
by the form of the fulcrum ; and in the most accurate balances the
beam rests on a knife-edge moving on agate, polished steel, or some
very dense and smooth surface. Equal nicety is required in the sus
pension of the scales, which should hang from thin edges.
   Having thus stated the method of rendering a balance as exact as
possible, it may be proper to notice some of the imperfections of com
mon balances, caused as they are too frequently by design, for the
purpose of fraudulent deception. If the two arms be not precisely

                             THE STEELYARD.                               73
of the same length, the scale appended to the longer arm will turn with
a less weight than that hanging from the shorter arm, and the purchaser
of goods may thus be cheated : so also if one arm of the lever be heavier
than the other, the scale on that side must preponderate. But decep
tions of this kind may be discovered by changing the places of the
weight and the article to be weighed ; for the lightest scale would no
longer keep equipoised. And yet with such a pair of scales the true
weight of a substance might be ascertained ; since by weighing it first
in one scale and then in the other, and deductingfrom the greatest weight
half the difference of the weights indicated, the real weight would be
discovered.*
    The steelyard is another well-known kind of balance, more directly
involving the principle of the lever in its construction than the common
balance. In consists of a lever with unequal arms, turning on its
fulcrum, and having on the longer arm a moveable weight, so that the
body, whose weight is required, being suspended from the shorter arm,
the equilibrium is attained by shifting the weight to the necessary dis
tance from the fulcrum- and the longer arm being graduated and num
bered, the weight appears from inspection. This is sometimes called
the Roman balance, as alleged from its resemblance to the Roman statera ;
though it has been stated that the original term was Romman, and that
it was so called in the East, from the shape of the weight, resembling
a pomegranate.t Such a balance as the steelyard, but of small dimen
sions, and made of ivory or wood, is used by the Chinese, for weighing
pearls, precious stones, and other small objects.
    The Danish balance is a straight bar or lever, having a heavyweight
fixed at one end, and a hook or scale at the other, with a moveable ful
crum, the situation of which indicates the weight of any substance
which may be tried by it. The bar of course is graduated, and thus
the weight may be determined, but the divisions becoming smaller
in proportion as the weight increases, inconvenience occurs in ascer
taining the exact amount of the weight of very heavy bodies.
    The weighing-machine used at toll-gates on turnpike-roads, to dis
cover the weight of loaded carriages, consists of a system of levers sup-
  * The weight of a substance may however be more precisely ascertained by
weighing it as above directed, then multiplying together the weights, and ex
tracting the square root of the product, which will give the true value. See
Leslie's Elem. of Nat. Philos., vol. i. p. 186.
   t Idem, p. I87.

  74                            MECHANICS.
  porting a quadrangular floor. Four levers turning on their fulcrums
  extend from the angles of a box beneath the floor towards its centre
  where they are connected together, and also with another lever extend
  ing across the middle of the box, and passing beyond its limits ; this
  last lever acts on a third which presses on a spring or is connected with
  the arm of a balance, by means of which the amount of pressure on the
  whole system may be ascertained.
                              The Wheel and Axle.
     Though the lever may be considered as the most generally applicable,
  and consequently the most useful of all simple machines, yet from the
  limited effect and intermitting action of power employed to overcome
  resistance by means of the lever, its grand utility must ever be con
  fined to cases in which a momentary effort is required to change the
  place or position of a body of a great weight, by the application of com
  paratively small power. Thus, if it be necessary to remove a heavy
  block of marble or granite from one place to another, and a lever can
  be applied in such a manner to one side of its base as to shift the posi
  tion of its centre of gravity sufficiently to make the block turn over, it
  may thus be rolled to any given distance : but supposing the utmost
  effect of the lever be to raise the mass but one inch, or any space
  through which it would fall back to its first position, the lever alone
  would manifestly be quite useless. Hence different methods have been
   contrived for rendering the lever more effective, as by employing a
   German machine, called a Hebstock, by which the weight is propped
  or supported during the intervals between the successive operations
  of the lever ; by the French machine, termed Roue de la Garosse, from
  the name of the inventor, and by means of which a lever is kept in a
  raised position by a ratchet wheel ; or by using the Universal Lever,
  which also acts by means of a ratchet wheel.*
     But these modes of operation must be nearly useless where it is re
  quisite to raise a body to a great height, or move it through a consi
  derable space, and for such purposes may be advantageously employed
  the wheel and axle, sometimes called Axis in Peritrochio.t which has
    * This kind of wheel can only move forwards or in one direction, being pre -
  vented from turning the other way, by a spring detent falling between teeth
  on its periphery.
    t From the Greek "Afrur, an axis, and Utptrpix^i to turn round.
I

                      THE WHEEL AND AXLE.                                75
 generally been ranged among the simple machines, or mechanic powers,
 though it is in fact only a more complicated form of the lever, and it
 might with propriety be styled a perpetual lever.
   It consists of a wheel or large flat cylinder, with a smaller cylinder
passing through its centre, as an axle, to which it may be fixed so as
for both to move together about the same centre, or the wheel may
turn on its axle, in which case the effect will be different from that
where the parts of the machine are connected.
                                  In investigating the operation of the
                               wheel and axle, both parts must be con
                               sidered as turning on a common centre.
                               Let the annexed figure represent an hori
                               zontal axle, resting at its extremities on
                              pivots, or supported by gudgeons, so that
                              it may revolve freely, carrying round with
                              it the attached wheel. On the axis is
                              coiled a rope which sustains the weight ;
                              and round the periphery of the wheel is
coiled another rope, in a contrary direction, to which is suspended
the power. Then supposing the machine to be put in motion, the
velocity of the power will be to that of the weight, as the circum
ference of the wheel to that of the axle ; for it will be perceived that the
power must sink through a space equal to the circumference of the
wheel, in order to raise the weight through a space equal to the circum
ference of the axle. And as the momentum of any body may be found
by multiplying together its weight and its velocity, it follows that if
the number of the inches in the circuit of the wheel multiplied by the
number of pounds in the power, produce a sum equal to the product of
the measure of the axle multiplied by the number of pounds in the
weight, then the power and weight will remain in equilibrium. Also as
                                 before stated (see p. 66), the momen
                                 tum of bodies moving in circles will be
                                 as the products of their weights and the
                                 radii of the circles they respectively de-
                             Jd scribe, therefore when the power bears
                                 the same proportion to the weight as the
                                 radius CD or the diameter F V of the
                                 axle does to the radius A B or the
                                 diameter E B, of the wheel, the machine

  76                            MECHANICS.
 will preserve the equilibrium : so that the effect of this machine will
 depend on the superiority of the radius, or diameter of the wheel to
 that of the axle.
 - The wheel may be moved by a weight acting on its periphery, as
 already described ; by projecting pins, or by a bent handle, such as is
 used for the common draw-well ; but whether the power be applied
 directly to the circumference of the wheel, to the extremities of the
projecting pins, or to the handle, its effect must be estimated by the
extent of the circle described.
                             That the wheel and axle differs not in principle
                           from the lever may be demonstrated from consi
                           dering the effect of a single wheel used, not for
                           the purpose of increasing power, but merely in
                           order that a power may be enabled to act in some
                           required direction. For let C be any weight, as
                           ten pounds, suspended over a wheel by a line
                           held at D, it will be obvious that setting aside
                           the effect of friction, a power equal to ten pounds
                           must be applied to keep the weight equipoised.
                           Now the pivot on which the wheel turns will
                        ^ manifestly be the centre of motion or fulcrum,
                         I supporting the joint action of the power and the
                           weight ; and the lines A E and B E will repre
sent the equal arms of a lever held in equilibrium, like a balance loaded
with equal weights. A sun-blind is usually suspended in this manner,
by an endless line passing round two wheels ; and while both sides of
the line are equally stretched, the blind will remain at any height, but
destroying the equilibrium, by pulling the line on one side or the other,
will raise or lower the blind at pleasure. In the wheel and axle the
radius of the wheel represents the longer arm of a lever, and the radius
of the axle the shorter arm ; and hence the advantage this machine
affords. And as its action may be continued indefinitely, each revolu
tion producing an uninterrupted effect, the power may be regularly ap
plied till the object in view be attained.

                      THE WHEEL AND AXLE.                                77
                                 One of the most efficient forms of the
                              wheel and axle is displayed in the capstan
                              used on board ships and in dock-yards. It
                              consists of a vertical spindle fixed firmly as
                              in the deck of the vessel, but turning on its
                              axis, and supporting a drum, or solid cylin
                              der connected with it, and having its peri
                              phery pierced with holes directed towards
                              its centre. It is then worked by long
                              levers, inserted in the holes, by men
                              who walk in succession round the capstan,
 and thus make it revolve, while a rope or cable wound about the spindle
 may act with force sufficient to weigh a ponderous anchor, or warp a
 heavy-laden vessel into harbour.
                              The treadwheel is another modification of
                           the wheel and axle, in which the weight of
                           several persons stepping constantly at the cir
                           cumference of a long wheel make it revolve
                           by their weight ; as may be readily compre
                           hended from the annexed figure. A some
                           what similar wheel turned by the weight of
                           one man is used in Persia and some other
                           oriental countries, for raising water.
    One or more horses may be made to work a mill, by harnessing them
 to the extremity of shafts or long levers fixed to an axis, 'which they
 turn round by walking in a circle; as in a machine for triturating clay
for brick-making, and in some malt-mills.
    The axle of a wheel sometimes has a conical or tapered shape, which
affords an advantage when a varying force is to be overcome. The
mainspring of a watch, the power of which is employed to uncoil a
chain, acts thus on an axis, called the fusee, on the surface of which is
cut a spiral groove to receive the chain ; and when the watch is newly
wound up, the spring acts with its greatest intensity to turn the fusee
while the chain passing round that part where the diameter is shortest,
affords but a small leverage ; and as the elastic force of the spring
gradually diminishes by its relaxation, it obtains greater and greater
purchase by the increasing diameter of the fusee as the ehain is uncoiled ;

   78                            MECHANICS.
  so that by this means an equability of action is maintained, without
  which the watch would be useless. A similar contrivance is adopted
  to equalize the effect of power applied in raising ore from a deep mine ;
  for the rope, when at its greatest length (and consequently when the
  resistance of the weight is greatest), is coiled about the narrow end of
  the axle, and the successive coils advance towards the wider extremity,
  as the resistance diminishes by the shortness of the rope.
                                    As the efficiency of the wheel and axle,
                                 whatever may be its peculiar construction,
                                 is to be estimated by the ratio of the dia.
                                 meter of the wheel to that of the axle, it
                                 follows that increasing the former or dimi
                                 nishing the latter will augment the effect.
                                 Either method may be adopted to a certain
                                 extent; but if the wheel be extremely
                                 large it may be inconvenient and unma
                                 nageable ; and on the other hand, ifthe axle
                                 be very slender, it will he weak and inse
                                 cure. Both these evils are avoided in the
                                 construction of the double capstan, an in
                                 genious contrivance, said to have been in
  troduced into this country from China. It consists of two cylinders
  differing in diameter, connected, as in the marginal figure, turning
  about the same axis, while the weight is suspended by the loop of a long
  cord, one end of which uncoils progressively from the smaller cylinder,
  as the other laps round the larger : thus the weight is elevated at each
  revolution through a space equal to half the difference between the cir
  cumferences of the two cylinders. So that the mechanical advantage
  of the machine, with its pulley, will be in the ratio of the diameter of the
  larger cylinder to half its excess above that of the smaller one ; and
  therefore the equilibrium will be preserved, when the product of the
  power multiplied by the former is equal to that of the weight multi
  plied by the latter.
      The efficiency of wheel-work may also be indefinitely augmented by
   a system or composition of wheels and axles, as in the case of the lever*
   Thus the effect of the power that acts at the circumference of the first
   wheel may be transmitted to the circumference of its axle, with which
I

              THE MACHINE OF OBLIQUE ACTION.                          79
a second wheel being connected may act through its axle on a third
wheel, and so on to any given extent. One wheel may be made to turn
another merely by the friction of their surfaces, when but little force
is required ; but the most direct and accurate method of connecting
trains of wheel-work is by teeth or cogs on the peripheries of the
wheels; and on this principle a great variety of complex machines are
constructed. Different wheels may also be connected by a strap or band,
as is the case with spinning-wheels and the wheels of turniug-lathes.
            The Machine of Oblique Action, or Multiplied Cord.
   To this kind of mechanic power may be referred all those cases in
which force is transmitted by means of flexible cords or chains, from
one point to another. It has also been styled the funicular system, but
as including a variety of modes in which power can be applied by means
of inflexible rods or bars, as well as by flexible lines, to produce an
equilibrium depending on the composition of forces, it might be, per
haps most properly, designated the machine of oblique action. From
the theory of the composition of forces, which has been elsewhere
illustrated, it may be assumed that a force applied in the proper
direction will balance any two forces ; but if one of these be sustained
by some fixed point, the first force may be considered as acting only
against the other ; and power may thus be indefinitely augmented.
                                      Suppose B N, N C, C O, and O B,
                                   to be four bars connected by joints or
                                  hinges at 13, N, and 0,and by a spiral
                                  spring passing from thejointB.so as to
                                  unite it with the ends of the bars N C
                                  and O C at C. Pressure applied in the
                                  direction O N would elongate the
                                  spring with an effect which would in
 crease in proportion to the decrease of the angle N C O, so that at the
 collapse of the bars B O and C O into a rectilinear position, the effect
 would be incalculably great.
   If the end B of a pair of jointed rods be firmly fixed, and the ex
 tremity C made to act by pressure, as by a man pushing at A, the

80                             MECHANICS.
                  force at C, when the bars are brought nearly into a
                   straight line may be equal to the weight of many
                   tons. On this principle that part ofthe Russel printing-
                   press is contrived by means of which the paper is ap
                   plied to the types to take off impressions ; instead of
                   using a screw turned by a lever, as in the common
                   printing-press. The same kind of mechanic power is
                   employed for extracting the steel core from the hollow
                   brass cylinder used as a roller in the printing of
                   cottons ; and various modifications of it have been
                   adopted, with great advantage in several operations of
                   art, where a vast momentary effort is requisite to pro
                   duce a given effect.
    The theory of the machine of oblique action, as it applies to flexible
 cords, has been sufficiently explained in treating of the composition of
forces. (See p. 15, 16.) It may, however, be here stated, that if a cord be
acted on by equal forces in opposite directions, its tension will be
 measured by one of those forces or weights, and must of course be uni
 form throughout ; and whatever flexures the cord may undergo, and
however numerous be the fixed points it passes over, provided its
 motion be unimpeded, the weights required to keep it in equilibrium
must be equal.        But if a cord be fastened at one extremity and
 variously deflected, the effect of weights suspended at different parts
of it will be modified according to their situation ; so that a great
weight acting near the point of suspension may be counterbalanced by
 a comparatively small force at the opposite extremity of the cord.*
                                 The Pvlhy.
    This is rather a compound than a simple machine ; for from the in
 vestigation of its nature and properties it will be evident that it is
 merely a combination of the wheel and axle with the multiplied cord ;
 and as the wheel, though a very useful, is not 8n essential part of the
 pulley, this machine may be regarded as a variety of the funicular
 system, or multiplied cord.
 * V. Francreur Tr. de Micanique EKm. pp. 95—106 : "Des SystSmes Flexibles."

                             THE PULLEY.                                 81
                       The effect of a single pulley, or moveable wheel
                    suspended by a cord from a hook at a fixed point, as
                    in the annexed figure, will be to diminish the re
                    sistance by one-half, so that a power equal to one
                    pound will support a weight of two pounds. This
                    must be manifest from considering that half the
                    weight is supported by the hook, consequently the
                    other half only is opposed to the power. The same
                    conclusion will be derived from attending to the
                    result of the action of the power in raising the
                    weight ; for double the length of rope must pass
                    over the fixed pulley on the side of the power com
pared with that which passes over it from the weight ; so that the
power must descend two inches in order to raise the weight one inch.
Thus the power will move as fast again as the weight, therefore its
velocity must be double that of the weight, and its effect must be in
creased by such a pulley in the same ratio. The fixed wheel or pulley
here, has no other effect than that of altering the direction of the power.
(See p. 76.) Though a pulley might obviously be made to act without
wheels, and the cord might be deflected by passing through rings or by
other means, so that the wheel must be considered as a sort of adven
titious appendage to the pulley, yet, as already observed, it is an ex
tremely useful one. For the wheel enables the cord to move freely, by
destroying in a great measure the friction which would otherwise take
place between the cord and the surface over which it passes, and which
would weaken, and in some cases interrupt, the action of the pulley.
The wheels also serve the important purpose of keeping the deflected
parts of the cord stretched in parallel lines : for the effect of the power
would be diminished in any other position of the cord. Thus, when
                             the deflections of the cord form an angle, as
                             represented in the margin, the power must
                             be equal to more than half the weight, in
                             order to keep the latter suspended; the
                             machine will become less and less efficacious
                             as the angle formed by the sides of the cord
                             increases ; and there are certain degrees of
                             obliquity, at which the power must be
greater than the weight to enable it to preserve the equilibrium.
                                     o

 82                             MECHANICS.
                             In the pulleys just described, is exhibited the
                          effect of the power when the weight is partly
                          supported from one fixed point ; but that effect
                          may be vastly augmented by such a system of
                          pulleys as that in the annexed figure, in which
                          the weight is suspended from the lowest of a
                          series of wheels, each having its own cord at
                          tached to a fixed point. Here the resistance is
                          diminished by the distribution of the weight
                          over five fixed points ; so that supposing the
                          weight to be thirty-two pounds, the wheel A,
                          with its cord will support the whole of that
                         weight ; the wheel B, with its cord, half the
                         weight or sixteen pounds; C, one-fourth of the
                         weight or eight pounds ; D, one-eighth, or four
                         pounds ; E, one-sixteenth, or two pounds, which
                         being divided by the two sides of its cord, leaves
                         but one pound to be supported by that side
                         which is extended over the
                         fixed pulley F : and thus a
                         power equal to one pound
will counterbalance a weight of thirty-two pounds.
   When one cord only is used, which passes over
two or more fixed and moveable pulleys, the power
will be to the weight as unity, or the single deflected
part ofthe cord supporting the power, to the number
of the deflections made by the cord in passing over
all the fixed and moveable pulleys. Hence if the
power be augmented, so as to raise the weight,
the former must descend through as many inches
more than the latter ascends, as the number of
bends in the cord supporting the lower block ex
ceeds unity : that is, the power must sink four
inches or feet to elevate the weight one inch or
foot ; and such will be the ratio of its efficiency with
such pulleys as that shown in the marginal figure,
the advantage gained depending on the number of
wheels and consequent deflections of the cord.

                      THE INCLINED PLANE.                               83
                         A great variety of systems, or, as they are
                       commonly termed tackles of pulleys, have been
                       contrived; but the advantages they respectively
                       afford may always be estimated by reference to
                       the spaces relatively described by the power
                       and the weight or resistance. The greatest in
                       convenience occurring in the practical ap
                       plication of the pulley, is owing to friction,
                       and consequent irregularity of action. Various
                       plans have been adopted to remedy this defect ;
                       one of the most ingenious of which consists in
                       cutting a proper number of concentric grooves on
                       the face of a solid wheel, with diameters, as the
                       odd numbers, 1, 3, 5, &c., for the lower block,
                       and corresponding grooves on another such wheel,
                       with diameters, as the even numbers, 2, 4, 6, &c.
                       for the upper block. Then the cord being passed
                       in succession over the grooves, as represented in
                       the margin, it will be thrown off by the action of
                       the power, in the same manner as if every groove
                       formed a separate and independently revolving
wheel. A machine of this construction is called White's pulley, from
the name of the inventor, Mr. James White, who obtained a patent
for it.
   Tackles of pulleys are used on board ships, where the wheels are fixed
in blocks, by means of which the sailors can raise the masts, hoist the
sails, and conveniently perform other necessary operations. Various
combinations of pulleys are likewise used on land, as by builders, in
raising or lowering great weights ; and in removing from one level to
another heavy bales of goods, or other merchandise.
                            The Inclined Plane.
                                                This is the least compli
                                             cated of all the simple ma
                                             chines. It is, as the name
                                             implies, a plane surface, sup
                                             posed to be perfectly smooth
                                              and unyielding, inclined ob-
                                    o 2

    84                            MECHANICS.
    liquely to an horizontal plane ; and its effect, as commonly used, is to
    diminish resistance, and thus enable a moderate power to sustain or
    overbalance a great weight. The mode of action of the inclined plane
    has been already fully explained (see p. 42), and the method of estimat
    ing its efficiency, in any given case, may be readily comprehended by
    reference to the relative velocities of two bodies, one falling through a
    space equal to the vertical height of the inclined plane, and the other
    passing down its declivity. Suppose the height A 13 to be one foot and
    the inclined surface A C to be four feet, then a weight of four pounds,
    W, resting on the plane will be equipoised by a weight of one pound,
    P, hanging freely over a pulley. And as the inclined plane is com
    monly employed to facilitate the rolling or shifting of ponderous bodies
   from a lower to a higher level through a moderate space, its efficiency
   will be in the ratio of the length of the inclined plane to its vertical
   height; thus with the machine just described, one-fourth of the force
   necessary to lift a great weight through the space A B, or the vertical
   height, would be sufficient to impel it up the declivity, from C to A.
      In this more than in most other machines great allowance must be
   made for the effect of friction, which must materially modify any calcu
   lation as to the advantage it affords. Instances of the application of the
   inclined plane to practical purposes so frequently occur, that it can
  scarcely be necessary to advert to them. Roads formed on declivities
  are a kind of inclined planes ; and railways are sometimes thus con
  structed, in such a manner that any weight, as a loaded sledge, may be
  made to ascend one plane or inclined railroad by the impulse of an
  other carriage with which it is connected, and which passes simul
  taneously down an adjoining railroad. The very simple nature of the
  inclined plane renders it probable that it was the earliest of the me
  chanic powers known and brought into use. It has been conjectured
  that it was employed by the Egyptians in raising the immense blocks
  of stone which form the pyramids, and in executing other gigantic
  works, which have excited the astonishment of successive ages. Mr.
  Warltire, a gentleman who delivered lectures on natural philosophy, in
  the latter part of the last century, endeavoured to prove that the an
  cient British Druids were the founders of Stonehenge, on Salisbury
  Plain ; and that they erected the massive trilithons, which partly
  compose that curious structure, by rolling or rather by shifting the
  transverse blocks into their places by means of temporary inclined
i

                             THE WEDGE.                                 85
planes of earth or rubbish, forming a sort of road-ways for the passage
                                of the several blocks. The annexed figure
                                will afford a sufficiently accurate idea of
                                one of the trilithons of Stonehenge, and
                                when the structure was perfect, several
                                of these were arranged in a circular
                                figure. It will not be difficult to con
                                ceive that a sloping bank or declivity,
                                having but a small degree of inclina
tion, might be formed, up which any mass might be impelled or
dragged, with a force not much greater than would be required to draw
or push it forward on level ground.
                               The Wedge.
   A wedge is the solid figure called by Geometricians a triangu
lar prism, bounded on two sides by equal and similar triangles, and on
the other three sides by rectangular parallelograms. It is composed
of two inclined planes united at their bases ; as will appear from the
                    annexed representation. Its use is to divide solid
                    bodies, the edge E F being impelled against them
                    by pressure or some other force applied at the sur
                    face A B C D ; and if the force be estimated by
                    its weight, its effect will be in the ratio of the line
                    D F to the line G D, that is as the sides of the
                    wedge to its breadth. So that the advantage de
                    rived from using this machine increases in propor
                    tion as the angle which forms its edge diminishes.
                    But the wedge is generally used for cleaving blocks
of wood or other hard substances, and the force applied to it is that of
percussion, with a heavy hammer or mallet, the effects of which are so
different from those of direct pressure, and are so much modified by
circumstances, as to render any theoretical calculation utterly inaccu
rate and useless. It appears from the results of some experiments
made in the Dock-yard at Portsmouth, on the comparative effect of
driving and pressing in large iron and copper bolts, that a man of me
dium strength, striking with a mall weighing eighteen pounds, and
having a handle forty-four inches in length, could start or drive a bolt
about one-eighth of an inch at each blow ; and that it required the di- -

86                            MECHANICS.
rect pressure of 107 tons to press the same bolt through that space,
but it was found that a small additional weight would press the bolt
completely home.* But numerous and varied experiments would be
requisite to obtain any results which might afford data for computing
the effect of impact or percussion on wedge-shaped bodies ; and if that
effect could be exactly estimated, further difficulties would arise from
considering the very heterogeneous nature of the resistance, depend
ing on the relative hardness, tenacity, and other properties of those
substances on which the wedge is made to act. This instrument must
therefore be regarded as one the effect of which can seldom be pre
cisely determined ; but which notwithstanding may be often very ad
vantageously employed in certain circumstances.
    Among the less frequent modes of application of the wedge may be
mentioned its having been used to restore to the perpendicular position
a building which declined slightly in consequence of some defect in the
foundation. The voussoirs of arches are so many wedges ; and piles used
for the foundation of the piers of bridges may be considered as wedges,
driven into the bed of a river by the percussive force of a power
 ful machine. Sharp-edged and pointed instruments in general act as
wedges ; thus chisels, planes, and axes used by carpenters manifestly
produce the effect of wedges ; and knives, razors, awls, pins, and
needles, and indeed all cutting and piercing instruments display an ob
 vious analogy to the common forms of this mechanic power.
                                 The Screw.
    The screw, though commonly reckoned among the mechanic powers
 or simple machines, cannot be considered as such when applied to any
 practical purpose, as it would be found almost wholly ineffective with
 out the assistance of the lever, which is therefore usually combined
 with it, and thus it becomes a most powerful machine, applicable to a
 variety of important purposes. The general form of the screw must be
 too well known to require description ; it may however be stated that
 it consists of two parts, namely a solid cylinder, sometimes called the
 male screw, and a corresponding cylindrical cavity, to receive the for
 mer part, and therefore styled a female screw ; round the surface of
 he cylinder passes what is termed the thread of the screw, descrih-
              * Encyclop. Metropol.—Mixed Sciences, vol. i. p. 52.

                                 THE SCREW.                                   87
ing from one end to the other a curve sometimes inaccurately* repre"
sented as a spiral, but which is really a helix, precisely resembling a
common corkscrew, which, in fact is nothing more than the helical
thread of the screw without the core. The hollow screw has a similar
helical thread winding within it, exactly adapted to the interval be
tween the turns of the thread of the solid screw ; and thus either part
being made to revolve while the other is kept steady, motion or pres
sure may be produced to any extent.
   In order to obtain a correct estimate of the mechanical effect of the
screw, it will be necessary to develop its construction, from which it
will appear that it is, in principle, identical with the inclined plane ;
and it might be conceived to act as a system of revolving inclined
planes. This will appear from reference to the annexed figure. Let
                               A B C D representa cylinder divided longitu-
                               dinallv into a number of equal parts, B a, a b,
                               &c., and let lines a e, bf, dec., be drawn per
                               pendicular to the side A B, each equal to the
                               circumference of the base ; then by joining
                               B e, af, b g, c h, will be formed so many
                               right-angled triangles 3ae,abf,bcg,cdh,
                               as the number of equal parts into which the
                               cylinder has been divided. Now suppose
                               these triangles to be rolled upon the cylinder,
                               so that the point e should coincide with the
                               point a,/with 4, g with c, h with d, and so on,
the hypothenuses or longest lines of the triangles, Be, af, bg, ch, Sec.
  * A spiral or volute is a line which can be described on a plane ; but no two
points of a helix are in the same plane, and therefore it cannot be correctly de
scribed on a plane surface.
        Spiral Line.                                       Helical Line.

                                MECHANICS.
 •would form on the surface of the cylinder one continued helical line,
 representing the thread of a screw. These triangles might be con
 sidered as a series of inclined planes ; and therefore if such a screw
 were fitted to a hollow or female screw, fixed so that the former might
 act vertically, it will be obvious that one revolution of the male screw
 would raise or depress it through a space equal to the height of one of
 the inclined planes, and the effect of the screw, independent of friction,
 would be as the length of the plane to its height, or as the line B e to
 B a. If then B o be J of an inch, and B e lj in. or f, a power equal
 to one pound acting by means of the screw would balance a resistance
 equal to twelve pounds. But the resistance arising from friction be
 tween the parts of the solid and the hollow screw would in most cases
require great additional power to produce any considerable effect. This
 therefore renders the application of a lever necessary to constitute the
 screw an effective machine. The lever may be added to the solid
 screw, to turn it within a fixed hollow screw ; or to the hollow screw,
 to turn it round the solid screw. The manner in which the lever is
 applied in either case will appear from the following figures; the
former of which shows how pressure may be produced by a solid screw
acting within a hollow screw in a fixed beam; and the latter exhibits
the similar effect of a hollow screw pierced in a block turning by means
of a lever on a fixed screw : the pierced block thus adapted to a solid
screw is called a nut.
   As the effect of the screw is always to be estimated by the proportion
between the space described by the power, inone revolution of the screw

                        THE COMPOUND SCREW.                             89
 and tie space between any two of its contiguous threads, it must follow-
 that when the power is applied to a long lever instead of being made
 to act directly on the circumference of the screw, the effect must be
 vastly augmented. Thus if the threads of a screw be as much as half
 an inch apart, and it be turned by means of a lever extending three
 feet from the centre of the screw, the effect or advantage of such a ma
 chine will he as the number of half inches in the space described by
 the extremity of the lever to unity. Now reckoning the circumference
 of a circle in round numbers to be three times its diameter, the circum
ference described with a radius of three feet will be 36 x 2 = 72 x 3
 = 216 inches, and double that number, or 432 to 1 will be the measure
of the advantage afforded by the machine.
    Hence it will be apparent that the efficiency of the screw acted on
by the lever might be indefinitely increased by extending the length
of the lever, or by diminishing the interval between the threads of the
screw. But a very long lever would be awkward and inconvenient,
and extremely thin threads would be broken by the pressure when any
considerable force was applied to turn the screw ; so that either me
thod of improving its action could be practically serviceable only to a
limited extent. There is, however, a kind of double or compound
screw, invented by John Hunter, the celebrated surgeon, bearing much
analogy to the double capstan or axle, already described (see p. 78), by
means of which the mechanical efficacy of the machine may be aug
mented to any extent without at all diminishing its strength or com
pactness.
                         The marginal figure, which will show how this
                     ' object is attained, represents a larger screw turn
                       ing in a hollow screw or nut in the fixed beam and
                       having within it a concave screw adapted to the
                       lower or smaller screw, and so arranged that while
                       the larger screw passes forward the smaller one
                       will be retracted, hence as both screws must re
                       volve together, in each revolution, the move
                       able beam will be pressed downward through a
                       space equal to the difference of the distances be
                       tween the threads of the larger and the smaller
                       screws. Therefore such a machine, in which the
                     I threads of the upper screw were ,'0 of an inch
                     ' apart, and those of the lower screw 3y of an inch,

90                           MECHANICS.
would have the same effect as a simple screw, the threads of which
were only -^0 of an inch apart ; for jL x » = «0, tne difference between
the distances of the threads of the double screw just described.
   A solid screw revolving on fixed axes, and having its thread
 adapted to teeth on the periphery of a wheel, is called an endless
 screw ; forming a part of a compound machine of considerable power
 and utility. Fly-wheels, as that of a common jack for roasting meat,
are sometimes turned by the action of a toothed wheel on an endless
screw.
   Besides its usual application to the purpose of producing a high
degree of compression, as in the cider-mill, the common printing-press,
and a variety of similarly acting machines, the screw is likewise em
ployed to measure extremely minute intervals of space. The manner
in which this object is attained will be best understood by referring to
the theory of the screw (see p. 89), where it is demonstrated that any
circle described by an arm or index revolving parallel to the circum
ference of the screw will have a certain relation to the space between
any two contiguous threads ; and therefore a small arc of such a circle
may be conceived to measure the indefinitely minute space through
which the point of the screw would advance or retreat in any given
portion of one complete revolution of the screw. Suppose the threads
to be i of an inch apart, and a circle fixed to the head of the screw
to be divided on its border into 100 equal parts, then on turning the
screw, the index would show the motion of the point of the screw
through as small a space as 4J0 part of an inch. The interval between
the threads of a screw for such a purpose might be extremely minute,
or Hunter's screw might be adopted ; and the circle of equal parts
might be of suflicient extent to be divided into 360 degrees, or any
larger number of parts ; and thus the means would be afforded for
measuring with perfect accuracy the almost invisible fibre of a spider's
web, or for taking the dimensions of the capillary vessels through
which circulate the juices of plants and animals, or for discovering the
size of microscopic insects or other objects too minute to be perceived
by the naked eye. An instrument adapted to a microscope for such
purposes is called a micrometer,* and its screw a micrometer screw.
          * From the Gr. Mirnoj, little ; and Merpov, a measure.

                       COMPOUND MACHINERY.                             91
                            Compound Machinery.
   The advantage derived from combining together two of the mechanic
powers, as the lever with the wheel and axle, or with the screw, has
been already detailed ; and it is by means of combinations of the sim
ple machines, under their various modifications, together, or with each
other, that a vast multitude of complex machines are produced, which
are adapted to facilitate the numerous operations required in the several
departments of the arts, manufactures, and domestic economy.
   Among all the simple machines there is no one so generally useful ,
and therefore so frequently making a part of compound machinery as
that modification of the lever called the wheel and axle. Its advan
tageous adaptation to the purposes of the mechanist are partly owing
to the nature of the motion to which it gives rise, namely rotation,
which is capable of being uninterruptedly continued through a period
of indefinite extent ; and to this advantage may be added the extreme
facility with which wheels may be connected in various modes with
other kinds of machinery. Hence there are few complex machines of
which wheels do not constitute the most effective or essential parts.
Thus are formed a vast variety of mills, from the coffee-mill to the
powerful and complicated engine called a rolling-mill, for compressing
plates of iron and cutting them into rods or bars ; all the multifarious
kinds of wheel-carriages ; turning-lathes, and grinding-machines ;
clocks, watches, and timekeepers, in general ; spinning-jennies, and
many other machines used in the cotton, linen, woollen, and silk manu
factures ; and steam-engines under many of their modifications, to ac
commodate them to the purposes to which they are devoted.
   The peculiar methods in which the parts of machinery are connected,
or the modes of action of one mechanic power upon another, or upon a
different form of the same power, are variously diversified to suit par
ticular purposes. The wheel and pinion, represented in the margin,
                     consists properly of two wheels of unequal dimen
                      sions, the larger having teeth on its circumference
                      which are adapted to correspondent teeth, or as they
                      are sometimes called leaves, in the smaller wheel or
                      pinion : thus a pinion may be made to act on a
                      crown wheel, that is a wheel with teeth placed at
 right angles to its circumference ; as may be observed in a watch, --

92                             MECHANICS.
timekeeper. The endless screw may be connected with the teeth of a
wheel, in the manner represented in the annexed figure.
                                       A little attention to the mode of ac
                                    tion of many machines in constant use
                                    will afford opportunities for observing
                                    numerous instances of the different
                                    ways in which trains of wheel-work
                                    are combined together, or made to aid
                                    the effect of the other mechanic powers.
                                    These are, however, generally redu
                                    cible to two methods of proceeding,
                                    namely, either by teeth, cogs, or some
                                    similar parts, acting against each other,
                                    as just described ; or by bands, as
                                    cords, chains, or other flexible lines
                                    passing wholly or in part round one or
                                    more wheels and axles, so as to pro
duce simultaneous motion. With respect to the use of either of these
methods it is of importance to observe the peculiar nature of rotatory
motion, which differs most essentially from what is termed a motion of
translation, or passage from one place to another, though it may or may
not accompany such a motion. Suppose any body, as a billiard-ball,
                         £ to be pushed from A to B, every particle of
                   _o ""    the ball must have partaken of the motion;
                            but if it be made to spin round in one place,
the centre of the ball will remain unmoved ; for imagine such a ball, or
a large globular bead to be pierced centrically, and have a wire passed
through it, the ball might be made to revolve with any degree of velo
city, while the wire was held perfectly steady. Let a circular disk of
                          paper or any thin substance be made to revolve
                          in this manner, on a pin, it will be perceived
                          that the exterior surface of such a miniature
                          wheel must move with greater velocity than
                          any other part ; so that the point A will pass
                          over more space in each revolution of the wheel
                          than the point B; and the latter over more
                          than the interior point C. Hence it must follow
                          that every circle within the circumference of a
                          revolving wheel will have a relative velocity

                               WHEEL-WORK.                               93
 corresponding with its diameter ; so that the degrees of velocity com
 municated by a wheel in motion to some other part of a compound ma
 chine must depend not merely on the actual velocity of the wheel, but
 on that taken in conjunction with the relative distance from its centre
 at which the communication takes place ; whether it be by means of
 teeth, projecting pins, or cords running in grooved cavities.
    When teeth are made the medium for the communication of impulse,
 their peculiar form requires attention ; but it can here only be generally
stated that the teeth should be so constructed as to act upon each
other steadily, without Jerking or rubbing, which would soon derange
 the machine ; and that the teeth most accurately adapted to produce
 the required effect, are such as have their corresponding surfaces form
 ing peculiar curves, the exact figure of which in any case may be
 ascertained by geometrical construction.*
    It is likewise desirable that the teeth of one wheel should work suc
cessively in those of the corresponding wheel, and that the same teeth
 should not meet in each consecutive revolution of the larger wheel; as
they will thus act more uniformly, and wear away more slowly than if
the same teeth came in contact more frequently. This object is effected
by making the numbers of the teeth of wheels acting together, or of a
wheel and its pinion, as discordant as possible ; so that the number of
the teeth in the small wheel may never be an aliquot part of the number
in the larger wheel. Thus, if a wheel of sixty teeth be turned by a
pinion having but ten, each of the latter would come in contact with
the same teeth of the former in each of its revolutions, or in every sixth
revolution of the pinion ; but if the larger wheel have sixty-one teeth,
it must be manifest that no two corresponding teeth of the wheel and
pinion respectively can meet more than once in every sixty-one revolu
tions of the pinion, during which the wheel will have revolved ten
times. The odd tooth or cog by which this effect is produced is called
by millwrights the hunting-cog.
    In the construction of complex machines, it is not merely requisite
that they should afford the means of communication between the power
 and the resistance, and enable the former to overcome the latter by the
 combined assistance of two or more of the mechanic powers, or simple
machines ; but it also often becomes an object of the highest importance
 to change the direction of any given moving power or acting force,
            * Sec Leslie's Elements of Nat. Philos., vol. i. p. 199—20r.

94                            MECHANICS.
without which it may be utterly inapplicable to the intended purpose,
and therefore quite useless. The means by which this is effected
are extremely numerous and > diversified.          Some examples have
been already given of the methods employed to change the di
rection of a moving power, in describing the modes of action of
wheels and pulleys : by such means one rectilinear motion may
be changed into another in a contrary direction ; thus a man
pulling downwards may draw up a weight suspended by a rope
passing over a wheel, just as we draw up a curtain or a sun-blind.
And motion may be thus propagated in an angular direction, as when a
hell-wire passes from one side of a room to another ; the cranks which
are used at the angles being only a kind of imperfect wheels, having a
confined motion. Reciprocating rectilinear motion may be changed
into circular motion, by a crank applied to turn a wheel, as may be
seen in the common knife-grinding machine, and in the turning-lathe ;
                                          and the same effect is produced
                                          by what has been fancifully
                                          styled the sun and planet wheel,
                                         represented in the margin ; one
                                          wheel fixed at the extremity
                                         of a vertical rod which rises and
                                         falls alternately, acting by teeth
                                         on its periphery on a similar
                                         wheel to which it communicates
                                         a double velocity ; and thus is
                                         made to revolve the fly-wheel
                                         of a steam-engine. The oppo
                                         site effect of curvilinear motion
                                         producing alternate rectilinear
motion may be observed in the manner of working the pistons of an air-
pump, or a fire-engine, as in the marginal figure p. 95. A very ingenious
contrivance for the conversion of rectilinear into curvilinear motion,
or rather for producing an accurate correspondence between such
motions, is displayed in the system of jointed bars used to connect
the piston-rods of the steam-engine and its air-pump with the great
beam, whose reciprocating motion transmits the necessary force to the
fly-wheel and other parts of the machine. A much clearer idea of
the nature of this contrivance, termed the parallel motion, may be
attained from inspecting a steam-engine at work, than from a detailed

                    REGULATION OF MACHINERY.                             95
                   description even with the aid of a figure representing its
                   construction. The universal joint, invented by the
                   celebrated Dr. Robert Hooke, affords a simple and
                   efficient mode of transferring rotatory motion from one
                   axis to another in an angular direction ; but this may
                   be done with greater accuracy by means of bevilled
                   wheels, which, as will be understood from the fol
                   lowing figures may be made to act on each other at
                   any angle whatsoever.
   The regulation of the velocity or rate of motion is of the highest
consequence to ensure the efficiency of compound machinery. When
two or more of the mechanic powers are made to act in concert, they
must necessarily have certain points of contact ; and the material sub
stances of which machines are constructed, being subject to variations
of density and dimensions from the action of heat and cold, or other
causes, regularity of action cannot be perfectly attained, unless some
mode can be adopted to prevent the changes just mentioned from
taking place, or to counteract their effects ; so that there may be such
a stability in the points of contact of the mechanic powers, as to pro
duce uniformity of combined action. Thus, in a clock or timepiece,
uniform motion is propagated throughout trains of wheel-work, by
means of a pendulum oscillating seconds; and the pendulum therefore
acts the part of a regulator to the clock. In describing the pendulum
and its peculiar kind of motion, it has been stated that to beat seconds
it must have a certain length, corresponding to the latitude of the place
of observation, or more strictly speaking to the distance of that place
from the earth's centre. Now it has been discovered from observation
that a pendulum-rod of brass, steel, or in fact of any substance adapted

96                   •             MECHANICS.
for such a use, will be elongated by heat, and contracted by cold ; and
that to such an extent by the common changes of temperature in the
atmosphere at different periods, that a pendulum which would vibrate
once in a second in the winter, would take up more than a second in
performing one vibration in the summer ; and hence it would require
to be shortened at the latter period, and lengthened again at the former
to make it act with any tolerable degree of uniformity. To regulate a
clock in this manner it is obvious that the error must be observed before
it could be corrected, and therefore this method though it might serve
for common purposes, would be nearly useless to the astronomer or the
navigator, requiring a uniform and accurate measurement of a consider
able period of time, by means of an instrument more or less exposed to
alternations of temperature. The construction of a pendulum which
shoutd preserve its length unalterably in all situations, thus became an
object highly interesting both to philosophers and mechanics ; and the
                   contrivances which different individuals have adopted
                   or proposed have been numerous and diversified. The
                   general principle on which compensation pendulums, as
                   they are termed, act, may be comprehended from the an
                   nexed figure and description.
                     Suppose C D E F to represent a steel frame, and G H a
                   transverse bar of metal connected by the copper rods I
                   and K with the bar D E, to which they are firmly fixed.
                   The rod O P being fastened by a pin to the bar G H,
                  descends from it through an aperture in the bar D E,
                  hanging freely from the point O, and supporting the
                  pendulum-bob P : the pendulum turning on the sus
                  pension-spring A B. Now when the longitudinal rods
                  are dilated by heat, the elongation of the rods I and
                  K, will tend to raise the bar G H to which the rod
                  O P is attached ; but the corresponding elongation of
                  the latter will tend to lower the point P ; and if the ap
                  paratus be properly arranged the lengthening of one set
                  of rods will compensate that of the other, as they must
                  take place inoppositedirections.* On similar principles
   * The different metals display different degrees of expansibility with increase
of temperature (see Pyronomics) ; and as copper is much more expansible
than steel, the single set of copper rods will counteract the effect of the two
*ets of steel rods.

                       COMPOUND MACHINERY.                                97
are constructed Harrison's gridiron pendulum and the numerous sub
sequent inventions, the common object of which has been to obtain a
pendulum-rod, in which the point of contact or axis of suspension
shall be at a certain and invariable distance from the centre of oscillation.
   Thus it has been shown how the effect of a single cause of irregu
larity of action in machinery may be obviated ; but in the greater num
ber of the complex machines employed for various purposes connected
with arts and manufactures, there are often several different circum
stances contributing more or less to prevent regular or uniform action.
Besides the difficulty of maintaining certain points of contact be
tween the moving parts of machines, owing to inequality of temperature
and consequent contraction and expansion of solid bodies, there are
additional difficulties arising from the gradual wearing away of sur
faces by friction and from other causes. But admitting the possibility
of preserving the points of contact of the parts of a machine unaltered
for a certain period, abundant causes of irregular action might still
exist ; among which may be mentioned, as one of the most important,
the irregular effect of the moving power. A familiar example of such
a case will occur in the common handmill, used by grocers to grind
coffee or cocoa ; for a greater degree of strength must be exerted to
turn the winch or handle of such a mill at the lowest point of the circle
which it forms, in turning, than at the highest point ; and thus the
machine could not be made to act with an equable motion, but for the
heavy fly-wheel, connected with the axis of the mill, which equalizes
the effect, and enables a man to turn the mill with any required velocity,
working without interruption or extraordinary efforts. In reference
to the fly-wheel, Sir John Leslie says, " The variable inciting forces
are thus, by the intervention of a heavy wheel, blended together in
creating one great momentum, which afterwards maintains a nearly
uniform action. The use of the fly in mechanics hence resembles that
of a reservoir, which collects the intermitting currents, and sends forth
a regular stream."* That distinguished philosopher has given a de
scription of a machine called the Concentrator of Force, by means of
which an inconsiderable power, acting on a fly-wheel, may be made to
produce a vast momentary effect. On this principle of the effect of
the concentration of force depends the action of the coining-press used
                * Elements of Natural Philosophy, vol. i. p. 177-

98                             MECHANICS.
for striking pieces of money. The momentum communicated to the ma
chine by a man whirling round for a few seconds the balls at the extre
                           mities of an horizontal bar, will cause the screw
                           to descend with such force, carrying the die a-
                           gainst a circular disk of metal, as to give it the
                           required impression at one stroke. This ma
                           chine is said to have been invented by Ni
                           cholas Briot, mint-master (tailleur-gentral
                           des monnmes) to Louis XIII. of France ; and
                           by using it one man may do as much work
                            as twenty, striking coins with a hammer,
which was the old method of coining.*
   A complicated machine, such as the steam-engine, requires various
modifications or adaptations of its essential parts, and the addition of
some peculiar parts to equalize or compensate irregular movements,
and enable the engine to work with due accuracy and effect. Besides
the fly-wheel, which is a necessary appendage to the common low-
pressure steam-engine, there is another very ingenious and important
contrivance, called the governor. It consists of two heavy balls, con
                    nected by jointed rods with a revolving axis, by any
                    increase in the velocity of which they diverge or
                    separate from each other, and draw downwards the
                    jointed rods; while a slower motion of the axis
                    causes the balls to approach each other, and the
                    system of rods to be contracted laterally and be ex
                    tended upward. The grand effect produced by this
                    means depends on making the ascending and de
                    scending extremity of the jointed rods raise or lower
                    the end of a bar which acts as a lever, and moves a
                    valve which regulates the supply of steam from the
                    principal steam-pipe. A similar method of con
                    trolling the effect of moving power is applicable to
                    wind and water mills, and other kinds of machinery.
   Whatever may be the complexity of a machine, or however varied
its action, its effect, theoretically considered, is to be estimated ac
 cording to the principles already laid down relative to simple ma
chines. There must be in every case an equality of effective action
 in the power and the resistance in order to produce equilibrium ; and
        « V. Sigaud de la Fond Elemens de Physique, 1787, t. ii. p. 124.

                      EFFECT OF MACHINERY.                            99
consequently the efficient force of the power must, with the assistance
of the machine, exceed that of the weight or resistance, before motion
can take place. It may be generally stated that a power can counter
balance any given resistance, when the momentum of the former is
rendered equal to that of the latter. This has been repeatedly de
monstrated in treating of the several simple machines. Thus, it has
been shown that a lever can be kept in equilibrium only when the
number of pounds in the power, multiplied by the number of feet it
would describe, if put in motion, gives a product exactly equal to that
of the number of pounds in the resistance multiplied by the number of
feet in the space relatively described by it ; so that the spaces passed
through by the power and the resistance must always be in the inverse
ratio of their respective weights, or actual independent forces. Hence
it follows that whatever advantage is afforded by a machine, so as to
enable a small weight or other weak power to overcome a great
weight or resistance, must depend on communicating to the power a
degree of velocity, or causing it to act through a space which shall
more than equalize the momentums of the antagonist forces.
    It may perhaps be remarked that machines, regarded in this point
of view, give no additional force ; since in order to raise a weight of
 500 pounds, a power must be made to act with an effect superior to
 500 pounds, either weight or pressure. The object of machinery cer
 tainly is not to create force, which is impossible, but to accumulate,
 distribute and apply it, so as to produce certain effects ; and the ad
 vantage thus afforded is often of the highest importance. Thus, a man,
 with a crow-bar, may be able to turn over a log of wood, or a block of
 stone, which unassisted he could no more move than he could one of
 the Egyptian pyramids. But to raise such a mass of wood or stone
 with a crow-bar or lever, he must make the end of the bar to which he
 applied his strength move through a space, probably fifty or sixty times
 as great as that through which he would move the log or block. So
 likewise if a man, who could pull with a force only equal to 50 pounds,
 wanted to raise a bale of goods weighing 500 pounds through the
 space of 12 feet, he might do it by means of a tackle of pulleys, but if
 it afforded him the assistance precisely necessary to supply his de
 ficiency of strength, it must be so constructed that he would have to
 pull down 120 feet of rope, in order to make the bale ascend 12
 feet. These examples will probably suffice to illustrate the nature of
                                    H 2

 100                          MECHANICS.
the equilibrium of action resulting from the application of machinery ;
and hence it will be apparent that whatever be the moving power
employed for any purpose, though its actual force cannot be increased
bv any machine, as such an increase would involve a moral impos
sibility, yet its effective force may often be indefinitely augmented ;
that is, its actual force may be made by a machine to overcome an
actual resistance, to which, alone, it would be utterly inadequate.
    The action of machinery necessarily requires time to produce any
given effect. Motion can in no case be instantaneous, however rapid ;
 and when it is the result of the operation of complicated machinery, it
must be relatively slow. It may indeed be the real object of a
piece of mechanism to extend a series of consecutive movements
 through a certain period ; and of such an arrangement examples may
be found in common clocks and watches. In an eight-day clock, for
 instance, a couple of weights are wound up to a certain height, and
 left suspended to act by their own gravity in setting in motion trains
 of wheel-work, which shall cause the indexes, or hour and minute
 hands, to describe given circles in certain spaces of time, so as to fur
 nish a method for the equal measurement of time ; and the gravitating
 powers of the weights are so opposed by the resistance distributed
 over the numerous wheels and pinions, that though the weights may
 each amount to several pounds, they may descend so slowly as to be
 more than a week in passing through the space of five or six feet.
    A story is told bv an ancient writer, relative to the celebrated Archi
medes, from which may be drawn a most pointed illustration of the
immensity of time and space required to produce mechanical effect,
where the disproportion between the power and the resistance is ex
 tremely great. In relating the history of the siege of Syracuse by the
 Romans, Plutarch, in his Life of Marcellus, the Roman general, says
that Archimedes told Hiero, king of Syracuse, whose confidence he
possessed, as being related to that prince and highly esteemed by him,
that by his mechanic skill, he could, if there was another earth for him
to stand on, move the solid globe which we inhabit. Hiero, astonished
at this assertion, requested the philosopher to afford him some demon
strative evidence of its truth, by letting him behold a very large body
moved by a' small force ; and the historian adds this effect was exhi
bited by Archimedes, who sitting on the sea-shore drew into port, with
one hand, a large ship heavily laden and having a number of men on

                        OBSTACLES TO MOTION.                            101
board. This he is stated to have done by gently moving the handle of
a machine called polyspaston, a pulley.
    It has been remarked, that if Archimedes had proposed to move the
earth by means of a lever, and had obtained not only the place he re
quired to stand on, but also another whereon to fix his fulcrum, with an
hypothetical lever of requisite length and strength, and had also been
endowed with muscular power sufficient to enable him to act on the
end of his lever so as to move it with the velocity of a cannon-ball, he
would not have shifted the earth more than the twenty-seven mil
lionth of an inch in a million of years ; and supposing him to have
had but the average power of a strong man, it would have taken him
3,653,745,176,803 centuries to have moved the earth with the machine
he had in view in his address to his royal relative.*
    Paradoxical as these statements may appear, it may be easily shown
that they are founded on mathematical evidence. To comprehend this
it will be only necessary to consider how far into boundless space such
a theoretical lever as thatimagined for Archimedes must have extended ;
and the consequent incomprehensible immensity of the arc which such
an imaginary lever must be supposed to describe.
    Those who have leisure and inclination for making such computa
tions may ascertain what length of theoretical rope must be drawn over
imaginary pulleys, to raise through the space of one inch, by means of
a power equal to seventy-two pounds, a spherical mass 8000 miles in
diameter, having a mean density five times that of water, and taking
the weight of a cubic foot of that fluid to be 1000 ounces avoirdupois.
The result of such a calculation would afford an approximation to a fair
estimate of the fancied task of Archimedes ; and would strikingly
evince the utter insignificance of human skill and science when con
trasted with the power of nature.
     Observations on Friction ; on the Rigidity of Cordage ; and on the
                           Strength of' Materials.
    In making calculations or estimates of the effective force of moving
powers applied to machinery, it is always necessary to admit certain
   * Recreations in Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, edited by Dr. Charles
Hntton, vol. ii. p. 19.

102                            MECHANICS.
deductions on account of the obstacles to freedom of motion arising
from friction, the rigidity of cordage, or the imperfections of the ma
terials of which machines must be constructed. All these subjects are
of the highest importance to practical mechanicians, and are therefore
deserving of the most accurate attention ; but it will be sufficient here
to describe briefly the nature of these obstructing or retarding forces,
and to notice the methods usually adopted for lessening or correcting
the inconveniences they may produce.
    It is the well-known consequence of friction that when one substance
moves in contact with another, either at rest or moving in an opposite
 direction, more or less force must be applied to produce motion in
 proportion to the roughness or smoothness of the surfaces of the two
 bodies.* No substance can be perfectly smooth ; not even polished
 steel or glass. Those surfaces that to the naked eye seem free from
 the slightest inequalities are found, when examined by a powerful
 microscope, to be covered with innumerable rising points and hollows,
 like the face of a file ; and sometimes to be intersected by abundance
 of irregular ridges and furrows. Now, when surfaces, such as have
 been just described, are made to move in contact, the prominent parts
 of the one will pass into the depressions of the other, and thus occasion
 more or less difficulty in procuring lateral motion.
    Though friction, from its effect in retarding motion, lessens the ad
 vantage derived from machinery, and often causes inconvenience, yet
 it is one of those properties of matter which we find to be of almost in
 dispensable utility. If all bodies were destitute of friction it would
 be very difficult for us to grasp or retain in our hands any solid sub
 stance ; a penknife, a ruler, or a book would slip through our fingers,
 if not held tightly ; and in using our hands for any purpose, such a
 degree of muscular power must be exerted as would be extremely
 fatiguing and inconvenient. But without friction it would be still
  more difficult to use our feet than our hands ; and no man could walk
 upright unless he possessed the skill and activity of a tight-rope dancer,
  or a performer on the slack wire. The consequence of losing the ad
  vantage derived from friction in walking may be easily conceived,
  when we reflect on what takes place when friction is partially destroyed
  by the streets and open pavements being covered with ice, as occa-
                                  * See p. 5.

                                FRICTION.                              103
sionally happens during the winter season. Arming the soles of the
shoes with list, or with projecting nails, and strewing the ice with
sawdust, ashes, or other loose substances, are among the usual methods
resorted to at such times, to restore friction, and enable people to walk
steadily.
    Friction is likewise advantageously used as a means of sharpening
or polishing various substances, by rubbing, grinding, and other ope
rations of great importance in several arts and manufactures. This
property of matter may even be applied to the production of motion :
at least it may be made the medium of communication between one
part of a machine and another. Thus wheels are sometimes covered
on their peripheries with buff-leather, and one of them being set in
motion will then turn the other, by the friction of the rough surfaces of
the leather, acting as ifthe wheels had been furnished with innumerable
 series of minute teeth.
    Such are the benefits of friction, but in many cases it proves a very
 inconvenient property of matter, hindering freedom of motion, and
 tending to obstruct it entirely ; and hence in the construction of ma
chinery various contrivances are adopted to lessen or destroy the effect
of friction. Systematic writers have distinguished this property of
matter into two kinds : namely, 1. That which takes place when two
 fiat surfaces are moved in contact, so that the same points of one sur
face are constantly applied to some part of the other ; and 2. The fric
tion that takes place when one body rolls over another, so that the
points of contact of both surfaces are perpetually changing. The former
 may be styled continued friction, and the latter interrupted friction. It
must be obvious that the retarding effect of continued friction must be
vastly greater than that of interrupted friction ; so that it must be de
sirable to convert the former into the latter wherever that may be
practicable. It is for this reason that plumbers, masons, and carpen
ters, when they want to move a heavy mass of metal, stone, or wood,
place beneath it several cylinders of hard wood, by means of which
such a mass may be dragged forward without coming in contact with
the ground, and the immense friction of the first kind or continued
friction which must otherwise occur is changed into interrupted fric
tion or rolling motion. On the other hand interrupted friction is con
verted into continued friction, by dragging, or as it is termed, shoeing
the wheel of a carriage in going down a steep hill.

  104                           MECHANICS.
     On the principle just stated depends the utility of those parts of
  some complex machines, called friction-wheels. In wheel-work the
  chief friction takes place between a wheel and the axle on which it
* turns ; and to diminish its effect it is usual to construct the axle and
  the box, or central part of the wheel, of very hard substances, the sur
  faces of which are not only rendered as smooth as possible, but also
                           covered with oil, or some other unctuous matter,
                           which facilitates the motion of the correspond
                           ing parts. But where it is necessary to ob
                           tain the utmost facility of motion, a method has
                           been adopted for subdividing friction, by let
                           ting the axle of a principal wheel move on two
                           or more small wheels, as in the marginal figure.
                           These are named friction-wheels.
                              In estimating the effect of friction, so many
                           circumstances must be taken into the account
  that the result, in any given case, may afford but little assistance in
  deciding others. It may however be stated, as the most important de
  duction from repeated experiments, that friction does not depend on
  the extent of the surfaces on which it acts, but chiefly on the degree of
  pressure to which they are subjected ; so that, the surfaces continuing
  in the same state, increase of pressure will produce increase of friction.
   When a heavy body is placed on an inclined plane, it will have a ten
  dency to slide ; and consequently will remain at rest on such a plane,
  only when the retarding effect of friction is greater than the tendency
  for motion, caused by the inclination of the plane. Hence the angle of
  inclination at which motion on an inclined plane commences has been
  styled the angle of friction ; and it will of course be different in dif
  ferent cases, according to the nature of the rubbing surfaces, and the
  degree of pressure.
     The rigidity of cordage is another property of solid bodies which
  interferes with the freedom of motion in some kinds of machinery. It
  must necessarily depend on the peculiar nature of the materials used,
  since the more flexible they are, the more readily will they become
  adapted to the wheels or spindles round which they are coiled ; and
  the smaller will be the interruption of regular continued motion. It
  is principally when very thick lines are used, such as the cables for
  heaving anchors for very large ships, that this rigidity of cordage he

                    STRENGTH OF MATERIALS.                            105
 comes a serious impediment to motion, requiring the expenditure of
 gTeat force to overcome it. Iron chains have been advantageously in
 troduced into the maritime service, instead of cables ; and are likewise
 employed for various purposes in the arts to which ropes alone were
 formerly considered applicable.
    In the construction of machines much must depend on the strength
 and firmness of the materials of which they may be composed. Thus,
 in the case of one of the most simple machines, the lever, suppose a
long pole to be applied to raise a considerable weight, much of the
 effect of any power would be lost in consequence of the bending of
such a wooden lever at that part which rested on the fulcrum ; and
therefore an iron bar, nearly inflexible, of the same length with the
pole, would enable a man to move any given weight or resistance with
less exertion.
    The hardness, tenacity, elasticity, and other properties of bodies, on
which their relative strength must principally depend, vary so greatly
even in different specimens of the same substance, as wood or metal,
that few rales of general application can be given for computing the
degrees of force, which may be applied with safety to the particular
parts of any complex machine. Any solid substance, as a bar or rod
of iron, may be subjected to tension or pressure in different ways :
as (1), by suspending to it a great weight, or endeavouring to stretch
it longitudinally ; (2), by weight or pressure applied to crush or com
press it ; and (3), by weight or pressure applied to the centre of a bar
or rod, its extremities alone being supported. It appears from expe
riment, that in the first case, the length of a rod remaining the same,
its strength will be increased or diminished in proportion to the area
of its transverse section : thus, as 27 tons weight will tear asunder
an iron bar one inch square, so a bar but half an inch square will be
broken by a weight of 6J tons ; and so on in any given proportion.
Concerning the capacity of bodies for resisting compression, but little
is known with certainty. Much appears to depend on the form of a
body, for a cubic inch of English oak required to crush it a weight of
3860 pounds ; but a bar an inch square and five inches high gave way
under the weight of 2572 pounds ; and if longer it would manifestly
have broken with a less weight. Mr. Rennie, one of the architects of
London Bridge, infers from calculation that the granite of which the
great arch of that bridge is constructed would bear a pressure equal

106                           MECHANICS.
to four tons upon every square inch of its upper surface. As to the
strength of bodies exposed to transverse or lateral pressure, one or
both ends being supported, it depends on the dimensions of a section
of the body in the direction of the pressure. Thus a beam having the
same length and breadth with another, but twice its depth, will be four
times as strong ; and a beam double the length of another, but with
the same breadth and depth, will have but half as much strength.
'Hence the strength of solid bodies is not by any means to be estimated
by their absolute magnitude. Hollow cylinders are much stronger
than solid ones of equal length and weight ; and therefore it appears
an admirable provision of nature that the bones of men and other ani
mals in those parts requiring facility and power of motion are more or
less of a cylindrical shape, with cavities in the centre, which in birds
are tilled only with air, whence partly their capacity for flight; but in
men and beasts the cavities are filled with a light oily fluid, which con
geals after death, forming marrow. The strength or efficient power of
an animal depends chiefly on the accurate construction and adaptation
of its several parts. Some very small creatures possess muscular power,
in proportion to their bulk, incomparably greater than that of the largest
and strongest of the brute creation. A flea, considered relatively to its
size, is far stronger than an elephant or a lion ; as will appear from
comparing the distance the insect would leap at one bound with its
actual dimensions, with reference to the spring and dimensions of the
quadruped. Some marine animals, as the whale, are of vast bulk ;
nature having provided for their convenience by giving them a me
dium of great density to inhabit.
                             MOVING POWERS.
   The original forces which produce motion, and which have been
denominated Moving Powers, or Mechanical Agents, are of various
kinds, depending on the natural properties of bodies. Gravitation or
weight is an extensively acting power affecting matter in all its dif
ferent forms, and affording the means of originating motion for many
 useful and important purposes. By the proper application of weight
is excited and maintained the equable motion' of wheel-work, as in a
 common clock ; and the same power differently adapted is made to

                           MOVING POWERS.                              107
act by percussion, in pile-driving and numerous other operations.
Currents of water owe their velocity to the weight of the descending
liquid, yielding a kind of moving power on which depends the effective
force of water-wheels and other hydraulic engines.
   Elasticity is another property of matter which gives energy to various
mechanical agents. Elastic metals, as steel, manufactured into springs,
are used in the construction of watches or chronometers ; and the con
tractile force of springs is employed for many other purposes, as in
roasting-jacks and weighing-machines. Liquids, though compressed
with difficulty, display a high degree of power when thus treated ; and
machines of vast energy have been invented, the effect of which de
pends on the expansive or elastic force of compressed water. The
elasticity of air is likewise ,an abundant source of moving power.
Steam-engines, such as were used in the early part of the last century,
were made to act through atmospheric pressure, arising from the joint
influence of the weight and elasticity of the air ; but since the vast im
 provements in machines of this description, in consequence of the re
 searches of Watt and other experimental philosophers, steam or elastic
 vapour is employed as the sole moving power, and so managed as to
 produce effects far beyond those of the old atmospheric engines.
    Heat must he regarded as a moving power, the efficacy of which de
pends on its tendency to dilate different kinds of matter. It also con
 verts solid bodies to the liquid state, and liquids under its influence are
changed into vapours or gases. Hence indeed is to be explained the
 operation of the steam-engine, in which alternating motion is produced
by the expansive force of steam, or water raised to the state of vapour
by means of heat. Combustion is a chemical process often excited by
heat, and during the progress of which heat is always developed ; and
from this source is derived moving power of vast intensity, as occurs
in the discharge of shot or balls from fire-arms, through the explosion
of gunpowder. In this case the moving power arises from the sudden
expansion of gases formed by the combustion of solid matter ; but en
gines have recently been constructed the action of which depends on
the formation of a partial vacuum by the inflammation of oxygen and
hydrogen gases in close vessels, and the consequent production of
water.
   Machines may be set in motion by means of electricity, galvanism,
or magnetism ; and forces, which have been chiefly regarded as objects

 108                            MECHANICS.
of curiosity may be extensively applied to useful and important pur
poses. In a French periodical publication (Journal de Geneve, 1831),
some account is given of an electrical clock, invented by M. Bianchi
of Verona. This timekeeper has neither weight nor spring, instead of
which the constant vibration of the pendulum is maintained by the im
pulse of electricity, which it receives by moving between two galvanic
piles, the ball or bob being furnished with a conductor, which in its
oscillations, approaching either pile, alternately, is repelled by the dis
charge of the electric fluid ; and the regular action of the whole of the
machinery is kept up.
   These cursory observations will afford some general ideas of the
nature and extent of the moving powers originating from the influence
of elastic fluids, heat, and electricity ; but the further discussion of these
topics must be referred to the subsequent portion of this work, where
the phenomena connected with these subjects will be distinctly noticed.
There are, however, besides those moving powers, the operation of
which depends on the physical properties of matter in different states
of aggregation, other mechanical agents, the effects of which arise from
the vital energy of animated beings ; and concerning these some details
may here be properly introduced.
   The application of the natural strength of man must have preceded
the employment of all other moving powers ; and we know from his
tory, that ever since a very remote period brute animals have likewise
been rendered subservient to the purposes of art and industry. The
employment of oxen and horses in the labours of the field must have
originated in the earliest ages ; and the art of training beasts of dif
ferent kinds to exert their strength for the benefit of man has been
known and practised among almost all nations except those in the very
rudest state of society.
   The mechanical effects produced by the muscular exertions of living
beings cannot be subjected to calculation on precisely the same prin
ciples as the moving power of a weighing-machine or a steam-engine ;
nor even can they be estimated with so much precision as the efficient
power of a windmill or a water-wheel ; but there are modes of obtaining
data whence to determine the value of animal strength as a mechanical
agent, which may serve to indicate the comparative product of labour
from that and other sources, and enable us to discover their relative im
portance for any given purpose.

                         HUMAN STRENGTH.                            109
   The usual method of computing the mechanical value or efficiency
 of labour is from the weight it is capable of elevating to a certain
height in a given time, the product of these three measures (weight,
 space, and time) denoting the absolute quantity of performance. But
these measures have obviously a mutual relation which will affect the
result ; for great speed will occasion a waste of force, and shorten
the period during which it can be exerted.           It was computed
by Daniel Bernoulli and Uesaguliers that a man could raise two
millions of pounds avoirdupois one foot in a day. And some writers
have calculated that a labourer will lift ten pounds to a height of ten
feet every second, and continue to work at that rate during ten hours
in a day, raising in that time 3,600,000 pounds. But these estimates
are certainly incorrect, and appear to have been founded on inferences
drawn from momentary exertions under favourable circumstances.
Smeaton states that six good labourers would raise 21, 141 cubic feet
of sea-water to the height of four feet in four hours ; so that they
would raise about 540,000 pounds each to the height of ten feet in
twenty-four hours.
   Coulomb has furnished some of the most exact and varied observa
tions on the measure of human labour. A man will climb a stair
case from 70 to 100 feet high, at the rate of 45 feet in a minute; and
hence reckoning the man's weight at 155 pounds, the animal exertion
for one minute would be 6975, and would amount to 4,185,000, if con
tinued' for ten hours. But such exercise would be too violent to be
thus continued. A person might ascend a rock 500 feet high by a lad
der-stair in twenty minutes, or at the rate of 25 feet a minute : his
efforts are thus already impaired, and the performance reduced to only
3875 in a minute.
   But with the incumbrance of a load the quantity of action must be
yet more remarkably diminished. A porter weighing 140 pounds, who
could climb a staircase 40 feet high two hundred and sixty-six times
in a day, was able to carry up only sixty-six loads of firewood, each
weighing 163 pounds. In the former case, his daily performance was
very nearly 1 ,500,000 ; while in thelatter itamounted to only 808,000.
The quantity of permanent effect in the latter case therefore was only
about 700,000, or scarcely half the labour exerted in mere climbing.
A man, drawing water from a well by means of a double bucket, may
raise 36 pounds one hundred and twenty times a day, from a depth of

110                           MECHANICS.
120 feet, the total effect being 518,400. A skilful labourer working in
the field with a large hoe produces an effect equal to 728,000. When
the agency of a winch is employed in turning a machine, the perform
ance is still greater, amounting to 845,000.
   The effective force of human exertion differs according to the man
ner in which it is applied. From some experiments made by Mr.
Robertson Buchanan, it was ascertained that the labour of a man em
ployed in working a pump, turning a winch, ringing a bell, and row
ing a boat, might be represented respectively by the numbers 100, 167,
227, and 248. Hence it appears that the act of rowing is an advan
tageous method of applying human strength. The Greek seamen in
the Dardanelles are said to excel most others in skill and vigour ; and
the Chinese, who use both their hands and feet surpass all other
people in giving impulse to boats by sculling.
   A London porter is accustomed to carry a burden of 200 pounds at
the rate of three miles an hour ; and a couple of Irish chairmen will
walk four miles an hour, with a load of 300 pounds. But these ex
ertions are by no means equivalent to those of the sinewy porters in
Turkey, the Levant, and other parts bordering on the Mediterranean.
At Constantinople, an Albanian will carry 800 or 900 pounds on his
back, stooping forward, and assisting his steps by a short staff. At
Marseilles, four porters commonly carry the immense load of nearly
two tons, by means of soft hods passing over their heads, and resting
on their shoulders, with the ends of the poles from which the goods
are suspended. The most extraordinary instances of muscular exertion
in the carriage of burdens are those exhibited by the cargueros or
carriers, a class of men in the mountainous parts of Peru, who are
employed in carrying travellers. Humboldt, in relating the circum
stances of his descent on the western side of the Cordillera of the
Andes, gives some account of the cargueros. It is as usual in that
country for people to talk of going a journey on a man's back, as it is
in England to speak of going on horseback. No humiliating idea is
attached to the occupation of a man-carrier ; and those who engage in
it are not Indians, but Mulattoes, and sometimes whites. The usual
load of a carguero is from 160 to 180 pounds weight, and those who
are very strong will carry as much as 210 pounds. Notwithstanding
the enormous fatigue to which these men are exposed, carrying such
loads for eight or nine hours a day, over a mountainous country, though

                             HORSE POWER.                                 Ill
their backs are often as raw as those of beasts of burden, though tra
vellers have sometimes the cruelty to leave them in the forests when
they fall sick, and though their scanty earnings during a journey of
fifteen or even thirty days are not more than from 21. 10s. to 21. lbs.,
yet the employment of a carguerois eagerly embraced by all the robust
young men who live at the foot of the mountains.*
   The different races of mankind display much diversity of muscular
strength; though in all cases much must depend on the constitution
and habits of the individual. M. Peron, in his " Voyage de Decou-
vertes aux Terres Australes, fait par ordre du Gouvernement [Fran-
caise] pendant les Annees 1800— 4," has stated the results of some in
teresting experiments which he made to discover the relative me
chanical power of individuals of different nations.          For that purpose
he used an instrument called a Dynamometer, which, by the application
of spiral springs, to a graduated scale, afforded the means of estimat
ing the forces exerted by the persons who were the subjects of his ex
periments. He collected by this method a number of facts, which he
conceived sufficient to enable him to deduce from them the medium
forces ot powers of exertion of the inhabitants of the Island of Timor,
of New Holland, and of Van Diemen's Land, and to compare them with
those of the English and the French. The following is the order of
arrangement, commencing with the weakest: Manual force—Van
Diemen's Land, N. Holland, Timor, French, English. The proportion
between the two extremes is nearly as 5 to 7. Lumbo-dorsal force,
[force des reins]—the order the same as before ; but the proportion
between the extremes, as 5 to 8.
   The labour of a horse in a day is usually reckoned equal to that of
five men ; but then the horse works only eight hours, while a man can
easily continne his exertions for ten. Horses display greater power
in carrying than drawing ; yet an active walker will beat them in a
long journey. Their effective force in traction seldom exceeds 144
pounds, but they are able to carry six times that weight. The pack-
horses in the West Riding of Yorkshire are accustomed to convey
loads of 420 pounds over a hilly country ; and in many parts of Eng
land, the mill-horse will carry the burden of even 910 pounds, for a
 * See Humboldt's Researches concerning the ancient Inhabitants of America ;
with Descriptions of the most striking Scenes in the Cordilleras. London, 1814.

 112                            MECHANICS.
 short distance. The most advantageous load for a horse must be that
 with which his speed will be greatest in proportion to the weight carried.
 Thus, if the greatest speed at which a horse can travel unloaded be
 15 miles an hour, and the greatest weight he could sustain without
moving be supposed to be divided into 225 parts, then his labour will
be most effective when, loaded with 100 of those parts, he travels at
the rate of five miles an hour. The common estimate of horsepower
adopted in calculating the effect of steam-engines is wholly hypotheti
cal. It is stated to be that which will raise a weight of 33,000 pounds
the height of one foot, in a minute of time, equal to raising about 90
pounds four miles in an hour. Another estimate reduces the weight to
22,000 pounds raised one foot in a minute, equivalent to 100 pounds
2^ miles an hour. This mode of calculation seems to have been intro
duced as a matter of convenience, when the use of horses in mills
and factories was superseded by that of steam-engines ; and must have
been adopted in order to show the superiority of steam-engines over
horses according to the most exaggerated statement of the power of the
latter.
   The ass, though far inferior to the horse in strength, is yet a most
serviceable beast of burden to the poor, as he is easily maintained at
little cost, In this country an ass will carry about 220 pounds twenty
miles a dav ; but in warmer climates, where he becomes a larger and
finer animal, he may be made to trot or amble briskly with a load of
150 pounds. Mules are much used as beasts of burden in Spain,
South America, and some other parts of the world. In the West
Indies a mule will work two hours out of about eighteen, with a
force of about 150 pounds, walking three feet in one second.
   Dogs are now frequently used for draught in London, and other
parts of England. The Kamtschatdales, Esquimaux, and some other
northern people employ teams of dogs to draw sledges over the frozen
surface of snow. They are harnessed in a line, sometimes to the num
ber of eight or ten, and they perform their work with speed, steadi
ness, and perseverance. Captain Lyon, when he visited the Arctic
regions, had nine of these dogs, who dragged 1610 pounds a mile in
nine minutes, and worked in this manner during seven or eight hours
in a day. Such dogs will draw a heavy sledge to a considerable distance,
at the rate of 13 or 1 4 miles an hour ; and they will travel long journeys
at half that rate, each of them pulling the weight of 130 pounds. ,

                          ANIMAL STRENGTH.                              113
    The elephant was used by the Romans for the purposes of war, as it
 is still in India, and other oriental countries. His strength is reck
 oned equivalent to that of six horses, but the quantity of food he con
 sumes is much greater in proportion. An elephant will carry a load
 of 3000 or 4000 pounds ; his ordinary pace is equal to that of a slow-
 trotting horse ; he travels easily 40 or 50 miles a day ; and has been
 known to go 110 miles in that time.
    The camel is a most valuable beast of burden on the sandy plains on
 both sides of the Red Sea ; for traversing which, the animal might
 seem to have been expressly created. Some camels are able to carry
 10 or 12 hundredweight; others not more than 6 or 7 ; and with such
 loads they will walk at the rate of 2\ miles an hour, and travel regu
larly about 30 miles a day, for many days together, being able to
subsist eight or nine days without water, and with a very scanty sup
ply of the coarsest provender.
    The dromedary is a smaller species of camel, chiefly used for riding,
being capable of travelling with greater speed than the larger camel,
but not equally proof against exhaustion. The best Arabian camel or
 dromedary, after three whole days abstinence from water, shows mani
 fest symptoms of great distress ; though it might possibly be able to
travel five days without drinking ; which, however, can seldom or never
 be required, as it appears that, in the different routes across the desert
of Arabia there are wells not more at the utmost than 3J days' journey
from each other. Exaggerated statements have been given of the
speed of this animal ; the most extraordinary performance of which the
traveller Burkhardt ever obtained authentic information having been a
journey of 115 miles in eleven hours, including two passages across the
Nile in a ferry-boat, requiring twenty minutes each. The same tra
veller conjectured that the animal might have travelled 200 miles in
twenty-four hours. A Bedouin Arab has been known to ride express
from Cairo to Mecca, 750 miles, upon a dromedary, in five days.
Twelve miles an hour is the utmost trotting-pace of the smaller camel ;
and though it may gallop 9 miles in half an hour, it cannot continue
for a longer time that unnatural pace. It ambles easily at the rate of
5* miles an hour ; and if fed properly every evening, or even once in
two days, it will continue to travel at that rate five or six days.
   The Lama, or Guanaco, is a kind of dwarf camel, which is a native
of Peru ; and it was the only beast of burden employed by the ancient

 114                           MECHANICS.
 inhabitants of that country. It is easily tamed, feeds on moss, and
 being admirably adapted for traversing its usual haunts, the lofty Andes,
 it is still employed to carry goods. The strongest of these animals will
 travel, with a load of from 150 to 200 pounds, about fifteen miles a day
 over the roughest mountains. There is a smaller animal of a similar
 nature, called the Pacos, which is also now used by the Peruvians in
 transporting merchandise over the mountains; but which will carry
 only from 50 to 70 pounds.
    Oxen have been, in many countries, employed in the labours of hus
 bandry, instead of horses. They are, however, inferior, not only on
account of the softness of their hoofs, which renders them unfit for any
except field work, but likewise as being comparatively unprofitable. A
team of oxen capable of ploughing as much land as a pair of horses
will require for support the produce of one-fourth more land, after al
lowing for the increase of weight and value.
    In some parts of Europe the goat is made to labour, by treading a
wheel to raise ore or water from a mine. We sometimes see them, in
England, harnessed to miniature carriages for children; and in Holland
the children of the rich burghers are thus drawn by goats, gaily capa
risoned, and yoked to light chariots. The rein-deer of Lapland is a
most serviceable beast of draught in the frozen regions of the north.
Two of these deer, harnessed to a sledge for one person, will run 50 or
60 miles on the stretch ; and they have been known to travel thus 112
miles in the course of a day.

HYDROSTATICS.
      r 8

  BY HYDROSTATICS IS COMMONLY UNDERSTOOD THAT PART OF NATURAL PHILO
SOPHY WHICH CONSIDERS THE EQUILIBRIUM AND PRESSURE OF FLUIDS IN GENE
RAL, THOUGH THAT WORD SEEMS TO BE RESTRAINED TO WATER, WHICH IS A
PARTICULAR FLUID AND THE MOST OBVIOUS OF ALL FLUIDS, AND BY MEANS OF
WHICH WE SHALL MAKE OUT MOST OF OUR FOLLOWING CONCLUSIONS. FOR
WHATEVER CAN BE PROVED BY EXPERIMENTS AND REASON TO BELONG TO ANY
ONE BODY, WHICH IS BOTH FLUID AND HEAVY, UPON ACCOUNT OP ITS BEING
FLUID AND HEAVY, MUST BELONG TO ALL OTHER BODIES WHICH ARE FLUID
AND HEAVY.
                      Cotes*'s Hydrostatical and Pneumatical Lectures-

                       HYDROSTATICS.
   As the science of Mechanics treats of the phenomena depending on
the properties of weight and mobility in solid bodies, so Hydrostatics
relates to the peculiar effects of the weight and mobility of liquids.
The term hydrostatics properly denotes the stability of water ;* or in a
more extensive acceptation, the pressure and equilibrium of liquids at
rest. The effects produced by the flowing of water or any other liquid,
have sometimes been regarded as appertaining to a distinct department
of natural philosophy, named Hydraulics ; t and occasionally the whole
doctrine of mechanical science as applicable to liquids has been treated
  * From the Greek "Y&up, water, and ^rdaig, or 2raroc, standing
  t From "Yccup, and AiAoc, apipe, or tube.

118                          HYDROSTATICS.
of under the designation of Hydrodynamics,* which, however, seems to
possess no such peculiar propriety as to warrant its general adoption ;
and therefore the term Hydrostatics may be retained as denoting the
science whose object is to explain the phenomena arising from the
influence of gravitation on water and other liquids, whether in the
state of rest or in that of motion.
   Liquids differ in some of their distinguishing properties from solids,
and in others from gases or aerial fluids ; forming an intermediate
class of bodies. A solid, by the disintegration of its parts, may be re
duced to a state bearing some resemblance to that of a liquid ; thus
fine sand or any light powder will yield to pressure, in every direction,
almost as readily as water ; but the resemblance is still extremely im
perfect. Viscous fluids, as train-oil, or treacle, approach to the nature
of solids ; and indeed the distinction between such liquid substances
and some of the softer solids, as butter or honey, depends much on
their relation to heat, their consistence or relative density varying with
the temperature to which they are exposed. As the effect of temperature
on different bodies will constitute the subject of a separate treatise, it
will be sufficient at present to state that the peculiar degrees of density
and tenacity of unorganised substances, constitutiug the respective
states of solidity and fluidity, with their various modifications, seem to
be chiefly influenced by heat and pressure ; so that a particular sub
stance, as water, may exist under different forms, depending on the cir
cumstances in which it is placed. Thus a certain degree of cold will
convert water into a hard solid, as ice or hail, which when melted by
heat produces a liquid, differing in no respect from the water of
which it was formed ; and this, when exposed to a sufficiently high
temperature, will evaporate or become steam, which may be again
condensed or restored to the liquid state by cold. Mercury commonly
occurs in the form of a very dense liquid ; but it may, like water, be
condensed or frozen by exposure to an extremely low temperature, and
be made to boil or evaporate by subjecting it to a great degree of heat.
The other metals differ from mercury only in remaining solid in higher
temperatures than that substance ; but they all melt with various de
grees of heat, and become sublimed or evaporated when the heat is
greatly raised above the melting point.
                   * From'YJwp, and Aiva/ti£, power.

                       PROPERTIES OF LIQUIDS.                          119
    Since then the same kind of matter may exist under different states
 or forms, it follows that liquids must be composed of the same particles
 as solids, and the difference between a liquid and a solid may be con
 ceived to arise, merely, from peculiar modifications of the cohesive at
 traction which takes place between the constituent molecules or parti
 cles of such bodies respectively. The particles of elastic solids must
 be capable of a sort of vibratory motion, from sudden pressure, but
 they will always resume the same position as soon as the vibration
 ceases, unless it be so violent as to occasion a permanent separation
of the particles, when the solid becomes broken or pulverized. Now
liquids have their constituent particles held together, like those of
solids, by cohesive attraction, but they oscillate on the application of
the slightest impulse ; and there seems to be such a general relation
of all the particles to each other, that when the connexion between
any two particles is broken, by shaking or otherwise agitating the mass
of which they fdrm a portion, they readily become attracted by any
other particles with which they may happen to come in contact, new
cohesions take place, and when the disturbing force is removed, the
general equilibrium is restored throughout the liquid mass.
   The cohesive attraction between the particles of liquids is demon
strated by the globular figure which they assume, when no external force
interferes with the aggregation of the mass. This appears in the case
of mercury thrown in small portions on a china plate, or on any surface
which exercises on it no chemical attraction ; when the minute por
tions, into which it will become separated, will be found to be perfect
spherules, the larger ones only being slightly flattened by the pressure
occasioned by their own weight on the plate. Similar spherules, con
sisting of drops of water, are formed by dew or rain on the broad leaves
of some kinds of vegetables, as those of the common colewort or cab
bage. If however the drops become large, as when two or three run
together, they spread out at the edges, sinking down, and becoming
flattened, partly through their own weight, and partly owing to the
attraction between the water and the surface of the leaf.
   The general appearance or figure which liquids assume when at rest
is the joint effect of the extreme mobility of their constituent particles,
of the gravitation of liquid masses, and of their attraction for the solids
on which they are sustained. Hence when a liquid in any consider
able quantity is poured into a vessel of any shape whatever, it adapts

 120                         HYDROSTATICS.
itself exactly to the internal surface of the vessel, the superior or un-
confined surface of the liquid forming an horizontal plane, usually
raised a little at the sides or border of the vessel, where the liquid is
attracted by the containing solid with which it comes in contact. When
an immense mass of liquid presents a continued surface, its form will
be a portion of a convex sphere ; because the collective gravitation of
all its particles towards the centre of the earth causes it to partake of
the general figure of the terrestrial globe. This indeed will be the
case with comparatively small bodies of liquid ; but when it is con
sidered that the radius of the sphere, of which any such liquid surface
formed a part, would be equal to half the diameter of the earth, it must
be manifest that the difference between the surface of a small portion
of such a sphere and an horizontal plane would be too inconsiderable to
be distinguished. Vast collections of water, however, as the open sea,
afford decisive indications of superficial curvature, among the most
striking of which is the fact that when a vessel first comes in sight its
mast-head alone is visible, and the lower parts appear successively as
it approaches the observer, rising as it were out of the bosom of the deep.
   Among the properties in which liquids differ most remarkably from
gases is the power of sustaining pressure to a considerable extent,
without undergoing any obvious change of volume. Common air,
steam, and other elastic fluids, as they are termed, may be compressed
by very moderate force, and on its removal they expand to their origi
nal dimensions, as may be ascertained by squeezing a blown bladder:
but a leather bag or strong bladder filled with water, and secured so
that none of the liquid can escape, may be burst by forcible compres
sion, but cannot be made to exhibit any sensible degree of contraction.
Such indeed is the extraordinary resistance of water, when subjected
to pressure on all sides, that it was long regarded as absolutely incom
pressible. This opinion was partly founded on an experiment made in
the sixteenth century, by the members of a scientific society at Flo
rence, called Academia del Cimento. These philosophers conceived
the idea of inclosing a quantity of water in a hollow globe of beaten
gold, and exposing it to the powerful action of a screw press, when it
was found that the water was forced through the pores of the gold ball
or case, standing in drops like dew on its exterior surface. But this
experiment can by no means be considered as demonstrating the entire
incompressibility of the liquid ; for though it obviously displayed vast

                   COMPRESSIBILITY OF LIQUIDS.                        121
 resistance to the compressing force, it might have undergone the ut
 most limit of condensation before the exudation took place ; and the
experiment was unsatisfactory, as affording no means whatever for
appreciating the actual volume of the water at the moment when it
penetrated the solid envelope. In fact, nothing more could be inferred
from such an experiment but that water is not susceptible of unlimited
condensation.
   The fallacy of the formerly generally received notion of the absolute
incompressibility of water was proved by some ingeniously contrived
experiments by Mr. Canton, a fellow of the Royal Society, in 1761.
He showed that water, included in a glass tube with a large bulb or
hollow globe at its extremity, expanded and consequently stood higher
in the tube when placed under an exhausted receiver than when sub
jected to the pressure of the atmosphere, and on the contrary was con
densed proportionally, by pressure equal to the weight of two atmo
spheres. He made similar experiments on spirit of wine, olive oil,
and mercury, from which it appeared that those liquids undergo con
 densation, but in different degrees, when subjected to compression.
In conducting these experiments proper precautions were adopted to
prevent any inaccuracy arising from variation of temperature ; and the
following table exhibits the results obtained when the barometer stood
at 294 inches, and the thermometer at 50 degrees.
   Spirit of wine underwent compression amounting to
                                               0.000,066 of its bulk.
                Olive oil     ...              0.000,048
                Rain water    .     .     .    0.000,046
                Sea water      .     .    .    0.000,040
                Mercury       .     .     .    0.000,003
   Hence it appears that mercury is far less compressible than water.
   More recently, experiments on this interesting subject have been in
stituted by M. Oersted, a philosopher who has greatly distinguished
himself by his scientific researches ; and the results of his investi
gations, which appear to have been very carefully conducted, corre
spond nearly with those of Canton, the contraction of water, under
pressure equal to the weight of an additional atmosphere according to
the experiments of Oersted, amounting to 0.000,045.
   In this country experiments have been undertaken with a view to as
certain the effect produced by subjecting liquids to compressing forces

122                          HYDROSTATICS.
of vast energy, far beyond those employed in the researches of Canton
and Oersted. In 1820, an account was laid before the Royal Society,
by Mr. Jacob Perkins, of some experiments from which he inferred
that water had suffered a compression of about one per cent of its bulk
by a pressure equal to 100 atmospheres ; and in other experiments the
compressing force was augmented to 326 atmospheres, which caused
a -contraction of the liquid to the amount of nearly 3\ per cent. These
results were obtained by including water in the cavity of a cannon,
fixed vertically in the earth, and driving more water into it with a
forcing pump ; and corresponding experiments were made by sinking
water inclosed in a proper apparatus to a great depth beneath the sur
face of the sea, and observing the degree of compression it had under
gone.* These operations, however, could not be regarded as equally
accurate with those previously described ; though the deductions from
them have been corroborated by the result of subsequent investigation.
In 1826, Mr. Perkins made public other experiments on the compres
sion of water, of which also an account appeared in the Philosophical
Transactions. The machine he employed was composed of a cylinder
of gun-metal, 34 inches in length, and having an internal cavity to
which was adapted a steel pump, with a water-tight piston, by means
of which water could be injected into the body of the cylinder. A lever
apparatus was properly annexed for the purpose of measuring the de
gree of pressure ; and so adjusted that the number of pounds pressing
on its piston indicated exactly the number of atmospheres equivalent
to the degree of compression. That part of the apparatus in which the
liquid is enclosed, the condensation of which is to be measured, is called
by the experimentalist a piezometer.t It consists of a strong glass tube,
eight inches in length, and half an inch in diameter, closed at one ex
tremity and open at the other. This tube must be carefully filled with
water freed from air, and being inverted while the water is prevented
from escaping by the application of a thin membrane to its mouth, it
must be inserted in a wider tube or glass, the upper part of which is
filled with water, and the lower part with mercury : the small tube
contains a hair spring pressing against its interior surface, so as to re-
   * See Philos. Transact. 1820; and Abstract of Papers in Philos. Transact.
voL ii. p. 134.
   t Prom the Greek Iiii'ito, to press, and Merpov, a measure.

                       ELASTICITY OF LIQUIDS.                               123
tain its position when forced upward ; and this spring is in contact
with a steel disk moving freely in the upper tube, and from its in
ferior weight supported by the surface of the mercury below. A frame
of strong wire retains the small tube in its situation ; and the piezometer
being thus arranged is introduced into the receiver of the compressor,
filled with water at a temperature of 50 degrees, when the pump being
screwed into its place, any required degree of pressure may be applied.
When the experiment was carefully conducted it was found that water,
under the influence of a force equal to 2000 atmospheres, was dimi
nished by i', part, as indicated by the situation of the spring.*
    Though it is manifest, from the preceding statements, that liquids un
dergo great compression under certain circumstances, yet the degree of
compressibility of such liquids, as water, is so inconsiderable when the
compressing force is moderate, that no sensible effect is produced.
 Hence in all calculations concerning the action of water, at rest or in
motion, in ordinary cases, it may be regarded as an incompressible
 fluid.
    Liquids in general possess the property of elasticity ; but like solids,
 some of them diplay that property to a greater extent than others.
 When a solid disk, as an oyster-shell or a flat stone, is made to strike
 the surface of water at a small angle, as in the sport which schoolboys
 call making ducks and drakes, the solid will rebound from the water
 with considerable force and frequency. So a musket-ball impinging ob
 liquely on water will take a zigzag course, en ricochet, as the French ex
 press it. Water dashed against a hard surface, as when it is poured
 against the side of a china basin, or let fall on a plate, shows its elastic
 force, by flying off in drops in angular directions. Experiments on the
 elasticity of drops of water, spirit of wine, or any similar liquid, may
 be made in a shallow wooden box, having its bottom and sides thinly
 covered with any light insoluble powder ; for the drops on being im
 pelled against the side of the box, or even against each other, will re
 bound like miniature cricket balls or marbles. Mercury is yet more
 elastic, as might be shown by placing a small quantity of it in a little
 case made by bending at right angles the sides of a common playing
 card ; and on inclining it so as to make the metallic fluid strike one of
    * This curious and interesting experiment is exhibited daily, at the National
  Gallery of Practical Science, in the Strand.

 124                         HYDROSTATICS.
the raised sides of the card, the shining globules would recede with a
velocity proportioned to the violence of the shock. The effects thus
exhibited appear to be extremely similar to those observed in the case
of elastic solids. A globule of mercury impinging on a hard surface
becomes slightly flattened, but instantaneously resuming its curved
figure, it recoils like a bent spring suddenly liberated. In some hy
draulic operations the elasticity of liquids becomes a property of con
 siderable importance, variously augmenting or modifying the efficient
force of particular kinds of machinery.
                       Weight and Pressure of Liquids.
    Among the absurd doctrines heretofore generally received, but
which have been exploded by the light of modern philosophy, must be
reckoned that of the non-gravitation of the particles of liquids on each
other. That liquids as well as solids possess weight was never de
nied ; since every one must have learnt from experience that a cup or
a bucket filled with water would require a greater exertion of force to
lift it than when the water was removed. But it was observed that in
drawing water from a well, so long as the bucket remained under
water very little effort was required to raise it, while as soon as it
emerged from the surface of the liquid, the loaded bucket would press
downward with a force proportioned to the quantity of water contained
in it. This, and the general observation that heavy bodies were easily
raised while under water, gave rise to the vague idea that a liquid did
not gravitate in its own element, and that therefore a body surrounded
by any liquid was destitute of weight. The following experiment suffi
ciently proves that this is not the case. Let a strong phial, with a stop
cock fitted to it, be exhausted by means of an air-pump, and the stop
cock being turned let it be suspended from one arm of a balance, so
that it may be entirely immersed in a vessel of water, weights being
placed in the opposite scale of the balance to keep it in equilibrium ;
then if the stop-cock be opened the water will flow in and fill the phial,
which will immediately sink, and to restore the equilibrium the same
weight must be added that would counterpoise the water it contains if
weighed alone : thus, if the bottle would hold exactly four ounces of

                         WEIGHT OF LIQUIDS.                            125
 water, a weight of four ounces would be required to make the balance
 stand even as at first.
    The apparent diminution of the weight of bodies under water is
 owing to the particles of the liquid mass gravitating equally in every
direction ; so that the interior portions of any liquid, or of solids im
mersed in liquids, are subjected to the same degree of pressure on all
sides ; and therefore a body surrounded by water is partially supported
by it, and consequently may be raised through the liquid with greater
ease than in the air, a fluid, the relative density of which is so very in
considerable. Liquids are not less powerfully affected by gravitative
attraction than solids, but they exhibit different appearances under its
influence, owing to their being constituted differently, so that their par
ticles move freely and almost independently of each other. All the
constituent particles of a solid are firmly connected, and they thus act
with combined effect in producing pressure or impact ; but a liquid
yields to force in any direction, and is liable to be separated into small
masses, the effect of which is comparatively inconsiderable. A basin
of water poured from a great height on a man's head would hardly be
felt more than a current of rain ; but if the contents of the basin, sup
posing it to hold a quart, were suddenly changed to a solid mass of ice,
it might occasion a fracture of the skull. But though a liquid in falling
becomes almost dissipated through the resistance of the atmosphere, it
displays great force when it can be made to act in a continuous column.
Hence the power of a mill-stream in turning large wheels either by
weight or pressure ; and the tremendous violence of a cataract, sweep
ing away great stones or other ponderous masses which may present
any obstruction to its impetuous course.
   The effect of a liquid mass when its particles are protected from dis
persion, and thus enabled to act in concert, like those of a solid body,
may be amusingly illustrated by means of the little instrument called a
water-hammer. It consists of a strong glass tube, about twelve inches
long, and nine or ten lines in diameter, having three or four inches of
water included in it ; which being made to boil and form steam by the
application of a proper heat, the tube must be hermetically sealed by
means of an enameller's lamp and a blow-pipe, so that when it becomes
cool, a vacuum will be formed above the water by the condensation of
the included steam. On shaking such a tube vertically the water, rising
a few inches and sinking suddenly to the bottom of the tube, produces

126                           HYDROSTATICS.
a sound like that arising from the stroke of a small hammer on a hard
body, whence the name of this instrument, the action of which depends
entirely on the exclusion of the air, so that the water moves in a dense
mass.
   The pressure of liquids extending equally in all directions, hence a
liquid mass will have all parts of its surface at the same level, whatever
be the form of the vessel in which it is contained, so long as there is a
tree communication throughout.
    In the preceding figure let A B represent a glass vessel closed except
 at the two raised extremities, and filled with water to a height above
 the horizontal line ; then suppose four differently shaped tubes
 C, D, E, F, open at both ends, to be inserted in the oblong part of the
 vessel with their upper extremities not rising so high as those standing
 at the sides ; it will be found that the liquid will pass laterally into the
 tube C, ascend directly in D, and circuitously in E, while it both de
 scends and ascends in F, rising equally in all the tubes, and spouting
 out till the water is reduced in the side tubes to the level of the summits
  of the internal ones, when the equilibrium being established the liquid
 will remain at rest. Thus it follows that any number of columns of a
 liquid, freely communicating, whatever may be their respective diame
 ters and figures will always have the same vertical height.
     Yet though all the particles of a liquid mass will press equally on
  each other, it must be manifest that the collective weight will be pro
 portioned to the depth beneath the surface, so that the bottom of the
  containing vessel necessarily sustains the weight of a column having
  the greatest vertical height of the liquid with an area equal to that of
  the base itself.

                      HYDROSTATIC PRESSURE.                            127
   If the vessels A, B, C, D, and E, have water poured into them in
such quantities that it may stand at the same height in each, the pres
sures on their bases respectively will be as the several columns marked
12 3 4. Hence the amount of the pressure of any liquid may be
ascertained by multiplying the vertical height at which it stands by the
extent of surface of its base. Thus suppose the water in the vessel B
to stand at the height of four inches, and the diameter of the base to be
eight inches, the pressure will be equal to thirty-two inches of the
fluid ; but if the water should stand at the same height in the vessel C,
having a base only half the diameter of the former, the pressure will be
but half or only sixteen inches, though the capacity of both vessels may
be exactly the same. The diameter of a vertical column communi
cating with an extended base may be relatively inconsiderable, as in
the vessel E, notwithstanding which it will cause the same degree of
pressure as a column of the same height with a diameter corresponding
to the base throughout.
    This effect of the vertical pressure of liquids may be variously exhi
 bited, and its results are curious and important. Hence the principle
 involving the peculiar mode of pressure of liquid masses has been
                                          termed the Hydrostatic Paradox.
                                          It may be illustrated by the fol
                                          lowing experiment. Let a cup
                                          or wide-mouthed jar, filled with
                                          water, be poised by hanging it to
                                          the arm of a balance, and loading
                                          the opposite scale with the requi
                                          site weights ; then after marking
                                          exactly the height at which the
                                         liquid stands, pour out a part of
                                         it, and plunge into the midst of
 the jar a conical block of wood, supporting it with the hand or by means

  128                         HYDROSTATICS.
 of the apparatus represented in the annexed figure, taking care that the
 block shall not touch the sides or bottom of the jar. If it be plunged just
 deep enough to raise the remaining liquid to the same height as at first,
 the balance will be again exactly equipoised ; and the block may be so
 large as to leave only a thin film or hollow cylinder of the fluid without
 at all disturbing the equilibrium. It is of no consequence what is the
 weight or shape of the body introduced, for a piece of cork or a blown
 bladder held in the jar will produce the same effect, if its bulk be suffi
 cient to raise the water to the required height.
    There is another striking mode of illustrating the effect of liquid
 pressure, by means of a kind of machine called the Hydrostatic
 Bellows, a figure of which may be seen in the margin. It is composed
                    of two flat boards united at the sides by flexible lea
                    ther, and having a long narrow vertical tube, commu
                    nicating with the cavity, with a funnel at the top, for
                    the convenience of pouring in water or any other
                    fluid ; and a short lateral tube with a stop-cock may
                    be added to discharge the water occasionally. If
                    now water be poured into the long tube it will fill
                    the cavity and consequently separate the boards,
                    and by adding more water the instrument may be
                    made to support any given weight, in proportion
                    to the height of the vertical column. Suppose the
                    boards to be about 320 inches superficial measure,
                    four ounces of water, standing at the height of three
                    feet in the tube, will keep the boards separated when
                    loaded with three hundred weight, or 336 pounds.
Two stout men standing on the upper board, one of them by blowing
into the tube may fill the cavity with air instead of water, so as to
raise the board on which they stand, and by stopping the pipe with the
finger to prevent the air from escaping, they may keep themselves sup
ported ; or by opening the stop-cock in the side tube, and continuing
to blow into the other, they might keep up a regular blast like that from
a double bellows.
   The force of water pressing on an extended surface by means of a
small vertical tube may be shown by fixing such a tube in a water-tight
cask or other close vessel, which, whatever its strength, might be burst
by filling it with liquid, and adding more through the tube, till the
weight of the column became too great to be supported by the sides of

                         HYDROSTATIC PRESS.                             129
the cask. The effect depends wholly on the height of the tube, its dia
meter being immaterial. A hogshead filled with water and exposed to
the pressure of » column in a narrow tube, twenty feet high, would
burst with great violence.
   Astonishing effects are sometimes produced by the pressure of water
modified in the way already described. As when a shallow body of
water is collected in a close cavity under ground, if a narrow opening
be made from a higher surface communicating with the cavity, and it
should become filled by rain or snow water, whatever might be the form
of the aperture, if it was water-tight, as soon as the communication was
effected between the tube-like opening and the cavity, pressure would
take place in every direction, in a degree proportioned to the vertical
height of the opening and the area of the cavity ; in consequence of which
the superincumbent mass might be rent from its foundation, and a large
building or even a mountain might be overthrown, as by an earthquake.
   The principle of hydrostatic pressure was discovered, or at least
first satisfactorily demonstrated, by the celebrated Pascal, about the
middle of the seventeenth century ; and he showed how an engine
might be constructed, acting through the force of a column of water,
by means of which one man pressing on a small piston might counter
balance the efforts of one hundred men brought to bear on the surface
of a large piston. Yet notwithstanding the distinct description of what
                                     the ingenious discoverer terms " a
                                     new machine for multiplying forces
                                     to any required extent,"* more than
                                     a century and a half elapsed before the
                                     idea was fully developed, and applied
                                     to practical purposes, by Mr. Bramah,
                                     the engineer, in the construction of
                                     his hydrostatic press.
                                        This machine consists of a solid
                                     mass of masonry or strong wood -work,
                                     E F, firmly fixed ; and connected by
                                     uprights with a cross-beam. B re
                                     presents a strong table, moving verti
                                     cally in grooves between the uprights,
     * Pascal Traits de l'Equilibre des Liqueurs. 2de ed. 1664. ch. ii.

130                         HYDROSTATICS.
and supported beneath by the piston A, which rises or descends within
the hollow cylinder L, and passes through a collar N, fitting so closely
as to be water-tight. From the cylinder passes a small tube with a
valve opening inwards at I, and D is a lever which works the piston
of the small forcing-pump C H, by which water is drawn from the re
servoir G, and driven into the cylinder L, so as to force up its piston
A. At K is a valve, which being relieved from pressure, by turning
the screw which confines it, a passage is opened for the water to flow
from the cylinder, through the tube M, into the reservoir G, allowing
the piston to descend. The effective force of such a machine must be
immensely great,- combining as it does the advantages of solid and
liquid pressure. The amount of the latter is to be estimated by the
relative diameters of the two pistons ; so that if the piston H be half
an inch in diameter and the solid cylinder or piston A one foot, the
pressure of the water on the base of the piston A will be to the pres
sure of the piston H on the water below it, as the square of 1 foot or
12 inches, 12 x 12 — 144, to the square of A an inch, .5 X -5 — .25 ;
that is as 144 square inches, to J of a square inch, or in the ratio of
.V6 to 1. To this must be added the advantage afforded by the lever
handle of the forcing-pump, depending on the relative length of its
arms ; and supposing the power to be thus increased tenfold, the effect
of the machine will be augmented in that proportion. As the hydro
static press acts with a comparatively trifling degree of friction, it may be
made to produce an infinitely great amount of pressure ; its efficiency
in fact being limited only by the measure of the strength of materials
employed in its construction. Some idea of the power of this engine
may be derived from the statement that with such a press, only the size
of a common tea-pot, a person may cut through a thick bar of iron with
no more effort than would be required to slice off a piece of pasteboard
with a pair of shears. It has been used in making experiments on
the tenacity and strength of iron and steel, being applied so as to tear
asunder solid rods or bars ;* and in packing bales of cotton or trusses
of hay, it has been employed to compress them to convenient dimen
sions for stowage on board ships.
   The principle of hydrostatic pressure has been ingeniously applied
to a purpose of great practical utility by Dr. Arnott, in the contriv
 ance of a hydrostatic bed for invalids. It is so constructed as to keep
       * See Encyclopaedia Metropolitana—Mixed Sciences, vol. i. p. 70.

                LATERAL PRESSURE OF LIQUIDS.                           131
the body of a person reposing on it, sustained by a mattress on a liquid
surfaee, yielding freely in every direction, and therefore entirely ex
empted from any irregular pressure : thus the irksomeness, as well as
the serious evils caused by confinement to one position for a long time,
and the consequent injuries which persons enfeebled by disease some
times incur, may be wholly prevented.
   The pressure of water or any other liquid against the bottom of a
vessel in which it is contained may be regarded as the common effect
of gravity, which acts in the same manner on solid bodies ; but liquids
not only press on the surface beneath, but also press upward, with a
degree of force proportioned to the depth of the vertical column and
the extent of surface against which the pressure is exerted.
   Take a very narrow glass tube open at both ends, and dip the lower ex
tremity beneath the surface of quicksilver, so that a small portion of it
may rise into the bottom of the tube ; then stopping the upper ex
tremity carefully with the finger, lift the tube, and holding it vertically,
plunge the open end into a deep jar filled with water, when it will be
found that the pressure of that liquid from below upwards will not
only keep the quicksilver suspended , when the finger is removed from
the top of the tube, but on letting it sink gradually in the jar, the
quicksilver will rise to a height bearing a certain relation to the depth
of the lower end of the tube beneath the surface of the water.
                      Let a circular brass plate A B be adapted to the
                   bottom of a glass cylinder and fitted accurately by
                   grinding, or by covering its upper surface with
                   moist leather, so that when the cylinder is immersed
                   in the jar of water F F, and the plate is held by the
                   string E close to the bottom of the cylinder, none of I
                   the liquid can enter it. If then it be immersed to
                    such a depth that the weight of the vertical column
                    of water which it displaces shall be equal to the
                    weight of the brass plate, the latter will remain sus
                    pended though the string be let go, the upward pres
                    sure of the water being sufficient to keep the plate
                    from falling.
                       In estimating the lateral pressure of liquids the
                    vertical height must be taken into the account ; since

132                          HYDROSTATICS.
the effective force with which a liquid acts against any given point in
the side of the containing vessel will depend on the depth of that point
beneath the surface of the liquid.
                                 This will appear from the manner in which
                              water flows from apertures in the side of a
                              cistern, as the velocity of the stream will al
                             ways be exactly proportioned to the distance
                              of the point of discharge from the superior
                              surface, and the consequent degree of pres
                              sure which takes place. Suppose a vessel
                            \ A to be filled with water, and to have three
                            'tubes or pipes, B, C, D, of equal length and
                            | diameter, fitted into lateral apertures at dif
                              ferent heights ; then if the liquid were suf
                              fered to flow from the pipe D alone, the
                              others being stopped, a greater quantity of
water would be discharged in a given time than by the pipe C alone, and
a greater quantity would issue from the latter in the same time than by
 the pipe B only; the water being kept at the same level, so as to
maintain an equality of pressure during the whole time it was flowing.
    The pressure against one side of a cubical vessel filled with liquid
 will be equal to half the pressure against the bottom of the vessel.
 Hence in a quadrangular cistern the amount of pressure against its
 sides may be found by multiplying the number of square feet contained
 in that part of the sides beneath the surface of the liquid by half the
 height at which it stands ; and therefore if the extent of the lateral
 area in contact with the liquid be double that of the bottom of the con
 taining vessel, the pressure on the sides will be equal to that on the
 bottom. Thus a calculation may be made of the pressure of water
 against a dam, wear or floodgate, by ascertaining the superficial mea
 sure of the surface against which the water presses, and multiplying it
 by half the depth of the vertical column. Suppose a dam to be built
 across a body of water 6 feet in depth and 14 feet wide, the extent of
 the surface subjected to pressure would be 84 square feet, which being
 multiplied by 3, halfthe depth, the product 252 would denote thequantity
  of cubic feet of water pressing on the dam. In the same manner may be
  ascertained the degree of pressure of a liquid standing in an upright

                             ART OF DIVING.                               133
cylinder, as a leaden pipe or cistern ; by multiplying the number of
square inches or feet in the curved surface by half the depth of the
liquid : and this method may be extended to all cases of the lateral
pressure of liquids, whatever be the shape of the containing vessel or
cavity.
    When a liquid presses on any surface there will be a certain point
at which a degree of pressure being applied equal to the entire pressure
of the liquid would produce exactly the same effect ; or if such equi
valent pressure were applied to that point, but in the contrary direction,
it would neutralize the pressure of the liquid on the opposite surface :
that point is therefore called the centre of pressure. It corresponds
exactly with the centre of percussion in solids, which in most, but not
all cases, coincides with the centre of oscillation. To ascertain the
situation of this point often becomes an object of importance ; since it
will indicate the most efficient means for sustaining a floodgate or any
similar surface against the pressure of a body of water. The position
of the centre of pressure must depend on the figure of the surface and
 the depth of the head of water. Supposing the surface to be a perpen
 dicular parallelogram, the centre of pressure will be at two-thirds of
 the distance from the level of the water to the bottom ; and if the figure
 of the surface be an equilateral triangle, at three-fourths of the distance
 from the vertex to the base.
    On the principle of the lateral pressure of liquids may be estimated
 the pressure sustained by solids immersed at any depth beneath a liquid
 surface. Thus if it be required to find the pressure which a diver
 sustains when he has descended in water to the depth of 32 feet, or
 rather to such a depth that the centre of gravity of his body may be ex
 actly 32 feet beneath the surface of the water ; then, as the extent of
 surface of a human body, at a medium, may be estimated at 1 0 square
 feet, the product of that number multiplied by 32 will give the quan
 tity of water in cubic feet, the weight of which must be sustained bv
  the diver at the depth just stated. Now as one cubic foot of water
  weighs 1000 ounces avoirdupois, the weight of 320 cubic feet will be
  320,000 ounces or 20,000 pounds.* The equability of the pressure in
  every direction renders such an immense weight supportable ; though
    * The manner of ascertaining the weight of any body relatively to its bulk
  will be described in the next section, in treating of specific gravity.

134                         HYDROSTATICS.
it occasions considerable inconvenience to persons learning to dive,
from the intense pain caused by the pressure of the water on the drums
of the ears, even at the depth of 18 feet below the surface. It appears
probable that diving in very deep water, at length, has the effect of
rupturing the membrane called the drum of the ear, after which pain
in that organ is no longer felt by the diver ;* but there must be a limit
to the depth to which the most experienced diver can descend, since at
a very great depth the compressing force of the liquid mass would be
so augmented as to expel entirely the air that had been retained in the
cavities of the chest and head, and contract the bulk of the whole body
in such a manner as to render ascent to the surface no longer practi
cable.
    The uniform pressure of liquids in every direction, and the conse
quent equality of action and reaction among the parts of liquid masses
cause them to assume a level surface under all circumstances. This
property of liquids has been advantageously employed in the construc
tion of instruments for ascertaining the relative heights of any given
points, as in taking levels in surveying, and in various operations in
which it is requisite to determine the accuracy of an horizontal plane.
                                    Such an instrument may consist of a
                                    glass tube of considerable length, as
                                    represented in the margin, open at
                                    both ends, which must be raised or
                                    turned upward to the same height ;
                                    and the tube being filled with water or
                                    mercury, when it is placed in an ho
                                    rizontal position, the liquid will stand
at the same level on both sides. Upon the open surfaces of the liquid
must be placed floats, each carrying upright sights with cross-wires,
which standing at right angles to the length of the instrument, when it is
properly adjusted, the intersections of the wires will be situated in an
horizontal line ; and consequently on looking through the sights at any
distant object it can only be seen exactly opposite the intersections of
the wires when it happens to be in the same level.
   The spirit level, an instrument adapted to the same purposes with
the preceding, consists of a glass tube, closed at both ends, and filled
   * See Observations on Pearl-diving, in Hardy's Travels in the Interior of
Mexico. 1829.

                              AQUEDUCTS.                              135
with alcohol, except a very small space occupied by a bubble of air,
which, in whatever situation the tube may be placed, must rise to the
highest part of it. When, therefore, the tube is fixed in an horizontal
position, the bubble will stand precisely in the centre of the tube and in
contact with its surface. Such a level may be used like the water-
level, above described, for ascertaining the accuracy of an horizontal
plane : or it may be mounted 'in a frame with moveable sights adapted
to a quadrant, by means of which the angular distances of objects may
be determined with the utmost degree of correctness.
   The property which liquids possess of preserving an exact level in
different tubes or vessels communicating with each otheris of the highest
importance, as indicating an obvious mode of conducting water from
one situation to another. Thus from a lake or reservoir this useful fluid
may be conveyed in pipes or tunnels underneath streets and buildings
to any given distance, and supplied to the different quarters of a town
or city, at any height not exceeding that of its source. The supply of
water to the metropolis is principally furnished in this manner, from
several basins, one of which on an eminence north of London, at Pen-
tonville, receives the water of the New River ; and there are others
near Primrose Hill, Tottenham Court Road, Bayswater, and Kensington
Gravel Pits. The whole amount of the daily supply of water to the
cities of London and Westminster appears to be nearly 26,000,000
 gallons, more than half of which is derived from the Thames ; and as
most of it is delivered at heights much above the level of the river, it is
necessarily raised by artificial pressure by means of steam-engines.
   Though water and similar liquids may be transferred to any ima
ginable distance through a series of communicating tubes bent into
numerous angles, descending and ascending, and made to issue freely
at a height nearly equal to the source ; yet it is found in practice that
obstruction, arising from the friction of the liquid against the sides of
the tubes, especially where they form acute angles, and from the accu
mulation of bubbles of air in long narrow tubes, may cause great incon
venience ; and hence large pipes are more advantageously employed
than smaller ones, and aqueducts or open conduits are to be preferred
in some situations. In the south of Europe may be seen the remains
of stupendous aqueducts constructed by the ancient Romans, forming
open canals supported by numerous arches passing across wide valleys,

 J 36                        HYDROSTATICS.
 and exhibiting even in decay striking memorials of the architectural
 skill and industry of those to whom they owe their origin. From these
 magnificent works on which such immense labour must have been be
 stowed for the purpose of conducting water on one descending plane,
 it has been hastily inferred that the ancients were entirely ignorant of
 the effect of hydrostatic pressure ; and of the means of making water
rise to the height of its source after passing through a lower level.
 But this notion is utterly erroneous, for in the great work of the cele
brated naturalist, Pliny the Elder.it is expressly stated that water will
always rise to the height of its source ; and be adds that tubes of lead
must be used to carry water up an eminence.* Passages to the same
effect might be adduced from other ancient writers, containing plain
allusions or direct statements relative to the consequences of the pres
sure and flow of water. Indisputable evidence that the ancients were
not ignorant of this principle has been afforded by the researches made
among the ruins of Pompeii, where the remains of fountains and baths
show that the inhabitants of that city, which was destroyed in the reign of
the Emperor Titus, were not unskilled in the means of causing water to
ascend through pipes and conduits. The reason why the Romans did not
adopt the method of conducting water through large tubes was chiefly
because they were unable to construct such tubes as would be water
tight when exposed to the pressure of a considerable column of liquid.
Their water-pipes were made of lead, earthenware, or wood, and were
in many respects inferior to those used in modern times.
    Some of the most remarkable phenomena of nature are owing to the
tendency of liquids to form coherent masses, to become extended over the
surfaces of solids, and to flow in any direction till they find a common
level. Water is the most abundant of all liquids, and if we trace its
operations under the several forms of rain, springs, fountains, running
streams, lakes, or rivers, communicating with the extended ocean that
girds the solid globe, the peculiar properties which constitute the distinc
tive character of liquid bodies will be recognised in the effects which they
produce. Some notice has already been taken of the different states of
aggregation which water assumes when exposed to certain degrees of
   * Plinil Hist. Natural- lib. xxxvi. cap. ".  See Leslie's Elem. of Nat.
Philos. pp. 411—413.

                                   RAIN.                              137
temperature, being expanded into vapour by heat, and condensed to the
state ofa solid by cold.* It may be considered as making its first appear
ance as a liquid in the form of falling rain, which consists of drops of
water recently produced by the condensation of aqueous vapours.
" The drops of rain vary in their size, perhaps from one twenty-fifth to
one-fourth part of an inch in diameter. In parting from the clouds,
they precipitate their descent till the increasing resistance opposed by
the air becomes equal to their weight, when they continue to fall with
a uniform velocity. This velocity is, therefore, in a certain ratio to the
diameter of the drops ; hence thunder and other showers in which the
drops are large pour down faster than a drizzling rain. A drop of the
twenty-fifth part of an inch, in falling through the air, would, when it
had arrived at its uniform velocity, only acquire a celerity of eleven feet
and a half per second ; while one of one-fourth of an inch would ac
quire a velocity of thirty-three feet and a half."t Experimental inqui
ries have frequently been instituted as to the quantity of rain which
had fallen at any particular place during a certain period. An estimate
of the amount of aqueous fluid discharged from the atmosphere might
be formed from observing the quantity of rain-water descending on the
roof of a house or any other building, provided the whole could be col
lected^and measured before any portion of it had been dissipated by
evaporation, and an exact measurement could also be obtained of the
superficial area of the surface on which the rain had fallen. There are
some situations in which this plan might be executed without much
difficulty. But a more generally applicable, though perhaps less satis
factory method of ascertaining the daily, weekly, monthly, or annual
fall of rain, in any situation, is by means of an instrument called a
pluviameter, or rain-gauge. This instrument has been variously con
structed, and the different forms which have been recommended may
each have their particular advantages ; but the general object of all of
them is the collection of rain falling on an area of known extent, as a
few square inches, and providing for its accurate measurement. In
 the next page is represented a rain-gauge which has at least the merit of
simplicity, as showing, on inspection, the quantity of rain-water which
                    * See p. 24.
                    t Leslie's Treatise on Heat and Moisture.

 138                         HYDROSTATICS.
                           may have fallen on a certain area during any
                           given time. It consists of a quadrangular-
                           topped funnel, A, the opening of which may
                           be ten inches square, terminating below in a
                           reservoir B. Through the neck or opening
                           between the funnel and the reservoir is in
                           serted the graduated rod C, to which is ad
                          justed the ball D, made of cork or light wood,
                           so that it may float on the surface of the water
                           in the reservoir, and the upper part of the rod
                           being marked with divisions into inches and
                           parts of an inch, will indicate byits ascent the
                           depth of water in the reservoir. The stop
                           cock E serves to let off the water after its
                           quantity has been noted, or at any stated pe-
riods.*
   According to the observations of Mr. Daniell, the average quantity
of rain which falls in the neighbourhood of London, in the course of a
year, amounts to 23^ inches ; the greatest quantity falling generally in
the month of July, and the least in February; and the whole quantity
falling during the first six months being not much more than half that
in the last six months of the year.t
    Sir John Leslie has remarked that in general twice as much rain falls
on the western as on the eastern side of our island, and he states that
the average quantity may be reckoned at 30 inches. According to this
estimate, the whole discharge from the clouds in the course of a year,
on every square mile of the surface of Great Britain would at a medium
be 1,944,633, or nearly 2,000,000 tons. This gives about three thou
sand tons of water for each English acre, a quantity equal to 630,000
imperial gallons4
    It may be questioned whether the very limited extent of any obser
vations which can be made by means of rain-gauges affords ground for
perfect confidence in the results they afford ; and hence wherever ex-
  * Loudon's Magazine of Natural History.
  t Meteorological Essays and observations. By J. F. Daniell, F.R.S. 2d edit.
   1 Leslie on Heat and Moisture.

                            ORIGIN OF SPRINGS.                                 139
periments can be prosecuted oil a larger scale it is desirable that they
should be recorded ; as the conclusions already obtained might thus be
 either confirmed or corrected. There is one singular circumstance at
tending the fall of rain calculated to throw some doubt on the absolute
accuracy of the common mode of observation, which is, "that smaller
quantities have been observed to be deposited in high than in low situa
tions, even though the difference of altitude should be inconsiderable.
Similar observations have been made at the summit, and near the base
of hills of no great elevation. Rain-gauges placed omboth sides of a
hill at the bottom, always indicate a greater fall of rain than on the ex
posed top."* It appears, however, that larger quantities of rain fall on
extended tracts of elevated ground than at the level of the sea ; but that
at stations abruptly elevated above the surface of the earth the amount
diminishes with the ascent.t The mean annual fall of rain at Geneva,
as calculated from observations during thirty-two years, amounts to
30.7 inches; and on the Alps, at the Convent of the Great St. Ber
nard, the mean of twelve years is 60.05 inches.): According to M.
Arago, who has traced a progressive decrease in the annual amount of
rain from the equator to the poles, not less than IW.5 inches fall in a
year on the Malabar coast, in latitude 111 <jeg\ IS. ; while in latitude
60 deg. the quantity is reduced to 17 inches. §
    The water that falls from the clouds, as well as that derived from
melted snow and similar sources, if the surface with which it comes in
contact happens to be loose and porous, will sink into the bowels of
the earth, penetrating in any direction till it meets with a stratum of
clay, or some other dense and almost impervious substance, which may
cause it to accumulate and form subterraneous lakes or reservoirs, the
   * Leslie on Heat and Moisture.
   + This curious and seemingly anomalous result of observations on the fall of
rain at different levels has attracted the attention of the recently-formed British
Association for the Advancement of Science : and at the first meeting of the
members of that body, which took place at York, in September, 1831, two gen
tlemen were requested, by the Committee of Mathematical and Physical Science,
to undertake a series of experiments on the comparative quantities of rain fall
ing on the top of the great tower of York Minster, and on the ground near its
base. The result of this investigation has not yet been laid before the public.
See Report of the First and Second Meetings of the British Association. 1833.
pp. 49 and 250.
   t Id. p. 251.              '. Id. p 249,

140                           HYDROSTATICS.
contents of which occasionally are raised to the surface in various si
tuations by hydrostatic pressure. Thus sometimes in digging wells it
is necessary to penetrate to a great depth before water can be obtained,
but at length when the source is found, the water rises with such ra
pidity in the shaft that has been opened as scarcely to leave time for
the well-sinkers to make their escape from the ascending column. The
term Artesian wells has been recently applied, especially in France, to
wells formed in the manner just described, by the ascent of water
through openings made by boring down and introducing tubes which
traverse the superior strata, and communicate with subterraneous
springs or reservoirs, from which the water rises through the tubes by
hydrostatic pressure, nearly or quite to the surface ; constituting in
the latter case perpetual fountains, such as occur on the eastern coast
in Lincolnshire, where they are called Blow Wells. They are also
frequent in Artois, in the Netherlands, and hence they have derived
the appellation of Artesian wells, from Artesium, the ancient name of
that country.*
    Water collected in subterraneous passages by infiltration sometimes
passes below the bed of the sea, and forms a sort of Artesian fountains,
which flow at intervals depending on the rising and falling of the tide.
 A remarkable ebbing and flowing stream of this kind was discovered
 in 1811, by boring in the harbour of Bridlington in Yorkshire; t and
submarine fountains have been met with at the mouth of the Rio los
 Gartos, in South America, at Xagua, in the Island of Cuba, and else
 where. By means of such underground canals formed by nature,
 streams of water and even great rivers, after sinking into gulfs and
 cavities in the earth, make their appearance again at the surface, in
 some cases far from the spots where they descended.} Gulfs of this
 kind, in which rivers and rivulets lose themselves, occur in the Alps
 of Jura, and other limestone mountains; and where the upper surface
 consisting of a bed of tenacious clay prevents the absorption of the
 rain-water by the soil, openings into the more porous strata beneath.
   * See Notice of a Lecture on Geology, by Dr. Buckland, in the Report of the
 British Association, pp. loo, 101
    t See a paper by John storcr, M.D. in the Philosophical Transactions, for
 1815. Abst. of papers in Phil. Trans, vol. ii. pp. 6, 7
    : See Humboldt's Travels, vol. ii. p. 312.

                                CATARACTS.                                141
 whether natural or artificial, may be made the means of converting a
 marshy waste into a fertile plain.*
    When rain falls on the summits or elevated sides of bills and moun
 tains, if the surface be solid rock or clay, the liquid, by its natural
 tendency to flow till every part of its exposed surface has attained a
 common level, collects in rills, which find or form for themselves nar
 row channels, through which the water descends to the plains below ;
 there the confluence of springs from various sources produces lakes or
 rivers, which in general ultimately communicate with the ocean, or
 with some great inland sea, like the Caspian or the Lake of Aral, both
 which are below the level of the Mediterranean ; t and other lakes which
 have no outlet must be situated in valleys or basin-shaped cavities,
 either below the sea-level, or surrounded completely by walls of rock
 or compact earth, which prevent the egress of the liquid mass. Rivers
 in their passage to the deep sometimes form grand and beautiful cata
 racts and waterfalls, where the collective stream, after being confined
 in a narrow channel, bursts abruptly over a precipice with astonishing
 force, dashing on the lower surface, and rising again in clouds of misty
 spray. Such are the famous falls of Niagara, formed by the water of
 Lake Erie, in North America ; the Cataract of Tecquendama, on the
 Rio Bogota, in South America, described by Humboldt ; the Fall of
 the Rhine at Schaffhausen ; and the cataracts of the Nile, at Syene,
 now Assouan, in Upper Egypt. The currents, which have been thus
 rushing with impetuous force over the same surfaces for successive
ages, cannot but have had a considerable effect even on the hardest
 rocks of which their beds are formed ; and hence the heights from
 which these torrents descend being gradually worn down, alterations
 take place, and the cataracts must at length lose much of that formida
ble and impressive appearance they now exhibit. It is owing no doubt
to such changes that the descriptions given by ancient travellers and
geographers of some of the most remarkable cataracts by no means
correspond with their present state.
   * See an account of the draining of the Plain of Palans, near Marseilles, hy
Kinking shafts from the surface into the cavernous strata below, which con
vey water through subterraneous channels to the harbour of Mion near Cas
sis, forming spouting springs, or Artesian fountains. Arcana of Science for
1832, pp. 235, 236 ; from Hericart de Thury.
   t See the Report of the British Association, p. 239.

   142                           HYDROSTATICS.
     Rivers formed by nature are running streams, whose velocity de
  pends on the inclination of the surface of the country through which
  they pass. They have in various ages and in different parts of the
  world been made the means of intercourse by inland navigation be
  tween distant places. For this purpose, however, they are but imper
  fectly adapted ; since, besides the obstacles arising from rapids and
  cataracts, there must always be difficulty in ascending the stream of a
  river proportioned to the rapidity of the descending current. Hence
  in England and some other countries navigation for the purpose of in
  ternal communication is in a great degree confined to the larger rivers
  and tide-ways, and to the numerous artificial canals which have been
  constructed chiefly since the middle of the last century ; and the
  smaller natural streams, crossed by wears, mills, and manufactories of
  various descriptions, may thus be most effectively rendered subser
 vient to the promotion of national industry and wealth.
     A navigable canal usually consists of several continuous bodies of
  water, sometimes of considerable longitudinal extent, and each one
  having a perfectly level surface, the water being at rest. In a coun
  try like Great Britain, intersected by numerous mountain ridges and
  valleys, the formation of a long unbroken line of canal must in general
  be attended with difficulties, and can seldom be effected at all except
  by erecting massive aqueducts supported by arches, and stretching
  from one point to another over the lower grounds, and elsewhere by
  carrying subterraneous galleries or tunnels through intervening hills.
  Both these expedients have been adopted by the celebrated engineer,
  Brindley, in the construction of the Duke of Bridgewater's Canal,
  extending from Worsley to Manchester, and communicating with the
  river Mersey, and which, including ten miles of underground navi
  gation in the coal-mines of Worsley, extends fifty-five miles on the
  same level. Among the most remarkable aqueducts in this country is
  that of Pont-y-Cysylltau, erected by Mr. Telford, in the line of the
  Ellesmere Canal. This magnificent structure, which rivals the mighty
  works of the ancient Romans, stretches across the vale of Llangollen,
  in length more than 1000 feet, and it is raised 127 feet above the sur
  face of the mountain-torrent that runs below.* There are many tun-
    * See Baron Dupin's Commercial Tower of Great Britain. Ens. Trans.
  Lond. 1826, vol. i. pp. 262, 263.
k

                        NAVIGABLE CANALS.                           143
nels in the course of various modern canals, two of which are on the
short line of the Regent's Canal, in the neighbourhood of London,
namely, one passing through the hill on which stand the metropolitan
suburbs of Islington and Pentonville, and the other through Maida
hill near Paddington; but both these are of inconsiderable extent com
pared with several others, in the course of the Grand Junction Canal,
the Oxford Canal, that which joins the Thames and Severn, and the
Huddersfield Canal, which last passes through a tunnel 5280 yards in
length, being the longest yet constructed in this country.
    Canals, however, generally consist of several longitudinal basins at
different levels, and to preserve or rather occasionally to form com
munications between these, for the passage of vessels, locks are con
structed wherever a variation in the level takes place, and thus vessels
may be raised or lowered, according to circumstances. Locks are
nothing more than small basins, with floodgates at each end, placed
across the canal, from side to side, and thus including a portion of
its water between them. To transfer a vessel from the higher to the
lower level, the water in the intervening lock must be raised, (by open
ing sluices at the bottom) , to the height of the upper level, then the
floodgates on that side being opened, the vessel is to be drawn into the
lock, the gates through which it has passed are to be shut, and the
water in the lock suffered to sink through sluices to the level of the
lower part of the canal, and the lower floodgates then being opened the
vessel may proceed on its passage till it reaches the next lock, where
the same process must be repeated. The transfer of a vessel from a
lower to a higher level is effected by the contrary operation of raising
the water in the lock, instead of sinking it, while the vessel remains
inclosed in it.
   The passage of vessels in either direction through a lock cannot take
place without the loss of a considerable quantity of water, which must
in each case be allowed to escape from the higher to the lower level of
the canal. Where the supply of water therefore is not very co
pious, and more especially when the application of artificial means
is requisite to obtain it, the loss becomes a serious inconvenience,
and source of expense. This has led to different schemes for the
conveyance of canal-boats from one level to another, without any
expenditure of water.      One method of effecting this object is by
means of a suspension-lock, or moveable basin, containing a body of

144                          HYDROSTATICS.
water sufficient to float a canal-boat, and capable of being alternately
raised to the higher and depressed to the lower level of two corre
sponding parts of a canal, separated from each other by floodgates, with
a space between them in which the suspended basin might be raised
or lowered, so as to take in and discharge the boat. This scheme, of
which a detailed account may be found in Nicholson's Philosophical
Journal, does not appear to have been put in practice, at least not on an
extensive scale ; and from the complication of the machinery requisite,
it will probably be found liable to insurmountable objections. In
some situations, as on the lines of the Shropshire Canal and the Lan
caster Canal, the basin terminates at a certain point, and another basin
commencing at a lower level, boats are transferred from one basin to
another by inclined planes.
                              Specific Gravity-
    The terms Density and Specific Gravity have been repeatedly intro
duced in the preceding pages ; and their general signification has been
 in some degree elucidated already. It will however be necessary now
 to explain somewhat more fully the signification of those terms, not
 only as applicable to liquid bodies, but likewise with reference to
 solids and gases ; and to describe the means by which the specific
 gravity of any substance may be ascertained.
    In describing the effects of hydrostatic pressure, we have hitherto
 considered them as owing to the presence of a single liquid ; the illus
 trations of the principles of the science now under review having been
 chiefly drawn from the phenomena exhibited by water alone, in several
 situations and circumstances, as affording results more simple and
 uniform than those which are observed when different liquids are
 placed in contact with each other, and when their combined pressure
 on solids as well as their mutual action must be modified accordingly.
 It has been sufficiently demonstrated that a single liquid, as water, will
 always stand at the same height in two or more open tubes freely com
 municating with each other, whatever may be their peculiar forms or
 dimensions ; and this indeed is a necessary consequence of the com
 mon tendency of every liquid to act with equal force in all directions,
  producing equality of pressure on the solid body or bodies by which
 it may be encompassed, and extending itself, where unconfined, till
 every portion of its surface has assumed a common level.

                           SPECIFIC GRAVITY.                            145
    When two liquids or any greater number, differing from each other
in specific gravity, are placed in contact, as when included in a glass
jar or bottle, unless they are capable of uniting to form a chemical
compound, it will be perceived that each liquid becomes arranged in a
separate and distinct stratum, the heaviest, or that which has the
greatest specific gravity, sinking to the bottom of the jar, and present
ing a level surface above, on which rests the next heaviest liquid ; the
others in the same manner taking their places according to their re
spective degrees of relative or specific gravity. Thus, mercury, water,
olive-oil, and sulphuric ether, might be poured into the same phial, in
which they would form separate layers, standing one above another, in
the order in which they have been mentioned ; water being much lighter
than mercury, oil lighter than water, and ether yet lighter than oil.
Many liquids, differing in specific gravity, may be mixed by agitation,
so as to form a compound ; but if the lighter liquid be poured gently on
the surface of the heavier, they will for a long time remain distinct, but
little action taking place even where their surfaces meet. Every body
knows that water may be mixed with port wine or spirits, both which
are lighter than that liquid, as may be shown by the following experi
ments.
                       Suppose A B to represent a double-bodied vessel,
                  1 the only communication between the upper and lower
                    portions of which is through the tubes C and D ; then
                    if the part B be filled with water to the neck, and A
                    with port wine, so as to rise above the tube D, still no
                    mixture or alteration in the state of the liquids will
                    take place, for the lightest occupying the highest si
                    tuation will retain it undisturbed. But if the lower
                    part be filled with port wine, and the upper with
                    water, the former fluid will ascend through the tube
                    D, and the latter descend through the tube C, till
they have entirely changed places. A vessel of this construction,
having the upper part transparent, and the lower part opaque,
would form an amusing philosophical toy, by means of which might
be exhibited an apparent conversion of water into wine. An ana
logous experiment may be made by taking a small bottle, with a long
narrow neck, not more than the sixth of an inch in diameter, which is
to be filled with spirit of wine, tinged red, by infusing in it raspings
                                      L

  146                          HYDROSTATICS.
 of sanders wood, or yellow, by putting into it a small quantity of
 saffron ; the bottle thus filled with the coloured spirit is then to be
 placed at the bottom of a deep glass jar of water, when the spirit will
 be seen to ascend like a red or yellow thread through the water, till the
 whole has reached the surface.
    Bodies, differing in specific gravity, and incapable of combination,
 maybe shaken together in a phial, and mixed for a time, but will sepa
 rate completely on being allowed to remain at rest. Such is the effect
 exhibited in the following mimic representation of the production of
 the four elements from chaos. A glass tube, about an inch in dia
 meter, closed at one end, or a deep phial, being nearly filled with
 equal parts in bulk of coarsely-powdered glass, oil of tartar, proof
 spirit, and naphtha, or spirit of turpentine, the former spirit tinged
 blue, and the latter red,* the tube or phial must be secured with a
 cork ; and when it is briskly shaken the four imaginary elements will
 form a confused dull-looking mass, but on setting the phial upright,
 and suffering it to remain undisturbed for some time, an entire sepa
 ration will take place between the several portions of the chaotic mix
 ture : the powdered glass at the bottom representing earth ; the oil of
 tartar, floating above it, water ; the spirit, with its cerulean tint, occu
 pying the place of air ; and the glowing naphtha at the top designed as
 an emblem of elementary fire.
                           When two liquids, varying in specific gravity,
                        are included in a bent tube, as represented in the
                        annexed figure, they will not stand at the same
                        height on both sides of the tube, like a single
                        liquid ; but their respective heights will be in the
                        inverse ratio of their specific gravities. Thus, as
                        any given bulk of mercury weighs nearly fourteen
                        times as much as an equal bulk of water, one inch
                        of mercury, M, would equipoise about fourteen
                        inches of water. W, on the opposite side of the
                        bent tube. Neither the form nor the dimensions
                        of the tube are of any importance to the result of
this experiment ; for as in other cases of hydrostatic pressure, a small
quantity of water may be made to counterbalance the larger quantity of
  * The blue tint may be communicated to the proof spirit by adding a small
portion of tincture of litmus ; and the other spirit may be coloured with dra
gon's blood.

                  SPECIFIC GRAVITY OP LIQUIDS.                           147
the heavier fluid mercury, provided the column of water stands perpen
dicularly fourteen times as high as the column of mercury.
                 On the principle now stated, a ready method might be
              contrived for ascertaining the relative weights or specific
              gravities of any two liquids, as oil and water, or water and
              ether, or spirit of wine. For this purpose it would merely
              be requisite to procure a glass tube, bent and graduated as
              represented in the margin ; then on pouring into the up
              right branches, equal quantities by weight of the respective
     -6-      liquids, their relative weights would appear on inspection ;
              being inversely as the heights to which they would rise in
              the branches of the tube. The accuracy and utility of
              such an instrument would be augmented by filling the
   ^9         lower portion of the tube with mercury, and the graduated
              branches being of equal diameter, given weights of any
liquids, which would not act chemically on the mercury, would show,
by their respective heights on either side, how much greater space an
ounce, a dram, or any other quantity of one liquid would take up than
an equal quantity of the other ; and hence it would appear how far the
specific gravity of the latter exceeded that of the former.
   As the specific gravity of a liquid is indicated by the relative space
which any given portion by weight occupies, so in the same manner the
specific gravity of a solid body may be inferred from the bulk of water
or any liquid of known specific gravity, which an ounce, a pound, or
any similarly ascertained quantity of the solid would displace when
plunged in the liquid.
   On this principle depend the usual methods of determining the
specific gravities of bodies, by means of hydrostatic balances, hydro
meters, or areometers.* The discovery of this fundamental principle
of science has been generally ascribed to the Syracusan philosopher,
Archimedes, and the circumstances relating to it are thus reported by
Vitruvius.t Hiero, King of Syracuse, having ordered an artist to
make him a golden crown, after it was completed found some cause for
  * The former of these instruments is so called from the Greek 'U£«p, water,
and Mlrpov, a measure ; and the latter from A'paioc, light, or having com
parative levity, and Merpov.
  t Architecture, lib. 9, cap. 3.
                                       l2

148               .         HYDROSTATICS.
suspicion that the goldsmith had imposed on him bymixing with the gol<f,
with which he had probably been furnished from the royal treasury, an
inferior kind of metal. The investigation of this matter was referred to
Archimedes, who appears to have been unable for some time to contrive
any satisfactory method of ascertaining whether the crown consisted of
mixed metal or pure gold. At length, on the occasion of his getting
into a bath, he observed that the water rose on the sides of the marble
basin or reservoir in which he stood, in exact proportion to the bulk of
his body beneath the surface of the fluid. At once the idea flashed on
his mind that every solid plunged under the surface of water must dis
place precisely an equal bulk of that liquid ; and as solids, bulk for
bulk, are some lighter than others, the comparative or relative gravity
of two or more solids might be ascertained by immersing equal weights
of them in water, and observing the quantity of liquid displaced by each
of the solids. Convinced that he could by this means find out whether
Hiero's crown had been adulterated, the philosopher is said to have
leaped from the bath, in a fit af scientific ecstacy, which rendered him
insensible to every thing except the importance of the principle he had
discovered, and running naked through the streets, he exclaimed aloud,
""Evptjica—"Etipqcu." " I have found it out—I have found it out !"
In order to apply his theory to practice, he procured a mass of gold and
another of silver, each having just the same weight with the crown:
then, plunging the three metallic bodies successively into a vessel quite
filled with water, and having carefully collected and weighed the quan
tities of the liquid which had been displaced in each case, he ascer
tained that the crown was, bulk for bulk, lighter than gold, and heavier
than silver ; and he therefore concluded that it had been alloyed with
the latter metal.
   In comparing the relative or specific gravities of bodies, it is neces
sary that there should be some standard to which the respective weights
may be referred. It might be stated that platina is as heavy again as
silver, and that cast iron is not much more than half as heavy as mer
cury ; but it would not be possible from these data to decide whether
silver would sink beneath the surface of mercury ; for though it is clear
that cast iron would float on mercury, yet unless some further informa
tion were given, no comparison could be made between the relative gra-
vities of silver and mercury. Supposing, however, it be known that
mercury is thirteen times and a half the weight of water, silver ten times

                    SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF WATER.                                149
and a half, iron seven times and a half, and platina twenty-one times,
it will be obvious that the last-mentioned metal would sink in mercury,
while silver as well as iron would remain suspended on it.
    Tables of the specific gravities of a great multitude of bodies have
been constructed, showing their relative weights, expressed in num
bers denoting in what ratio they exceed or fall below that of water.
The adoption of this fluid as the standard of specific gravity is attended
with several advantages, which have induced philosophers in general
to consider its density, under certain conditions of temperature and at
mospheric pressure, as affording a convenient point of comparison to
which may be referred the densities of other bodies, whether solids,
liquids, or gases.* The extraordinary power of water to resist com
pression by mere mechanic force, except under such circumstances as
can rarely take place.t is one of the advantages it presents ; but in the
prosecution of experiments of a delicate nature, the pressure of the at
mosphere must be taken into the account in order to ensure accuracy in
the results of our calculations. Alternations of temperature, as to heat
 and cold, also affect the bulk of water so considerably as to render it
 absolutely necessary that any substances, whose specific gravity we wish
 to ascertain by experimental comparison with that of water, should have
the same temperature with the standard liquid, or that allowance should
be made for any unavoidable difference of temperature. Purity of the
 watery fluid is likewise, as may be supposed, indispensably requisite ;
 rain-water carefully distilled, and thus freed from all foreign impreg
 nation, is therefore to be preferred in the prosecution of experimental
 inquiries. In the Philosophical Transactions for 1798, is a memoir
by Sir George Shuckburgh Evelyn, containing an account of numerous
 and important experiments on the specific gravity of water, which have
served as the foundation of subsequent researches. He found that a
   * The relative density of gases is sometimes estimated by comparison with
that of atmospheric air- as the standard : but the specific gravity of atmospheric
air as compared with that of water being known, that of the other gases may
be deduced from computation, when their several relations in point of density
to atmospheric air have been ascertained ; and on the contrary the relations
of the other gases to atmospheric air, as the standard of specific gravity, may
be computed from a table of specific gravities, including the gases- and re
ferring to water as the common unit of density. See Treatise on Pneumatics.
   t See p. 122.

150                            HYDROSTATICS.
cubic inch of pure distilled water, the barometer standing at 29.74
inches, and Fahrenheit's thermometer at 66 degrees, weighed 232.587
grains troy. Nowitis a well ascertained fact that water attains the utmost
degree of density just before it freezes, its bulk being relatively less at
about 40 deg. of Fahrenheit or 8 deg. above the freezing point, than at
any point either higher or lower in the scale.* The difference of the
weight of a cubic inch of distilled water at 40 deg. and at 60 deg. is
somewhat less than half a grain troy, whence it may be made to appear
from calculation that a cubic foot of pure water, at its greatest density,
weighs almost exactly 1000 ounces avoirdupois, or 62£ pounds. If,
therefore, the specific gravity of water be represented by the number
1000, each of the numbers in the following table will express the cor
responding weights of a cubic foot of the several bodies included in it.
Thus a cubic foot of pure gold would weigh 19,258 ounces avoirdu
pois, and an equal bulk of cork but 240 ounces.
Specific Gravities of various Solids, Liquids, and Gases, as compared with
                               Water at 60 Deg.
Platina, laminated          . 22,069     Iron, cast                  7207
         purified           . 19,500            malleable             7788
Gold, cast                  . 19,258     Steel, soft                  7833
       hammered             . 19,561            tempered             7816
       standard, 22 <;arats 17,486       Tin, cast                   7291
Mercury, fluid              . 13,568     Zinc, cast                  7190
           solid            . 13,610     Sulphate of Barytes.
                                                                     4430
Lead, cast
Silver, cast
                            . 11,352
                            . 10,474
                                            Ponderous Spar
                                         Oriental Ruby
                                                               "}     4283
        hammered            . 10,510     Brazilian Ruby               3531
Bismuth, cast                 . 9822     Bohemian Garnet              4188
Copper, cast .              .    8788    Oriental Topaz               4010
Brass, cast                 . 8395       Brazilian Topaz             3536
        wire                . 8544       Diamond          .          3521
Nickel, cast .              . 7807       Natural Magnet              480O
                        * See Treatise on Pyronomics.

                     TABLE OF SPECIFIC GRAVITIES.                        151
Fluor Spar        .       .        . 3181 Oil of Turpentine .          . 870
Parian Marble, white                 2837        Aniseed        .      .   986
Carrara Marble, white                2716         Lavender      .      .   894
Rock Crystal .                       2653         Cloves .      .      .1036
 Flint      .... 2594                     Camphor        .      .      .988
Sulphate of Lime, or Selenite 2322        Yellow Amber         .      . 1078
Sulphate of Soda, orGlau-1                White Sugar .         .      . 1606
   ber Salt             .       . J 2200  Honey .... 1450
Chloride of Sodium, orl                   White Wax .           .      .968
   Common Salt .                 . J 2130 Caoutchouc, or Gum Elastic 933
Nitrate of Potash, or 1 2000              Ivory     .... 1917
   Saltpetre          .      . J          Isinglass      .     .      . 1111
Phosphorus         .      .               Milk, cow's .        .      . 1038
Sulphur, native           .        .      Butter ....                      942
Plumbago, or Black Lead                   Mahogany       .     .      . 1063
Coal        ....                          Lignum Vita? .       .      . 1333
Sulphuric Acid, or Oil of "1              Dutch Box      .     .      . 1328
   Vitriol .                  . J         Ebony .... 1177
Nitric Acid                               Heart of Oak, 60 years felled 1170
               highly con- "1             White Fir                       569
   centrated         .      .      J      Willow .... 585
Muriatic Acid, liquid orl 1194            Sassafras Wood        .      . 482
   Spirit of Salt              . J        Poplar ....                     383
Sea Water                                 Cork      ....                  240
Ice                                       Chlorine, formerly called > „ flg
Alcohol .                 .                  Oxymuriatic Gas       . J
Proof Spirit .            .               Carbonic Acid, or Fixed Air 1.64
Sulphuric Ether           .               Oxygen Gas .        .      . 1.34
Naphtha           .       .               Azotic, or Nitrogen Gas . 0.98
Linseed Oil .                             Hydrogen Gas        .      . 0.08
Olive Oil                                 Atmospheric Air     .      .    1.21
   If the. specific gravity of water be represented by 1 instead of 1000,
then that of platina will be 22.069, the last three figures being taken as
decimals ; the specific gravity of standard gold will be 17.486, that of
sea-water 1.030, that of olive oil 0.915; and so on throughout the table,
the three right hand figures representing decimal parts, except those
denoting the specific gravities of the gases, the numbers of which must

]52                           HYDROSTATICS.
be thus altered to indicate the relations of their specific gravities to
that of water.
                 Water                                   1.
                 Chlorine                            . 0.00302
                 Carbonic Acid                       . 0.00164
                 Oxygen Gas .                        . 0.00134
                 Nitrogen Gas                        . 0.00098
                 Atmospheric Air .                   . 0.00121
                 Hydrogen Gas . .                    . 0.00008
   As most of the experiments, whence have been deduced the specific
gravities of solid and liquid bodies, have been made on comparatively
small quantities of these substances, the numbers assigned to them are
in general derived from calculation ; and consequently cannot be con
sidered as in all cases perfectly accurate. In general, however, the
numbers in the preceding table will be found to agree with other re
cently Constructed tables in all but the last figure, that is, to two places
of decimals, which will be near enough to the truth for all common
purposes of inquiry. In tables, professedly exhibiting the specific
gravities of bodies, in numbers consisting of more than three decimals,
the latter numbers must often be obtained merely from calculation, and
might as well be omitted, unless where they relate to elastic fluids or
gases, whose density being very inconsiderable, the ratio of their spe
cific gravity to that of water cannot be conveniently denoted except
by employing several decimal figures.
   From the foregoing table it will appear that almost all bodies will
float on the surface of mercurv ; gold and platina, and their alloys, being
the only substances known of higher specific gravity than that metallic
fluid, except one or two recently discovered metals of rare occurrence.*
Many bodies will float on the surfaces of metals while- in fusion : and
thus earthy and other substances found in metallic ores rise in the
state of scoriaj to the surface of the melted metal in the process of re
duction. The lava discharged from volcanos is a very dense fluid,
  * Iridium, a peculiar metallic substance discovered by Mr. Smitbson Ten-
nant, in combination with crude platina, has the specific gravity of 18.6; and
Tungsten is a rare and difficultly fusible metal, the specific gravity of which is
stated to be 17.2,

            SPECIFIC GRAVITY OF THE HUMAN BODY.                         153
 partly metallic ; and hence stones of vast bulk and weight are frequently
 seen swimming on its surface while it remains in the liquid state.
 Most kinds of wood will float on water, and but few, as fir, willow, and
  poplar, on rectified spirit. The solution of a solid in any liquid in
  creases its density : thus sea- water is heavier, bulk for bulk, than pure
 water ; and an egg which will sink in the latter will swim in brine.
  Hence it sometimes happens that a heavily laden vessel, after having
 sailed in safety across the salt sea, sinks on entering the mouth of a
 river ; owing to the inferior specific gravity of the fresh water.
    The specific gravity of the human body during life is in most cases
 nearly the same with that of river water, and coincides more exactly
 with that of sea- water ; so that there are probably but few persons who
 would not float very near the surface of the sea in calm weather. Cor
 pulent people are, bulk for bulk, lighter than those of sparer habits ; for
 the adipose membrane or fat of animals is inferior in specific gravity to
 water ; whilst lean flesh, unless the blood and other juices are drained
 from it, is of higher specific gravity than water, and bone is propor
 tionally much heavier than the soft parts of the body. Hence it
 might be inferred that the power of floating on water does not depend
 entirely on the relative specific gravity of the solids and liquids which
 enter into the composition of a human body ; and accordingly we find
that the body of a person destroyed by drowning, or thrown into water
 immediately after death, will sink far beneath the surface ; but after
several days have elapsed a body thus treated usually rises to the level
of the water, in consequence of its having become specifically lighter
than that fluid, from the accumulation of gas within the body, produced
by incipient putrefaction. It is then chiefly owing to the air included
in the cavities of the body during life, especially that portion contained
in the lungs, that a man is enabled to float on the surface of a pond or
river.
    There are, however, some credible accounts extant of persons whose
bodies were so much inferior in specific gravity to water, that they
could not descend beneath its surface; not possessing that "alacrity in
sinking," which maybe literally attributed to most individuals. In
1767, there was a priest residing at Naples, named Paulo Moccia,
whose extraordinary facility of flotation attractedmuch public attention.
This ecclesiastic could swim on the sea like a duck ; when he assumed
a perpendicular position, the water stood on a level with the pit of his

154                         HYDROSTATICS.
stomach ; and it is stated that when dragged under the water by one or
more persons who had dived for that purpose, as soon as be was re
leased, his body would rapidly rise to the surface. It appears that the
weight of this gentleman's body was thirty pounds less than that of an
equal bulk of sea-water. This peculiarity of conformation doubtless de
pended partly on bis being extremely fat, and baving very small bones ;
besides which, probably his lungs were capable of holding a larger
quantity of air than is usual, and there might also have been an accu
mulation of air in the abdomen, arising from the disease called tym
pany, or from some other cause.
   Most very corpulent people, who are at the same time strong and
healthy, would perhaps find on trial that their bodies would float on
water ; and those who do not happen to be endowed with a super
abundance of fat might still in almost all cases, with a little application,
 acquire the habit of floating with facility. The capability of breathing
freely and at regular intervals is essentially requisite to enable a person
to support himself on the surface of water. The head, and the upper
and lower extremities are relatively heavier than the trunk of the hu
man body ; and the head especially, from the quantity of bone of which
it is composed, is the heaviest part of the whole mass, yet unless the
face at least be kept above water respiration cannot be continued. It
is therefore of the highest importance that all persons should be per
fectly aware of the precautions necessary for this purpose ; so that any
one accidentally falling into the water, and being unable to swim, may
 be instructed how to escape a watery grave. A person suddenly im
 mersed in water, if not absolutely deprived of self-possession by
 fright, should, on coming to the surface after the first plunge, endea
 vour to turn on the back, carefully keeping the hands down, with the
 palms extended towards the bottom of the water, the legs being suf
 fered to sink rather lower than the trunk ; the only parts above the
 surface will then be the face and a small portion of the chest : at each
 inspiration more of the head and chest will rise above the water, and
 perhaps those parts will at first be for a moment covered with the
aqueous fluid at the interval of expiration of the air. Every thing de
 pends on making no effort to raise or keep out of water any part ex
cept the face, and endeavouring to keep the lungs, and consequently
the chest as much expanded as possible, without using any irregular
 "tertions in breathing ; and it may be proper to caution persons thus

                         ART OF SWIMMING.                             155
circumstanced against struggling or screaming, as worse than useless ;
for in case any one who might yield assistance should be within call,
it would be best to wait till the first alarm bad subsided, and then the
involuntary bather, conscious of comparative security, might use his
voice with due effect, and without encreasing the hazard of his situ
ation.
    But an acquaintance with the art of swimming can alone give a per
son perfect confidence of safety when by accident immersed in water.
It is to be lamented that this is not a more general accomplishment ;
for it is one which must frequently prove of great utility ; and it is
much to be desired that it should become a branch of education at
schools for boys, as being of higher importance than the more fashion
able arts of dancing, fencing, or even gymnastics.
    It may be questioned whether written instructions alone would en
 able any one to acquire a facility in swimming ; and admitting their
 utility, it would be inconsistent with the purpose of this work to afford
 them more than a cursory notice. In swimming as in floating the
 chief object of attention must be to keep the face above water, while
 the limbs are immersed ; hut from the different position required, it
 must be apparent that in swimming, not the face alone, but nearly the
 whole head must be sustained above the surface. In making a first
 attempt, the advice of Dr. Franklin may be followed, where he directs
 the learner to walk into water till he reaches a place where it stands as
 high as his breast, and dropping into the clear stream an egg ; as soon
 as it has reached the bottom, he is to lean forwards, resting on the
 water, and endeavour to take up the egg. when he will become sen
 sible of the upward pressure or resistance of the fluid ; and finding that
 it is not so easy to sink as might have been previously supposed, the
 young adventurer would acquire confidence in his own efforts, the valu
 able result of experience. Referring those who wish for full instruc
 tions in the art of swimming to works more immediately devoted to
 the subject, a few remarks may be added on the artificial aids which
 have been recommended to those who are learning to swim. Corks or
  blown bladders fitted by strings passing under the arms and across the
 chest, will afford material assistance in supporting the upper part of
 the body in a proper position ; but they perhaps rather tend to retard
 than facilitate the progress of the learner, by leading him to form a
 false estimate of the resistance of the water ; so that as soon as ha

 156                       . HYDROSTATICS.
 makes an experiment without the corks he finds himself obliged to re
 commence his task, and study it on a different plan which might as
well have been adopted at first. If, however, corks or bladders should
be used, it is highly necessary that they should be secured from slip
ping down to the hips, and thus causing the swimmer to fall with the
bead vertically downwards, and incur the most imminent risk of
 drowning.
    As less exertion would be required in the position of floating than in
 that of swimming, there would perhaps be some advantage in acquiring
 the power of flotation, as above described, previously to attempting
 to swim. This having been effected, the learner might, instead of the
 common expedient of using corks, procure a two-inch deal plank, ten
 or twelve feet long, and placing it in the water, lay hold of it with one
 or both hands and push it before him while learning to strike with bis
 legs.    But this or any other artificial modes of practice that may be
adopted, should be laid aside as speedily as possible, as the learner
cannot too soon make himself acquainted with the precise effect of the
pressure of the fluid in which he is moving, and with his own strength
and power of action; and till such knowledge is attained he will make
but slow progress in the art of swimming.
   The method of communicating buoyancy to solids of greater specific
gravity than water, and enabling them to float in that fluid, by inclosing
within them air or gas, is susceptible of application to a variety of use
ful purposes. It has accordingly been adopted in the construction of
swimming-girdles, life-preserving belts, and air-jackets, which like the
bladders noticed above, are merely bags of different shapes contrived
so as to be inflated with air, and worn round the upper part of the
body. Life-boats or safety-boats, as they are sometimes called, are ren
dered buoyant by forming in their sides air-tight cells or lockers, of
Sufficient dimensions to prevent the boat from sinking even when every
other part of it is filled with water. It has recently been proposed to
extend this principle to vessels of any size, and thus to prevent heavily
laden merchant ships or men of war from foundering at sea. The
scheme consists in the employment of copper tubes of a cylindrical
form, hermetically closed at the ends and sufficiently large and nume
rous to contain as much atmospheric air as would cause a ship to swim,
when in consequence of having sprung a leak it would otherwise sink.
It is stated by the inventor of these safety tubes, Mr, Ralph Watson,

                 CAUSES OF BUOYANCY OF SOLIDS.                          157
that an eighty-gun ship, even when immersed from leak, would not re
quire the application of such tuhes to a greater extent of displacement
of water than would be sufficient to support 240 tons of its immense
weight.*
    Fishes in general are provided by nature with a peculiar apparatus,
which enables them to swim with the utmost facility, and to ascend
close to the surface of the water, or descend to a considerable depth
beneath it, by means of a membranous bag or bladder containing air,
which they can distend or contract, and thus alter their specific gravity
according to circumstances. The Toad-fish (Antennarius laevigatas)
it is said distends its stomach, by swallowing air, to assist it in
swimming, and becomes puifed up like a blown bladder, in the same
manner as the globe or balloon fish.
   An experiment has been previously related exhibiting the effect of
the pressure of water upward in supporting a plate of metal, in contact
with the lower extremity of an open cylinder, from which it may he in
ferred that solids of the highest specific gravity, as gold or platina, may
be made to float on water or any other liquid, provided the floating
body be of such a form that its upper surface may be protected from
the pressure of the liquid by a column of air, the depth of which bears
a certain proportion to the specific gravity of the solid. It is thus that
a china tea-cup, though much heavier than an equal bulk of water, will
yet float on that liquid if placed in it with its cavity upwards and
empty ; but on pouring water into it, the cup will descend in conse
quence of the air within its cavity being displaced by the heavier fluid ;
till at length, when so much water has been poured in as to render the
cup and water together heavier than a quantity of water equal to the
space the cup occupies when immersed to its edge, it will sink to the
bottom.
    A raft will float, because it is absolutely lighter than water, and a
life-boat also for the same reason ; but vessels in general, from the
cock-boat to the largest man of war, owe their buoyancy to their con
cave form. Hence ships need not be built of fir or any light; wood,
since not only the heaviest woods might be used but even the heaviest
metals, to construct floating vessels ; and indeed steam-boats made of
   * A model of Mr. Watson's safety tubes, exemplifying their effect in re
 storing buoyancy to submerged vessels, to which they are attached, is now
(1834) exhibited at the National Gallery.

 158                        HYDROSTATICS.
sheet iron have recently been tried, and found to possess the requisite
 properties for ploughing the waves with perfect facility and safety.
   Floating bodies may be employed to raise heavy substances from the
bottom of a river, pond, or basin of water. Thus a sufficient number
of air-tight casks might be attached by ropes or chains to a large block
of granite at the bottom of a river near its entrance into the sea, and
the ropes being adjusted to such a length as to keep them strained
tightly by the buoyancy of the casks at the lowest ebb of the tide, the
block would be raised by the upward pressure of the casks at high
water. Perhaps this method of raising or lowering ponderous masses
of stone might be advantageously applied to practice in building
bridges or piers within the tide-way of a river. The common method
of regulating the supply of water conveyed by pipes into a cistern by
means of what is called a ball-cock, depends on the action of a hollow
globe of such dimensions relatively to the thickness of the metal as to
 keep it always floating on the top of the water in the cistern. A long
 wire is connected with the ball at one end, and at the other with a
valve or stop-cock, on which it acts as a lever, opening it when the
 long arm of the lever is allowed to descend by the sinking of the ball
 attached to that end, when the water falls in the cistern, and on the
 contrary closing the valve when, by the rising of the ball with the
 water, the cistern becomes full, and the lever presses on the valve or
cock and keeps it shut, so that the cistern can never be filled beyond
the proper height.
   The power of floating bodies may also be applied in a different
manner to the purpose of rendering buoyant other bodies attached to
them ; and among the various applications of this principle may be
noticed the ingenious invention called the water-camel, used in Hol
land and also in Russia and at Venice, to enable large and heavy-
laden ships to pass shoals or sand-banks. The method of effecting this
object consists of the application of two long narrow vessels adapted
to the sides of the ship, and being hollow and water-tight they are
filled with water, and then let down and firmly secured on each side of
the ship, after which the water is to be pumped out of them, and the
whole mass, consisting of the ship and camel, is thus rendered specifi
cally lighter than before, and drawing less water than the ship alone
did previously, the shoal or sand-bank may be passed without danger
of grounding.

                        CENTRE OF BUOYANCY.                          159
   The tendency of a floating body to assume a particular position when
partly immersed in a liquid, and to retain or lose that position ac
cording to circumstances, may be elucidated by reference to the doc
trine of the centre of gravity, as explained with relation to solids.*
When a solid body, specifically lighter than water, is placed on its sur
face, it will sink to a certain depth at which the absolute weight of the
body is exactly counterbalanced by the upward pressure of the water.
The point at which the entire weight of a body acts with greatest effect
must be its centre of gravity ; and that point at which the sustaining
efforts of the liquid are most effective may be termed the centre of
buoyancy, which must evidently coincide with the centre of gravity of
the portion of water displaced by the floating body ; and if the body be
of uniform structure with the centre of gravity of that part of it which
is under water. A floating body cannot maintain itself in a state of
equilibrium, unless its centre of gravity be situated in a vertical line
over its centre of buoyancy, or immediately under that point. In the
former case it will be in the state of instable equilibrium, and in the
latter in that of stable equilibrium.t
   Hence the necessity of placing iron bars, stones, or other heavy
substances, in the hold of a ship by way of ballast when it is not
freighted, or is laden with very light merchandize, in order that its
centre of gravity may not be elevated too much above its centre of
buoyancy. It is not requisite that the centre of gravity should be re
duced below the centre of buoyancy, for though such a disposition
would contribute to the stability of the vessel, the resistance to its
passage through the waves would be so great as to make it sail heavily.
In determining the proper situation of those points regard must be had
to the shape and dimensions of a vessel as well as to the nature of the
cargo and lading, and the manner of stowing it ; and on a due attention
to these circumstances its security and rate of sailing must in a great
measure depend.
   The methods adopted for ascertaining the specific gravities of bodies
are founded on the relation between bulk or dimension, and weight,
which may be determined by various operations, according to the na
ture of the several substances, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, to
        * See Mechanics, pp. 56, 58.               t See pp. 60, 61.

160                    .    HYDROSTATICS.
which they are applied. The relative density of different solids may
be discovered by simply weighing a cubic inch of each : but unless the
process of measurement and that of weighing are both executed with
scrupulous accuracy the result must be uncertain, and the former of
these operations at least, must, in many cases, be difficult, and in some
impracticable. Hence the method adopted by Archimedes is to be pre
ferred, and it may be improved by merely weighing the subject of the
experiment first in air and then in water, and noting the loss of weight
that takes place in the latter case, as that must be equal to the weight
of the water displaced by the substance under examination.          On this
principle is constructed the hydrostatic balance, which may be used to
determine the specific gravity of liquids, as well as that of solids. For
this purpose a globular or egg-shaped mass of glass or crystal must be
suspended by a hair or fine silk thread from a hook at the bottom of one
of the scales of an accurate balance, and its weight is then to be ascer
tained first in the air, next in distilled water, and lastly in the fluid
whose specific gravity is required ; then by deducting the loss of
weight of the glass in water from the loss observed when it was
weighed in the liquid, the specific gravity of the latter, with reference to
that of water will be obtained. By using a glass globe of such dimen
sions as to lose 1000 grains in water, its loss of weight in any liquid
would at once indicate the specific gravity of that liquid, whether it
be heavier or lighter than water.
   Insoluble solids denser than water are easily subjected to experi
ment ; hut any insoluble solid body, which is specifically lighter than
water, requires, in order that its specific gravity should be ascertained,
the addition of some heavier substance, so that the joint mass may be
made to sink in water ; then its weight in air and in that liquid re
spectively being determined, the specific gravity of the lighter solid
will be the difference between the weight of the heavier body in water
alone, and that of the joint mass, deducted from the difference of
their weight in air. Solid substances, soluble in water, such as salts,
may have their specific gravity ascertained by weighing them in alco
hol, or some other liquid which will not dissolve them, and their spe
cific gravity, water being the standard, maybe found by computation;
or they may be weighed in water after being defended from its action
by coating them thinly with melted bees-wax.

          HYDROMETER.           CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                  161
                          The most usual and convenient method of as
                       certaining the specific gravities of liquids is by
                       means of an hydrometer. This instrument, as
            A.         represented in the margin, consists of a hollow
                       glass ball B, with a smaller ball of metal C,
                       appended to it, and which, from its superior
                       weight, serves to keep the instrument in a verti
                       cal position, to whatever depth it may be im
                       mersed in a liquid. From the large ball rises
                       a cylindrical stem A D, on which are marked di
                       visions into equal parts ; and the depth to which
                       the stem will sink in water, or any other liquid
           ¦ ¦          fixed on as the standard of specific gravity being
                        known, the depth to which it sinks in a liquid
                        whose specific gravity is required will indicate, by
                        the scale of equal parts, how much greater or
                        less it is than that of the standard liquid.
                          CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.
   Liquids are distinguished by the property of preserving a level sur
face when at rest, and rising to the same height in any number or va
riety of communicating tubes ; an effect resulting from the joint action
of the cohesion of their particles and the influence of universal gravi
tation. But there are certain circumstances in which liquids may be
placed, in consequence of which the phenomena will be remarkably
modified, and a portion of a liquid mass may rise far above the com
mon level, and preserve its elevation, as if exempt from the power of
 gravity. Water may be made to rise perpendicularly to a great height
in an exhausted tube ; and even mercury, one of the heaviest of fluids,
may be seen to be elevated in the same manner in a barometer tube
 29 or 30 inches above the level of the liquid in the basin, into which
 the open end of the tube is plunged. But in these cases, as we shall
 subsequently show, the influence of gravitation is distinctly percep
 tible, and the liquids rise in exhausted tubes, in consequence of pneu
 matic pressure.*
          * See Account of the Barometer, in Treatise on Pneumatics.

162                          HYDROSTATICS.
   There is, however, another case in which liquids rise above their
common surface level, not being inclosed in exhausted tubes, but in
tubes open at both ends, or between solid plates nearly in contact.
This phenomenon is styled Capillarity, and is said to be caused by
Capillary Attraction.* Instances of the operation of this principle are
constantly taking place around us, and though highly interesting, they
are overlooked by common observers. If a slice of stale bread an inch
square, and three or four in length, be held perpendicularly with one
end immersed in a small quantity of water or milk, the liquid will
ascend through the pores of the bread till it is entirely absorbed, and if
there is a sufficient quantity of it, the bread will become saturated
with the moisture. In the same manner water or any aqueous fluid
will ascend and spread through a lump of sugar or a heap of sand, if
the base of either be immersed in the liquid. Tubes of glass having
a very small bore, and therefore called capillary or hair-like, if dipped
a little way beneath the surface of water, will cause the liquid to
ascend to a height bearing a certain relation to the diameter of the
tube. If that diameter be ^ of an inch, water will rise to 2* inches ;
if it be but iJ0of an inch, it will rise 5 inches ; and so on in the in
verse ratio of the diameter of the tube. Similar effects may be exhi
bited by means of two plates of glass, placed as represented in the
margin in a shallow vessel of water, so that their edges on one side,
A C, may be in contact, and at the other, B D and E F, somewhat
                            I         separated. The liquid will then rise
                                      between the plates, standing highest
                                      on that side where they most nearly
                                      approach, and gradually declining to
                                      wards the sides that are separated,
                                      the upper surface of the elevated
                                      portion of the fluid forming the
                                    I curve F G H, the height of the liquid
                                      at any point, as H, being greater in
                                      proportion, as it is nearer to the side
                                      of the plates A C.
   * From capillus, a hair, or capillaris, hair-like, in reference to the small
 boTe of tubes which produce these effects.

                        CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                            163
     It is in consequence of capillary attraction that a sponge imbibes
 water, blotting paper absorbs ink, or that oil rises amidst the fibres of
 the cotton-wick of a lamp. These effects are manifestly owing to a
 common cause, and we learn from experiment that it is only under
 certain conditions that they take place. Thus, all liquids will not rise
to the same height in the same tube, for water will rise higher in a
 capillary glass tube than alcohol, and neither of these liquids will rise
 at all in the finest metallic pipe, nor in a glass tube, if the inside of it
 be greasy. Mercury, on the contrary, will not rise in a clean glass
tube, especially if it be wetted ; while it becomes elevated, when the
inside is lined with a very thin film of bees'-wax or tallow. These
and similar phenomena have greatly attracted the attention of philoso
phers, and given rise to a variety of unsatisfactory hypotheses. But
though the subject is still somewhat obscure, the researches of
Clairaut, Young, Laplace, and Poisson, have materially contributed
to elucidate the cause of capillary attraction, and therefore require
notice.
    Some remarks have been elsewhere introduced, relative to the effect
of cohesive attraction on the particles of liquids, causing them to
assume a globular figure, and on the modifications produced by the
attraction of solids with which the liquids may come in contact.* It
is on the joint operation of these causes under particular circum
stances that the phenomena of capillarity appear to depend. It is
found from observation that when fluids rise in capillary tubes, the
surfaces are concave or depressed in the centre ; and on the contrary,
when the fluids do not rise, they have convex surfaces, or stand
highest in the middle. These effects are manifestly owing, in the
first case, to the superiority of the attraction between the liquid and
the tube over that between the particles of the former ; and in the
second case, to the inferiority of the former attraction compared with
the latter. Hence also if water be poured into a glass tumbler it will
rise somewhat at the edges, while mercury poured into the same vessel
would be depressed at the edges.
   In consequence of molecular attraction, the particles of the surface
of a body are drawn towards the interior. Laplace has demonstrated
                                 * Seep. 119.
                                     >i 2
                                                                              S

164                         HYDROSTATICS.
by calculation that a body terminated by a curved surface exercises on
the molecules of its surface an action different from that which would
take place in a body with a plane surface. This action is weaker
when the surface is concave, and stronger when it is convex. If the
surface is a portion of a sphere, the action will be in the inverse ratio
of its radius. If the surface is not a portion of a sphere, the action
will depend on half the sum of the actions of two spheres, having for
their radii the greatest and the least radius of curvature of the surfaoe
at the point under consideration. Hence may be deduced the cause
of the phenomena of capillarity : for when the mutual attraction of the
molecules of a liquid is more feeble than the attraction of solid bodies
which are plunged in it, or which surround it, the liquid will be drawn
to a very minute distance above its level, which will cause it to have a
concave surface and this happens, because the molecular attraction
of the liquid near the body being less than that which acts on its plane
surface situated further distant, it must become elevated till the
equilibrium is re-established.       When two bodies are sufficiently
near to each other for the curved surfaces to cross, they will form
one surface, of which the concavity is proportionably deeper, and
therefore a liquid will be more elevated between two bodies than
against the surface of one, since the height of the column must be
sufficient for its weight to counterbalance the action of the two sur
faces. When the mutual attraction of the molecules of a liquid is
stronger than the attraction of bodies plunged in it, it will form be
tween the two plates a convex surface, for the liquid being acted on
by a force greater than the attraction of the plates must sink between
 them to preserve the equilibrium.
    In narrow tubes the surface of a liquid will approach nearly to the
 figure of a hemisphere, and its segments in the tubes, as they become
 more and more contracted, are almost exactly similar ; whence it re
sults that the radii of curvature are as the diameters of the tubes,
therefore the action of the surface follows the inverse ratio of the dia
meters of the tubes ; and consequently the elevation or depression of
the liquid column will be dependant on the same principles. This
appears from experience ; for in a series of tubes, of which the diame
ters are 1, J, J, &c., the elevations or depressions will be 1, 2, 3, &c.
    Between two plates of glass brought near to each other, the eleva
tion or depression will be in the inverse ratio of the distance of the

                     CAPILLARY ATTRACTION.                             165
plates ; but it must be observed that the liquid will rise between
plates to only half the height that it would in a tube of the same dia
meter with the interval between them. The reason of this is obvious,
since in a tube the action of the curved surface is half the sum of
the actions of two spheres, having for their radii the greatest and the
least radius of curvature, while in the case of two parallel plates, that
part of the attraction of the surface reciprocal to one of the radii dis
appears, and there only remains the action dependent on the other
radius, consequently the action is diminished by one-half.*
   The preceding observations show the manner in which the mole
cular attraction of liquids is modified by the attraction of solids in con
tact with them, as exhibited by the ascent of liquids in capillary tubes.
 But there is an important circumstance connected with this pheno
menon, which escaped the attention of Laplace and other philosophers
until it was pointed out by M. Poisson, in an article on the Equili
brium of Fluids, published in the ninth volume of the " Memoirs of the
Academy of Sciences," and more fully developed in his " Nouvelle
Theorie de l'Action Capillaire." This is the remarkable inferiority of
density which takes place near the exposed surface of a liquid, the
nature and effect of which are thus concisely explained by a writer in
a periodical journal. '' Let us conceive an infinitely thin stratum or
pellicle of liquid (which we shall call A) to be isolated, and then con
sider the pressing force which it sustains. In the interior of the
liquid the two faces of A are equally compressed by the action of the
contiguous molecules, which action is proportional to the excess of the
repulsive above the attractive forces. Now the only molecules of the
liquid which can act on A, are those which form, on each side of it, a
stratum of which the thickness is equal to the radius of the sphere of
the molecular action. Hence every other stratum of the liquid at a
sensible distance from the surface, sustains exactly the same com
pression as A ; and, therefore, the density is equal throughout, ab
stracting from the small effect produced by the action of gravity. But
when the distance of A from the surface of the liquid is less than the
radius of molecular action, it is evident that the number of molecules
acting on its exterior face is diminished, and consequently the pressure
   * V. Beudant Traits EUmentaire de Physique : faisant partic d'un Cours
General des Sciences Physiques. 1820, p. 250-2.
                                                                           i

 166                          HYDRAULICS.
 on that face no longer balances the pressure on the other. The pres
 sure on the exterior face of A diminishes very rapidly as the distance
 from the surface is diminished ; at the surface it vanishes altogether.
  Hence the density of the liquid near the surface diminishes very
 rapidly, according to an unknown law ; and at the surface is altogether
 different from what it is at a depth exceeding by the smallest possible
 quantity the radius of the sphere of molecular action."*
                             HYDRAULICS.
    When the equilibrium arising from the weight and consequent pres
 sure of liquids is disturbed, motion will take place ; and the laws by
which it is regulated are the same with those which govern the motion
of solid bodies. The velocity of flowing water, like that of falling
bodies, depends on gravitative attraction, and is to be estimated on the
same principles ; and the phenomena exhibited by jets of water, or other
spouting liquids, are analogous to those displayed by solids projected
through the air, the effects in both cases depending on the operation of
similar causes.
   Among the circumstances which influence the motions of liquids,
one of the most important is the weightof the air, producing atmospheric
 pressure ; and to this force the most powerful and useful machines for
 raising water chiefly owe their efficiency. Such are the various kinds
 of pumps, fire-engines, and siphons, which are rather to be considered
as pneumatic than as hydraulic machines, resembling in their mode of
action the barometer and the common syringe ; their construction and
effects may therefore be most advantageously investigated and ex
plained in treating of pneumatics. Indeed that branch of hydrosta-
tical science, which relates to the motion of liquids, is so intimately
connected with the theory of motion as applicable to all fluids, whether
liquid or gaseous, that in a systematic treatise the subjects could not
                * Foreign Quarterly Review, vol. ix. p. 1/.

                    FORCE OF FLOWING WATER.                           167
 with propriety be separated. But the mutual relations between the
different departments of the natural sciences are so numerous as to
render them susceptible of various modes of arrangement, the re
spective advantages of which may be estimated according to circum
stances. In stating the elementary principles of a science, diversity
of form and method, as well as of illustration, may be adopted ; as thus
both the judgment and the memory of the student will be assisted
by the exhibition of important truths under different points of view.
   At present, therefore, we shall confine our attention to the effects of
the motion of liquids on different parts of connected masses, or on
solids with which they may come in contact ; and afterwards briefly
notice the construction and mode of action of those machines whose
 power depends on the weight or pressure of flowing liquids, or on the
pressure or impact of liquids on solid bodies.
   In consequence of the imperfect cohesion of their constituent par
ticles, liquids present some peculiar appearances, when they fall through
the influence of gravitation. A continuous solid mass will always re
main at rest while its centre of gravity is supported ; thus it may be
sustained by net-work, or suspended by a line, as securely and stea
dily as if it were inclosed on all sides ; but an unconnected mass, as a
heap of sand, can have no common centre of gravity, and therefore to
preserve its stability every separate grain must be supported. Water,
or any similar liquid, in order to keep it in the state of equilibrium, re
quires support even to a greater extent than a disintegrated solid, or
powder ; for such is the peculiar attraction existing between the par
ticles of a liquid, that unless the whole mass be supported laterally as
well as at the base, it will spread on that side where the pressure is
withdrawn till every part has attained a common level. This propertv,
and its effects in producing pressure in liquids at rest, have been
already noticed, and those which are exhibited by flowing liquids are
now to be developed.
   When water contained in a deep vessel is suffered to escape from
an aperture in the bottom, it flows in a continued stream, formed by
the pressure of the liquid acting most powerfully against that point
from which the support has been withdrawn. The combined effect of
the hydrostatic pressure, and the cohesion of the particles of the
watery fluid causes various movements in the flowing stream, which

168                           HYDRAULICS.
may be accurately observed by using a glass jar, and mixing with the
water some very email pieces of amber, or sealingwax, the specific
gravity of which exceeding that of water but in a trifling degree, they
will he carried down with the current, and exhibit its internal motions.
                      The annexed figure will serve to show the manner
                      in which the liquid descends, at first in horizontal
                       strata, and afterwards, when a portion has escaped,
                      the surface becomes depressed in the centre, till
                       at length, when it approaches the bottom, it as
                       sumes the form of a funnel, or hollow inverted
                       cone, which it retains till the vessel is nearly
                       emptied. If the aperture be made in the side of
                       the vessel, and close to the bottom, the same ap
                       pearances may be observed, with the exception of
                       the hollow cone, which in this case does not occur,
the liquid remaining level at the surface till it sinks down to the orifice.
As the common direction of the particles of the descending liquid is
towards a central point, indicated by the course which the floating
fragments of sealingwax take towards the aperture, the stream must
become compressed, and consequently somewhat contracted at that
point. Its situation depends much on the size of the aperture ; and
when that is very small, and the side of the vessel in which it is
pierced extremely thin, the greatest contraction of the jet will take
 place at the distance of about half the diameter of the orifice beyond it ;
 and at that point the diameter of the liquid vein will be to the diameter
of the orifice nearly in the proportion oi 5 to 8, whatever be the height
 of the liquid in the vessel from which it flows. This contraction of the
 liquid vein may be equally observed when the discharge takes place
 from an aperture in the side of a vessel, and likewise when the liquid
is projected vertically upwards, as in jets-d'eau.
   The point of greatest contraction in a stream of flowing water, or of
 any other liquid, must manifestly be also the point where it has the
 greatest velocity, as it is there that the hydrostatic pressure acts with
 greatest effect. In estimating the velocity of a liquid issuing from an
 aperture in the side or the bottom of any vessel, it will be found to de»
 pend on the vertical height of the water within the vessel ; and in
 every case it will be equal to the velocity that a body would acquire in

                 VELOCITY OF FLOWING WATER.                            169
falling through a space equal to that height. Hence it cannot be uni
form unless the water is supplied as fast as it is discharged, and thus
kept always at the same level. Suppose then two vessels, one of which
is 5 inches in height, and the other 20 inches, to be filled with water,
each having a circular orifice at the bottom J of an iuch in diameter, if
both be opened, and the vessels kept constantly full by a supply of water
above, the taller vessel will discharge about 21 ounces of water in a
quarter of a minute, and the shorter vessel about 11 ounces in the same
space of time. Thus, estimating the relative velocity of the stream in
the two vessels by the quantities discharged by each in a given time,
that of the stream from the taller vessel will be to that from the
shorter, as 2 to 1, nearly ; and the velocities would be exactly in that
ratio, but for the effect of friction between the particles of the liquid
 and the sides of the vessel, and the resistance of the air, which pro
portionally diminish the discharge from the taller vessel somewhat
more than that from the shorter one. Now taking the velocities as
 2 to 1, the height of the taller vessel being to that of the shorter as
4 to 1, it will appear that the velocity in either case is as the square
root of the height of the column of liquid in the respective vessels; for
1X1 = 1. aid 2 x 2 = 4. It may, therefore, be generally stated,
that independently of the irregularities occasioned by friction and
other causes, the maximum velocity with which a liquid flows from an
 aperture in the side or bottom of a vessel will be the square root of
 the depth of the vertical column within the vessel. Hence, the velo
 city of a flowing liquid depending, like that of a falling body, on gra
 vitation, it follows that a stream issuing 4 feet below the surface of a
 liquid mass will have double the velocity of one issuing at 1 foot below
 the surface ; at the depth of 9 feet the velocity will be treble, at 16 feet
 fourfold, at 25 feet five-fold, and so on in proportion to the depth of
 the aperture below the surface. It must be recollected that these com
 parative estimates are to be regarded as results deduced from the influence
 of gravitation alone, therefore in practice allowance must be made for the
 effect of friction and atmospheric resistance, and the dimensions and
 form of the aperture must likewise be attended to in making expe
 riments and calculations. From the experiments of Bossut it appears
 that the actual quantity of water discharged from orifices of the same
  dimensions, under different degrees of pressure, is far less than might

170                             HYDRAULICS.
be inferred from calculation. The following table * of theoretical and
practical discharges through circular orifices one inch in diameter will
clearly exemplify this principle.
Height of the liquid          Computed discharge per            Actual discharge
  above the orifice-          minute, in cubic inches.            per minute.
       1 foot       .     .     .      4427       .      .     .      2812
       5 feet       .     .     .     10123       .      .     .      6277
      10 feet       .     .     .     14317       .      .     .      8860
      15 feet       .     .     .     17533       .      .     .     10821
   The phenomena exhibited by spouting liquids when the current is
directed vertically upwards, are equally with those of descending cur
rents nnder the influence of gravitation ; and as bodies projected per
pendicularly in the air rise to a height equal to that from which they
must have descended, to acquire the velocity with which they were
propelled.t so liquids spouting from a short pipe directed upwards,
rise to a height equal to that of the liquid column by the pressure of
which they were ejected. In the marginal figure let A represent a
                                    cistern filled with water at the constant
                                    height B C, then if four bent pipes D,
                                    E, F, G, be inserted at different dis
                                    tances below the surface, the jets will
                                    all rise to nearly the same level, that of
                                    the line B C. The resistance of the
                                    atmosphere and the mutual friction be
                                    tween the particles of the ascending
                                    current, both, however, counteract its
                                    force, so that it is only when the orifices
                                    of the pipes are extremely small that
                                    the elevation of the jets becomes con
                                    siderable relatively to the hydrostatic
pressure. Yet water may be made to rise in spouting streams even
above the level of the reservoir from which it issues, by introducing 8
  * See Encyclop. Mctropol —Mixed Sciences, vol. i. p. 210. The above
short table is abstracted from one in which the French measures, employed by
Bossut, are reduced to English measures by Mr. Barlow.
  I See Treatise on Mechanics, p. 41.
               \

                        DISCHARGE OF WATER.                              171
current of air in such a manner that it may be mingled with the stream,
and the fluid thus becoming specifically lighter than the water in the re
servoir, the latter is more powerfully acted on by the incumbent weight.
The concourse of the aerial and aqueous fluids produces musical
sounds, somewhat resembling those from the harmonica, but not so
soft. That the sounds are caused by the particles of the air striking
against those of the water is evident, because, when the flux of the
water is stopped, and the air suffered to issue alone, nothing is heard
but a hissing noise very different from the preceding*
                               It has been ascertained from experiment
                I m      I t'iat a Sreater quantity of water will be dis
                            charged in a given time from the side or bot-
  |J I |        |        I torn of a vessel, through a short projecting
     -             • '      tube, than from a simple aperture of the same
                            dimensions. The tube, however, must be
                            entirely without the vessel, as in fig. B, for
                            if it is continued inside, as at A, the discharge
                            will be lessened instead of being augmented.
                            Much also depends on the figure of the tube
                            and that of the bottom of the vessel, since
                            more water will flow in the same time through
a conical or bell-shaped tube than through a cylindrical one, and a
further advantage will he gained by giving a corresponding shape
to the bottom of the vessel, as at D. These effects depend on the
interruption to the conflux of the aqueous particles by the sides of the
rising tube in the vessel A, and the greater facilities afforded for their
escape in different degrees by the forms of the apertures in the vessels
B, C, and D ; and the last of these, coinciding most exactly with
the figure of a flowing stream, is best adapted to promote the dis
charge of the liquid. When pipes, or tubes, of considerable length are
used to conduct water from a fountain, the effects will be modified
by various circumstances, the quantity discharged depending on the
length and dimensions of the pipes, their direction or inclination, and
the number and abruptness of the angular bendings which take place
in their course.
       « V. Beudant Traits EHmentaire de Physique, pp. 271 272-

172                            HYDRAULICS.
   When a stream of water is propelled through a cistern or basin con
taining water at rest, it will have such an effect on the entire mass as
to set it in motion, and cause a great part of it to mix with the current,
and make its escape. Owing to this property of flowing liquids it is
possible to drain a lake or marsh by leading a stream descending from a
higher level to the border of the lake, when it will sweep through the
stagnant water, and gradually drawing it into its vortex, carry it off
over the opposite bank. Venturi, an Italian philosopher and engineer,
made use of this method to drain a marsh near Modena, by conducting
through it a rapid descending stream.* This effect is produced by
friction between the particles of the liquid, and thus the water in mo
tion communicates its impulse laterally, till the whole mass is affected,
and gradually entering the current is carried off.
   The friction which takes place between the particles of water and
those of the air is productive of some curious and interesting pheno
mena. To this cause is owing the current of air caused by the fall of
water from an eminence, of which a remarkable instance is adduced by
Venturi, in a cataract which rushes from the glacier of Roche Melon,
on the rock of La Novalese, near Mount Cenis. The pressure of the
air on the summit of a jet d'ean occasions the dispersion of the liquid
in glittering wreaths of spray, and the reaction of the aqueous particles,
and consequent friction between the two fluids, gives origin to an as
cending current of air, by means of which a light globular body, as a
hollow glass ball, may be made to dance in the midst of the spouting
stream. The agitation of the sea by the wind, and the transformation
of its surface into a mass of foaming waves and mountain billows during
a storm, is another important and striking effect of the friction of air and
water. That the formation of waves depends on this cause is con
vincingly proved by the experiments of Dr. Franklin, who ascertained
that by pouring oil on the surface of a pond to the windward, in stormy
weather, the ripples with which it was covered might be made to sub
side ; and it appears that this method of calming the waves by shedding
oil on their surface has in some instances been found advantageous at
sea. From its inferior specific gravity the oil forms a floating film,
which defends the surface of the water from contact with the currents
             * See Leslie's Elem. of Nat- Philos. vol. i. pp. 397, 398.

                       HYDRAULIC MACHINES.                           173
^>f air, and the friction between the wind and waves is vastly dimi
nished, in the same manner as that which takes place between solids
is by the application of unctuous matter.
    The effect of the pressure or impact of flowing liquids on solids im
mersed in them, is, as in other instances of hydraulic pressure, greativ
influenced by circumstances, and therefore the general principles aris
ing from theory must be adopted with considerable limitations when
applied to practice. It must be manifest that when a flat solid surface is
moved perpendicularly against a liquid, the resistance will always be
in a certain proportion to the extent of the solid surface ; and when
such a plane surface is exposed to the action of a flowing liquid, the
 effect must be greater or less according to the degree of the velocity of
the stream. Hence may he deduced the general rule, that the effect
produced by the pressure of flowing water, acting perpendicularly on a
flat surface plunged beneath it, is in the compound ratio of the square
of the velocity of the stream and that of the solid surface. If the sur
face be presented obliquely to the direction of the stream, the effect
must be less than when it is perpendicular to the surface of the current ;
and the diminution of pressure arising from such a cause will be pro
portioned to the inclination of the solid surface. Its amount in any
given case may be calculated on the same principles as the effects of
inclined planes in mechanics.
    When a liquid acts by impact on a solid plane, causing it to turn
round an axis, in the manner of the float-boards of a water-wheel, there
will be a certain point in that plane, where, if the whole force of the
stream could be concentrated, it would produce the same effect as when
that force is distributed over the whole surface of the plane. The point
thus indicated is the centre of percussion, some notices of which have
been introduced elsewhere.*
                            Hydraulic Machines.
    The objects of hydraulic machinery are chiefly those of raising
 water from a lower to a higher level, or employing its impulse as a
                            * See pp. 5J and 133.

 174                         HYDRAULICS.
moving power ; which effects may be produced by hydrostatic pres
sure or impact, on liquids and solids, either alone, or in conjunction
with atmospheric pressure. The construction of those machines whose
operation depends on the latter cause must be referred to the trea
tise on Pneumatics ; but there are other machines which may be pro
perly noticed at present, as their modes of action admit of satisfactory
explanation on the principles of hydrostatic science.
   These may be distinguished into three classes : namely, machines
for raising water by mechanical means only ; those which act by the
weight, pressure, or impact of water, on solids ; and those in which the
effect is produced by the centrifugal force or intermitting action of
flowing water.
   A common draw-well, from which the water is lifted by means of a
bucket and windlass, affords an example of a machine of the first class.
But the comparatively small quantity of water that can be raised at
once by the use of a single bucket confines its employment to domestic
or occasional purposes.
   The chain-pump is a much more efficient engine, though very simi
lar in its mode of action to the preceding. The figure in the margin
                 _         represents it as consisting of a number of
                           plates or fiat disks of wood, DDDD, at
                           tached horizontally to an endless chain,
                           and passing round two wheels, E and F, bv
                           turning which the chain and plates are carried
                           through a water-tight cylinder, the lower
                           end of which is plunged beneath the surface
                           of water, and its internal dimensions are ex
                           actly adapted to receive the plates, which suc
                           cessively entering the tube when drawn up by
                           the revolving chain, form so many buckets
                          filled with water, which they carry up and dis
                          charge into a cistern above, or when used as
                         ,,.they commonly are on ship-board, into a pipe
                        J that may discharge it again into the sea. The
                      Hfi machine may be set in motion by a winch, or
                     ^y other means applied to turn the upper wheel.
                          The chain-pump will act with greater effect

                           THE COCHLION.                               175
when the cylinder can be placed obliquely than when its direction is
exactly vertical.
   The Rope Pump is a less efficient modification of the chain-pump
or bucket engine. It is composed of wheels, one under water and
the other above, having on their peripheries several grooves, through
which pass endless ropes of very loosely spun wool or horsehair ;
and the upper wheel being made to revolve with great velocity, the
water which adheres to the coarse ropes may be raised, and discharged
above by pressure.
 _ The Persian Wheel, which is used to raise water not only in Persia
but also in Egypt and other eastern countries, consists of a large wheel,
to the nave of which are suspended a number of buckets, in such a
manner that in the revolutions of the wheel they successively dip into
a pond or stream of water over which the wheel moves, and the
buckets thus being filled ascend with their load till each in turn
reaches the summit of the circuit, where there is a contrivance for tilt
ing each bucket, so that it may discharge its contents into a cistern or
reservoir, and it then descends with the revolving wheel to be filled
again. Such a wheel maybe put in motion by any mechanical means ;
or if it be employed to raise water from a running stream, float-boards
may be added to make it revolve like an under-shot wheel.
                                               The Cochlion or Screw of
                                            Archimedes, derives its de
                                            signation from a prevalent
                                            opinion that it was the inven
                                            tion of the Syracusan sage.
                                            But it is not mentioned by
                                            Vitruvius among the disco
                                            veries of Archimedes, and
                                            there is some ground for be
                                            lieving that it was, before his
                                            time, used in Egypt to raise
                                            and carry off the superfluous
                                            water left in the low grounds
after the inundations of the Nile ; so that the question as to its origin
remains undecided. Its form, as represented in the margin, is that of a

176                             HYDRAULICS.
helix (as the name somewhat implies), consisting of a flexible tube like
a hollow corkscrew wound round a solid cylinder, which may be made
to revolve by turning a winch, or by attached wheel-work. When it is
placed in an oblique position, with the lower opening of the screw im
mersed in a cistern, or any other body of water, the liquid will enter
below, as the orifice dips beneath it in each revolution, and be carried
up and discharged above ; the peculiar form of the machine facilitating
the elevation of the water.
    The most important machines belonging to the second class are dif
 ferent modifications of water-wheels. They are respectively termed
 Undershot Wheels, Overshot Wheels, and Breast Wheels.
                                         The Undershot Wheel is said to
                                      be of earlier origin than the others ;
                                      and it is likewise the most common.
                                      It consists, as is shown in the an
                                      nexed figure.of a wheel on the peri
                                      phery of which are fixed a number
                                      of flat boards at equal distances, and
                                      set at right angles to the plane of the
                                      wheel. They are called float-boards ;
                                      and the wheel being so placed as for
                                      its lowest point to be immersed in
                                      flowing water, it is set in motion by
                                      the impact ofthe water on the boards
 as they successively dip into it. As a wheel of this kind will revolve
 in any stream which furnishes a current of sufficient power, it may be
 used where the descent of the water is by far too trifling to turn a breast
 wheel, much less an overshot wheel. If all the float-boards are ver
 tical to the centre of the wheel, as in the figure, the wheel will work
 equally well in either direction, and one of that construction may there
 fore be advantageously used in the tide-way of a river, as it will revolve
 cither with the flowing or the ebbing tide. But in any other situation
 a wheel is to be preferred in which the float-boards incline towards the
 current, and thus the effect of the stroke is increased ; but it appears
 from experiment that the best position is when the inclination of the
  float-boards is but inconsiderable.

                  OVERSHOT AND BREAST WHEELS.                         177
                                       The Overshot Wheel differs from
                                    the foregoing in the manner in which
                                    it is acted on by water, receiving its
                                    impulse not from the impact alone,
                                    but also from the weight of water.
                                    This kind of wheel, as may be con
                                    ceived from the marginal figure,
                                    can only be used where a consider
                                    able fall of water can be obtained.
                                    On its periphery are fixed a num
                                    ber of cavities called buckets, being
                                    closed on both sides, but having
openings, so that the water conducted by a level trough of the
same breadth with the wheel, may fill each bucket in succession, as it
reaches that point in the circuit of the wheel at which the weight of
the water can begin to act on its circumference. From the peculiar
form of the buckets they retain the water partially till they have de
scended to near the lowest point of the circuit, and having discharged
their contents into the tail-stream, they ascend on the opposite side to
be filled as before. As the overshot wheel requires the greatest fall of
water to make it act, so is it likewise the most powerful with reference
to the effect produced by the momentum of flowing water.
                                        The Breast Wheel is a sort of ma
                                     chine having an intermediate charac
                                     ter compared with the undershot and
                                     overshot wheels. It has float-boards
                                     like the former, as in the annexed fi
                                     gure, but they are converted into
                                     buckets somewhat after the manner
                                     of those in the chain-pump, as they
                                     move in a cavity closed at the sides,
                                     and adapted to the circumference of
                                     the wheel. The water passes through
                                     this cavity, entering it nearly on a
                                     level with the axis of the wheel.
In this case the liquid acts chiefly by its weight ; and the machine,
though less efficient than the overshot wheel, is more so than the other.
                                    N

178                          HYDRAULICS.
It is therefore only used where the fall of water happens to be pecu
liarly adapted for the purpose.
   Among the hydraulic machines belonging to the third class,
which derive their power from the centrifugal force of flowing water,
is one called Barker's Centrifugal Mill, as having been invented by
Dr. Barker, towards the close of the seventeenth century. This
                         engine, as represented in the annexed figure,
                         consists of a hollow cylindrical metal pipe, A B,
                         of considerable height, and terminating above
                         in a funnel-shaped cavity. The pipe is sup
                         ported in a vertical position, by resting below
                         on a pointed steel pivot, turning freely in a brass
                         box adapted to receive it : and the upper part
                         has a cylindrical steel axis,C D, passing through
                         a board, supported by uprights at the sides.
                         The hollow tube, A B, communicates with »
                          cross tube, E F, closed at the extremities, but
                          having adjustible orifices at the opposite sides,
                          near each end of the cross tube. A pipe, G,
                          above, communicates with a supply of water,
                          which it discharges into the funnel at the top ot
                          the vertical pipe B ; and the supply must be so
 regulated that the pipe may be kept constantly filled with water with
out running over ; while the orifices in the cross pipe at E and F will
 deliver the water with a force proportioned to the height of the column
 in the tube A B, and the apertures being in opposite directions, the
 spouting currents will communicate a centrifugal motion to the vertical
 tube and its axis C D, to which may be attached a toothed wheel con
 nected with any other machinery. The action of this machine does not,
 aS some writers have stated, depend on the resistance of the atmosphere
 to the jets from the cross-pipe ; but is wholly owing to the hydrostatic
 pressure ofthe column of water in the vertical tube, which exerting great
 force on the interior of the horizontal tube, and that force being re
 moved from the points whence the water issues, the pressure on the
 corresponding points on the opposite parts of the interior of the tube
 tends to make it revolve, the action of both jets producing motion in
 the same direction.

                         THE HYDRAULIC RAM.                                ] 79
   The centrifugal mill, though it appears to be a very powerful and
effective machine, has not been applied to practical purposes in this
country, though engines involving the same principle have been
adopted in France and the United States of North America. The
theoretical investigation of its peculiar properties and mode of action,
has engaged the attention of the celebrated mathematicians, Leonard
Euler and John Bernoulli, both of whom represent it as exhibiting a
method of employing the force of water as a moving power, superior
to any other.
   Among machines whose effects depend on the force of flowing water
may be included the Hydraulic Ram (Btlier HydruiUique), invented, or
rather improved by Joseph Montgolfier, more distinguished for his share
in the invention of the air-balloon. The hydraulic ram operates chiefly
from the momentum of a current of water, suddenly stopped in its
course, and made to act in another direction ; and as it produces a
kind of intermitting motion, owing to the alternate retreat and access
of the stream, accompanied with a noise arising from the shock, its ac -
tion has been compared to the butting of rams ; and hence the name
of the machine.
   There is no novelty in the principle of action of this engine, as pre
sented to public notice by the alleged inventor in 1 806 ; for Matthew
Boulton, of Birmingham, obtained a patent, in 1797, for various appli
cations of hydraulic power, the second of which closely resembles the
water ram.* It does not however hence follow that Montgolfier bor
rowed his invention from Boulton 's specification ; for the theory on
which the effect is to be explained had long been known ; and it had
been practically exemplified, as early as the year 1775, by John White-
hurst, an eminent experimental philosopher. He erected an engine at
Oulton, in Cheshire, by which water was conveyed through a pipe 200
yards long, and 1 \ inches in diameter, from a reservoir 20 feet above
the pipe, which was connected with an air-vessel, by a valve ; and
whenever the stream was stopped in its passage downward, by turning
a cock, the reaction of the water drove it into the air-vessel, whence
a pipe passing upward, the water was carried through it to a consider
able height, by the force of pneumatic pressure- t
  * See an account of the specification in the Repertory of Arts, vol. ix.
  t See Philosophical Transactions, for 1775 ; and Encyclopsed. Metropol.—
Mixed Sciences, voi. i. p. 289.
                                      N 2

180                          HYDRAULICS.
   Another machine of this kind, constructed previously to the invention
of the French hydraulic ram, is mentioned by Mr. Millington, in a
paper on the Water Ram, published in the Journal of Science and the
Arts. After noticing the inconvenience sometimes experienced by
plumbers and others in fixing pipes connected with elevated cisterns,
lie adds,
   " This effect was experienced in a great degree at an hospital in
Bristol, where a plumber was employed to fix a leaden pipe, to
convey water from the middle of the building to the kitchen below,
and it was found that nearly every time the cock was made use of, the
pipe was burst at its lowest end : after making many attempts to
remedy this evil, it was at last determined to solder a small pipe im
mediately behind the cock, which of course was carried to the same
perpendicular height as the supplying cistern, to prevent the water
from running to waste ; and now it was found that on shutting the
cock, the pipe did not burst as before, but a jet of considerable height
was forced from the upper end of this new pipe. It therefore became
necessary to increase the height of the pipe, to overcome if possible
this jet, and it was carried to the top of the building, or twice the
height of the supplying cistern ; where, to the great surprise of those
who constructed the work, the jet still made its appearance, though not
in such considerable quantities ; and a cistern was placed at the top
of the house to receive this superfluous water, which was found very
convenient, particularly as it was raised without trouble or exertion."*
                   * Journal of Science, vol. i. p. 212, 213.

                        THE HYDRAULIC RAM.                            181
    The essential parts of the hydraulic ram, as exhibited by Mont-
fier, are represented in the preceding figure (p. 180). Ais ahead ofwater,
connected with the tube or tunnel B, closed at the extremity C, but
having an aperture at D, to which is adapted a valve formed by
a ball of porcelain or copper, hollow, so as to be not more than as
heavy again as an equal volume of water, and supported near the ori
fice by a sort of muzzle or cage. F is a reservoir of air, with an open
ing from the tunnel B, and a valve E fitted to it, but lifting upward,
and prevented from displacement by a muzzle over it. From near the
bottom of the air-vessel F proceeds a pipe G, which may be continued
to any given height to which it is requisite that the water should be
raised. The tube B, is called the body of the ram ; the tube G, the
tube of ascension ; D the stoppage valve, and E the ascension valve.
Now the former valve being open and the latter shut when the water
begins to run, it at first escapes through the stoppage valve D, but
soon acquiring a momentum, from the accelerating velocity of its fall,
it drives the ball D against the opening and stops the passage in that
direction ; the reflected stream then strikes up the valve E, and water
enters into the air-vessel F, through the ascension valve : the ball D ,
as soon as it is relieved from pressure, falls into its muzzle, and makes
way for the water again to escape through the stoppage valve, while
the other valve closes through its weight and the reaction of the com
pressed air in the reservoir. The renewed momentum of the stream
presently shuts the stoppage valve, and lifting the ascension valve,
more water enters the air-vessel, and as soon as the orifice of the pipe
G becomes covered, the pressure of the air drives the water upward ;
for that which has been admitted through the ascension valve cannot
return, and more being added at each stroke of the engine, it may be
gradually raised to an indefinite height. The action of the machine as
now described, is liable to interruption, from the gradual absorption
of the air in the reservoir F, to compensate for which the addition of a
valve opening inwards, to admit fresh air, has been found requisite to
ensure the continued efficiency of the hydraulic ram. This is called
the snifting-valve.
    The absolute effect produced must in any given case depend on the
 fall of water to supply the engine, and the diameter and lengths of the
 tubes. Montgolfier erected a water ram in his garden, with an arti
 ficial fall of water of 7| feet, by which water was raised to the height
 of 50 feet, in tubes 2 inches in diameter : the water expended in four

182                          HYDRAULICS.
minutes was 554 pints, that elevated 52 pints. In another machine,
with a fall of about 34 feet, water was raised seven times that height,
and the stoppage valve closed one hundred and four times in a minute.
Mr. Millington observed the ascension valve of a water ram to make
from fifty to seventy pulsations in a minute, with a discharge of about
half a pint of water at each pulsation, at the height of thirty feet with
a six feet head.      He also mentions a machine which furnished
one hundred hogsheads of water in twenty-four hours to the height
of 134 feet perpendicular, with a fall of four feet and a half.
  Improvements weremade on the original construction of the hydraulic
ram by the son of the inventor, who obtained a patent for his con
struction in this country. As the water raised by the intermitting
action of the ram may be employed as a moving power, it must be ob
vious that it may be applied to work machinery for various purposes ;
and as it furnishes the means for accumulating the effect of an origi
nally insignificant force, as that of a small weak stream of water, it
might be advantageously adopted in various situations where it would
he more serviceable than most other hydraulic machines.

PNEUMATICS.
  LE CONSENTEMENT UNIVERSEL DES PEUPLES, ET LA FOULE DES PHILOSOPHES
CONCOURENT A L*ETABLISSE ME NT DE CE PRINCIPE, QUE LA NATURE SOUFFRIROIT
PLUTOT SA DESTRUCTION PROPRE QUE LA MOINDRE ESPACE VUIDE. *     *   * *
LES EXPERIENCES QUE J*AI DONNEES DANS MON ABREGE PROUVENT QUE LA NA
TURE N'A AUCUNE REPUGNANCE POUR LE VUIDE, QU'ELLE NE FAIT AUCUN
EFFORT POUR L'EVITER, QUE TOUS LES EFFETS QU'ON A ATTRIBUEZ A CETTE
HORREUR PROCEDENT DE LA PESANTEUR ET PRESSION DE L*AIR, QU'ELLE EN EST
LA SEULE ET VERITABLE CAUSE, ET QUE MANQUE DE LA CONNOISTRE ON AVAIT
INVENTE EXPRES CETTE HORREUR IMAGINAIRE DU VUIDE POUR EN RENDRE
RAISON.
                    Pascal Récit de l'Expérience de Puy de Domme.

                        PNEUMATICS.
    The object of that branch of physical science which has been deno
minated Pneumatics,* or Aerology,t is to explain and illustrate those
phenomena which arise from the weight, pressure, or motion of com
mon air or other fluids possessing the same general properties. The
distinction between liquids and those more elastic fluids called air,
gas, vapour, or steam, depends in a great degree on occasional causes,
especially on temperature and pressure. Those effects which are to be
attributed to the operation of heat and cold, or diversity of tempe
rature, are on several accounts of sufficient importance to be made the
subject of detached investigation, comprehending a review of the rela-
   * From the Greek Tlvivpa, breath, or air; or nwDuaricoc, aerial.
   t From 'Aj)p, air; and Aoyoc, a discourse, or treatise. The term Aerology
is commonly restricted to the discussion of the chemical properties of airs or
gases, forming a department of physical chemistry ; which will be included
in the second volume or sequel of the Book ok Scikncis.

 186                          PNEUMATICS.
tions of heat to all natural bodies, whether solids, liquids, or gases ; and
tracing the general influence of temperature in the production of those
peculiar forms of matter. Therefore, though it will be impossible to ex
plain the phenomena of atmospheric pressure, and its effects on solids
and liquids, without adverting to the influence of temperature, a more
extended survey of that important subject must be referred to the sub
sequent treatise on that branch of science which has been termed, by
Sir John Leslie, Pyronomics,* or the laws of heat, to the discovery and
illustration of which the researches of that distinguished philosopher
greatly contributed.
   So intimate is the connexion between the physical sciences, or de
partments of natural philosophy, that allusions to the principles or
doctrines of one science can hardly fee avoided in a treatise relating to
another ; and hence the effects of atmospheric pressure, and the re
sistance of the air, on moving bodies, either solid or liquid, have been
referred to repeatedly in the preceding divisions of this volume ; as in
explaining the nature of gravitation and its influence on falling bodies
and projectiles. But the facts thus incidentally touched upon will now
be described more fully, their connexion with the general theory of Pneu
matics pointed out, and an attempt made to exhibit a perspicuous view
of the outlines of that science.
   There are two kinds of aeriform bodies ; namely, those which are
always in the gaseous state, under common circumstances of tempe
rature and pressure, thence named permanent gases or airs ; and those
which become gases chiefly at high temperatures, and which therefore
may be styled non-permanent gases or vapours. Common air, or atmo
spheric gas, affords an obvious specimen of a permanent elastic fluid,
and steam or vapour of water of a non-permanent elastic fluid. These
different species of gases possess many properties in common ; and
there is reason to believe that those gases which have till recently been
regarded as capable of existing only in the form of permanently elastic
fluids, might be reduced to the liquid state by subjecting them to ex
tremely low temperature and very powerful pressure. Dr. Faraday
has stated, as the result of some experiments which he made under the
direction of Sir Humphry Davy, that he effected the condensation to
the state of a liquid of the gas called carbonic acid or fixed air, as well
               * See Leslie's Elem. of Nat. Philos., vol. i. p. 5.

                    GENERAL PROPERTIES OF AIR.                         187
as some other gases previously considered as permanently elastic fluids,
by the combined operation of pressure and low temperature.* And
Mr. Perkins, whose experiments on the compressibility of water have
been already described, extended his operations to gaseous bodies, and
from his statements it appears that he succeeded in reducing atmo
spheric air to the state of a limpid liquid, by a pressure equal to the
weight of twelve hundred atmospheres.t Should the observations of
those gentlemen be confirmed and extended to all those now called per
manent gases, it will become evident that their existence in the liquid or
gaseous form depends entirely on their relations to temperature and
pressure, the various airs and vapours being all susceptible of conden
sation under different circumstances.
    Airs and vapours, or permanent and non-permanent elastic fluids,
 however, though they may be considered as forming but one class of
bodies, yet from the vast diversity of their relations to heat, they admit
of being applied to very different purposes ; and hence, in treating of
their physical properties, the distinction between them must be care
fully kept in view. It will, therefore, be conducive to perspicuity to
notice in this treatise the properties of the permanent gases, such as
atmospheric air ; leaving the circumstances which constitute the dis
criminating characteristics of the non-permanent gases, and especially
 of steam or the vapour of water, to be more fully investigated in the
 division of this work, appropriated to the doctrine of Heat.
                          General Properties of Air.
    Common, or atmospheric air, is an invisible or perfectly transpa
 rent fluid, the ultimate particles of which appear to be destitute of
 cohesion ; and hence air has a disposition not only to sink down, and
 spread out laterally like liquids, when unconfined, but it is also equally
 capable of expansion upwards ; so that any portion of this fluid will
 speedily become dissipated and lost, unless it be inclosed within a
 solid air-tight vessel or other receptacle, such as a bladder, or retained
 in an open vessel by the pressure of a more dense fluid on its surface.
    That air is porous in a very high degree appears from its readily
 yielding to pressure ; but like all material bodies it possesses the pro-
         * See Abstracts of Papers in Philos. Trans., vol ii. p. 192.
         t Idem, p. 290.

188                            PNEUMATICS.
perty of impenetrability, for though a considerable bulk of this fluid
may be forced into a comparatively small space, there must be a limit
beyond which the utmost pressure will cease to have any effect. The
resistance of air to pressure may be demonstrated by means of a
syringe of aDy kind with a solid piston ; for if the pipe or lower open
ing be firmly closed after the piston has been drawn up so as to fill the
barrel with air, it will be found impossible to thrust down the piston
again completely while the pipe remains obstructed.
                      Let a tall narrow-mouthed glass jar or bottle be
                   half filled with water A, and a funnel C, with a long
                   tube, be inserted in the mouth of the bottle, as repre
                   sented in the margin, and firmly secured at D, by
                   luting or by passing it through a cork, in such a man
                   ner that the included air at B cannot escape between
                   the funnel and the mouth of the bottle. Then water
                   being poured into the funnel, little or none of it would
                   pass into the bottle ; for if the funnel had a tube se
                   veral feet, or even yards in length, so as to give the
                   advantage of strong hydraulic pressure, though in
                   that case the air at B would be compressed into some
                   what smaller space, yet no imaginable force would fill
                   the bottle, which of course would burst under a cer
 tain degree of pressure.
   Another property of air is compressibility, in which it differs most
 essentially from liquids. It has been elsewhere stated that water
 undergoes no apparent diminution of bulk from pressure unless vast
 force be applied to it ; and other liquids in different degrees resist
 compression, though readily dilated by heat and contracted by cold.
 But airs and gases, though as we have just shown, manifestly endowed
 with impenetrability, yet display a facility of contraction and expan
 sion under the influence of pressure, which is completely independent
 of temperature. They are, however, most powerfully affected by
 changes of temperature also ; their bulk increasing or diminishing
 with the degree of heat to which they are exposed. That the particles
 of air can be compressed, or driven by external force closer to each
 other than they were before that force was applied, must be apparent
 from the experiments adduced to prove the impenetrability of air; for
 while those experiments show that the particles of the compressed fluid

                 ELASTICITY AND WEIGHT OF AIR.                         189
cannot be destroyed, but will, when exposed to the utmost force,
still occupy a certain space, yet it appears that contraction always
takes place under the influence of pressure to a certain extent ; and
hence may be inferred another property of air already noticed, namely,
its porosity. The compressibility of air may be experimentally illus
trated by means of a strong glass tube closed at one end, like a baro
meter tube, and having fitted to it a piston, consisting of a strong iron
wire or rod, with moistened leather fixed to one end, so that it may
move up and down in the tube quite air-tight. Then, the tube being
full of air, the piston is to be adapted to the open end, and if it be cau
tiously pressed down, the air may be reduced to about one-half of its
original bulk, without using much force, and by stronger pressure the
fluid may be yet further condensed, but at length the resistance will be
such as to preclude the possibility of any greater compression.
    Among the most remarkable properties of airis its elasticity, depend
ing on its expansive power, in consequence of which, when its dimen
 sions have been reduced by pressure, it immediately recovers its bulk
 on the cessation of the compressing force. Thus, if the piston of a
 common syringe is pushed down while the air is prevented from es
 caping by the pipe, a3 soon as the pressure is withdrawn the piston
 will be raised by the expansion of the included air. To this property
 of air or gas is owing the force with which a pellet of wet paper is
 driven from a schoolboy's popgun ; and this insignificant little engine
 acts on the same principle with the air-gun and other philosophical in
  struments, which will be subsequently noticed.
     Gravity or weight, is another very important property of air,
  which it possesses in common with solids and liquids. Common
  air, as being comparatively lighter than water, will when set free
  below the surface of that liquid, rise through it in the form of
  transparent bubbles. This is an effect of hydrostatic pressure,
  in consequence of which bodies of inferior specific gravity to water
  when immersed in it are pressed towards its surface ; and thus it hap
  pens that a cork, a drop of olive oil, or a bubble of air or gas will float
  on the surface of water, and when forcibly pressed beneath it, rise
  again to the top as soon as the force that kept it down ceases to act.
  The weight of air may be ascertained in the same manner as that of
  liquids or solids, by the common operation of weighing it with a ba
  lance. But in consequence of its extreme expansibility, some peculiar

 190                            PNEUMATICS.
precautions are necessary in performing this operation, even when no*
great nicety is required. These, however will be subsequently no
ticed ; and it will be sufficient at present to state that by means of a
large bottle with a stop-cock and a syringe adapted to it, the weight of
any given quantity of air may be discovered. For suppose the stop-cock
to be left open and the bottle weighed in that state, when of course it
will be full of air, then the weight of the bottle and the included air
having been noted, the air must be drawn out, as completely as possi
ble, by screwing the syringe on to the stop-cock, and working the piston ;
the stop-cock is then to be turned so as to close the bottle, which on
being weighed again, after being unscrewed from the syringe, will be
found to have lost a portion of its weight equal to that of the quantity of
air which it would hold. A cubic foot of air weighs about 523 grains,
and consequently a cubic inch will weigh somewhat less than 0.3 of a
grain ; therefore if the bottle would hold three pints, its capacity, solid
measure, would be rather more than 100 cubic inches, so that if it could
be perfectly exhausted, it ought to weigh 0.3 x 100=30 grains more
when weighed with the stop-cock open, than it does after the air has
been extracted from it. By using an air-pump instead of a syringe, a
bottle with a stop-cock may be so nearly exhausted of air, as to leave
behind no quantity sufficient to interfere in the slightest degree with
the result of this experiment.
                      Different Kinds of Airs or Gases.
   Common air, which forms the atmosphere surrounding on all sides
the earth which we inhabit, was long supposed not only to be a simple
elementary body, but even after its mechanical properties had been in
vestigated, and great progress had been made in the study of the laws
of nature, very erroneous ideas were retained concerning the composi
tion of air, and it was imagined that all elastic fluids were essentially
the same. It is now known that atmospheric air is a compound, con
sisting of two different species of air or gas, one of which called oxy
gen gas, and sometimes vital air, is necessary to the support of animal
life ; and the other, named nitrogen or azotic gas, when inspired alone,
is injurious to animals. Both these gases are capable of entering into
combination with many other bodies of very different kinds, and pro

                        GASES AND VAPOURS.                              191
ducing compounds, some of which are usually in the solid or liquid
state, and others in the form of permanent gases. There are likewise
other gaseous bodies besides oxygen and nitrogen which have never
been decomposed, and are therefore considered as simple forms of
matter ; and these, together with the various compound gases, consti
tute a numerous class of bodies which possess different degrees
of elasticity and weight, and by their consequent pressure on solids and
liquids, produce equilibrium or motion ; and hence they are capable of
being applied to various important purposes.
   The peculiar nature and effects of the combinations ofthe gases with
each other and with solid and liquid substances can only be ascertained
by the application of the principles of chemical science ; but the action
of the gases or airs, so far as it depends on their mechanical properties,
forms the appropriate subject of Pneumatics,
   Though atmospheric or common air, as being by far the most abundant
and generally diffused of all elastic fluids, is therefore usually employed
as the medium of pneumatic pressure, yet since the recent researches
of men of science have made us acquainted with the variety of those
fluids and their several properties, it appears that some of them may be
adapted to the purposes of art with greater advantage than others, and
atmospheric air is no longer the only kind of gas made use of as a moving
power. The discovery of elastic fluids much lighter than the atmo
sphere has given origin to the art of Aerostation, or soaring through the
air in an inflated balloon ; the explosion of gunpowder, and the projec
tile force of balls, shells, and other missiles discharged from artillery,
depends on the elasticity of a peculiar kind of air formed by the de
flagration of nitre, sulphur and charcoal, composing gunpowder ; and
the combustion or burning together in close vessels of oxygen gas with
another kind of gas called hydrogen forms water, which being a liquid
nearly the whole space taken up by the gases previously to their com
bustion becomes a vacuum, and thus pressure may be produced, and a
moving power obtained. The application of the vapour of water to
cause motion by the alternate expansion and condensation of steam
 affords an example of the advantageous adaptation of a non-permanent
 gas to the most important purposes ; and if convenient means can be
 discovered for the liquefaction of common air and other gases by pres
 sure and reduced temperature, as appears probable from the researches
 of Mr. Faraday and others, it may be expected that machines will' be

 192                              PNEUMATICS.
invented as far superior in some respects to the steam-engines now
used, as they are to those which were constructed in the early part of
the last century.
    As the mechanical effects of the different gases when they act by
pressure must depend on their relative specific gravities, it is of im
portance that these should be accurately ascertained. The following
table will shew the respective weights of equal quantities by measure
of several elastic fluids, including those which are of the greatest im
portance, on account of their frequent occurrence and the valuable pur
poses to which they have been applied.
                             Weight of 100 cubic inches        Specific gravity
    Atmospheric air                       30.5 grains                  1.
   Oxygen Gas           :                 33.8                         1.111
   Nitrogen Gas                           29.25                        0.972
   Nitrous Oxide*                        46.5                          1.527
   Hydrogen Gas                            2.12                        0.069
    Carbonic Acid                         46.5                         1.529
   Chlorine Gas t                         76.3                         2.500
   * This elastic fluid has sometimes been called Laughing Gas, from the sin
gular effect it produces on the human frame, when breathed for a short timet
exciting pleasurable sensations, and frequently an uncontrollable disposition to
laughter. It seems to act like wine or spirits, causing some degree of intox
ication, but without the subsequent exhaustion and debility occasioned by
strong liquors taken to excess. The continued use of nitrous oxide, however,
must be very injurious, since animals confined in this gas soon die.
   t Though this gas has not, like atmospheric air, been employed to produce
motion by means of pneumatic pressure, it possesses properties which have
been most advantageously applied to practical purposes. It destroys the co
lours of animal and vegetable substances, and hence it is extensively used in
bleaching cotton and linen ; and it neutralizes those gaseous compounds which
contaminate the air which we breathe, and cause contagious diseases. What is
called chloride of lime, is a liquid formed by the combination of this gas with
lime, and in that state it is commonly sold by chemists, to be used in wash
ing and purifying infected substances. By its union with hydrogen, chlorine
forms muriatic acid, and it enters largely into the composition of common
salt ; therefore as this latter substance is most abundantly contained in sea-
water, and is also found in the bowels of the earth in the state of rock-salt,
it must be obvious, that chlorine might be obtained in almost unlimited quan
tities ; and hence it is probable that it may hereafter be found an effective
agent for purposes of a different nature from those for which alone it has yet
been used.

                        ELASTIC FORCE OF AIR.                                 193
   Sub-carburetted Hydrogen Gas* 16.9                .     .      .      0.565
   Carburetted Hydrogen Gas*            29.6          .    .      .      0.972
   Steam       ....                     18.8          .     .     .      0.519
   From this table it may be perceived that gaseous bodies differ
greatly from each other in specific gravity ; chlorine being 2J times
the weight of common air, and hydrogen only about iJi the weight of
that fluid, so that common air is nearly 15 times the weight of hy
drogen. Steam has but little more than half the weight of atmospheric
air, and hence it rises through the air, in the same manner that a piece
of deal or cork rises in water.
                                Elasticity of Air.
   The most obvious and effective property of air is its elasticity, to
which, with its gravity or weight, are to be attributed the phenomena
of equilibrium, or motion, in bodies under the influence of pneumatic
pressure. In addition, therefore, to what has been already stated con
cerning these properties, a more detailed investigation of their nature
and action will be requisite in order to the fuller elucidation of that
branch of science now under our notice.
   The elasticity of air appears from its resistance to pressure. The
application of a heavy weight, or any external force to a woolpack or a
bag filled with twisted horsehair would cause the pack or bag to give
 way, and become more or less contracted, but on the removal of the
force it would expand to nearly its original dimensions. f What thus
takes place is manifestly owing to the form and texture of the included
substance ; the particles of which are separated by numerous inter-
   * The gases procured from the distillation of coal and from oil consist prin
 cipally of subcarburetted hydrogen, or light inflammable air, and carburetted
 hydrogen, or heavy inflammable air. As these gases, which are nowgenerally
 used for lighting the public streets and shops, are frequently mixed with other
gases, the specific gravity must vary, in different specimens, with the degree of
purity. Coal-gas, after it has been purified, is found varying in specific gravity,
from .450 to 700 ; while oil- gas, which contains a larger proportion of carbu
retted hydrogen, is much heavier, and therefore yields more light in propor
tion to its bulk.
   t The manner in which elastic bodies act is strikingly illustrated by the
 novel application of spiral springs of iron wire in the construction of elastic
 chairs and beds. Dr. Paris, who notices this invention in his " Philosophy in
 Sport made Science in Earnest," says, "Down itself cannot be more gentle nor
 springy ; and such beds never require to be shaken or made."
                                         o
                                                                                    y

194                           PNEUMATICS.
stices, and therefore readily yield to the force applied at the surface,
which drives them nearer together without destroying their elasticity,
or disposition to regain their previous situation, and hence they recede
from each other, when the force which made them approach is with
drawn. A bladder filled with air may thus be compressed by squeez
ing it with the hands, and it will swell out again as soon as it is
relieved from the pressure, owing to its particles being endowed with
a power of repulsion ; for in proportion as they are left at liberty they
exhibit a tendency to expand in every direction, so that their absolute
dispersion through boundless space can only be prevented by the in
fluence of pressure.
                   The elasticity of the air is most convincingly demon
                strated by the operation of the machine called an air-
                pump, the construction of which is similar in principle
                to that of the syringe. By adapting two stop-cocks to a
                common syringe, and forming by means of them a com
                munication with a vessel of convenient shape and di
                mensions, a rude and imperfect kind of air-pump might
                be contrived, by means of which air included in the
                vessel might be considerably rarefied or condensed. The
                 effect thus produced will appear from the annexed
                 figure, in which A B represents a syringe with a solid
                 piston, C a cock, which when open, leaves a communi
                 cation between the barrel of the syringe and the glass
                 globe E ; and D another cock which opens a communi
                 cation with the external air. If now we suppose the
                 piston to be at the bottom of the barrel, and the cock D
                 shut, then on drawing the piston up to A, a part of the
                 air in the globe will rush into the barrel, and the whole
                 mass of the included air will become expanded ; the
cock C is then to be closed and the cock D opened, when the piston
being pressed to the bottom of the barrel, the air it contained will be
expelled through the open cock ; this is next to be shut, and the cock
C opened, and on drawing up the piston again, the air in the globe
will become further rarefied ; and these operations, the alternate open
ing and shutting of the cocks, and raising and depressing the piston,
may be continued, till a high degree of rarefaction is produced. The
same apparatus may be employed to effect the condensation of the in
closed air, by drawing up the piston with the cock C shut, and D

                           THE AIR-PUMP.                               195
open, and thrusting down with C open, and D shut ; for by continuing
this process, air would be made to enter by the cock D, and be after
wards forced into the globe E. Such an instrument as that above de
scribed is called an exhausting syringe ; though valves which open
and shut by the mere pressure and expansion of the included air are
usually substituted for the stop-cocks. Valves are more convenient
than stop-cocks, as requiring less labour and attention on the part of
the operator ; but a much higher degree of exhaustion can be effected
by means of a syringe furnished with the latter than by using the com
mon exhausting syringe with valves ; yet these are generally adopted
in the construction of exhausting and condensing syringes and air-
pumps, as being much less expensive than stop-cocks, and more easily
kept in proper order.
                                                The air-pump, as might
                                             be inferred from its appella
                                             tion, is a machine for ex
                                             tracting air out of a close
                                             vessel, and thus producing
                                             within it a degree of rare
                                             faction nearly approaching to
                                             a vacuum ; it being impos
                                             sible, as we shall subse
                                             quently show, to form a per
                                             fect vacuum, by this or any
                                             other apparatus ; though the
                                          n exhaustion may be carried
                                             so far that the remaining air
                                             will not at all interfere with
the results of our experiments. The figure in the margin exhibits a
 section of an air-pump, from which it may be perceived that it essen
tially consists of two exhausting syringes, so arranged that they can be
worked alternately. The syringes are marked A A, and their pistons
are moved up and down within the barrels, by the racks or toothed
rods B B, adapted to corresponding teeth on the periphery of the
wheel C, having a winch or handle M, by which it may be turned so
as to raise and depress either piston successively. Each of the pistons
is furnished with a valve by which the air escapes as the piston de
scends, and there are other valves D D, at the bottom of each barrel,
                                    0 2

 196                           PNEUMATICS.
 which become closed by either piston in its descent, but when it is
 drawn up, open a passage into the tube E E, communicating with the
 cavity of the glass bell F, called a receiver. From the tube E passes off
 another tube G, the extremity of which opens into the bell-shaped tube
 K, within which is a small basin H, containing mercury, and the small
 tube I, closed at the upper end only, has its lower end plunged beneath
 the surface of the mercury. At L is a stop-cock, which when closed
 cuts off the communication between the receiver and the syringes, and
 which must therefore be opened while the machine is put in action.
 Another stop-cock, not shown in the figure, closes a passage through
 which the external air may be admitted under the receiver, when the
 result of an experiment has been ascertained. There is so little differ
 ence in the mode of action of the air-pump and the exhausting syringe
 before described that the effect of the former will be readily under
 stood. Either syringe in turn, by the elevation of its piston, and the
 consequent closure of the piston-valve and opening of the valve D,
 draws a portion of air from the receiver F, through the tube E E ; and
 the alternate depression of each piston, by the elasticity of the air in
 closed in the barrel, shuts the valve D, and prevents the air from
 returning into the receiver, at the same time it opens the valve of the
 descending piston, and finds a passage into the upper part of the barrel,
 whence it is expelled by the piston in its next ascent. Thus, the re
 ciprocal action of the syringes, by means of the rack-work, may be con
 tinued, till the requisite degree of rarefaction be produced in the air
 within the receiver. The only part of the apparatus requiring further
 explanation is the air-gage, consisting of the tubes K and I, and the
basin of mercury H, with which the latter tube is connected. The air
within the tube K, by its pressure on the surface of the mercury in the
basin, will keep that portion of the same fluid in the tube I raised to a
height exactly proportioned to the density of the included air, which
must be the same with that in the receiver, in consequence of the com
munication by the tube G ; and thus the height at which the mercury
stands in the small tube I will serve as a gage or measure of the elas
ticity and weight of the included air, being always in the inverse ratio
of the rarefaction which has taken place. It maybe proper to add,
that the edge of the receiver must be ground perfectly smooth and
level throughout its circumference that it may fit closely to the brass
plate of the air-pump on which it rests ; and that it may prevent the
entrance of the air more effectually it must be smeared with grease, or

          EXPERIMENTS ON THE ELASTICITY OF AIR.                       197
as is more usual, set on a collar of oiled leather, and thus the junc
tion of the receiver with the surface below it will be rendered imper
vious to the air.
   A multitude of experiments, serving to demonstrate the elasticity as
well as the weight of air, may be satisfactorily performed by means of
this machine, which was originally invented by Otho Guericke, a Ger
man philosopher, in the latter part of the seventeenth century, and
having been rendered more effective by the skill and science of our
countrymen, Robert Boyle and Dr. Robert Hooke, it subsequently
underwent numerous improvements, some of the most important of
which we owe to the ingenuity of Smeaton, the celebrated engineer.
But the principle and general plan of this philosophical instrument,
under the various forms in which it has been constructed, correspond
with the descriptive statement already laid before the reader.
   The elastic force of atmospheric air may be rendered obvious by
placing under the receiver of an air-pump a bladder, which has been
about half filled with air and firmly tied at the neck so as to prevent it
from escaping ; for on exhausting the receiver gradually, the bladder
will be seen to swell, from the expansion of the air within it ; and if
the exhaustion be continued long enough, the bladder will burst, from
the elastic force of the air it contained, no longer counterbalanced by
pressure on the external surface.
   A square or flat glass phial, filled with air, well corked and fastened
with wire, if placed under the receiver, will crack from the expansion
of the air within it, as soon as the pressure is withdrawn from its sur
face by the exhaustion of the receiver. A phial of the usual shape
would resist force applied internally or externally, much better than
one with fiat sides, in consequence of its arched figure ; hence the
globular or hemispherical shape of the receiver, renders it best adapted
for its purpose.
   Shrivelled apples, prunes, or raisins, with their skins unbroken,
when placed under a receiver, on the air being exhausted, will become
plump from the elasticity of the air included in those fruits ; and thus
a bunch of dried raisins may be made to assume the appearance of a
fine cluster of grapes, and a similar apparent renovation may be effected
on the apples and prunes ; but on readmitting the air into the receiver
the fruits would all reassume the wrinkles which betray their age.
   If a large glass globe with an open mouth have a piece of bladder

 198                            PNEUMATICS.
tied over it, so securely that the air within it cannot escape while the
bladder remains whole, and if it be set under a receiver, while the air is
being withdrawn from it, that within the globe will expand by its
elastic force, and raise the bladder to a convex shape, distending it
more and more as the exhaustion increases, till at length the bladder
 will be ruptured, and the air in the globe will expand itself through
the receiver. Let a small syringe, having a weight fastened to the
handle of the piston be closed with a cork at the end, tied down with
 a piece of bladder, so that on pulling up the piston the air could not
enter ; then let it be suspended in an inverted position with the weight
downward, under the receiver of an air pump ; upon extracting part
of the air from the receiver, the weight at the handle will draw down
the piston, and on readmitting the air the piston will rise again. In
this case the partial exhaustion of the receiver lessens the elasticity of
the included air so considerably that it is unable to support the weight ;
and on letting in the air again, it will recover its elastic force and
raise the piston with the attached weight, in the same manner as it
would be raised by the pressure of the external air.
                 A very amusing exhibition of the effect produced by
              the elasticity of the air may be made by means of the ap
              paratus represented in the margin. Hollow glass figures,
              about an inch and a half in length, resembling men or
              women must be procured, each having a bole in one foot,
              and the glass must be of such thickness that the figures
              will float near the surface of the water when they are filled
              with common air. They are then to be immersed in a tall
              glass jar nearly filled with water, and covered on the top
               with a strong bladder, fastened air-tight. If the bladder
               now be pressed inwards with the finger, the water being
               almost incompressible, and the air highly so, that contained
               in the little images will yield to the compressing force, and
               becoming contracted, water will enter, and the images thus
               becoming specifically heavier than they were at first will
               descend towards the bottom of the jar ; on the pressure
     v         above being removed, the air in each image recovering its
               elastic force, will expel the water, and the images will rise
               as before. By forcing a little water into one or two of the
figures before they are placed in the jar, they may easily be made to

                     PNEUMATIC INSTRUMENTS.                               199
float at different heights, and thus their motions may be greatly varied,
by regulating the pressure on the bladder. These diminutive images
have been whimsically called bottle imps ; and their agility must ap
pear wonderful enough to those who are ignorant of the cause of it*
   The elasticity of the air may be further illustrated by placing an
open jar containing a single glass figure, and filled with water,
under the receiver of an air-pump, only the figure must be just heavy
enough to sink to the bottom of the jar under the usual pressure of the
atmosphere. Then on exhausting the receiver, and thus diminishing
the elasticity and consequent pressure of the included air, the density
of the water remaining the same, the figure will gradually rise, as the
air becomes more rarefied, till it reaches the surface of the water,
where it will float, till the air is again admitted into the receiver, on
which it will descend to the bottom of the jar.
   Abundant proof of the compressibility and elasticity of the air may
be drawn from the consideration of the mode of action of the common
domestic utensil a pair of bellows. This will at once appear on at
tending to the effect of the valve or leathern flap, strangely termed by
the French Vame dn soufflet, the soul of the bellows. This valve
rises when the boards are separated, and the air enters through the hole
in the lower board, which on pressing together the boards again be
comes closed by the falling of the valve, and the air having no other
vent, makes its exit through the pipe in a dense current. The double
bellows, used by blacksmiths and other artisans, differs from the ma
chine just described in having an intermediate board, which is fixed,
while the others are movable, so that it consists of two air-chambers
instead of one ; and a hole in the middle board, with a valve, suffers
the air which has been drawn into the lower chamber through the hole
below to pass into the upper chamber, where it becomes condensed by
the pressure of a weight fixed to the upper board, and is discharged in
a continued stream through a pipe connected with the upper chamber.
The lower-board is movable, and when it sinks by its own weight, the
valve opens, and shutting again when the board is raised by means
of a lever or some other contrivance, the air is prevented from escap-
   * French writers on natural philosophy usually exhibit a single figure in
describing the counterpart of this experiment. To this little enamelled figure,
petite figure d'email, they give the name of JLudion. V. Sigaud de la Fond
 Elem. de Phys., vol. iii. p. 162. Beudant Traits Elem. de Phys., p. 306.

200                            PNEUMATICS.
ing by the valve-hole, and is therefore forced into the upper chamber.
A kind of bellows or blowing-machine, constructed entirely of wood,
was invented in Germany in 1630. It consists of two square boxes,
one fitting into the other so as not to prevent it from being moved up
and down, but without suffering the air to escape between the sides of
the boxes. It is needless to describe it more fully, as the manner in
which it acts may be easily conceived from what has been stated above.
Various modifications ofthis machine have been adopted in establish
ments for smelting metals, and other purposes connected with the arts
and manufactures.
   The effect of air acting by its elastic force on the surface of water
may be variously exhibited in the formation of jets d'eau, or spouting
fountains. Let a strong decanter be filled to about half its height with
water, and a glass tube of small bore be passed into it nearly to the bot
tom, and fixed air-tight, going through a hole drilled 'in a cork, with a
piece of bladder tied over it and round the tube. This bottle is then to
be placed under a tall receiver, on the plate of an air-pump ; and on the
receiver being exhausted, the air within the bottle will expand, and
pressing on the surface of the water, cause it to issue from the top of
the tube in a jet, the heightof whichwill be proportioned to the degree
 of rarefaction of the air under the receiver. Compressed air may be
                            made to produce a similar effect, which may
                            be thus displayed : a strong bottle somewhat
                            more than half filled with water, as represented
                            in the marginal figure, by the line D E, must
                            have a tube A C fitting into its neck, and ca
                            pable of being opened or closed at pleasure, by
                            turning the stop-cock B. A condensing syringe
                            being adapted to the tube at A, and the stop
                            cock opened, air is to be forced into the bottle,
                            whichrising through the water, will by its den
                            sity press strongly on the surface ofthat liquid ;
                            then after turning the stop-cock the syringe is
                            to be removed, and a small jet-pipe being fitted
 to the tube A, the stop-cock is to be opened, and the elasticity of the
 condensed air in the bottle, will drive up the liquid in a jet, the height
 of which will gradually diminish, as the included air, by its expansion,
 approaches nearer and nearer to the density of the external air. A small
 phial, with a well-fitted cork, having a little tube or the stem of a to-

                            hero's fountain.                             201
bacco-pipe passed through it, and reaching nearly to the bottom of the
phial, partly filled with water, will, on blowing strongly into the bottle
through the pipe, exhibit effects precisely analogous to those of the ap
paratus just before described. The machine called Hero's Fountain,
resembles in principle those noticed above, differing from them only in
the manner in which the compression and consequently increased elas
ticity of the air is produced. This is effected by means of a column of
                        water as will appear from inspection of the an
                        nexed figure, representing one of the numerous
                        forms in which such spouting fountains have been
                        constructed. It consists of an open vessel A ,
                        from which a tube passes downward to the vessel
                        B, from the opposite side of which another tube
                        forms a communication with a close cavity over
                        the basin C, having a jet-pipe extended almost to
                        the bottom, and open above to the air. Water hav
                        ing been introduced into the basin C, more water
                        is to be poured into the vessel A, till it runs down
                        the tube, and fills the lower part of the vessel B,
                        and compressing the air in it, and in the other tube
                        and cavity above it, the water in the basin C, will
                        by the elastic force of the condensed air be driven
                        in a jet from the aperture at D ; and by adding
                        water to that in the vessel A, the enclosed air may
                        be so compressed as to expel nearly all the
water from the basin C. The principle on which Hero's Fountain
acts has been heretofore adopted in Germany, in forming machines
to raise water from mines ; but they have been laid aside since the
progress of science has led to the construction of far more powerful
and efficient engines adapted to the same purpose.
   A familiar example of the elastic pressure of the air occurs in the
frothing of bottled ale, porter, or cider, and the sparkling or creaming of
champagne wine, when uncorked and poured into an open vessel ; the
air which those liquors contain, on being released from its confinement
in the bottle, escaping in numerous bubbles covering the surface of the
liquor. Ginger beer contains a quantity of air or gas, formed by a
chemical process, and such is its elastic force, that if the ginger beer
has been properly prepared, the included air will drive out the cork

202                            PNEUMATICS.
with a loud report as soon as the string with which it is tied down is
cut through.      Hence also the bursting of bottles filled with cider,
perry, and other liquors considerably impregnated with air, when well
corked and secured with wire. What is called soda water is manufac
tured bv compressing air into water by mechanical means ; and it
therefore can scarcely be preserved except in strong bottles of a pecu
liar form, from which it spouts with violence through the elasticity of
the condensed air as soon as the cork is removed. Air readily com
bines with water, though not to any great extent, under the usual
pressure of the atmosphere. This will be evident on placing a glass
of water under the receiver of an air-pump ; for on exhausting the re
ceiver the air will issue, in a multitude of small bubbles, from the
surface of the water.
   It has been already stated that a perfect vacuum cannot be obtained,
even by means of an air-pump of the best construction. The impossi
bility of completely exhausting the receiver of an air-pump, so far as
it is not owing to the imperfection of the machinery, depends on the
identical property of the aerial fluid which causes the air-pump to act:
 for the elasticity of air is always in the direct ratio of its density ; so
that when half the air is extracted from any vessel, the remaining half
will expand to fill the whole space, its density and elasticity being di
minished in the same proportion. Thus if half the air could be ex
hausted from a receiver by the first stroke of the piston, and one-half
of what was left by the next stroke, the quantity removed by every
subsequent stroke must manifestly be but one-half of that removed by
the stroke immediately preceding it : in fact, there must always be h
remainder, however trifling it must at length become. It will be evi
dent that though an indefinitely small quantity of air must thus remain
after working an air-pump for any imaginable period of time, yet that
quantity would soon become so extremely inconsiderable as to have
nearly the effect of a complete vacuum.
    Suppose the proportion of capacity between the barrel of an air-
 pump and the receiver to be such, that one-fourth part of the air would
 pass from the latter into the barrel at each stroke of its piston, then the
 quantity remaining in the receiver after the fifth stroke would be leas
 than one-fourth of the original quantity ; and as the decrease would go
 on in a geometrical progression, thirty strokes of the piston would leave
 in the receiver only 3^55 of the quantity it contained at first. Hence it

                           GRAVITY OF Mil.                           203
will appear that the smaller the difference between the size of the re
ceiver and that of the barrel, the more rapidly must the rarefaction
of the included air take place ; and though with a small receiver the
air may be highly rarefied in a short time, it cannot be entirely with
 drawn.
   It must also be observed that the extent to which the rarefaction can
be effected will be limited by the operation of the rarefied air on the
valves at the bottom of the barrels ; for as the elasticity of the air re
maining in the receiver is the cause of the opening of those valves, they
will at length cease to act, when the exhaustion has been carried so far
that the expanded air has not elastic force enough to overcome the
very small degree of resistance caused by the weight and friction of
the valves. Another obstacle to the rarefaction beyond a certain limit
will arise from the resistance to the opening of the piston- valves
during the descending stroke, owing to the want of sufficient elas
ticity in the highly rarefied air to overcome the pressure of the atmo
sphere on those valves. Various improvements have been made in
the construction of air-pumps, which have considerably lessened the
imperfections in these machines now stated ; and though from the
essential properties of air the formation of an absolute vacuum in the
manner described must be impracticable, yet the ingenuity of modern
artists has enabled us to produce within a receiver any degree of ex
haustion requisite for the most delicate and interesting experiments.
                             Weight of the Air.
   The phenomena depending on the influence of gravitation on air,
and its consequent gravity or weight, are of equal importance with
those arising from its elasticity ; and the subject' therefore demands a
more extended investigation than has been already afforded to it.
   Direct evidence of the weight or ponderosity of air may be easily
obtained by means of an air-pump. For by ascertaining the weight of
a bottle of known capacity before and after it has been exhausted of the
air contained in it, the loss of weight after exhaustion would show the
gravitating force of the air which had been extracted from it, and if the
experiment be accurately performed, it would appear that a cubic foot
of air would weigh 523 grains. The same quantity by measure of

204                           PNEUMATICS.
water would weigh 1000 ounces avoirdupois ; hence it must follow
that water has about 840 times the weight of air, bulk for bulk ; and
this result corresponds sufficiently with the estimate of the specific
gravity of atmospheric air compared with that of water, as stated in the
table of specific gravities, in the treatise on Hydrostatics *
   As air then has a determinate weight like all other ponderable kinds
of matter, it must produce pressure in the same manner as other heavy
bodies, and that in proportion to its mass and specific gravity. The
weight of 1000 cubic inches of atmospheric air must, from what is
stated above, be greater than that of a single cubic inch of water, and
consequently if the pressure of such a mass of air could be made to
act on a small surface, it would produce a greater effect than the pres
sure of a cubic inch of water. Now the most direct mode of causing
the pressure of a given bulk of air to act by its gravity on a surface of
a certain extent would be, by forming a cylindrical or square column
of air, the base of which should be exactly of the extent required. This
could not he conveniently effected by artificial means, except in
columns the height of which was but inconsiderable ; but in the atmo
sphere around us nature presents a mass of air of great altitude, the
vertical pressure of which on any given space may be ascertained by
direct experiment.
   A receiver, or any other air-tight vessel, placed on the plate of an
air-pump, would become fixed to it by the exhaustion of the included
air, in consequence of the atmospheric pressure on its surface. Some
idea of the amount of this compressing force may be obtained by placing
the palm of the hand over the top of a glass cylinder open at both ends,
the lower opening resting on the plate of an air-pump, aud the upper
opening being covered by the hand so closely as to prevent the air
from entering in that direction, the cylinder being partially exhausted
the weight of the atmosphere pressing on the back of the hand would
not only be sensibly felt, but would also be found to be so considerable
before complete exhaustion had been effected, as soon to occasion pain
and inconvenience. Reckoning the weight of the atmosphere upon
every square inch of surface to be fifteen pounds, the pressure on the
hand placed over an exhausted receiver, the top of which it would just
cover, would be equal to about sixty pounds.
                              <U+25BA> See pp. 151, 152.

                  THE MAGDEBURG EXPERIMENT.                               205
                    A more exact estimate of the weight of the atmo
                 sphere may be formed by attending to the result of an
                 experiment to show its effect on the surface of two
                 hollow hemispheres, from which the air has been ex
                 tracted by means of an air-pump or exhausting syringe.
                 These hemispheres, constructed of brass, should be
                 furnished with handles, or hooks, by means of which
                 they may be suspended ; one of which may be fixed,
                 but the other should be removable. In the tubular
                 neck to which this handle in screwed is a stop-cock,
                 which being opened, and the handle removed, the
                 hemisphere is to be screwed on the pump-plate, or on
                 to an exhausting syringe ; and the other hemisphere
having been fitted to it, a vacuum is to be formed in the interior by
working the pump. The stop-cock must then be turned so as to pre
vent the re-entrance of air, and on unscrewing the brass globe, and
refixing the handle, it will be found that the hemispheres composing
it are firmly united by the pressure of the external air. Suppose the
diameter of the globe to be 6 inches, the surface of a section through
the centre would be about 28 inches square ; and hence the pressure
of the air upon one square inch being known, the force requisite to
separate the hemispheres, supposing the exhaustion to be nearly com
plete, might be easily computed. This is usually termed the Magde
burg experiment, it having been originally invented by Otho Guericke,
of Magdeburg, the inventor of the air-pump ; and it appears to have
led him to that important discovery. For the manner in which he
originally conducted the experiment was by filling the space included
between the hemispheres, when pressed together, with water, to expel
the air, and then pumping out the water, while the air was prevented
from re-entering by turning a stop-cock. Having thus ascertained the
fact of the existence of atmospheric pressure to a great degree, he pro
ceeded to the invention of the air-pump, by means of which the ex
haustion of the joined hemispheres, could be much more readily and
conveniently effected than by the operose process he had at first
adopted. This ingenious philosopher operated with two copper
hemispheres, nearly a Magdeburg ell* in diameter ; and the amount
   * See Winkler's Elements of Nat. Philosophy, Enff. Tr., 1757, vol. i. p. 131.
                                                                                /

206                            PNEUMATICS.
of pressure on such an extent of surface was so great, that when the
interior cavity had been exhausted, the separation of the hemispheres
could not be effected by the strength of twenty-four horses, twelve
being harnessed together on each side, and dragging in opposite
directions.
                That the weight of the atmosphere is always propor
              tioned to the vertical height of the column of air pressing
              on any extent of surface, may be demonstrated by means
              of a glass tube bent as represented in the margin, and
              open at both ends. The diameter of the tube being the
             same throughout, if mercury be poured into it. it will
             rise to the same height, D C, in either part of the tube.
             Then let the extremity, A, be closed by placing over it a
             piece of moistened bladder, firmly secured by melted
             resin or sealingwax ; and the mercury pressed on by the
             air above it, of the common density of the atmosphere,
would always remain at the same height, D ; but the column of mer
cury in the other part of the tube having its surface exposed, would
rise or sink with the variation in density of the atmosphere. Thus if
such a tube were carried to the top of 8t. Paul's Cathedral, the column
of air would be shortened by a space equal to the height of the build
ing, and the mercury, in some degree relieved from pressure, would
rise in the space C B. On the contrary, if the tube could be removed
into a deep mine, the mercury on the open side would sink below C
being pressed by a loftier column of air than when at the surface,
where the height of the mercury was first noted.
   Such an instrument as that just described would be a species of
Barometer,* since it would indicate the varying weight of the atmo
sphere. But the instrument to which the appellation of barometer has
been given is differently constructed, and better adapted to afford a
correct estimate of the amount of atmospheric pressure at different
times or under varying circumstances.
   The invention of this valuable instrument appears to be justly attri
buted to Torricelli, professor of mathematics at Florence, in the earlier
part of the seventeenth century. He was the pupil of the celebrated
  * This term signifies a measure of weight, from the Greek Bapoc, a weight,
and Mkrpov, a measure.

                    ATMOSPHERICAL PRESSURE.                        207
Galileo, who seems to have been the first among modern philosophers
who had any idea that air possessed the property of weight ; though he
was not aware of the mode of its operation in producing atmospheric
pressure, and the numerous phenomena constantly resulting from it.
It had heen accidentally observed that in raising water by means of a
pump, the height to which it could be drawn in what is called the suc
tion-pipe, never much exceeded 33 feet ; since when the piston of a
pump was elevated more than about that height above the surface of
the water in the pump-well, the liquid no longer followed the piston.
The drawing up of the piston of course forms a vacuum in the pipe
below it, and the consequent rising of the water into the void space
was accounted for, or rather attempted to be explained, by the philo
sophers of the sixteenth century, by the hypothetical principle that
" Nature abhors a vacuum," and therefore causes the water to ascend
in order to prevent the vacuum from taking place. The dogma of Na
ture's abhorrence of a vacuum is a complete absurdity ; and the phrase
 was invented, like many others, some of which are still current, to
conceal the ignorance of those who pretended to universal knowledge.
 It was, however, generally adopted at the period just mentioned ; and
 till it was discovered that, when a vacuum was actually formed in the
 suction-pipe of a pump, water would not rise to fill it much above 33
 feet, no one seems to have thought of questioning the propriety of the
 current opinion on the subject. Some engineers at Florence finding
 themselves foiled in an attempt to raise water by a pump from a well
 of greater depth than usual, applied to Galileo for advice as to the
 means of raising water to a greater height than 33 feet, or at least for
 an explanation of the cause of a phenomenon which they could not
 reconcile with the generally received hypothesis concerning the ascent
 of water in the suction-pipe of a pump. Galileo is said to have told
 the inquirers that " Nature's abhorrence of a vacuum did not extend to
 distances greater than 33 feet, and therefore that at that point her
 efforts ceased." It has been questioned whether the philosopher really
 expressed himself in this manner, though the story has often been re
 peated ; and it may at all events be concluded that if he gave such an
 answer to those who applied to him, he could hardly have considered
 it as a satisfactory solution of the difficulty which had been started.
 Accordingly in his writings he attempts to account for the phenomenon

208                          PNEUMATICS.
on other principles, but the real cause of it seems to have eluded bis
penetration.
   Probably the discussions to which this circumstance gave rise sug
gested to Torricelli the idea that the ascent of water in the suction-
pipe of a pump was caused solely by the pressure of the atmosphere
on the water in the well, and that as the weight of the atmosphere at
the earth's surface could never vary to any great extent, it therefore
never greatly exceeded what would be sufficient to raise a column of
water in a vacuum to the height of 33 feet. The happy thought oc
curred to bim of verifying his conjecture by making an experiment
with a fluid much heavier than water, as he perceived that if the ascent
of water depended on atmospheric pressure, the same pressure on the
heavier fluid would raise a column of it to a proportionally inferior
height. With this view he fixed on mercury, as the heaviest fluid
known, at common temperatures : and having procured a glass tube,
open at one end, he filled it with mercury, the specific gravity of
which compared with that of water was as ]3J to 1 ; then immersing
the open end of the tube in a small jar of mercury, and suffering a
communication to take place between the mercury in the tube and that
in the jar, he observed that the fluid sunk till it stood in the tube just
30 inches above the level of that in the jar below. This experiment was
so far completely satisfactory ; for as 13J : 1 : : 33 feet : 2J feet = 30
inches ; thus the weightof the atmosphere pressing on any given surface
was found to be equal to that of a column of water of the same extent at
the base and 33 feet in height, or of a similar column of mercury only
30 inches in height. The barometer now in general use as a weather
glass is nothing more than a tube of proper length filled with mercury,
and either dipped at the open end in a small cup of the same fluid, or
else having the open end curved upwards, so that the mercury may be
exposed to the pressure of the atmosphere : a scale of inches also is
adapted to the upper part of the tube, extending from 27 to 32 inches,
that it may appear by inspection at what height the mercury stands
under the pressure of the atmosphere at any particular time. This
useful instrument was at first called the Torricellian tube, from the
name of the discoverer of the principle on which its action depends ;
but it subsequently received the designation of a barometer, now uni
versally adopted.

                          THE BAROMETER.                             209
   After the effect of atmospheric gravity and consequent pressure had
been ascertained by the decisive experiments of Torricelli, the subject
was further investigated in France, chiefly by the distinguished philo
sopher Pascal, and by Father Mersenne, in 1647. The former reflect
ing on the effects of atmospheric pressure, it occurred to him that the
weight of the column of air, depending on its vertical height, must be
greatest in low situations, and decrease in ascending an eminence.
To try this principle by the test of experiment, he requested a friend
who resided in Auvergne, to ascertain the relative heights of a baro
metrical column at the bottom, and afterwards at the top of the Puy de
 Dome, a high mountain, situated in that province of France just men
tioned. The effect took place as Pascal had anticipated ; and he him
self subsequently made corresponding observations on a barometer,
 removed from the level of a street in Paris to the summit of a lofty
church-tower.
    As a philosophical instrument, the barometer is highly useful, not
 only for the purpose of ascertaining the daily and hourly variations
 which are taking place in the atmosphere in any given situation,
 arising from causes connected with the science of meteorology, and for
 other purposes of a similar nature ; but likewise as affording means for
 accurately estimating the heights of mountains, or in fact of any places
 whatever above the level of the sea. For either of these purposes,
 however, it is necessary that a barometer should be very carefully and
 accurately constructed ; and in making observations by means of it,
 especially in the measurement of heights, various precautions are re
 quired, and the effect of temperature in particular must be taken into
 the account in making any calculations.
    It must hence be obvious- that as a weather-glass, the utility of such
 instruments as are commonly used must be extremely limited ; for as
 the height of the mercury at any time must depend partly on the eleva
 tion of the place of observation above the level of the sea, no correct
 judgment can be formed relative to the density of the atmosphere, as
 affecting the state of the weather without reference to the situation of
 the instrument at the time of making the observation ; and a series of
  observations at any given place would be required in order to enable a
  person to form a probable opinion of the change of weather to be ex
  pected after the rising or falling of the mercury. One source of im
 perfection in the instrument, which renders it difficult to determine the

 210                           TNEUMAT1CS.
 extent of those slight variations in the height of the mercurial column
 which are yet interesting to the metereological observer, has led to some
 peculiarities of construction, by means of which the scale of observation
 might be enlarged, and minute changes in the height of the mercury be
 rendered obvious. One method of effecting this purpose is by means
                 of what is called a wheel-barometer, the external ap
                 pearance of which lew persons can be unacquainted
                 with, as such instruments are generally preferred for
                 domestic use. The construction of the wheel-baro
                 meter may be thus described, with reference to the figure
                 in the margin. It consists of a tube, ABC, hermetically
                 sealed at A, and open at C ; and of such a length that
                 the distance from C to A may be about 32 inches. The
                 tube must be entirely filled with mercury, which on
                 placing it in a vertical position will subside in the part
                 A B, till the differeuce of the levels E and F will be
                 equal to the height of a column of mercury which will
                 balance the weight of the atmosphere, so that any change
of pressure will have an equal effect on the mercury at E and F, and thus
through whatever space the fluid may rise at E, it will be depressed to
the same extent at F. Upon the surface of the mercury at F floats a
small ball of iron, suspended by a strong thread over a pulley P, and
to the other end of the thread is attached the weight W, not so heavy as
the floating ball. The axis of the pulley passes through the centre of a
large graduated circle G, and carries an index H, which revolves as
the pulley turns round. The weight W being just heavy enough to
counterbalance the iron ball and overcome the friction of the pulley,
the iron ball rises and falls freely, as the surface of the mercury on
which it floats is elevated or depressed by the weight of the air. Now
if the circumference of the wheel P be 2 inches, then one entire revo
lution will correspond to an alteration of level amounting to 2 inches at
F, and therefore to an alteration of 4 inches in the height of the baro
metric column. And as the graduated circle may conveniently be 40
inches in circumference, 10 inches of that circle will correspond to 1
inch of the column, and 1 inch of the circle to ^ of an inch of the
column ; so that variations, amounting to much less than the tenth of
an inch will be distinctly perceptible.
   As already stated, the utility of the barometer as a weather-glass

                      THE WATER-BAROMETER.                          211
 must depend on certain circumstances, with reference to the situation
of the observer ; and not the least attention ought to be paid to the
words " rain," "fair," " changeable," &c., frequently engraved on the
plate of a barometer, as they will be found to afford no certain indica
tions of the correspondence between the heights thus marked and the
state of the weather. General Tules for calculating changes in the
weather from the barometer can seldom be adapted to all situations ;
and therefore those who may be desirous of obtaining the means for
forming a correct judgment, as to subsequent alterations in the state of
the atmosphere, from the indications of the degree of atmospheric pres
sure at any time afforded by the barometer, must devote much atten
tion to the subject; without which, written rules would only mislead
the observer, and long application to the practical study of the instru
ment would render rules unnecessary. One circumstance, however, may
be worth mentioning, which is, that changes of weather are indicated
not so much by the actual height of the barometrical column, as by its
variation of height, and the manner in which that variation takes
place, as whether regularly or irregularly.
   Among the methods which have been adopted to obtain the most
accurate estimates of the effect of atmospheric pressure may be noticed
the compound barometer, in which water is added to the mercury in the
tube, and the mean height of the barometrical column being thus aug
mented, the variations which arise from the varying weight of the air
will be more considerable than in a common barometer, and therefore
may be more distinctly observed. Such instruments, however, are
liable to certain defects and disadvantages, which render them inferior
upon the whole to those of the usual construction.
   A barometrical column, composed of water alone, from its extreme
sensibility to changes of atmospheric pressure, must afford much greater
facility for noticing the more minute alterations which are found to be
constantly occurring than the mercurial barometer. But a water-baro
meter must necessarily be a most unwieldy machine, and consequently
could be adopted in but few situations, even where the expense and in
convenience attending its construction might be of little importance.
M. Pascal, whose philosophical researches have been already noticed,
made some interesting experiments at Rouen, in Normandy, in which
he, by means of glass tubes, 40 feet in length, ascertained the effect of
the pressure of the atmosphere on water, and also on wine ; and he

 212                          PNEUMATICS.
 found that when mercury stood in the common barometer at the height
 of t! French feet 3J inches, water was raised in one of his tubes to the
 height of about 31j feet, and wine to that of 31f . Thus, though the
 difference of specific gravity in these two liquids must have been
 but inconsiderable, yet it occasioned a sensible difference in the man
 ner in which they were affected by atmospheric pressure. The ex
periment on water was repeated by Roger Cotes, professor of philo
 sophy at Cambridge, in the beginning of the last century ; but in
both cases the object was merely that of a temporary exhibition for
the purpose of distinctly demonstrating the operation of aerial gravity
and pressure.
   A permanent water-barometer, however, has been erected by order
of the Royal Society of London, in the hall of entrance to their apart
ments at Somerset House, the tube extending upwards in the well of a
winding staircase. It consists of a glass tube 40 feet in length, and 1
inch in diameter at the lower end, nearly cylindrical throughout, being
only a little narrower at the upper extremity than it is below. This
instrument is well adapted to show the various periodical altera
tions, or as they have been termed, oscillations of the atmospherical
column ; and some observations, with tables formed from them, have
already been laid before the Royal Society, by Mr. Daniell. It has
been noticed, that the rise and fall of the column of water in this ba
rometer precedes, by one hour, the corresponding changes in a mer
curial barometer ; and it is staled that in windy weather the water is
in perpetual motion, its fluctuations in the tube having been compared
to the breathing of an animal.*
   It has been already observed, that the elasticity of the air is always
in the direct ratio of its density ; or in other words, that the greater
the density of any portion of air, the greater will be the degree of elas
tic force which it is capable of exerting. The best modern air-pumps
are so constructed as to serve for the condensation as well as the rare
faction of air; but for the former purpose, a condensing syringe may
likewise be employed ; and either method may be adopted in making
experiments on the elasticity of compressed air.
   Among the most interesting applications of the force of air in a state
of high condensation is that of projecting, by such means, bullets or
other missiles from an air-gun. It is somewhat remarkable, that this
                   * Arcana of Science, 1833, pp. 263, 264.

                               THE AIR-GUN.                            213
instrument appears to have been in use before the discovery of the air-
pump or the barometer ; for it is mentioned in a work entitled " Ele-
mens d'Artillerie," written by David Rivaut, who was preceptor to
Louis XIII., of France, and he ascribes the invention to Marin of
Lisieux, in Normandy, who presented an air-gun to Henry IV. It is
also stated, that an air-gun was preserved in the armory of Schmettau,
on which was the date 1474. But these instruments were far inferior
to modern air-guns, from which they must have differed considerably
in the mode of construction.
   The air-gun, like the common gun or musket, consists partly of a
 long metal tube adapted to receive a ball, but the breech end of the
tube or barrel has an opening to admit condensed air behind the ball,
 which acting by its elastic force propels it with a velocity, propor
 tioned to the degree of condensation of the air. Though the effect is
produced in the manner just described in all air-guns, yet the mecha
nism or arrangement by which the admission of the air is regulated
 varies in different instruments. Some of them are furnished with a
 syringe for compressing the air, included within the butt of the gun,
 and there is an exterior tube surrounding the barrel, so that the air is
 forced into the space between the tubes ; and the ball having been in
 troduced into the barrel which it fits closely, a valve is opened by press
 ing on a knob or trigger, and the air rushes from the cavity formed by
 the outer tube into the chamber behind the ball, which it expels from
 the barrel, continuing to act upon it by its expansive force till the ball
 has passed from the mouth of the air-gun. Other instruments have
 but one tube, for the reception of the ball ; and the air is compressed
 by a condensing syringe into a strong brass or copper globe, which
 wheu filled, can be detached from the syringe, and screwed to the
 butt of the gun, and by a contrivance similar to that already de
 scribed, a bullet can be discharged, by drawing a trigger. The butt
 maybe made to hold a magazine of balls, which can be admitted one at
 a time into the chamber, and a portion of the condensed air escaping
  on opening the valve, several balls may be projected from the air-gun
  in succession, but in this case, as each discharge will diminish the
  density and elasticity of the remaining air, the velocity and effective
  force of the balls will also progressively decrease.
     From what has been stated relative to the density and elasticity of
  air, it will follow, that all bodies on the surface of the earth, sustain

214                           PNEUMATICS.
a pressure from the superincumbent atmosphere equal to the weight
of a column of water, about 32 feet in height, with a base correspond
ing in extent to that of the body or bodies pressed upon. This pres
sure may be estimated at from 14 to 15 pounds on every square inch
of surface, being the weight of a column of mercury 30 inches high,
and 1 inch square at the base. Hence it must be evident that every
human being constantly has pressing on the body in every direction a
weight equal to 15 times as many pounds as there are square inches on
the surfaces of that body. Suppose then the surface of a man's body to
measure 2000 square inches, the force of the atmosphere pressing on
that surface would be equal to 30,000 pounds. It may appear un
accountable that so vast a pressure should be perpetually in operation,
without our being sensible of the weight, or experiencing any incon
venience from it. This however is owing to the uniform manner in
which the force acts in all directions, so that the body is supported by
the pressure on one side against the equal pressure on that which is
opposite ; and it is only when the equilibrium is destroyed by removing
the force in one direction, that its effects become perceptible, as is
shown by an experiment previously described, in which the hand is
exposed to atmospheric pressure by placing it over a partially ex
hausted receiver. All the cavities of the body also are either filled
with air or with denser fluids, so that they resist compression from the
external air as perfectly as the firmest solids.
   Some idea of the weight of the whole atmosphere, encompassing the
earth on every side, may be formed from a calculation which has been
made to determine what must be the diameter of a sphere of lead, the
weight of which would be equal to that of the entire atmosphere; and
from which it appears that the sphere must have a diameter nearly 60
miles in length ; which would correspond in weight with a mass of water
sufficient to cover the whole surface of the earth to the height of 34 feet.
   It is an interesting matter of speculation to what height the atmo
sphere extends from the surface of the earth. If the density of the atmo
spheric column were uniform, its vertical height might be readily calcu
lated ; for as water is nearly 850 times heavier than air of the common
density, and a column of water 34 feet high is equivalent to an atmo
spherical column having a base of the same extent, it is evident that the
height of such a column of air of uniform density must be 850 times
4 feet, or 850 x 34 = 28,900 = 5 miles833 yards and 1 foot, or nearly

                    ALTITUDE OF THE ATMOSPHERE.                         215
 6^ miles. But the density of the air varies at different distances from
 the surface of the earth, in consequence of its elasticity. Air may be
 conceived to consist of innumerable strata or layers, forming a concen
 tric shell, surrounding the solid globe we inhabit; and the lowest stra
 tum being compressed by the whole weight of the superincumbent
 mass, must necessarily be more dense than the next above it, and the
 density decreasing in proportion to the increase of height, or distance
 from the earth's surface , no definite limit can be assigned to the extent
 of the atmosphere. Cotes, in his Hydrostatical Lectures, bas stated
 the relative density of the atmosphere at different heights, as deduced
 from a comparison of the specific gravity of air at the common level of
 the earth's surface with that of air at a certain elevation as ascertained
 by means of the barometer. Thus the rarity of the air being four times
greater at the altitude of seven miles than at the surface, and the rarity
of the air augmenting in a geometrical progression while the altitude
increases in an arithmetical progression, it will follow that at the height
of 14 miles the atmosphere would be 16 times rarer than at the surface-
 at 21 miles 64 times rarer, at 28 miles 256 times, at 35 miles 1024
times, at 70 miles about a million of times, at 210 miles a million of
millions of millions of times, supposing air to be capable of indefinite
expansion. Hence, also, at the altitude of 500 miles, if the air could
continue to expand at the same rate, a cubic inch of the common den
sity would be dilated through a greater space than a sphere equal in
diameter to the orbit of Saturn * This, however, is a purely hypothe
tical estimate, for it is founded on the presumed infinite divisibility of
matter. The observations of Dr. Wollaston, in a paper laid before
the Royal Society, " On the Finite Extent of the Atmosphere, "t tend
to prove that air consists of ultimate indivisible particles ; and the ex
pansion of a medium composed of such particles must cease at a cer
tain point where the force of gravity acting downwards, upon a single
particle, would be equal to the resistance arising from the elastic or
repulsive force of the medium. At such an altitude, therefore, the
elasticity of the atmosphere would be completely extinguished, and
thus a physical limit might be assigned beyond which it could not
possibly extend.
   * See Cotes's Hydrostatical and Pneuraatical Lectures. Sec. edit. Cam
bridge, 1747, p. 124.
   t Abstracts of Papers in the Pbilos. Trans., vol. pp. 160—162.

216                            PNEUMATICS.
   In making calculations relative to the density of the air at different
heights, or forming rules for the determination of the correspondence
between atmospheric altitude and pressure, for practical purposes, such
as the measuring of eminences by means ofthe barometer,several circum
stances must be taken into the account. Thus it is not only necessary
that the exact height of the mercurial column at different levels should
be ascertained, but due regard must also be had to the influence of tem
perature, the effect of vapour suspended in the air, and the latitude of
the eminence whose height is to be determined. The indefatigable
spirit of research of modern experimental philosophers and mathema
ticians has triumphed over these difficulties so far as to have furnished
us with general principles and formulae, by the application of which
to the results of carefully conducted experiments, the perpendicular
heights of the principal mountains in every part of the world have been
discovered. From calculations founded on the barometrical formula
contrived by the celebrated mathematician, Laplace, and adapted to the
estimation of heights, it appears that at the elevation of 52,986 metres,
French measure, or 173,795 English feet,* the rarity of the air is equal
to the utmost degree of rarefaction which can be obtained in the exhaust
ed receiver of an air-pump. This manifestly cannot be the extreme alti
tude of the atmospheric column, nor is it possible to decide that point
with certainty. But it appears from the observations of astronomers
on the duration of twilight, and the magnitude of the shadow of the
earth by which the moon is eclipsed, that the rays of light from the
sun are affected by the medium through which they pass at the dis
tance of from 40 to 50 miles from the earth's surface ;t and therefore
it may be reasonably inferred that the atmosphere extends to the alti
tude of at least 45 miles above the level of the sea.
   The pressure of the air arising from the joint effect of elasticity and
weight is the cause of a great number of phenomena constantly taking
place around us, and immediately depending on the operations of na
ture or art. It is thus that the effect of the instrument called a sucker,
used by schoolboys, is to be explained. It consists of a disk of
moistened sole-leather, with a string by which it may be suspended
 with any weight attached to it, and as its smooth moist surface may be
       * A French metre is 39.37 inches English measure, or 3.28 feet.
       t See Treatise on Optict.

              EFFECTS OF ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE.                      217
pressed so closely against the flat side of a stone or other body, that
the air cannot enter between them, the weight of the atmosphere press
ing on the upper surface of the leather, makes it adhere so strongly
that a stone of weight proportioned to the extentof the disk of leather
may be raised by lifting the string. If the sucker could act with full
effect, a disk an inch square would support the weight of about 14
pounds ; but the practical effect of the instrument must be variable,
even supposing it to be accurately constructed.
    Whenever surfaces are brought into such close contact that the air
cannot insinuate itself between them, they will be pressed together with
a force corresponding to the extent of the surface of contact. Hence
glass-grinders and polishers of marble find that the substances on
which they are operating by friction, when reduced to a state of
extreme smoothness, become united by atmospheric pressure so firmly
that great exertion is required to separate them, and the circumstance
is the cause of considerable inconvenience.
    The adhesion of snails, periwinkles, limpets, and some other crusta-
ceous animals, to rocks and stones is effected on the same principle,
The surfaces of their shells at the opening are capable of being exactly
fitted to any plane surface ; these animals have the power of producing
a vacuum within their shells when thus fixed, and the atmosphere con
 sequently presses on them with a force proportioned to the extent of
exterior surface. It is thus, too, that a common house-fly is enabled
to run with great facility up a perpendicular pane of glass, or on the
 under side of an horizontal plane, as the ceiling of a room. The feet of
 the insect are provided with cavities, the sides of which being adapted
 to the surface of glass, &c., by some internal mechanism, the cavities
 are exhausted, and the pressure of the atmosphere on the minute sur
 face of the feet supports the insect against the power of gravitation.
 That such small animals may be thus sustained will probably appear
 less extraordinary than that a similar power of running up a perpen
 dicular plane should be possessed by a much larger creature. But
  Sir Everard Home, who, by means of microscopical observations ex
 plained the structure of the fly's foot, as connected with its mode of
 progression on walls and windows, also investigated the anatomy of
 the foot of the Lacerta Gecko, a kind of lizard, found in the island of
  Java, which walks up and down the smoothly-polished walls of the
  Javanese houses, pursuing the flies on which it feeds, and it runs up-
                                                                     X

  218                           PNEUMATICS.
  wards to its retreat in the roofs of houses, though its weight is some
  times 5J ounces. It has on each foot five toes, and on the under side
  of each of these are sixteen transverse slits, with serrated edges, and
  pouches between them, by means of which the animal is enabled to
  form a vacuum within the cavities, produced by the application of the
  loose membranes, surrounding the under surface of the toes, to a wall
  or any other smooth plane.* Nature has provided animals of far su
  perior bulk to this lizard with a similar organization, and for the same
  purpose. Sir E. Home, from an examination of a specimen of the am
  phibious marine animal, called by naturalists the Walrus, brought to
  England by ships from the Arctic regions, discovered that there is an
  analogy in structure between the hind foot of the walrus and the foot
  of the fly ; so that this large clumsily-shaped animal is enabled to pro
  ceed upon the smooth surface of ice against gravity, by the adhesion of
  the feet owing to atmospheric pressure.t Those who are but slightly
 acquainted with natural history can hardly be ignorant of the faculty
 belonging to the fish called Kemora, which fixes itself firmly to the
 side of a ship or to that of a larger fish, as a shark ; and thus it travels
 without the exertion of swimming from one part of the ocean to
 another. It has a sort of sucker on its head, by the application of
 which it becomes attached, the pressure of the surrounding water
 having the same effect in this case as that of the air in those pre
 viously noticed.
     Among the experiments which have been devised to demonstrate the
 elastic pressure and weight of the atmosphere, the following are well
 adapted to the purpose :
                                EXPERIMENT I.
     Take a quart bottle and drill several holes in the bottom, then set it
 in a wide-mouthed jug, and having filled it quite full of water, cork it
 securely. On lifting it from the jug it will be found to hold water
 notwithstanding the perforations, the pressure of the atmosphere pre
 venting its escape ; as will appear on taking out the cork, when the
 water, being equally pressed above and below, will run out through
 the holes till the bottle is emptied.
   * See Abstracts of Papers in Philos. Trans, from 1800 to 1830, vol. ii. p. 38.
    t Idem, p. 213.
.

            EXPERIMENTS ON ATMOSPHERIC PRESSURE.                      219
                               EXPERIMENT II.
    A wine-glass filled with water may be held with the mouth down
 wards without spilling a drop. The means by which this seem
 ingly marvellous effect is produced are extremely simple. It is
 merely necessary to place a piece of paper on the surface of the water
 with which it must be every. where in contact, and also with the rim of
 the glass, which is then to be inverted ; and as the air cannot get in to
 act on the liquid above, its pressure is exerted against the under sur
 face alone.
                              EXPERIMENT III.
    A tumbler-glass or goblet may be filled with water, and the surface
being covered as before with paper, which may be held up with the
palm of the hand , while it is suddenly inverted, then placing it on the
 surface of a smooth table, the paper is to be withdrawn, and the water
 will remain suspended in the glass ; which will adhere closely to the
table from the pressure of the atmosphere. Any one may now be safely
challenged to lift the glass vertically without spilling every drop of the
water ; for it would require some exertion to move the glass at all up
wards, and as soon as it was elevated on one side, the included water
would sink down and escape.
    It is in consequence of the unrestrained pressure of the atmosphere
that liquor will not flow from a cask after it has been tapped or pierced,
unless another opening be made as a vent-hole in the upper part of the
cask : for till this is done the force of the air pressing on the mouth of
the tap, having nothing to counterbalance it, would support a column
of liquor, if the cask was air-tight, the height of which would be pro
portioned to the specific gravity of the liquor. When, however, the air
is enabled to act through the vent-hole above, the pressure below is
counterbalanced, and the liquor descends and runs through the tap by
the effect of its own weight. The operation of the same principle
may be observed in using a tea-pot ; for there is always a small bole in
the lid through which the air enters, and without which the liquid
would not flow from the spout, if the lid fitted close, as it ought.
    Many circumstances of frequent occurrence may be traced to the

220                            PNEUMATICS.
influence of atmospheric pressure acting irregularly. The stoppage of
a supply of water from wells and fountains during a frost is sometimes
owing to this cause; for the frost does not extend far beneath the sur
face of the earth, but it consolidates it so as to prevent the access of
air to the channels of water from which fountains and wells are fed ,
and thus the atmosphere pressing only on the open well prevents the
water from entering it as usual, till a thaw takes place, and the ground
again becoming pervious to the air, it acts on the feeding springs, and
the water rises in the well.
                The instrument, called in French Tate-liqueur, or Chan-
             tepleur, and that used in filling essence-bottles, act on the
             principle of atmospheric pressure. Their construction and
             effect will be readily apprehended from inspection of the an
             nexed figure, which represents a small conical tube, A B,
             open at both ends ; and when in this state the lower orifiee
            is plunged beneath the surface of any liquid, a portion of it
             will enter at A, and fill that part of the tube A C, which is
            immersed in the liquid j if then the upper extremity B be
            closed air-tight by placing the thumb over it, the tube may
            be lifted out of the liquid, and the pressure of the air below
            will prevent it from escaping, till the thumb is removed,
and the air thus allowed to act on the surface of the liquid at C. The
length of the tube to raise water in this manner might obviously be ex
tended to more than 30 feet; as the height of the liquid column which
the atmosphere would keep suspended would be greater or less ac
cording to its specific gravity. Such instruments of a moderate length
are conveniently applicable to the purpose of withdrawing a small
quantity of any liquor through the bung-hole of a cask.
   The Siphon* affords another illustration of the principle under discus
sion. It is employed for the purpose of decanting or drawing off li
quors, and is variously constructed. If an open tube of small diameter,
bent into the shape of the letter U, be filled with water, and the curved
side turned upward, the liquid will be suspended by the pressure of
the air on the open extremities, while the tube is held in such a position
that the column of liquid in either leg shall be exactly of the same
                        From the Greek ^iipwv, a tube.

                                THE SIPHON.                             221
height ; but if the tube be inclined at one side more than the other, so
as to destroy the equilibrium, the water will run down and escape
through that end which is at the lowest level. So if a common
siphon, or bent tube with one side longer than the other be filled
with water, and inverted or held with the open ends downward, the at
mospheric pressure acting equally on both sides, and the liquid co
lumns being unequal, the water will escape through the longest leg,
falling in virtue of its own specific gravity. But if, when such a siphon
is filled, its shortest leg be plunged beneath the surface of water, not
only will the liquid all run out of the longest leg, but it will also rise in
the shorter, and be discharged from the other in a continued stream,
till it sinks below the open end of the shorter leg. If the siphon be
used without previously filling it with the liquor to be decanted, though
the liquid will rise in the shorter leg, it will not ascend beyond its own
level, so as to pass over the bend of the tube, and escape, unless the
air be drawn out of the longer leg. Hence the utility of that kind of
siphon represented in the margin, the peculiarity of which entirely
                             consists in the addition of the tube C, open at
                             the upper end, and communicating below with
                              the longer leg of the siphon B. The shorter
                              leg A then being plunged into the bung- hole of
                             a cask, or into any other vessel containing li
                             quor, the opening B is to be stopped with the
                             hand or otherwise, and by suction at C, the
                             liquor may be made to pass over the bend and
                             fill the leg B, when being suffered to escape,
                             it continues to flow, as long as the extremity
                             A is immersed in it. Large siphons of this
                             sort, made of copper, and furnished with a
                             stop-cock,just above the opening B, may often
be seen in action in the streets of the metropolis ; being used by the
 distillers' or liquor merchants' servants to draw off spirits without re
moving from the cart the cask in which the spirits have been brought
from the vender's cellar or distillery.
    The Wirtemberg Siphon, shown in the following figure, when once
 filled with liquid, will remain so, and hence may be hung up in that
 state ready for use. One leg A being plunged into a vessel of the

   222                           PNEUMATICS.
                     liquid to be drawn off, it will escape through the open
         fT«         extremity B, in consequence of the additional pres
                     sure of tie liquid in the vessel at A ; thus it will ap
                     pear that this siphon acts somewhat differently from
                     those of the common construction, though it is appli
                     cable to similar purposes.
                        Tantalus's Cup, or the Magical Goblet, is an amus-
               \J-5 ing philosophical toy, which consists of a cup with a
                     cavity at the sides or bottom, or both, with which the
   longer leg of a siphon communicates; so that when water is poured
   into the cup high enough to overcome the pressure of the air on the
   end opening into the cavity, the liquid will sink in the cup, and
   run into the cavity ; and thus it can never rise so high as the mouth
   of the figure within which the siphon is concealed ; and the classical
   fable of Tantalus is realized. There must be an aperture near the rim
   of the cup to admit air into the cavity, or rather to suffer it to escape,
   and by closing it with the finger, the cup may be filled to the brim ;
  but as soon as it is unclosed the water will sink as before. If a hollow
  handle, communicating with the lateral cavity, be fitted to the cup, the
  hole may be so placed at the inner side of the handle as to escape
  notice ; and the effect will appear astonishing to those unacquainted
  with the theory of atmospheric pressure.
     Intermitting fountains, or periodical springs, are found in some places,
  and from the capricious and apparently unaccountable irregularity of
  such streams they have been regarded, in dark ages, as miraculous, and
  have given rise to abundance ofsuperstitions among the common people.
  There is a remarkable spring of this kind called Lay well, near Torbay,
  in Devonshire ; and the peculiarity of this and other intermitting foun
  tains, may be satisfactorily shown to arise from the operation of siphons
  formed by nature, communicating with subterraneous reservoirs.*
     The siphon may be made available for the purpose of conveying
  water over the side of a pond or reservoir into another, provided the
  latter is on the same or a lower level than the former. It was thus
    * For an account of Laywell, see Philos. Trans,, No. 424 ; see also Nos. 119,
  1S9, 192, and 384. There is an interesting paper on the noted intermitting
  spring at Giggleswick, in Yorkshire, by Mr. Gough, of Kendal, in Nicholson's
  Journal of Natural Philosophy, 8vo.
i

                          THE SUCTION-PUMP.                            223
 very ingeniously applied by a French engineer, M. Garipuy, in 1776,
 to discharge the surplus quantity of water from the canal of Languedoc,
 when it had been raised above the proper level by the influx of water
 at the mouth of the river Garonne during a storm. Whenever water is
 conveyed by pipes from a higher to a lower level, over an intervening
 eminence, the principles on which the siphon acts must be adopted ;
 and thus water may be made to pass over any height not much exceed
 ing 30 feet. It is thus conducted from Lochend to Leitb, near Edin
 burgh, through pipes, the intermediate ground being 8 or 10 feet above
 the fountain head. It is necessary that the water should be driven
in the first instance beyond the most elevated part of the pipe by a
forcing-pump, and it then continues to flow by the influence of atmo
spheric pressure. But as air, always loosely combined with flowing
water, will be gradually extricated from it at the bend or highest part
of the pipe, it will at length there accumulate so as to stop the flux of
the water. When this happens, the forcing-pump must be worked to
renew the current.
   From what has been stated with regard to the siphon, it follows
that it can only be used for transferring liquids from higher to lower
levels ; therefore when water or any other liquid is to be raised by
means of atmospheric pressure, some kind of pump must be employed.
Pumps are variously constructed. The marginal figure, p. 224, repre
sents the common suction-pump, which is nothing more than a syringe
so contrived that the water drawn into it passes through the piston by
means of a valve, and is discharged above it, instead of being again
forced out below. The invention of this instrument is attributed
by Vitruvius to Ctesibius or Ctesebes, an Athenian engineer, who
lived at Alexandria, in Egypt, about the middle of the second century
before the Christian era ; and the construction of syringes, fire-engines,
and other machines acting on similar principles is described by his
scholar Hero, in a treatise on Pneumatics, still extant.
   The suction-pump consists of two hollow cylindric pipes A and E,
the latier of which usually terminates below in a perforated ball, through
which the water in the well enters freely into the suction-pipe : and
at its other extremity is a valve D, opening upwards, and affording
a communication, when open, with the upper pipe A. In this pipe,
constituting the barrel or body of the pump, the piston B moves air
tight vertically, and by its valve C opening upwards, it permits the

224                          PNEUMATICS.
                                 water to pass above it and be discharged
                                 at the spout. Now suppose the piston to
                                 be at the bottom of the barrel in contact
                                 with the valve D, on lifting the former by
                                 depressing the lever handle of the pump,
                                 connected with the piston-rod at F, the
                                 valve C will be closed by the pressure
                                 of the air above, and a vacuum being thus
                                 formed in the barrel, the same pressure
                                 on the surface of the water in the well,
                                 will drive it up the suction-pipe, and
                                 raising the valve 1), the water will enter
                                 the exhausted barrel, whence by depress
                                 ing the piston, the valve D will shut, and
                                 that at B rising, the water will pass up
                                  wards and be discharged through the
                                 spout. The first effect of working such
                                 a pump must be to form a partial vacuum
                                  in the barrel of the pump, and the upper
part of the pipe E, and it will be only after the whole of the included air
has been expelled through the piston- valve, and replaced by water in the
pipes, that the liquid begins to flow, the atmospheric pressure below
taking full effect, while the equivalent pressure above is counteracted
by the manual force applied to the handle of the pump. The suction-
pump cannot raise water beyond the extent of action of atmospheric
pressure, the utmost limit of which will be about 34 feet ; so that the
height of the valve D above the level of the water in the well must
never exceed that distance ; and unless the pump be accurately con
structed, so that the piston in its descent fits close to the bottom of the
 barrel, so as to form a perfect vacuum in its ascent, the water will not
 rise to the extreme height in the suction-pump. It must appear some
 what paradoxical, that though this will be the effect when the pump is
 in the best working order, the valves and pipes being air-tight, yet a
 pump, the suction-pipe of which has been damaged, so that a small
 quantity of air can enter, will raise water nearly as high again as a
 good pump. A tinman of Seville, in Spain, ignorant of the principles
 of science, undertook to construct a suction-pump to raise water from
 a well 60 feet deep ; when the machine was finished, he was con

                        THE LIFTING-PUMP.                               225
founded at discovering that it had no power to raise water at all, and
enraged at his disappointment, while some one was working the pump
he struck the suction-pipe with a hammer or axe, so forcibly as to
crack it, when to his surprise and delight the water almost immedi
ately began to flow, and he found that he had thus attained his purpose.
This happened about 1766, when M. Lecat, a celebrated surgeon then
at Rouen in Normandy, being informed of it, made a similar experiment
on a pump in his garden, by boring a small hole in the suction-pipe,
10 feet above the level of the water in the cistern, and having adapted
to it a stop-cock, he found that when it was open the water could be
discharged at the height of 55 feet, instead of from 30 to 34 as before.*
The circumstance admits of an obvious explanation, the effect being
analogous to that exhibited byjets-d'eau, when air is mingled with the
ascending column of liquid. t Thus in the case of the pump, the air
presses in through the slit or aperture in the suction-pipe, and becom
ing mixed with the water in its ascent, forms a compound fluid,
                                    far lighter than water alone, and there
                                   fore acted upon by atmospheric pres
                                   sure more readily, and thus it produces
                                   the phenomenon described. How
                                   ever, as there are other and more effi
                                   cacious methods of raising water to
                                   great heights, the contrivance just
                                   noticed is not to be recommended.
                                       The Lifting-pump, as represented
                                   in the margin, acts in much the same
                                   manner as the preceding, but the ma
                                   chinery is reversed. It consists of a
                                   hollow cylinder or barrel A B, in
                                   which is fixed the valve G, a little he-
                                   low the level of the water in the well
                                   or reservoir. A piston F with a valve
                                   opening upwards, fits into the lower
                                   part of the barrel, in which it is
                                   moved vertically by means of the
                                   frame B C D E, connected with the
  * V. Sieaud de la Fond Elun. de Pays., t. iii. pp..23S, 239. t Seep. i;o.
                                      4

  226                           PNEUMATICS.
 piston-rod I. Now when the piston is at the bottom of the barrel, the
 pressure of the atmosphere on the surface of the water in the well will
 open the piston-valve, and the water will rise to the same height
 within the barrel as without ; and on lifting the piston, its valve F
 will close, and the water above it will be driven by the opening of
 the valve G, into the upper part of the barrel : then the piston being
 depressed again, the valve F will open to admit more water into the
 lower part of the barrel, while that above will be prevented from re
 turning by the closing of the valve G ; and thus by continued working
 of the piston, the water will rise in the barrel till it escapes by the spout.
 In both the suction-pump and the lifting-pump, the water will be dis
 charged by jets, unless a kind of reservoir is made by the enlargement
 of the barrel above the spout, in which case it may be made to flow in
 a continuous stream.
                     The Forcing-pump is another form of this useful ma
                  chine, combining in a great degree the properties of
                  those already described. It is composed of a hollow
                  cylinder, the lower end of which dips into the water in the
                  well ; just above the valve, in the upper part of this cy
                 linder, a lateral pipe branches off, having at a short dis
                  tance from its origin another valve, both valves open
                 ing upwards ; and in the upper part of the cylinder or
                  barrel is a solid piston or plunger, moving air-tight
                  vertically. Now if the piston be depressed to the lower
                  valve, and then raised, thatwill open, while the valve in
                 the lateral pipe remains closed, and the pressure of the
                 atmosphere on the water in the well will cause it to rise
                 a little and expel a part of the air through the first valve ;
                 the piston then being lowered that valve will close, and
                 the air above it be expelled through the other valve ;
                 thus every elevation of the piston will make the water
rise higher in the cylinder till it has expelled all the air, and it will
consequently, at the next lifting of the piston, pass above the first valve,
and the piston being again lowered, as the liquid cannot descend, the
valve being closed, it will be forced into the lateral pipe, through its
valve, and as it is prevented from returning again by that valve, it will
continue to ascend with every down-stroke of the piston, and may thus
be raised to any height required. In a pump of this kind, the stream

                              AEaOSTATICS.                            227
will be intermitting, unless there be a cistern above the spout, to form
a head of water which may act by hydrostatic pressure ; or the same
object may be more effectually attained by closing the force-pipe, so
that a portion of condensed air may press on the surface of the water
after it has passed the valve, and an open tube, fitting air-tight, enter
ing the chamber, and having its lower extremity plunged beneath the
surface of the water, that liquid will be driven up it by the pressure of
the included air, and form a jet-d'eau, or flow in a regular stream,
according to the disposition of the spout or mouth-piece.
   The Fire-engine is a modification of the forcing-pump, consisting
essentially of two working barrels, like an air-pump, but fitted with solid
pistons, and valves corresponding with those of the forcing-pump ;
and thus water is drawn from any reservoir or other source of supply,
and propelled into a strong air-chamber, from the upper part of which
passes a tube, having its inferior extremity dipped under the surface of
the water, which is thus driven through it by the pressure of the con
densed air. The tube just mentioned may be connected with the part
that enters the air-chamber by a universal joint, and thus its ex
tremity may be conveniently turned to throw water in any direction;
or, as is more usual, it may have fitted to it a flexible leathern pipe or
hose, by means of which the stream may be conducted to any spot
where it may be made to act with the greatest effect.
                             AEROSTATICS.
   The laws which regulate the ascent and descent of floating bodies
 have been generally elucidated in treating of specific gravity, as con
 nected with the science of Hydrostatics. It was there demonstrated
 that liquids differing in density when placed in contact would assume
 an arrangement depending on their relative weights or densities, the
 heaviest always sinking to the bottom of the containing vessel, and the
 others floating at heights corresponding to those weights.* Solids,
                                 * See p. Hi.
                                     « 2

228                             AEROSTATICS.
immersed in liquids, in the same manner either sink or float according
as they may be heavier or lighter than the medium in which they are
placed. Thus if a vessel were partly filled with mercury, and water
standing above it, then on dropping into it a piece of iron, the solid
metal would be seen to fall through the upper stratum of the liquid
mass, and stop at the surface of the lower stratum, as consisting of a
metallic fluid more dense than the solid metal. An analogous effect
might be exhibited with gases of different densities. If a quantity of
carbonic acid or fixed air were to be poured into a large glass jar, so as
to fill the lower half of it, the upper part of the jar would be occupied
by atmospheric air, as the lighter of the two fluids ; and any bodies of
specific gravity intermediate to these gases, as soap bubbles, being let
loose over the jar would fall through the upper stratum of gas, and be
arrested by the lower, on the surface of which they would float, just as
a cork would float on water.
   A great number of substances of various kinds are suspended in the
atmosphere within a moderate distance from the surface of the earth ;
some of them, in consequence of their extreme minuteness, belonging
to the class so picturesquely described by Shakspeare as " the motes
that people the sunbeam." These floating corpuscules appear to be
numerous in proportion to the heat of the air ; and hence they are much
less frequent in winter than in summer.
   " We are ignorant of the precise nature of this fine powder. Per
haps it may be a mixture of inert matter extremely divided, with the
exquisitely small germs of various species of organized bodies, as the
eggs of insects, the seeds of plants, and likewise the fecundating pow
der from the stamens of flowers. It is in fact known from the observa
tions of naturalists, that under many circumstances, animalcules and
minute vegetables of different species become developed, though it is
impossible to perceive the germs from which they are derived. It is
certain, also, that flowers furnished with pistils only, (female flowers,
as those of the date palm,) are fecundated, and bear fruit, though the
 (male) plants furnished with stamens are found at considerable dis
tances, and even separated from the others by vast tracts of sea. All
these observations tend to confirm the hypothesis of the transmission
of germs and fecundating powders by means of the atmosphere. In
deed we take nature in the fact, as it were, under many circumstances ;
thus plumose or tufted seeds are frequently observed flying in the air,

                             AERONAUTICS.                             229
as those of the lettuce, the dandelion, and others, with which children
sometimes amuse themselves.         And it may be perceived that the
seeds of many species of vegetables are furnished with delicate mem
branes or wings; as, for instance, those of the (ir, the elm, &c-, which
seem formed expressly in order that the wind may raise them, so that
they may be transported in all directions, and thus contribute to the
propagation of the species to which they belong.
   " Relatively to the fecundating powders, it may be remarked, that
in forests of pines and firs, at the period of flowering, the ground is
covered for several days with an extremely fine light powder, which
becomes raised in the air by the winds in prodigious quantities, and
conveyed to distant places, where the descending clouds have been
often mistaken for showers of sulphur. Also during the season of the
flowering of wheat, the fecundating dust, or pollen, may be seen float
ing over the fields like a thick mist."*
   The modern art of aerostation, or as it has been more correctly styled
aeronautics, depends on the application of the principle of specific gra
vity to the action of gases on solid bodies, and the consequent motion
of the latter through the atmosphere. After the invention of the
air-pump, when the mechanical properties of air had been experi
mentally demonstrated, the feasibility of contriving a machine for the
purpose of navigating the atmospheric regions became a favourite sub
ject of speculation among men of science. Bishop Wilkins, a dis
tinguished mathematician, and one of the earliest members of the Royal
Society of London, was so far convinced that a method of travelling
through the air might be discovered, that he hazarded the opinion that
the time would come when a man about to take a journey would call for
his wings as familiarly as he might now for his boots. But the idea of
taking advantage of the principle of specific gravity to form a flying-
engine, that should rise in consequence of its being lighter than an
equal bulk of air, appears to have been first published, if not conceived,
by Francis Lana, an ingenious Jesuit. The scheme he proposed was
that of attaching to a car four hollow globes of copper, which were to be
exhausted by means of an air-pump ; and which he imagined would
have sufficient ascending power to elevate the car and the aeronautic
adventurer. It seems to have been merely a theoretical project, which
             * Beudant Traite Elem. de Physique, pp. 334, 335.

  230                          AEROSTATICS.
  must hare failed in the attempt to execute it; for neither globes of
  copper nor any other substance known could be manufactured in such
  a manner as to be at once buoyant, from the thinness of the sides, and
  strong enough to resist atmospheric pressure.
      Nearly a century had elapsed after the publication of the abortive
  plan just noticed, when the discovery of hydrogen gas, or inflammable
  air, by Cavendish, about 1766, and of its remarkable inferiority of den
  sity compared with common air, revived the speculations of philo
  sophers on the subject of aeronautics. Dr. Black, of Edinburgh, soon
  after ascertained by experiment, that a thin bladder filled with hydrogen
  gas would rise to the ceiling of a lofty room, and remain suspended till
  it was taken down ; and several years subsequently the subject was fur
  ther investigated by Tiberius Cavallo, a Portuguese gentleman, residing
  in England, who was a fellow of the Royal Society. It was, however,
  in France that the invention of the air-balloon took place. Two brothers,
   Joseph and Stephen Montgolfier, paper-makers, at Annonay, con
   structed a large square bag of fine silk, and caused it to ascend in an in
   closed chamber, and afterwards in the open air, by heating the air within
  it by means of burning paper. After several preliminary experiments, a
   balloon was constructed at Paris, consisting of an elliptical bag, 74 feet
   in length, and 48 in breadth, with an aperture below, near which was
   suspended an iron grate for burning wood and straw, and a boat or car
   attached for the reception of aerial travellers : and in this machine the
   first ascent was made, in October, 1783, by Pilatre de Rozier, super
   intendent of the Royal Museum. Other experiments of the same kind
   followed, with balloons rendered buoyant by the admission of heated
   air. But this method of aerostation was liable to inconveniences
   and imperfections, which rendered it less eligible than that of employ
   ing balloons inflated with hydrogen gas, the chief objection to which
   arose from the expense attending it. This, however, was obviated
   by means of a public subscription ; and December 1, 1783, M. Charles,
   professor of natural philosophy, at Paris, and Jiis companion M. Ro
   bert, ascended from the gardens of the Tuilleries, by means of a bal
   loon filled with hydrogen or inflammable air. The success of this under
   taking demonstrated the superiority of this mode of construction ; and
   it was consequently adopted by many other experimentalists, both in
   France and elsewhere. Lunardi, an Italian, was the first aeronaut
   who exhibited in this country ; and among those who distinguished
k

                            THE AIR-BALLOON.                              231
  themselves by their enterprising spirit, or philosophical researches,
  amidst the fields of air, may also be noticed the names of Blanchard,
  Garnerin, Zambeccari, Dr. Jeffries, VV. Windham Sadler, and Gav-
  Lussac, the last-mentioned of whom, in 1804, ascended from Paris,
  furnished with instruments for making meteorological observations ; and
  from the descent of the mercury in his barometer, he inferred that he
  had, when at his utmost elevation, attained the height of about 23,000
  feet above the level of Paris ; and this appears to be the greatest
  distance from the surface of the earth to which any person has hitherto
  risen by means of an air-balloon. Several accidents have occurred to
 aeronauts in the prosecution of their adventures, and some have lost
 their lives ; as Pilatre de Rozier, who, after repeated successful
 ascents, was killed, together with M. Romain, in consequence of the
 balloon taking fire, in which they had attempted to pass from France
 to England, in June, 1785 ; Madame Blanchard, the wife of the
 aeronaut, mentioned above ; and W . W. Sadler, who, after having made
 thirty atmospheric voyages, in one of which he crossed the Irish
 Channel, was precipitated from his balloon, owing to the car striking
 against a chimney, at the height of about forty yards from the earth.
 Notwithstanding these and other fatal disasters, aeronautic expeditions
 have been so frequently undertaken, especially in France and England,
 that most persons must have had opportunities for witnessing them ;
 but though several useful purposes to which air-ballons might be ap
 plied have been suggested, the difficulty of managing them has hitherto
 prevented their adoption except as objects of display.*
. The air-balloon consists of a light bag of thin silk, of a globular or
 elliptic shape, and rendered air-tight by a coating of varnish, made by
 dissolving gum- elastic in spirit of turpentine. When thus prepared,
 it must be distended with some elastic fluid, lighter than common air ,
 and it will thence acquire an ascending power equal to the difference
    * An establishment was indeed formed at Meudon_, near Paris, subsequently
 to the French Revolution, for the purpose of training a corps of aeronauts,
 who, by means of balloons, secured by ropes, might ascend and reconnoitre
 the position of an enemy's forces, during an engagement, and communicate
  information by signals to those below ; but though this plan appears to have
 been adopted at the battle of Fleurus, gained by Jourdan, in 1795, its incon
 veniences were found to preponderate over its advantages, and the Meudon
 Institution was broken up and the scheme abandoned as useless. See Dr.
  Lardner's Treatise on Hydrostatics and Pneumatics, p. 345.

232                          AEROSTATICS.
between its weight, including the attached car and its contents, and
that of the bulk of atmospheric air which the apparatus displaces.
Suppose the diameter of the silk globe to be 20 feet, its circumference
will be about 63 feet, its superficial measure about 1257 square feet,
and its contents, solid measure, 4190 cubic feet ; then if it be filled
with gas having only J of the specific gravity of common air, and ad
mitting that a cubic foot of the latter would weigh If oz., and that 1
square foot of taffeta or thin silk would weigh 1 oz.,—
      The weight of atmospheric air displaced will be    .  6285 oz.
      The weight of gas in the balloon                      1571 J
      The weight of the taffeta                             1257
                                                            2828J
                                                            3456A
Hence the inflated balloon would weigh 3456 oz., or 216 pounds less
 than an equal bulk of common air; and therefore such a balloon, with
 a car and its contents attached, weighing 200 pounds, would have an
ascending force equal to 1 6 pounds. But if it were filled with pure
hydrogen gas, having a specific gravity but .1 that of common air, its
power of ascension would manifestly be augmented in a high degree.
Aeronauts in general were accustomed to use inflammable air procured
 by dissolving pieces of iron or zinc in sulphuric acid diluted with
water ; a tedious, troublesome, and inconvenient operation, which was
never found to produce gas approaching to the specific gravity just
mentioned. Hence Mr. Green, who has distinguished himself by the
number of his aerial expeditions, amounting to about one hundred, de
termined to make a trial of coal gas. From some preliminary experi
ments he ascertained that the ascending force of a balloon three feet in
diameter, when inflated with gas from coal, was equal to 11 oz. ; and
that when filled with hydrogen gas procured in the usual way, its force
was not more than 15 oz. He therefore, in his ascents in the neigh
bourhood of the metropolis, availed himself of the convenience of pro
curing gas from the coal-gas companies, which he found to be suffi
ciently adapted for his purpose.
   The accidents which occurred to some of the earlier aeronauts sug

                            THE PARACHUTE.                            233
gested the idea of contriving a method of descending independent of
the balloon, if circumstances should render it desirable. The first ex
periments for this purpose were made by Le Normand, in 17 83 ; and
Blanchard subsequently constructed a machine resembling a large
expanded umbrella, called a Parachute, which he let fall from n height
of 6000 feet above the earth, with a dog in a basket suspended from it.
A whirlwind arrested its descent and swept it above the clouds ; but it
soon approached the balloon again, when the dog recognised his mas
ter, showing his uneasiness and alarm by barking ; another current of
air then carried him out of sight, and he ultimately landed in safety,
though not till after the descent of the balloon. Garnerin, who used a
parachute 25 feet in diameter, with a basket attached to it, descended
from the air by this means, several times, both in France and in this
country ; and on one occasion from the perpendicular elevation of 8000
feet.
    On the principle of the parachute depends the buoyancy of numerous
light bodies presenting an extended surface to the air ; and thus a little
canopy made by attaching four strings to the angles of a sheet of paper
with a light weight in the place of a car, if dropped from an eminence
will descend but slowly to the ground. Some experiments founded on
the observation of such facts, made in Germany, may here be noticed.
Zacharia of Rosleben, conceiving the possibility of forming a flying
boat, constructed, by way of trial, a case of light wood covered with
linen, in the shape of a flat obtuse-angled keel, 5\ feet in diameter- and
 i a foot deep, weighing 14* pounds. On the 17th of September, 1822,
this machine was launched from a scaffold on the race-course of Wen-
 delstein, the scaffold being 27 feet high, and standing on a rock 100
feet above the surrounding plain : so that the perpendicular height was
 127 feet; and the boat flew to the distance of 153 feet. A second
 flying boat 7 J feet in diameter, J a foot deep, and 25 pounds in weight,
 which was launched from the scaffold on the same day, took a some
 what more elevated path, and landed after a flight of 158 feet. These
 experiments appear to have been expensive, and the result was no*
 sufficiently flattering to induce the projector to repeat them.*
    Attempts have been made at different periods to construct wings for
 active flight through the air; but they have all proved abortive. The
   * Elements of Natural Philosophy. By Prof. Vieth, of Anhalt-Dessau.
 German—Leipsic, 1823. p. 20S.

 234                           AEROSTATICS.
 celebrated historian, William of Malmesbury, in his account of the con
 quest of England by the Normans, mentions an alleged prediction of
that event by Elmer, or Oliver, a Benedictine monk of Malmesbury,
in consequence of the appearance of a comet, in 1060. '1 his monk ap
pears to have been a learned and ingenious man, who was skilled in
mathematics. But his claim to notice at present is grounded on his
being the earliest English aeronaut on record ; though his speculation
was not only unsuccessful but unfortunate. For the historian informs
us that Elmer, having affixed wings to his hands and his feet, ascended a
lofty tower, whence he took his flight, and was borne upon the air for
the space of a furlong ; but owing to the violence of the wind or his
own mismanagement through fright, he fell to the ground, and broke
both his legs.*
    The famous Roger Bacon, who died towards the end of the thir
teenth century, in his treatise on the Secret Works of Nature and Art,
expressly asserts the possibility of constructing machines in which a
man sitting might move through the air, by means of wings, like a bird
flying.t In the fifteenth century, John Baptiste Dante, a mathematician
of Perugia in Italy, excited the astonishment of his contemporaries by
his aeronautic exploits. But his career was unfortunate ; for we are
told that after hehad repeatedly crossed thelake of Thrasymeme through
the air, he took his flight from an eminence in his native city, when his
machinery becoming deranged he fell on the roof of a church, and
fractured his thigh. The Journal des Scavans, December 12, 1678,
contains a description of a flying-engine contrived by a locksmith of
Sable, in the county of Maine, in France, by means of which the inven
tor descended from a second floor window, and proposed to fly, from a
height, over a river. Professor Vieth says, that the latest experiments
on the art of flying were made by a watchmaker at Vienna, named
 Degen ; but they seem to have led to no practical results of im
portance. }
    The ascent of sky-rockets affords an interesting object of philosophi
cal speculation, and the phenomenon has been variously accounted for
   * Gul. Malmesbur. de Gestis Regum Anglorum, lib. ii. cap. 13.
   t " Possunt etiam fieri instrumenta volandi, ut homo, sedens in medio in-
strumenti, revolvens aliquod ingenium, per quod aise artificialiter composite
aerem verberent, ad modum avis volantis." Epistola Fratris R. Baconis de
Secretis Operibus Natures et Artis. Hamburg;. 1572. p. 37.
, 1 Elem. of Nat. Philos., p. 209.

                            THE PAPER-KITE.                            235
by men of science. The rocket consists of a cylindrical case or car-
touch of thick paper, filled with a composition of gunpowder, char
coal, steel filings, and other inflammable matter ; with a head, techni
cally styled " the pot," at the upper extremity; and a light stick, to
which the rocket is affixed laterally. Its flight, like that of other pro
jectiles, depends on the sudden expansion of compressed air, formed
by combustion ; and the manner in which this takes place is most sa
tisfactorily explained by Dr. Charles Hutton. He observes, " that at
the moment when the powder begins to inflame, its expansion produces
a torrent of elastic fluid, which acts in every direction ; that is against
the air which opposes its escape from the cartridge, and against the
upper part of the rocket ; but the resistance of the air is more consi
 derable than the weight of the rocket, on account of the extreme rapi
 dity with which the elastic fluid issues through the neck of the rocket
to throw itself downwards, and therefore the rocket ascends by the ex
cess of one of these forces over the other."* Dr. Hutton also remarks
that the rocket would not rise unless the elastic fluid were produced in
 abundance ; and hence the necessity for piercing in the centre of the
rocket a conical hole, and thus the composition when inflamed burns in
 concentric strata, of much greater extent than the circular disk to
 which the combustion must otherwise be confined, and the expansive
 gas is formed in quantities sufficient to produce the required effect.
    Among the amusements of schoolboys there are few more susceptible
of application to useful or curious purposes than that of flying paper-
kites. By means of such a machine, which he constructed by stretch
ing a silk handkerchief over a wooden frame, Dr. Benjamin Franklin
 demonstrated the identity of lightning with the electric fluid ;t the
paper-kite has also been employed to convey a line for dragginga rope to
the shore from a vessel wrecked on a rocky coast ;} and a few years
 ago, a Mr. Pocock made repeated experiments in the Regent's Park,
 and on the road between Bath and London, by means of which he
ascertained the possibility of travelling in a carriage drawn by two
 paper-kites, supported at a moderate elevation, and impelled by tlie
 wind. The elevation of the paper- kite in the usual manner, with a
   * Mathematical and Philosophical Dictionary, art. Rockkt-
   t See Treatise on Electricity.
   t See Transact, of Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufactures,,
 and Commerce, vol. xli.

 236                          AEROSTATICS.
line attached to a loop on the under-side of the machine, is satisfac
torily elucidated by Dr. Paris, who has shown that the ascent of the
 kite affords an example of the composition of forces, the mode of action
of which is exhibited in the following diagram.
    The kite is here represented rising from the ground, the line W de
 noting the direction and force of the wind, which falling on an oblique
surface, will be resolved into two forces, namely, one parallel with it,
 and another perpendicular to that surface, and the latter only, repre
sented by the line Y, will produce an effect, impelling the kite in the
 direction O A ; and the tension of the string, at the same time, in the
 direction PTS, will cause the machine to ascend in the diagonal O B
 of the parallelogram 0 A B T* The ascent of the paper-kite not onlv
 depends, as may thus be perceived, on the same principles as those
which govern the movement of bodies on inclined planes ; but it may
also be fairly affirmed that the path of the kite in rising is an actual in
clined plane, up which it is drawn, by the tension and weight of the
string. A well-constructed kite may be made to ascend when there is
but little wind stirring ; for, by running with it held by the string and
inclined obliquely, the air on its inferior surface will be compressed,
just as it would be by running with an expanded umbrella held out;
   * Philosophy in Sport made Science in Earnest. New edit. 1833. p. 236.

                          THE DIVING-BELL.                          237
and by veering out the strin g and running at the same time, the kite is
drawn up an inclined plane, which it forms for itself by the gradual
compression of the successive portions of air over which it moves.
                               The Diving-bell.
    As air produces peculiar effects when its density is inferior to that
of the lower atmosphere, so likewise are certain effects produced by air,
the density of which has been augmented by compression or otherwise.
Condensed air, if not contaminated with deleterious gases, may be
breathed with impunity by animals for a considerable time ; though its
effects are various on different individuals, and some experience con
siderable temporary inconvenience from inspiring it. Mr. Bille, of
New York, in America, has founded on this property of compressed
air an improved method of bottling sparkling liquids, such as ale, cider,
 and perry. His plan consists in conducting the whole operation of
 drawing off, bottling, corking, and securing the liquors in question,
within an air-tight chamber, into which such a quantity of air may be
compressed by a condensing pump or engine, that it may always afford
a degree of pressure on the surfaces of the liquors sufficient to prevent
the escape of the gas to which they owe their sparkling quality.
    But the most interesting and important purpose to which the respi-
rability of compressed air has been applied, is that of enabling persons
 to descend to a certain depth beneath the surface of the sea, by means
 of the machine called a Diving-bell. The compressibility and impene
 trability of atmospheric air may be both at ouce demonstrated by the
 simple experiment of holding" by the foot an inverted beer-glass, and
 plunging it perpendicularly in a jar or basin of water, when the portion
 of air within the beer-glass would be compressed and diminished in
 bulk, in proportion to the depth to which the glass was pressed beneath
 the surface of the water : but a limit would occur beyond which manual
  force would not drive it. If a small bit of lighted wax-taper, attached
 to a flat cork, were placed on the water and included under the inverted
  glass, it would burn in the compressed air longer than in an equal bulk
  of air at its usual density ; but the air would be consumed by the com
  bustion of the taper till it became reduced to about one-third, and the
  residue would be found unfit for respiration and the support of animal
 life.
                                                                          /

 238                            AEROSTATICS.
    A diving-bell is merely a large conical or pyramidal vessel, made of
cast iron, or of wood, if of the latter loaded with weights to make it
 sink . It is usually furnished with shelves and seats on the sides for the
convenience of those who descend in it; and several strong glass
 lenses are fitted into the upper part for the admission of light. There
is likewise a stop-cock, by opening which the air, rendered impure by
 respiration, may from time to time be discharged and rise in bubbles
 to the surface of the water ; and provision must be made for the regular
supply of fresh air, which may be sent down through pipes from one or
more large condensing syringes, worked on the deck of a vessel above.
Tbe bell must be properly suspended from a crane or cross-beam, fur
nished with tackles of pulleys, that it may be lowered, raised, or other
wise moved according to circumstances.
   Some have supposed that the ancients were acquainted with the use
of the diving-bell, and apparent allusions to it occur in the works of
Aristotle. But the earliest direct notice of such a machine is probably
to be found in a tract " De Motu Celerrimo," by John Taisnier,
who held an office in the household of the emperor Charles V. He
states that some experiments were made in the presence of that prince,
at Toledo, in 1538, by two Greeks, who descended under water seve
ral times in a brazen caldron, without wetting their clothes, or extin
guishing lights which they carried in their hands.* Since the middle
of the seventeenth century, diving-bells have been often used for the
purpose of recovering valuable property which had been shipwrecked.
In recent times, the expense attending the construction of a diving-bell,
and the difficulty of managing so unwieldy a machine, have led to the
invention of less operose and more convenient methods of making sub
marine investigations ; but there is one instance of the successful em
ployment of diving-bells for the recovery of treasure from the sea,
which occurred in 1831, and that attracted attention in consequence
of a law-suit to which it gave rise, but was more remarkable on
account of the skill and enterprise displayed in the conduct of the
undertaking. In December, 1830, the Thetis frigate having sailed
from Rio Janeiro, for England, with 810,000 dollars on board, struck
on rocks, and was sunk at Cape Frio. Captain Thomas Dickenson,
of H. M. S. Lightning, on that station, obtained permission to attempt
                 * V. Schotti Technics Curiosa, lib. vi. cap. 9.

                             THE TORPEDO.                             239
the recovery of the treasure ; and not being; able to procure a diving-
bell at Rio, be adapted to the purpose the ship's iron water-tanks, and
constructed a huge crane 158 feet in length, and 50 feet above the
level of the sea, from which to suspend the bells. He commenced his
operations January 30, 1831 ; and by the 19th of May, 120,000 dollars
were recovered, besides other property. A storm then destroyed the
machinery, but it was reconstructed on a different plan, and though
the bells were repeatedly lost, the undertaking was prosecuted, by
Captain Dickenson and other officers, till ultimately 750,000 dollars
were recovered, besides a quantity of marine stores and other articles.
   Diving habits, or jackets, adapted for descending under water, have
been variously contrived ; and among such machines are the Sea-
phandre, invented by the Abbe de la Chapelle;* and Klingert's ma
chine for walking under water ;t but these, though ingenious, are pro
bably inferior to the apparatus recently employed at Portsmouth, by
Mr. Deane. The essential part of his machinery consists of a capacious
metal helmet, covering the head and neck, resting on the shoulders,
and attached to the body by straps. In the front are three oval win
dows of strong plate-glass ; from the lower part of the helmet passes a
bent tube for the discharge of air which has been breathed ; and from
the upper part proceeds another tube connected with a flexible pipe,
through which fresh air is forced from above. Armed with this head
piece, and a waterproof dress, the adventurer descends from the side
of a ship by a ladder to the bottom of the sea, which he can explore at
his leisure, and walk to any distance within the length of his air-pipe.
To counterbalance the upward pressure of the water at any consider
able depth, it is requisite that leaden weights should be attached to the
body, in addition to the weight of the helmet, and thick leaden soles
for the shoes.;:
   The Americans of the United States have distinguished themselves
by some curious inventions for the purpose of submarine navigation.
Robert Fulton, a very ingenious projector, contrived a machine of this
kind, called a Torpedo ;§ and David Bushnell invented a submarine
             * V. Sigand de la Fond Elem. de Phys., vol. ii. p. 249.
             t See TiUoch's Philosophical Magazine, vol. ill. p. 178.
             t See Nautical Magazine,
             i V. Moutucla Hist, des Mathemat., t. iii. p. 7»-

  240                            AEROSTATICS.
  vessel in which a man might pass a considerable distance under water ;
  and by means of this, and its accompanying magazine of artillery, a
  bold attempt was made to blow up a British vessel in the harbour of
  New York, during the American war.* This project appears to have
  failed merely from the difficulty or rather impossibility of attaching the
  magazine to the bottom of the ship, which was attempted by means of
  a sharp iron screw, which passed out from the top of the diving-ma
  chine, and communicated with the inside by a water-joint, being pro
  vided with a crank at its lower end, by which the engineer was to
  drive it into the ship's bottom. The machine affording no fixed point
  to act from, the power applied to the screw could make no impression
  on the ship : and thus this daring scheme of mischief was disconcerted.
    * For a description of this curious engine, see a paper on " Submarine Navi
  gation," by Charles Griswold, reprinted in the Polar Star, No. 5, from Silli-
  man's American Quarterly Journal of Science, vol. ii. p. 94.
I

ACOUSTICS.
ACOUSTICS, OR THE SCIENCE OF SOUND, 18 A VERY CONSIDERABLE BRANCH OF
  PHYSICS, AND ONE WHICH HAS BEEN CULTIVATED FROM THE EARLIEST AGES.
  EVEN PYTHAGORAS AND ARISTOTLE WERE NOT IGNORANT OF THE GENERAL,
  MODE OF ITS TRANSMISSION THROUGH THE AIR, AND OF THE NATURE OF HAR
  MONY; BUT AS A BRANCH OF SCIENCE, INDEPENDENT OF ITS DELIGHTFUL
  APPLICATION IN THE ART OF MUSIC, IT COULD BE HARDLY SAID TO EXIST,
  TILL ITS NATURE AND LAWS BECAME A MATTER OF EXPERIMENTAL INQUIRY
  TO BACON AND GALILEO, MERSENNE AND WALLIS J AND OF MATHEMATICAL
  INVESTIGATION TO NEWTON AND HIS ILLUSTRIOUS SUCCESSORS, LAGRANGE AND
  EULBR. FROM THAT TIME, ITS PROGRESS, AS A BRANCH BOTH OF MATHE
  MATICAL AND EXPERIMENTAL SCIENCE, HAS BEEN CONSTANT AND ACCELE
  RATED.
     SirJ.F. IV. Herschefs Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy.

                          ACOUSTICS.
   The science which has been designated by the terms Acoustics* and
Phonics.t treats of the causes and effects of Sound, and the manner in
which it is perceived by the organ of hearing. The idea of sound is ex
cited in the mind when the motions which take place in any of the bodies
around us are such as can be communicated to the auditory nerve and
thence to the brain. This effect is produced by means of the organ
ization of the ear, the tremulous motions or vibrations of the air being
propagated to the tympanum or drum, a thin membrane which closes
the aperture of the ear ; behind the drum is a cavity in the bone which
forms the side of the head, separated by another membrane from an
  * From the Greek, 'Akouw, to hear.    t From <U+2666>wvq, a voice, or sound.
                                   k 2

244                           acoustics.
inner cavity, from which branch off variously-formed tubes or canals,
which, as well as the inner cavity called the labyrinth, are filled
with a limpid fluid; and an expansion of the auditory nerve, or deli
cate layer of nervous fibres being distributed over the internal surface
of the labyrinth and canals, it thus becomes the medium of sensation
with regard to sound. There is a passage called the Eustachian tube,
which extends from the back part of the mouth to the cavity immedi
ately behind the membranous drum, through which air passes, and
therefore the drum vibrates freely when acted on by the sonorous un
dulations of the external air, which are communicated from the mem
brane of the drum by a chain of very minute bones and muscles pass
ing from it to the membrane over the entrance to the labyrinth, and
corresponding undulations being produced in the contained fluid, im
pressions are propagated to the nervous lining of the labyrinth, and
thence to the brain.
   Hence it must be apparent, that the sense of bearing, depending as
it does on the perfect operation of so complicated an organ as the ear,
may be impaired by various causes, or entirely destroyed when the
essential parts of the organ are originally wanting, or so greatly in
jured by disease as to be incapable of performing their functions.
Thus some persons are born deaf, the organization of their ears being
so defective that they are utterly incapable of perceiving sounds, and
therefore can never acquire the faculty of speech by imitating vocal
language. Such unfortunate individuals, incapable of obtaining know
ledge by the usual channels, may, however, be qualified for high de
grees of mental cultivation by the modes of instruction contrived, or
rather greatly improved, by L Epee, Sicard, Braidwood, and others,
 who have most meritoriously devoted their talents to the instruction of
the deaf and dumb.
    Though the functions of the organ of hearing are clearly ascertained,
 as to the general principle of action, yet the peculiar purposes of the
 several parts are by no means equally obvious ; nor is it certain that
 any of them, except the auditory nerve, are absolutely essential to the
 perception of sound. Some persons naturally have an aperture in the
 membranous drum of the ear, and in others a similar defect is pro
 duced by disease ; but in either case, though the faculty of hearing is
 commonly somewhat impaired, it is not destroyed, not even when,
 owing to abscess in the ear, the chain of bones between the membrane

                          SONOROUS VIBRATION.                           245
of the drum and that covering the entrance to the labyrinth has been
disunited. In that case, probably, the vibrations of the air impinging
on the inner membrane cause the requisite undulations in the fluid
within the labyrinth. There are persons who occasionally amuse
themselves and their companions by drawing a quantity of tobacco-
smoke into the mouth, and then expelling it through one or both ears ;
a feat which can he performed only by those who have a natural or arti
ficial perforation of the membranous drum of the ear ; and thus thev
can force the smoke through the Eustachian tube, into the cavity of the
 drum, and discharge it through the perforation just mentioned. In
 practising the art of diving, it appears that those engaged in it on first
 going into deep water become subject to most intense pains in the ears,
 which continue till they have reached certain depths, when the sen
 sation of something bursting within the ear with a loud report termi
 nates the pain, and they can then descend as low as may be necessary
 without any further inconvenience. There can be no doubt that all
 this is occasioned by the vast pressure of the water on the drum of the
 ear, and its consequent rupture ; and probably it would be found on in
 vestigation, that pearl-divers, and others accustomed to deep diving,
 have the auditory faculty more or less impaired.
     Though air is the usual medium of sound, it is not essential to the
 formation or the propagation of sonorous vibrations. Some substance
 however, either solid, liquid, or aerial, must form a continuous con
 nexion between the sounding body and the ear; for sound cannot be
 conveyed through a vacuum. If a small bell be suspended under the
 receiver of an air-pump, in such a manner that it can be struck with
 a hammer without admitting air to it, when partial exhaustion has
  taken place, the sound will be weakened, and after the rarefaction has
  been carried as far as possible, no sound will be heard on striking the
  bell. If the experiment be made by inclosing the bell in a small re
  ceiver full of air, and placing that under another receiver from which
  the air can be withdrawn, though the bell when struck must then pro
  duce sound as usual, yet it will be quite inaudible, if the outer receiver
  be well exhausted, and care be taken to prevent the sonorous vibrations
  from being propagated through any solidpart of theapparatus. As sounds
  become weak when the air surrounding the sonorous body is rarefied,
  soon the contrary, any sound, as that of a bell, will be perceived to be
  much louder when the bell is struck in a vessel filled with highly com

 246                           acoustics.
pressed air, than when struck with the same force in a vessel of air ofthe
common density. Hence, too, it happens that when a pistol is fired on
 the top of a high mountain, where the air is comparatively rare, the
report is not so loud as when it is fired at the base.
   That liquids conduct sound with no less facility than air may be
 ascertained by ringing a bell under water, when it will be heard as dis
tinctly as when rung above the water. And a person diving under
water would plainly hear the sound of a hell struck in the air at a mo
derate distance. If both the hearer and the sounding body be im
mersed in the same mass of water, the sound will appear much louder
than when passing through an equal extent of air. The propagation of
sonorous vibrations through liquids may be rendered visible ; for, on
rubbing gently with a wet finger the edge of a drinking-glass, half
filled with water, sound will be produced, and the surface of the water
will be covered with minute undulations. The intensity or loudness of
sound in fluids appears to be augmented in proportion to the increase
of their specific gravity. Thus water being so much denser a fluid
than air, sounds produce a stronger effect in the former medium than
in the latter ; and therefore it may be regarded as a wise provision of
the Author of Nature, that the organs of hearing in fish are much less
perfectly developed, and consequently less sensible to the impressions
of sound than those of terrestrial animals.
   Solids, when they possess elasticity, convey sounds to the ear more
readily and effectively than gases or liquids. If a person, hard of hear
ing, places one end of an iron rod between his teeth, while the other
end rests on the edge of an open kettle, he will understand what is said
by another directing his voice into the kettle, more distinctly than if
the voice of the speaker passed through the air ; so that he might con
verse in this manner with any one at a distance at which he would not
hear under common circumstances. When a stick is held between the
teeth at one extremity, and the other is placed in contact with a table, the
scratch of a pin on the table may be heard though both ears be stopped.
When sounds are propagated in this manner, the sonorous vibrations
must be conveyed through the mouth and along the Eustachian tube to
the interior part of the organ of hearing. Among the evidences of the
transmission of sound through solid bodies, may be mentioned the com
mon experiment of tying a ribbon or a strip oflinen, cotton, or flannel,
to the upper part of a large poker, so that it may be supported verti-

                NATURE OF SONOROUS VIBRATIONS.                          247
oally by holding the two ends of the ribbon ; which are to be brought
in contact with the ears, and pressed against them, so as to close them,
then on swinging the poker so that it may strike as gently as possible
against a bar of the fire-grate, or any other metallic substance, a deep
sound will be distinctly heard like the tolling of a large bell ; and yet if
the ribbon be removed from the ears, and the poker suspended by it,
and struck in the same manner, the sound will be hardly perceptible.
Some experiments will subsequently be noticed, which show that
sound not only passes much more readily through elastic solids than
through air, but also that it traverses the former with abundantly
 greater velocity.
     That peculiar kind of motion in bodies which gives rise to the sen
 sation of sound has been characterized by the term vibration, because
 a striking analogy may be traced between the tremulous agitation
 which takes place among the particles of a sounding body, and the
 oscillations of a pendulum. The nature of sonorous vibrations may be
                                     illustrated by attending to the visible
                                     motions which occur on striking or
                                     twitching a tightly-extended cord or
                                     wire. Suppose such a cord repre
                                     sented by the central line in the mar
                                     ginal figure to be forcibly drawn out
                                     to A, and let go, it would immedi
                                      ately recover its original position by
  virtue of its elasticity, but when it reached the central point it would
  have acquired so much momentum as would cause it to pass onward
  to a, thence it would vibrate back in the same manner to B, and back
  again to b, the extent of its vibration being gradually diminished by
  the resistance of the air, so that it would at length return to the state
  of rest. The string of a violin or a harp drawn aside thus, and suffered
  to vibrate freely, would propagate its vibrations to the body of either
  instrument and to the surrounding air, and thus a tone or musical note
  would be produced and rendered perceptible to the ear. The air
  usually encompassing sounding bodies on every side conveys the sen
   sation of sound in all directions ; therefore the aerial vibrations, or, as
   they have been termed pulses, must be communicated successively
   and generally throughout the whole space within the limits of which
   they are capable of affecting the ear. We may conceive this to happen

  248                            ACOUSTICS.
  in consequence of minute expansions and contractions of the particles
  of air, which, thus pressing on the contiguous particles around them,
  excite corresponding motions, extending every way from a common
  centre.     These soniferous undulations of the air have been com
  pared to the waves spreading in concentric circles over a smooth pond
  of water when a stone is thrown into it. And thus as the liquid waves
  are propagated not only directly forward from the centre, but also if
  they encounter any obstruction, as from a floating body, they will bend
  their course round the sides of the obstacle and spread out obliquely
  beyond it, —so the undulations of air, if interrupted in their pro
  gress by a high wall, or any similar impediment, will be continued
  over its summit, and propagated on the opposite side of it. From this
   description of the nature of sonorous vibration it will be perceived to
  consist of the alternate dilatation and compression of certain portions
  of air or other bodies acting mechanically, so as to cause corresponding
   effects throughout a given space ; and the motion thus originated, pro
  duces no permanent change of place among the particles of the sono
  rous mass, but simply an agitation or tremor, so that each particle, like
  a pendulum that has been made to oscillate, recovers at length its
  original position. Hence sound is communicated through the atmo
  sphere by the propagation of minute vibrations of its particles from one
  part of the fluid mass to another without any tralatitious motion of the
  fluid itself.
     " Perhaps we may most distinctly conceive the kind of fact hern
  spoken of by comparing it to the motion produced by the wind in a
  field of standing corn ; grassy waves travel visibly over the field in
  the direction in which the wind blows, but this appearance of an object
  moving is delusive. The only real motion is that of the ears of grain,
  of which each goes and returns as the stalk stoops and recovers itself.
  This motion affects successively a line of ears in the direction of the
  wind, and affects simultaneously all the ears of which the elevation or
  depression forms one visible wave. The elevations and depressions
  are propagated in a constant direction, while the parts with which the
  space is filled only vibrate to and fro. Of exactly such a nature is the
  propagation of sound through the air. The particles of air go and re
  turn through very minute spaces, and this vibratory motion runs through
  the atmosphere from the sounding body to the ear. Waves, not of ele
  vation and depression, but of condensation and rarefaction, are trans-
V

                LIMITS OF AUDIBLE PERCEPTIONS.                          249
mitted ; and the sound thus becomes an object of sense to the
organ."*
    That vibration of the particles of bodies which has been indicated as
the cause of sound must have a certain degree of velocity in order to
produce the required effect. An extended cord may be so slack that
when made to vibrate it will yield no sound, its motion being too slow
and weak to propagate sonorous undulations through the surrounding
 air. In order that sound may be produced the tension of the cord must
be increased ; and it will then be found that, the length remaining un
 altered, the number of vibrations in a given time will be augmented in
proportion to the additional tension of the cord. It has been ascer
tained by experiment that a vibrating cord will not produce a sound
distinctly appreciable by the most delicate ear, when it makes less than
about 32 vibrations in a second. But the susceptibility of the organs
of hearing to grave or acute sounds appears to be different in different
individuals. There are some curious observations on this subject in a
paper published in the Philosophical Transactions, by Dr. Wollaston,
" On Sounds Inaudible by Certain Ears." The attention of this inge
nious philosopher was attracted by the circumstance of finding a person
insensible to the sound of a small organ-pipe, which, with respect to
acuteness, was far within the limits of his own hearing. He was hence
led to try the effect of different modes of weakening the sense of hearing
in himself ; and he found that by closing the nose and mouth, and ex
panding the chest, the membrane of the drum of the ear, being sub
jected to extraordinary tension by external pressure, made the ear in
sensible to grave tones, without affecting the perception of sharper
sounds. This fact affords some evidence in favour of the opinion that
the membranous drum of the ear, by means of its apparatus of bones
and muscles connecting it with the internal membrane over the laby
rinth, is capable of tension and relaxation so as to adapt itself to receive
and transmit aerial undulations having different degrees of velocity ;
and hence it may be concluded that the power of perception of low or
high tones depends on the state of the membrane of the drum and parts
united to it. " The range of human hearing includes more than nine
octaves, the whole of which are distinct to most ears, though the vibra-
   * Whewell's Astronomy and General Physics considered with Reference to
 Natural Theology, b. i. ch.xiv. pp. 117, 118.

250                               acoustics.
tions of a note at the higher extreme are six or seven hundred times
more frequent than those which constitute the gravest audible sound ;
and as vibrations incomparably more frequent may exist, we may ima
gine, that animals like the Grylli (crickets or grasshoppers), whose
powers appear to commence nearly where ours terminate, may hear
still sharper sounds, which we do not know to exist ; and that there
may be insects hearing nothing in common with us, but endued with a
power of exciting, and a sense that perceives the same vibrations which
constitute our ordinary sounds, but so remote that the animal who per
ceives them may be said to possess another sense, agreeing with our
owu solely in the medium by which it is excited, and possibly wholly
unaffected by those slower vibrations of which we are sensible."*
   Though sound may be propagated through an infinite mass of air to
very considerable distances, yet its intensity or loudness diminishes in
proportion as the sonorous vibrations extend from the spot where they
are produced. The rate of diminution of intensity may be inferred from
mathematical calculation as well as ascertained by experiment ; and the
results, which confirm each other, show that other circumstances being
alike, the intensity of sound will be in the inverse ratio of the square
of the distance of the place of observation from the sounding body. The
distance to which sound can be transmitted through the atmosphere,
however, depends in some degree on the direction of the wind and local
circumstances. Most persons residing in the outskirts of the city of
London must have remarked that the striking of the hour on the great
bell at St. Paul's cathedral will be audible or otherwise, in certain situ
ations, according to the quarter from which the wind blows. Under
favourable circumstances sounds may be conveyed to great distances.
Instances are recorded of the report of a cannon having been heard
thirty leagues from the place where it was fired. t
    The absolute velocity with which sound is propagated must depend
 on the nature of the medium by which it is conveyed. Atmospheric air
 being the general medium of sound, the investigation of its conducting
   * Abstracts of Pap. in Philos. Trans., vol. ii. p. 133.
   t When the explosion of the volcano of Cotopaxi, in Peru, took place, in Ja
 nuary, 1603, the noise it occasioned was heard day and night, like continued
 discharges of artillery, at the port of Guayaquil, 52 leagues distant, by the tra
 vellers Humboldt and Bonpland. Edinburgh Keview for Nov. 1814, vol. xxiv.
 p. 143; from Humboldt's Researches.

                        VELOCITY OF SOUND.                             251
power has at different periods occupied the attention of men of science.
Cassini, Picard, and Roemer, members of the French Academy of
Sciences, in the latter part of the seventeenth century, made experi
ments from which they inferred that sound travels 1172 feet in asecond
of time ; Dr. Halley, and Flamsteed, the astronomer royal, who pur
sued the inquiry in England, were led to the conclusion that the com
mon velocity of sound was 1142 feet in a second ; and this deduction
was confirmed by the varied and extensive researches of Dr. Derham,
in consequence of which it has been generally adopted by subsequent
writers on this branch of science. This statement, however, is now
considered as requiring some correction on account of the influence of
temperature ; and from a comparison of the experiments of Derham made
in the day-time, with some more recent nocturnal observations of French
academicians, it appears that the actual velocity of sound, at the zero of
temperature of the centigrade thermometer (32 deg. of Fahrenheit) is
about 1130 feet in a second ; which likewise agrees with other accurate ex
periments of Professor Pictet of Geneva. By adopting either of the
numbers last stated, sufficiently correct calculations may be made of the
distances of objects as inferred from the relative velocities of light and
sound ; the former from its extreme celerity being regarded as appear
ing instantaneously* on its production, at distances not exceeding a few
miles. Thus supposing a flash of lightning to be perceived, and on
counting the seconds that elapse before the thunder is heard, we find
them to amount to 3 J ; then, if we reckon the velocity of sound at the
rate of 1130 feet in a second, it will follow that the thunder-cloud
must be distant 1130 X 3.5 = 3955 feet. In the same manner may be
discovered the distance of a ship at sea, if we see the flash of a gun fired
from it, and ascertain the number of seconds that elapse before the re
port becomes audible. In defect of a stop-watch a rough estimate of
time may be made by any person, by counting the pulsations of the
artery at the wrist, which in most young people in health will amount
to about 70 in a minute.
   Sounds are propagated with greater or less velocity through gases
according to their density ; and thus a sharper tone will be produced by
a sonorous body in hydrogen gas than in atmospheric air, and a graver
tone by the same body in carbonic acid or fixed air. Vapours of water,
                         * See Treatise on Optics.

252                            ACOUSTICS.
•pirit of wine, or ether, are capable of conveying sounds with degrees
of facility proportioned to their respective densities, as appears from
experiments made at Arcueil, near Paris, by Biot, Berthollet, and La
place, the first-mentioned of whom published an account of their investi
gations in 1807. The vapour of ether conveys sound almost as readily
as atmospheric air ; for a bell, the sound of which in air could be heard
at the distance of 158.5 yards was heard in the vapour of ether at that
of 143.7 yards.*
   It does not appear that the velocity of transmission of sounds by
liquids has been ascertained by direct experiments, though as already
stated sonorous vibrations are propagated through them freely. Accord
ing to Professor Robison, the sound of a bell underwater may be beard
at the distance of 1200 feet. From a calculation founded on the rela
tive elasticity of water and common air, it has been inferred that the
rate of velocity of sound in water is 4900 feet in a second ; in mercury
nearly the same, and in spirit of wine somewhat less.
   Examples have been already adduced of the facility with which solid
bodies transmit sounds. To these it may be added that savages, as the
North American Indians, avail themselves of this property of solid
matter, applying their ears close to the ground in order to discover the
noise made by approaching enemies, when the distance is too great for
the sounds to be conveyed through the air. Upon the same principle
is founded the utility of the stethoscope, t an instrument invented some
years since by Dr. Laennec, a French physician, to ascertain the state
of the cavities of the body, especially the chest, as to health or disease.
It consists of a wooden cylinder, one end of which being placed in con
tact with the surface of the body to be examined, and the other resting
against the ear of the observer, then by gently striking the body with
the knuckles or otherwise, sounds will be perceived indicative of the
existence of abscess, schirrus, or any other alteration of structure which
may have taken place.
   Dr. Chladni, a German philosopher, who distinguished himself by
his investigations relative to Acoustics, estimated the velocity of trans
mission of sounds by the tone produced by vibration, or in other words,
by the musical note emitted by a rod or bar of any substance when
  * See Nicholson's Philosophical Journal, 1812, 8vo, vol. xxx. pp. i6g, 173.
  t From the Greek SrijOof, the breast, or chest, ana Scojrio, to examine.

          TRANSMISSION OF SOUND THROUGH SOLIDS.                       253
struck. By thus comparing the sound of a rod made to vibrate longi
tudinally with that of a column of air vibrating in a tube of the same
length, he found that the velocity of sound in air being represented by 1 ,
the velocity of sound transmitted by tin would be              .     . 7\
By silver                                                               9
By copper                                                              12
By iron                                                                17
By different kinds of wood        ....                     from 11 to 17
    Iron and glass appear to be among the best conductors of sound,
which they transmit at the rate of 17,500 feet, or more than 3 miles in
a second.
    Some very interesting experiments on the capacity of solids to con
duct sounds were made by M. Biot, at Paris, in which the research
was prosecuted by more direct means than those last stated, and dif
ferent results were obtained, whence the velocity of the transmission of
sound through cast iron appears to be inferior to the preceding esti
mate. M. Biot took advantage of the circumstance of laying down
trains of cast-iron pipes in the French metropolis to form an aqueduct
 3120 feet in length. At one extremity of the tubes was fitted a ring of
 metal of the same diameter as the orifice, in the centre of which were
 fixed a clock-bell and a hammer which could be made to strike at plea
 sure, in such a manner that the hammer would fall on the bell and on
 the ring of metal just mentioned at the same instant : thus the sound of
 the latter being transmitted through the solid metal or tube itself, and
 that of the former through the aerial canal or cavity of the tube, the
 perceptible difference of the time of transmission by the respective
 media might be determined. It was found that by placing the ear
 against the other extremity of the pipe two sounds were distinctly
 heard ; and time being very accurately noted, by means of a se
 conds' watch, it appeared from a mean of many experiments that sound
 is transmitted with about 10^ times greater velocity through cast iron
 than through air, travelling through the former at the rate of 11,865
 feet in a second.
    It is a commonly-received opinion that acute and grave sounds are
 transmitted in all directions with equal velocity ; and an experiment
 made by M. Biot on the same train of pipes that served for those just
 recorded tends to confirm it. He caused a man at one extremity of the
 train to play various airs on the flute, placing himself at the other end

 254                               ACOUSTICS.
 to observe the effect. Now a piece of music consisting of a series of
 notes varying from acute to grave and the contrary, and forming a pe
 culiar melody, adapted to a certain measure which regulates strictly the
 intervals of the successive tones, it must follow that if at the distance
 of 3120 feet any difference had been perceived in the velocity of the dif-
 ferent notes, the music would have become confused and imperfect at
 the distance just stated. This, however, was by no means the case, the
 melody being as perfect when thus listened to as in the immediate focus
 of the sounds. There can be no doubt that acute and grave sounds are
 transmitted through spaces of no very considerable extent without any
 perceptible difference of velocity ; for otherwise there could be no such
 thing as harmony, or the concord of sounds varying in tone or pitch,
 except in the immediate vicinity of the source of sound. But that all
 sounds pass with equal celerity through the same medium to any ima
 ginable distance seems improbable ; and more numerous and precise
 experiments than have hitherto been made would be requisite in order
 to enable us to decide the point in question.
    Sounds certainly in some respects interfere with each other. Thus
 one sonorous body being made to vibrate, all others near it capable of
 producing the same tone will vibrate also ; and therefore when one
 body is made to produce a certain note, probably its soniferous vibra
 tions would be checked or interrupted by the emission of a more pow
 erful or discordant sound from another body near it. Hence weak
 sounds generally are drowned by loud ones ; and on the contrary, dur
 ing the silence of night, many gentle sounds become perceptible which,
 amidst the din arising from daily labour, business, and pleasure, espe
 cially in a crowded city, are completely stiffed ere they can reach
 the ear.
                          Theory of Musical Sounds.
    Most persons in whom the sense of hearing is perfect possess the
 faculty of distinguishing certain relations between sounds differing is
 tone, that is, being more or less grave or acute one than another ; and
 such persons are said to have a musical ear, or an ear for music* because
   * There are persons who though endowed with the sense of hearing in per
fection, yet appear to be utterly destitute of an ear for music. They seem to

                            MUSICAL SOUNDS.                                 255
pieces of music consist of combinations of such tones or sounds as
those just mentioned.         The manner in which musical sounds are
formed by different instruments, and the peculiar circumstances on
which their mutual relations depend, will now be the subject of inves
tigation.
   It has been already stated that the character of a sound as to gravity
or acuteness, is determined by the number of vibrations in a given time
made by the sounding body and thence propagated through the air, or
some other medium, to the ear. A sonorous body, as for instance, a
bell, the dimensions and general form of which remain unaltered, will,
when struck, always emit the same sound ; for though its sonorous vi
brations may be more or less powerful according to the manner in which
it is struck, they will always be isochronous, or equally numerous in
equal times.       Suppose then a series of three bells to differ relatively
in size, so that the largest should vibrate, when struck, 256 times in a
second, the next 512 times, and the smallest 1024 times, it would be
 found that the first bell would yield the sound or tone called middle C
have no perception whatever of the pleasure generally excited by successions
of melodious sounds, and therefore (if their own professions are to be believed)
they cannot properly distinguish one tone from another, or discriminate be
tween the noise of an itinerant music-grinder and the performance of a musi
cian possessing exquisite skill and taste. It would be unreasonable and unjust
to attribute the alleged indifference of such persons to caprice, and to doubt
their veracity ; for it would be difficult to point out any motive which could in
 duce a person to counterfeit an insensibility to the " concord of sweet sounds."
The writer of this note heard a clergyman of his acquaintance, after having
witnessed the singing of Catalani, declare that he was utterly unable to ascer
tain in what respect her performance excelled that of a common ballad-singer,
gravely averring that he thought the melody of the one just as agreeable as
that of the other. It is deserving of notice that individuals distinguished for
poetical talent have been destitute of an ear for music. This was the case with
the celebrated poet Pope, one of the most exquisitely skilful masters of the me
lody of verse that ever existed, who was unable to perceive any difference be
tween the compositions of Handel and the vilest attempts of a wandering fiddler.
It appears, likewise, that a highly distinguished poet of the present age, Sir
Walter Scott, though not incapable of enjoying music when performed by others,
was utterly unable to acquire a practical knowledge of music ; and that when
 young, having been placed under the tuition of an eminent teacher of music at
 Edinburgh, the attempt to instruct him was relinquished, after a short time, on
the ground that he was totally deficient in that indispensable requisite for ac
 quiring the art—a musical ear. See Annual Biography, vol. xvii. p. 179.

 256                             acoustics.
 of the pianoforte or harpsichord, or that note produced by pressing down
 the central key of the instrument ; the second bell would yield a tone
 an octave above the former ; and the third bell one an octave higher
 still ; for the larger bell would yield the graver sound.
     The number of vibrations which take place in a sounding body, and
 the consequent tone which it yields, depend on several circumstances
 connected with the peculiar form and consistence of the body ; and
 hence the variety of musical instruments, the distinguishing properties
 of which depend on the diversity of modes in which harmonious sounds
 can be formed and propagated. The manner in which the tones are
 emitted by an extended string or wire will afford an example of the
 modifications of sound produced by alterations of the state and condi.
tion of the string as to its dimensions and tension.
    1. When two strings of equal diameter are equally stretched, the
relative numbers of their vibrations, and of the consequent tones thev
yield, will be in the inverse ratio of their lengths : thus if two strings
A and B have the same size and tension, and if A have double the
length of B, the former will vibrate only half as many times in a second
as the latter, and will yield a note an octave below the latter.
    2. When strings have the same length and tension, the numbers of
their vibrations and respective tones will be in the inverse ratio of
their diameters.
    3. When strings have the same diameter and the same length, the
numbers of their vibrations and relative tones will be in the direct ratio
of the square roots of the weights by which they are stretched.
    It will easily be conceived that a string may be extended so slackly,
that when made to vibrate, no audible sound will be produced ; and
from experimental observations it may be inferred that a string vibrat
ing less than thirty-two times in a second will not yield a perceptible
sound.
    Columns of air included within tubes, when thrown into the state
of sonorous vibration, yield tones bearing certain relations to their
lengths ; and other circumstances remaining unaltered, a tube of anv
given length capable of yielding a musical tone, will, when reduced to
half that length, yield a tone an octave higher than before. The fol
lowing scale will show the relative lengths of open tubes requisite to
produce a succession of octaves, commencing from the lowest audible

                    SCALE OF MUSICAL SOUNDS.                            2.57
sound, and with the numbers of the vibrations taking place during the
emission of each sound.
 Scale of Octanes corresponding with certain lengths of open Organ-pipes.
         aa , 16 J s * 9. j i     4 i I <U+2666> \T*,t
                                          si°2j Semi-vibrations in l Second.
   Those who have any acquaintance with musical notation will, on in
spection of the preceding table, perceive that the third and fourth
staves marked with the treble and bass clefs, with the single line be
tween them, include three octaves, while the lines above the treble clef
and those below the bass clef may all be considered as so many ledger
lines. Persons who have no knowledge of music may be informed,
that this scale of nine octaves not only includes the utmost range of
musical tones ever employed in practice, but also that the notes at
either extremity of the scale are rarely introduced, but few instruments
being adapted for the production of such tones.
   The numbers at the bottom of the foregoing scale denote the half

 258                             ACOUSTICS.
 vibrations performed respectively in a second by the several columns
 of air whose lengths are stated above. Sonorous vibrations, like those
 of a pendulum, extend on either side of the point occupied by the vi
 brating body when in the state of rest. Suppose A B, in the marginal
                  figure, to be an extended string or wire ; if it be drawn
                  aside to C, and suffered to vibrate, its oscillations will
                  carry it alternately on either side of the central point
                   E ; and its passage from C to E may be termed a se
                  mi-vibration, but when it has arrived at E, its momen
                  tum will cause it to proceed to D, and thus a complete
                   vibration must include a certain space on either side of
                  the central point or line of rest, to which the string will
                   gradually return as its motion progressively declines
                   through the resistance of the air. If we consider the
                   manner in which sound is propagated, it will be mani
                   fest that it can only affect our ears by means of
 semi-vibrations, for the sonorous undulations of air or any other con
 ducting medium consist of contractions and dilatations through indefi
 nitely minute spaces : and the impression of any particle of air on the
 drum of the ear must be made in its semi-vibration towards the ear,
 while the corresponding semi-vibration will act in the opposite direc
 tion. Hence, in estimating the relations between the tones of a sonor
 ous body, as the string of a harp or pianoforte, and the number of its
 isochronal vibrations, it is usual to reckon the complete vibrations ; and
 therefore, the number of effective or perfect vibrations answering to
 each of the notes in the preceding scale will be just half the number
 stated at the bottom of the scale ; and these numbers will correspond
 with those of the sonorous vibrations of bells mentioned above.
    Musical instruments yield not only octaves, but also a variety of in
termediate tones, which have certain relations to each other; and the
difference between one tone and another, is termed an interval. When
two tones or notes sounded together produce an agreeable effect on the
ear, the combination is called a musical concord ; and when the effect
is disagreeable, it is called a discord. It appears from experiment,
that any two notes will form a consonance or concord, more or less per
fect in proportion as the relation between the numbers of their vibra
tions is more or less simple. Thus, if one note is the result of a number
of vibrations double that of those belonging to another note, the former
will be an octave to the latter, and their vibrations will be relatively as

                              MUSICAL INTERVALS.                                259
% to 1. It has been already shown, that any series of vibrations suc
cessively duplicates of those preceding them will form so many octaves,
all denoted in the gamut or musical alphabet by the same letter. In
deed the agreement between notes produced by series of vibrations,
when those corresponding with the higher or acuter note are exactly
 double, quadruple, eight times, &c., those corresponding with the
lower note, is so perfect, that in musical composition, octaves are con
 sidered as having the same effect with notes whose vibrations are
 equal, and which are therefore said to be in unison. The common mu
 sical scale or gamut includes seven intervals, between one octave and
 the next above or below it, and consequently it consists of eight notes
 taking in the two octaves. These notes have been distinguished bv
 certain names, each formed of a single syllable ;* but it is more usual
  for teachers of music, in this country at least, to designate the notes by
  the first seven letters of the alphabet, and thus the octaves are always
  denominated by the same letter as that from which the scale begins.
      In any series of notes or tones, the number of corresponding vibra
  tions will always increase in a certain ratio to the increased acuteness
  of tone ; and on the other hand, if the notes be produced by a string
  of a given diameter and tension, its length must decrease in proportion
  to the increase of sonorous vibrations and acuteness of tones. The re
   lations between the numbers of sonorous vibrations and the lengths of
   strings required for the prod uction of the notes forming a single octave
   will appear from the following table of the notes of the gamut, or dia
   tonic scale :
                           Names of Notes         elative Number Relative Lengths
                                                   of Vibrations       of Strings.
         c                        ut                    1                     1
          D                       re                   9-8                  8-9
         E                        mi                   5-4                  4-5
          F                       fa                   4-3                  3-4
          G                       sol                  3-2                  2-3
          A                       la                   5-3                  3-5
          B                       si                  15-8                  8-15
          C                       ut                    2                    1-2
      * The adoption o f these names is
    the thirteenth century, who took the first six from the first syllables of each
    line of the first verse of a Latin hymn to St. John the Baptist ; and si was sub -
    sequeutly introduced about 1650.
                                            s2

260                             ACOUSTICS.
   Such is the musical scale that appears to be founded on the relations
between sonorous vibrations and the perceptive powers of man : for it
has been generally adopted with slight modifications by the inhabitants
of all countries with whose music we have any acquaintance. A com.
parison of this table with the scale of octaves in a preceding- page will
show how the gamut may be applied to successive octaves, the notes
in every octave being divided by similar intervals from each other.
The eight or rather seven notes of the gamut (the last being an octave
of the first), are not however separated by equal intervals. On observ
ing the relations between the different numbers of vibrations, we shall
find that the relation or interval between C and D is as 8 to 9 ; that
between D and E, as 9 to 10 ; between E and F, as 15 to 16 ; between
F and G, as 8 to 9 ; between G and A, as 9 to 10 ; between A and B,
as 8 to 9 ; and that between B and C, as 15 to 16. Thus it appears
that the intervals £, J, J, J, and £, are nearly equal ; and they are there
fore regarded as whole tones ; but the intervals \ and % are but little
more than half either of the others, and hence they are named semi-tones.
In transposing pieces of music from one key to another, attention must
be paid to the places of the semi- tones, and hence the principal use of the
marks called flats and sharps ; the effect of which cannot be understood
without some practical acquaintance with music. But though this
gamut or musical scale may be considered as the groundwork of all
existing music, it must be admitted that it does not appear to have
been always known or adopted in its present state, but to have for
 merly consisted of those notes only which are separated by complete
 intervals or whole tones ; for, in the old Scotch and Irish tunes, the
 semi-tones are wanting, and hence the peculiar effect of the national
 music of our northern and western neighbours. And it has been
 stated that the oldest national airs of the Orientals, the people of the
 North of Europe, and even those of the Italians, exhibit the same cha
 racteristic omission of the notes F and B, thus increasing the intervals
 now occupied by the semi-tones in the received scale, so as to make them
 exceed whole tones.
    The combination of notes into a successive series, in which one mu
 sical tone or sound is heard at a time, constitutes melody or air in
 music ; while the synchronous production of sounds, or the union of
 two or more successions of musical tones is requisite to form harmony
 or music in parts. There is thus a radical distinction to be made between
 melody and harmony, sometimes improperly confounded, the former

                       CONCORDS AND DISCORDS.                           261
consisting of music simple and unaccompanied, and the latter of music
in a more complex and artificial form.
    The construction of harmony or composition of accompaniments for
musical airs requires an acquaintance with the concords and discords
of the scale of notes ; in order that the composer may know how to in
troduce them in such a manner as to gratify the ear and produce the
highest effect. Next to the octave, the most perfect consonance of
tones is that produced when the numbers of the vibrations of two
notes are in the ratio of 3 to 2, or when the lower note is formed by a
•string or other sonorous body which makes but 2 vibrations, while the
 string forming the higher note makes 3 vibrations. Such a concord is
 called a fifth, as £ in the preceding table ; C, the lower note, being
 formed by a string which may be 1 foot in length, and G, the fifth note
 above it, by a similar string only § of a foot in length. If the ratio of
 the vibrations be as 5 to 4, that is if the lower note makes 4 vibrations
 in the same time that the higher makes 5, the concord called a third
 will be produced, as |. When (lie ratio of the vibrations is as 5 to 3,
 the lower note making 3 vibrations while the higher makes 5, the con
 cord called a sixth will be produced, as J. And if the ratio of the vi
 brations be as 4 to 3, the lower note making 3 vibrations while the
 higher makes 4, the interval will be a fourth, as £ which is sometimes
 reckoned a concord, as the effect in harmony is not unpleasing. The
 same observation will apply to the minor third, in which the ratio is
 that of 5 to 6, as J ; and the minor sixth, in which the ratio is as 5 to 8,
 as c, the lower note E making 5 vibrations, while the higher C makes
 8. The discords are the second and seventh, the former of which pro
 duced by two notes sounding together, the interval between which is
 only a tone or a semi- tone, is particularly disagreeable. The major
 seventh is the discord produced by notes whose vibrations are in the
 ratio of 9 to 16, as ° ; and the minor seventh is also a discord, arising
 from notes whose vibrations are in the ratio of 8 to 15, as £ : both
 these are sometimes introduced.
     The absolute number of vibrations necessary to constitute any given
 tone or musical note can scarcely be determined with perfect accuracy ;
 for the tone of an instrument which might be presumed to be perma
  nent, as a bell or an organ-pipe, can hardly be supposed to he unaffected
 by the state of the air ; besides which, there may be other circumstances
  which may cause occasional variation in the number of the sonorous
  vibrations even of a bell. Nor is it probable that the vibrations of a

262                            acoustics.
string or wire, under the same circumstances of length, diameter, and
tension, would yield exactly the same number of sonorous vibrations,
irl different states of the atmosphere, and under different degrees of
temperature. Hence considerable difficulties would attend any attempt
to ascertain by experiment the relations between sounds or tones, and
the vibrations of the sounding bodies. It appears, however, from a
paper in the Memoirs of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Berlin,
1823, that some results have been obtained, as the fruit of experimental
researches, which agree as nearly as could be expected with theoretical
estimates previously made, and which may therefore serve as the basis
of future calculations of the numbers of sonorous vibrations corre
sponding with the different tones and semi-tones of the musical scale.
The tone or note whose corresponding vibrations have been made the
particular object of investigation is that marked A, occupying the
second space from the bottom in the stave distinguished by the treble
clef, being the note produced by the second string or smallest but
 one, of the violin, and a sixth above middle C of the pianoforte. The
following are the numbers of the vibrations or waves in a second con
nected with the note in question, as deduced from observations made
 in different orchestras :
                 Theatre at Berlin .               437.32
                 Italian Opera at Paris         .  424.17
                 French Opera                      431.34
                 Comic Opera .                  . 427.61
    The differences between these numbers serve to corroborate the re
marks already made on the difficulty of deciding by experiment the ab
solute number of vibrations which may take place when the perception
of any given tone or musical sound is produced. Still the results ob
tained are valuable, as, by comparing them with calculations made on
different grounds, measures of the ratios of sonorous vibrations may be
deduced which seem deserving of confidence. The number 426J is
nearly a mean between those derived from the observations made in the
Parisian orchestras ; and by adopting it as that of the number of sono
rous vibrations corresponding to the note A formed by the second string
of the violin when open, the number 256 will be obtained as that repre
senting the vibrations connected with middle C, or the sixth below A.
For since the vibrations of A are to those of C as 5 to 3, those of the

                                HARMONICS.                               263
former being 426$ in a second, those of the latter must be 256 ; be
cause, as 5 : 426§ : : 3 : 256. Now this last number being taken to re
present the vibrations corresponding to the note C, marked in music
by the tenor clef, the octaves in the descending or ascending scale will
be denoted by numbers which are so many duplicate multiples of
unity. *
   When an extended string is made.to vibrate by striking it or draw
ing across it a violin-bow, it will yield a tone depending on its dimen
sions and tension ; but besides this, which may be called the funda
mental tone, the string will, when the vibration is caused by striking
it, emit not only its fundamental or proper note, but also other relative
tones, especially the third and the fifth above the proper note. " The
co-existence of these relative tones with the principal one depends on
the excitement of vibrations corresponding with the divisions of the
string which would form the principal concords to the fundamental note.
When the string is made to vibrate by means of a violin-bow the sound
is simple and distinct, arising from the fundamental tone only.
   If a single string of a harp or pianoforte be struck, other strings of
the same instrument tuned in fifths and thirds to the former will be
thrown into the state of sonorous vibration, and as the original tone
becomes weaker the relative tones or sympathetic concords will be more
distinctly perceived. The effect produced on strings by the vibration
of other strings near them, tuned so as to form concords, may be visibly
demonstrated by placing small bits of paper bent into the form of the
letter V inverted thus, A, on one or niore strings, so tuned as to yield
tones an octave, a fifth, or a third above a particular string ; and on caus
ing the latter to vibrate strongly, the other strings will suffer correspond
ing vibrations, as will appear from the bits of paper falling off. Hence sin
gular effects are sometimes produced by the sympathetic influence of
sonorous vibrations. An account of some remarkable experiments illus
trative of the subject under discussion is given by J. B. du Hamel, a
French philosopher of the seventeenth century ; which are the more de
serving of notice, as they are circumstantially recorded. After observ
ing that a glass cup or goblet may be broken by a man's voice, the writer
adds, " First of all it is necessary that the tone which the glass is
                        * See Scale of Octaves, p. 257.

264                            acoustics.
adapted to yield should be ascertained by ringing it, as may be done
by giving it a slight fillip with the finger ; then the voice being accom
modated to that tone, and gradually augmented in loudness and raised
to the octave above the original tone, the imperceptible minute parti
cles of the glass shaken by reiterated concussions will be agitated with
tremulous undulations, which, increasing by the continued operation
of the concussions, will at length attain such force that the glass will
fly in pieces. Some caution is necessary in the choice of a glass, which
should be quite clean, free from any lines or flaws on the surface, and
capable of yielding such a tone when struck, as the voice of the indivi
dual making the trial can easily reach." Another experiment exhibited
at the same time or place is also thus described : " Two glass goblets
are to be procured, into which water is to be poured to the depth of
two or three inches, and they must then, by the addition of more water
to one or the other as may be requisite.be made to yield the same tone
when struck. This having been effected, if a small portion of bent wire
be placed across the edge of one glass, then on rubbing the edge of the
other lightly with a wet finger, the sonorous vibrations thus excited
will be communicated to the glass with the wire on its edge, and while
sound is produced the light fragment of the wire will be seen dancing
as it were to the music of the glasses."*
   The sonorous vibrations of plates or disks formed of elastic solids, as
glass or metal, may be traced and rendered visible, by methods pointed
out by Dr. Cbladni, whose researches concerning the doctrine of
Acoustics have been referred to elsewhere. He ascertained that sounds
might be elicited from plates of glass ground smooth on the edges, by
drawing the bow of a violin over any part of the edge of such a plate ;
and that when sand had been previously strewed over the surface of the
plate, it would become arranged in certain lines according to the man
ner in which the plate was supported. M. Oersted, who repeated,
with various modifications, the experiments of Chladni, ascribes the
production of lines in sand, or any other light powder, as the dust of
lycopodium, strewed on vibrating plates, to electricity.t Mr. Faraday
has recently proposed a different explanation of these phenomena,
which attributes them to the formation of currents in the air surround-
  * J. B. dir Hamel Operum Philosoph., t. ii. Norimb. 1681. 4to. p. 565.
  t See Nicholson's Journal of Natural Philosophy. 8vo. Vol. x. p. 256.

             FIGURES FORMED ON VIBRATING PLATES.                       265
ing the vibrating plate, which, proceeding from the more fixed to the
agitated parts of the plate, pass upwards and involve in their vortex
any light particles of matter which they encounter. He showed that
the current of air could he interrupted by walls of card, when the light
particles took different directions. He observed that particles of heavy
substances, as sand, went to the lines of rest because the current of air
was too weak to carry them in its course : but that light bodies, as
powder of lycopodium, being easily affected by the air in its motion,
passed in a contrary direction. In confirmation of this view of the
subject Mr. Faraday stated that when plates are made to vibrate in
water instead of air the effect is different, particles of sand being then
carried from the quiescent to the agitated parts of the plate, as the
lighter particles were in air ; and also, that when plates are made to
 vibrate in a vacuum, even the lightest particles pass to the lines of rest,
 there being no current of air to sweep them in the opposite direction.*
    These peculiar figures formed on vibrating plates, though apparently
 resulting from simple causes, present sometimes singular appearances.
 The arrangement of the lines of sand, or other substances, depends on
 the manner in which the vibrating plate is supported, and the point at
 which the violin-bow is struck against its border ; as also on the form
 of the plate, and other circumstances already noticed. Some idea of
 the nature of these figures may be derived from the annexed repre
 sentations ; the first figure being produced by holding a square plate
 of glass with a pair of tongs in the centre, and passing the how over the
 middle of the edge at either side ; and the other arrangements depend
 on the shape of the plate and the mode of striking it.
       X
       ?          /
                  \
    * Arcana of Science, 1832, p. 77; from Journal of Science and the Arts,
  edited at the Royal Institution .

266                              acoustics.
   It is in consequence ofthe resonances or sympathetic propagation of
sounds, that in a large apartment, tones are sometimes emitted from the
walls, floor, ceiling, or furniture, owing to the excitement occasioned
by the tone of an instrument or a man's voice acting on some object
adapted to yield a tone in concord with the original tone. It may even
be observed that one part of a floor or any other surface will be thrown
into the state of sonorous vibration by one sound, and another by a dif
ferent sound ; and the tremulous motions thus produced in various
objects may be perceived by the sense of touch.
   The ancient Romans were well acquainted with the doctrine of re«
sonances, and availed themselves of their knowledge in order to facili
tate the propagation of sound through their theatres. The method they
adopted was to inclose in the walls of those buildings hollow globular
vessels, so fixed as to be excited into sonorous vibration by the voices
of the actors, and thus add considerably to their effect.
   Musical instruments, how much soever they may differ one from an
other as to the mechanical modes by means of which they are made to
procure soniferous vibrations, have one common property, namely, that
they all yield the same tone relatively to the numbers of their vibra
tions. Hence the term concert pitch, or the sound of a fundamental
note corresponding to a certain number of vibrations performed in a
given time by the sonorous parts of several instruments which are to
be used in conjunction. Different methods are adopted by musicians
for obtaining an invariable tone, from which they may compare and re
gulate any number of instruments to be used in concert; and the tone
of this note being decided, they proceed to adjust the strings of violins,
violoncellos, and other such-like instruments, so that they may all cor
respond with each other as well as with those instruments which by
their construction are fitted to yield permanent tones. This operation
is called tuning, or putting instruments in tune. Sometimes the fun
damental note is ascertained by means of a pitch-pipe, which consists
of a tube capable of being lengthened or shortened at pleasure by the
introduction of a moveable plug : so that by blowing into it at the
mouth-piece, either of the notes of the gamut may be produced. Another
instrument for obtaining fixed and determined tones is the monochord,*
which is merely a string or wire of given length and diameter, the ten-
        * From the Greek Movoc, one ; and XopJi), a chord, or string.

                      MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.                              267
sion of which may be regulated by certain weights hanging from one
end, while the body of the string passes over two bridges or other solid
supports, and the other end is firmly secured. But the most usual in
strument employed by musicians as the index of a fundamental tone is
that styled the tuning-fork. It is a steel rod curved nearly into the
figure of a sugar-tongs, but having a short handle fixed to the convex
side of the curved part, and terminating in a knob: it may be made to
yield sonorous vibrations, if it be held by the handle so as to leave the
prongs free, and after striking one of the prongs smartly against the edge
of a table or any other solid body, setting the knob against the table.
The sound or tone emitted must depend on the dimensions of the rod
or its prongs : those that are used for tuning pianofortes or harpsi
chords yielding the tone called middle C ; and other tuning-forks
giving the sixth above it, or A, the note which ought to be produced
by the second open string of the violin, whence the other strings of that
instrument are adjusted.
   Instruments of music may be arranged in classes, according to their
forms or modes of action. It will be sufficient here to distinguish
them into stringed instruments ; pulsatory instruments, including
bells, drums, &c. ; those in which sound depends on the vibrations
of elastic rods, hemispheres, or plates ; and wind instruments. The
varieties of the first and the last of these classes are extremely nu
merous; and many of them were invented at a very early period.
It has been questioned which of the two may be justly reckoned the
most ancient. A recent ingenious writer seems inclined to decide in
favour of stringed instruments. He says, " The lyre or harp is surely
as ancient as any instrument on record. The mythologist ascribes the
idea of procuring sound by the vibration of a string to Apollo ; which
is said by Censorinus to have suggested itself to him on his hearing the
 twang of the bow of his sister Diana."* Among the principal varieties
 of stringed instruments are the violin, tenor, violoncello, and double
 bass, in all which the relative gravity or acuteness of the tones they
 emit depends partly on the tension and diameter of the strings, and
 partly on their lengths, which are regulated by stopping them in cer
 tain parts successively by the application of the fingers, principally
 near the neck of the instrument, while the stopped or open string, as
      * Philosophy in Sport made Science in Earnest.  Ed. 1833, p. 300.

268                            ACOUSTICS.
may happen, is made to vibrate by drawing across it a bow armed with
horsehair. As more than one string may be put into the state of sono
rous vibration at one time, harmony or music in parts, as well as me
lody may be elicited from the violin and similar instruments.           In the
hands of skilful performers the violin exhibits unrivalled powers ; as
tiio.se who have witnessed the magical execution of Paganini, will in
general be readily disposed to admit. Those who have never heard
him may acquire some faint idea of his extraordinary skill from the cir
cumstance of his being able to produce abundance of excellent music
from his instrument after having made a monochord of it, by taking
away all the strings except one. The guitar somewhat resembles the
violin in figure and construction, but it is played on usually by twitch
 ing the strings with the fingers, and a variety of notes may be pro
 duced by stopping the strings with the left hand, so as to regulate the
numbers of their vibrations and consequent tones. The performer
 generally uses the guitar to furnish an accompaniment to the voice :
 its power alone being inconsiderable. The harp is likewise played on
 with the lingers, but its strings are numerous and all open. The
 pianoforte and the harpsichord have also distinct strings for each tone
 and semi-tone ; and like the harp they are adapted for the performance
 of music in parts ; so that they may serve either for playing sympho
 nies or other pieces of music wholly instrumental, or for accompani
 ments to the voice.
    Pulsatory instruments of music display considerable varieties of
form, comprising the double drum, the opposite ends of which yield
 different tones when struck, for the parchment covering one extremity
is, by regulating its relative degree of tension, made to yield a sound
 which is a fifth in tone different from that of the other extremity ; kettle
 drums consisting of copper hemispheres, the open ends of which are
 covered with parchment, and two such drums properly tuned being
 used, they may be introduced instead of a double drum, but will be
 distinguished by a peculiarity of intonation, though yielding the same
 notes ; the tambourine, a well-known instrument, resembling in prin
 ciple the preceding ; besides some others of a similar nature. Bells,
 gongs, &c., are open hemispheres, or conical instruments made of some
 sonorous metals ; the latter of which, used in China, are large and very
 powerful instruments. Among recently-invented musical instruments
 is one called the Harmonica, constructed by ranging in one or more

                         WIND INSTRUMENTS.                          269
lines a number of small oblong disks of glass, each adapted, by its vi
brations when struck, to yield one of the notes of the gamut or common
musical scale, including two or more octaves according to the size of
the instrument : the disks are fixed securely at one end only, so that
they vibrate freely on striking them with a hammer much like the
hammers of a pianoforte. Glass hemispheres or bell-shaped goblets,
fixed in a frame, and tuned to the gamut, by pouring in more or less
water, form an agreeable instrument of music, played on by striking the
edges with a violin-bow, or by being thrown into the state of sonorous
vibration by gently touching them with wet fingers. There are several
varieties of these instruments, which, as well as the preceding, have
received the names of harmonica, and harmonic glasses.
    Wind instruments display no less variety in their construction and
mode of action than stringed instruments ; and in the opinion of some
antiquaries they were invented at a more remote period than the
latter. The general principle they involve is that of the production of
sounds by the vibrations of columns of air, usually contained in tubes,
whose relative lengths and those of the included columns determine
the numbers of the synchronous waves or vibrations to which the tones
or musical sounds emitted owe their character as to gravity or acute-
ness. Instruments of this class have been distributed into three kinds :
(1.) those in which the contained column of air is made to vibrate by
blowing forcibly into one end of an open tube ; (2.) those in which the
vibration of the air is caused by blowing through a solid mouth-piece,
at one end, which merely limits the size and figure of the aperture,
and thus adds to the force with which the air is introduced through it ;
 (3.) wind instruments played on with a reed or very elastic mouth
piece, the primary vibrations of which highly augment the sonorous
 vibrations of the column of air. There is likewise a distinction to be
made between tubes open at both ends, without any lateral apertures,
 and those which have several such apertures, the obvious effect of
 which must be to lengthen or shorten the tube, or rather the column of
 air in it, on the dimensions of which the sonorous vibrations and con
 comitant sounds must depend.
    Among the first-mentioned species of wind instruments must be in
 cluded the trumpet, the bugle-horn, the French-horn, Pan's pipes, and
 some others, which however they may differ in form, or in the effect of
 the tones they yield, are all made to sound by blowing through a circu

270                             acoustics.
lar aperture ; and from these the German flnte is distingui ihed merely
by having the aperture through which air is admitted in the side of
the tube, while the end is closed. To the second species of instru
ments belongs the flagelet, which is played on by means of an ivory
mouth-piece, having an aperture of invariable dimensions. The third
species of wind instruments comprehends several varieties, some hav
ing mouth-pieces possessing a slight degree of flexibility, as the cla
rionet ; others are played on with a reed, forming a highly flexible
 mouth-piece, as the hauthoy and the bassoon. The diversity of sounds
 produced by different sets of organ-pipes, answering to the respective
 stops of the instrument, depend on the peculiar forms of the pipes, and
 especially on the manner in which the air is admitted into them. The
 J ews-harp, an instrument too generally known to need description, and
 commonly despised as utterly insignificant and inharmonious, is how
 ever deserving of particular notice, not only as being a wind instru
 ment affording sounds on somewhat different principles from those
 above described, but likewise because, in the hands of more than one
 performer, it has been found capable of producing considerable effect,
 and exciting the admiration of musical amateurs. As the Jew's-harp
 has no cavity, it is almost inaudible when struck, till it is placed between
 the lips and teeth of the performer, and thus the sonorous vibrations on
 which its tones depend are formed in the mouth, the tongue or bent
 wire belonging to the instrument acting the part of a reed. Three
 tones or notes only can be produced by means of a single harp : the
 lowest of which may be termed its fundamental note, and the others are
its principal concords the third and fifth. From a scale so limited it
 would be impossible to derive melody, much less harmony ; and there
 fore the instrument was neglected by regular musicians, though com
monly used among the peasantry in many parts of Europe, and parti
cularly in the Netherlands and in the Tyrol. Some kind of improve
ment was effected by the Tyrolese, by uniting two Jew's-harps, or using
two at once ; and this method was adopted by a Prussian soldier, men
tioned in the Memoirs of Madame de Genlis, as having acquired the
art of playing on this instrument with so much skill and taste that he
was beard with pleasure and surprise by the king, Frederic the Great,
who possessed considerable knowledge of music, and was himself a
good performer on the German flute. But to the more recent labours
of M. Eulenstein we are indebted for the complete development of the

                  VIBRATION OF COLUMNS OF AIR.                        271
powers of this little instrument. He devoted ten years to the study of
its capabilities, and the means of removing its defects ; and having ascer
tained the compass of tones belonging to it, as stated above, he conceived
the idea of extending its power, and supplying the intervals wanting,
so as to complete the gamut through several octaves, by joining six
teen Jew's-harps, and then tuning them by fixing more or less sealing,
wax at the extremity of the tongue. By means of this construction he
effected his object, as by rapidly changing from one harp to another,
be could elicit any series of tones, and perform pieces of music in a
manner which delighted and astonished those who heard him.
   It appears, both from theory and experiment, that in the fundamental
sound of a tube open at both ends, the portions of the included column of
air on the opposite sides of the centre ofthe tube move in directions con
trary to each other. This principle is ingeniously confirmed and illus
trated by Mr. Wheatstone, in a paper read before the Royal Institution,
Mar. 16, 1832 ; when he exhibited the phenomenon in question, by means
of an apparatus consisting of a leaden tube about an inch in diameter
and thirteen inches long, bent nearly into a circle, so that its two extre
mities might be opposite to each other, with a small space between them.
Within this space, equidistant from each end of the tube, was held the
vibrating part of a square plate of glass thrown into a state of vibration,
either by means of a violin-bow, or a hammer, so as to produce its
lowest sound, or that denoted by Chladni's first figure. By this ar
rangement, the plate advancing in its vibration towards one end of the
tube, and receding at the same instant from the other, the effects neu
tralize each other, and no resonance, or augmentation of the original
sound takes place. In the middle of the tube was a joint, which al
lowed either half to move independently round the axis of the tube ;
and thus the two ends could be brought to the opposite sides of portions
of the plate which were vibrating at the same moment on contrary sides
of the neutral plane : in this case the impulses were made at the same
instant towards each end of the tube, and the augmentation of sound
was considerable.* Hence it appears that in a tube or pipe, open at
both ends, the vibrating column will he double, and therefore only half
the length of that in a similar tube closed at one end ; so that the latter
would yield a tone an octave lower than the former.
   Mr. Wheatstone investigated the modes of vibration of columns of
                    * Report of British Association, p. 556.

272                              ACOUSTICS.
air in conical tubes, and ascertained that the air in a tube of this form, ex
cited into vibration at its closed end, or at the summit of the cone, yielded
the same fundamental sound, and the same series of harmonics as a cylin
drical tube open at both ends. Thus he showed that the trumpet, French-
horn, and hauthoy pipes of the organ, all being conical pipes, produced the
same sounds as the cremona pipe, a cylindrical tube, excited in the same
manner, and only half their length. He likewise compared the hauthoy,
a conical tube, with the clarionet, a cylindrical tube of the same length,*
and demonstrated that in the former the fundamental sounds were the same,
 absolutely and relatively, as in the flute, a tube of the same length, open at
 both ends ; and that in the latter the fundamental sounds were relatively
 as those of a tube of similar length closed at one end. A tube or pipe,
 the upper aperture or mouth-piece of which is placed close to the lips,
as in the case of the trumpet, French-horn, or clarionet, is to be consi
 dered as open at the lower end only ; and thus its tones are relatively
 deeper and more powerful than those of the German flute or flagelet,
 tubes open at both ends ; for the aperture through which the flute is
 blown or made to sound, is not covered by the lips of the performer ;
 and though the mouth-piece of the flagelet is covered in play in g on that
 instrument, it is reduced to the state of a tube open at both ends, in
 consequence of its having a lateral aperture near the upper extremity.
    The theory of musical sounds may be elucidated from the considera
 tion of the manner in which tones are produced from the French-horn.
 As the harmonics or concords of a fundamental note may be obtained
 by the division of a vibrating string into certain proportions, so the same
 series of tones may be formed by the spontaneous division and subdi
 vision of the column of air contained in the French-horn. When thi9
 instrument is used in concert, it must always be adjusted to a certain
 length, by increasing or diminishing the number of the cranks, or cir
 cular tubes of which it is composed ; so that the gravest tone it will
 yield may correspond with the key-note or fundamental tone of the
 piece of music to be performed. Suppose this tone to be C, if then the
 horn, properly adjusted, is blown gently, this note will be heard; a
 stronger blast will double the number of the sonorous vibrations, and
 produce an octave above the first note ; by increasing the force of the
 blast may be obtained in an ascending series a fifth, then an octave
 above the second C ; then a third, a fifth, and an octave above the third
^^       * The bell shaped part of the clarionet has no effect on its tone.

                             ^OLIAN HARP.                               273
 C ; then a fourth octave, including nearly all the tones of the common
 musical scale. Thus in the French-horn, the common bugle-horn, and
 other instruments formed on the same plan, the different tones are pro
 duced by varying the impulse given to the included column of air in
 blowing them ; while in such instruments as the German flute, the same
 effect is more perfectly obtained by altering the length of the vibrating
 column, which is done with the requisite ease and rapidity by the aper
 tures alternately opened and closed by means of the fingers or keys.
    The JEolian harp, in point of construction, is a stringed instrument,
 but its sonorous vibrations are caused by the impulse of the air ; and its
 tones may be characterized as the music of nature improved by art. It
 usually consists of an oblong deal box, four or five inches high, and
 adapted to the aperture formed by nearly closing a sash window, so
that the current of air passing through the opening may sweep over
wires or harp-strings, extended lengthwise upon the top of the box, in
which there must be sound-boles like those of a violin, and the wires
 are to be supported and stretched by a bridge at either end. Four
 strings or wires may be tuned so that the third may be an octave above
the first, the second a fifth above the first, and the fourth a fifth above
the second. But various numbers of strings and arrangements may
be adopted, in consequence of any of which, alternately increasing or
diminishing strains of wild harmony will be elicited from the instru
ment by the fluctuating impulse of the wind. A colossal imitation of
the instrument just described was invented at Milan in 1786, by the
Abbate Gattoni. He stretched seven strong iron wires, tuned to the
notes of the gamut, from the top of a tower fifty feet high to the house
of a Signor Moscati, who was interested in the success of the experi
ment ; and this apparatus, called the Giant's Harp, in blowing weather,
yielded lengthened peals of harmonious music, now swelling in loud
chorus, and seeming to fill the atmosphere, then dying away on the
breeze like the soft tremulous murmurs of a common iEolian harp.
 In a storm this aerial music was sometimes heard at the distance of
several miles.
   The music ofnature exhibits boundless variety as to the combinations
of tones, and the several modes in which they are produced. But be
sides the warblings of the feathered choir and abundance of other vocal
sounds with which we are familiarly acquainted, there are some which
are constantly emitted under certain circumstances, yet, though curious

  274                            acoustics.
  and interesting, they seldom attract our notice. Bees, gnats, and many
  other winged insects in their passage through the air excite sonorous
  vibrations by the viewless flutterings of their wings or other membra
  nous parts of their structure. The intermitting note of the grasshopper
  is probably the result of a similar mechanism ; but some insects of this
  tribe seem to be furnuhed with a peculiar organization for the pro
  duction of their music . In the Edinburgh Journal of Science (No. 17.)
  is an account, by Dr. Hildreth, of North American Cicada.-, or locusts,
  furnished with bagpipes on which they play a variety of notes. He says,
  " When any one passes they make a great noise and screaming with their
  air-bladder or bagpipes. These bags are placed under and rather be
  hind the wings, in the axilla, and something in the manner of using the
  bagpipes, with the bags under the arms. I could compare them to
  nothing else ; and indeed I suspect the first inventor of the instrument
  borrowed his ideas from some insect of this kind. They play a variety
  of notes and sounds, one of which nearly imitates the scream of the tree-
  toad." Some birds yield musical tones through the percussion of the
  air by their wings in flight. This circumstance, which perhaps has
  escaped the attention of naturalists, is particularly observable in the
  lapwing, or as it is sometimes called from its cry, the pewit. This bird
  is an inhabitant of the furze-clad downs of Wiltshire ; and when it
  stoops near the ground, in its circling course through the air, as it ap
  proaches the observer, a sound may be heard resembling the distant
  tone of a French-horn, entirely distinct from the dissyllabic scream
  from which it derives its provincial name ; and which is formed like
  the cries of other animals in the throat or larynx. The peculiar clang
  ing tone first mentioned seemed, as far as could be guessed from re
  peated observations, to be nearly the same note with middle C of the
  harpsichord. It is manifestly caused by the reverberation of the air
  against the hollow sides of the broad wings of the bird in its rapid
  wheeling flight ; and it is heard only when it happens to come very
  near the observer.
                              The Human Voice.
     Among the most curious works of nature, must be reckoned the or
  ganization on which depend the tones of the human voice. The most
  ancient physiologists regarded the trachea or windpipe as the immedi
  ate organ of sound, comparing it to a flute, and ascribing the voice to
,

                         ORGANS OF SPEECH.                             275
the impulse of air against its sides in its passage into the lungs. But
Galen controverted this erroneous opinion, by showing that the voice
is formed during the expiration of air, or its passage from the lungs, and
in its escape from the larynx, at the back of the mouth. Besides the
lungs, which propel air in the same manner as it is propelled by a bel
lows into the pipes of an organ, the parts essential to the production of
vocal sounds are the trachea or windpipe, the larynx, and its appen
dages. The windpipe, as the term implies, is merely a cartilaginous
canal through which the air issues from the lungs ; the larynx is an
enlarged continuation of the windpipe, formed, like it, of cartilage or
gristle, membrane and muscle ; but it is more complicated, terminating
above in two lateral membranes, which approach near together, leav
ing only an oblong narrow opening, called the glottis. The cartilages
of the larynx admitting of some degree of motion by means of their at
tached muscles, the membranes of the glottis, which are connected
with them, may be extended or slackened, and thus the vibrations of
the air passing through the glottis are regulated, and sounds are modi
fied as to tone.     Tendinous cords or ligaments are also extended
within the larynx, which are supposed by some physiologists to co
operate with the membranes of the glottis in producing sonorous
vibrations. The glottis, or rather the membranes which compose it, thus
appears to form the immediate organ of sound ; which has been aptly
enough compared to the reed of a hautboy, since it is composed of thin
vibrating plates, with a narrow variable opening between them. But
the surpassing delicacy of the organization in the construction of the
glottis abundantly demonstrates the superiority of the works of nature
over the most elaborate efforts of art. Dodart, a French physician, who
in the beginning of the last century investigated the structure of the
vocal organs, made a calculation whence he inferred that the intervals
of sound capable of being perceived by the ear correspond to con
tractions of the glottis less than ^ part of its diameter. It is pro
bable, however, that the diversity of tones is caused not merely by
alterations in the dimensions of the glottis, but is partly dependant on
the lengthening or shortening of the entire tube of the trachea, includ
ing the larynx, and by corresponding alterations in the form and size
of the cavity of the mouth. Yet the power of varying the tones of the
voice in singing must depend chiefly on the susceptibility of the mem
branes of the glottis, the firmness and elasticity of the cartilages of the
                                    t2

   276                            acoustics.
  larynx, and the strength of the muscles by which they are moved, and
  that of the muscles of the chest concerned in respiration.
     That the sound of the voice wholly arises from the passage of air
  from the lungs through the glottis, is proved by the fact that when the
  windpipe is wounded below the glottis so that the air in expiration
  passes through the wound, the power of forming sounds is destroyed ;
  while a wound in the throat which leaves the glottis and parts below it
 uninjured, produces but little effect on the voice ; and if a piece be cut
  out of the windpipe of a man or any animal similarly constituted, the
 power of uttering sounds of which he is thus deprived will be restored
 by carefully closing the artificial opening in the windpipe, so that the
 air no longer escaping by it, may pass through the glottis as usual.
 Hence those unfortunate persons who cut their own throats so as to
 wound the windpipe but not the large blood-vessels, immediately
 breathe through the wound and become silent, but as soon as the
 wound is dressed and the air no longer passes through it, the power of
 speaking is in some degree restored.
     The tracheal canal, including the larynx, may even be entirely de
 tached from the animal to which it belongs without losing its property
 as a vocal instrument. The celebrated naturalist Cuvier, having cut
 oft' the head of a screaming bird so as to leave the glottis and parts be
low it entire, the creature still uttered cries for some time after its de
capitation, the organ of voice remaining uninjured. An animal recently
dead may be made to utter sounds as when living, as appears from
experiments made by M. Ferrein, in 1741, and repeated by M. Biot, a
few years since. The latter gentleman employed in his researches the
larynx of a pig, with the trachea attached to it, and to the opening of
the latter, he fitted the bellows of an organ, and by varying pressure
on the larynx with his hand he could increase or diminish the aperture
of the glottis while forcing the air through it, so as to imitate exactly
the grunting of the pig. The same philosopher subsequently con
structed an artificial glottis, the lamina; or membranous plates forming
the opening being made of gum elastic ; and having adapted it to the
pipe of a pair of bellows, he was thus enabled to produce vocal sounds*
    The aperture of the glottis is naturally more contracted in females,
   * V. Sigaud cle la Fond Elem. de Phvs., vol. iii. p. 551 ; Teyssedrc EU'm. dfc
Phys., p. 214.

        FORMATION OF VOCAL SOUNDS BY MECHANISM.                     277
and in males before the age of puberty, than in adult males ; and there
fore, women and children have shriller voices than men, the difference
of tone commonly amounting to about an octave. The entire compass of
voice in female singers is usually more extensive than in men ; for
though their scale of musical sounds commences at a relatively high
tone it ascends yet higher in proportion.
   The human voice may be so modulated as to form a vast variety of
musical sounds or tones with rapidity and precision far beyond the
effect of any instrument formed by art ; for vocal music, on account of
its superiority over instrumental music, in point of expression, must
always be regarded as the highest excellence of the art. But the vocal
organs not only afford tones or sounds distinguished by relative gravity
or acuteness, but also modifications of sound, forming the basis of lan
guage ; and to the possession of the faculty of speech, and the inter
change of vocal and audible signs, man is greatly indebted for his supe
riority over the brute creation. It is during the transmission of the
sonorous vibrations through the mouth that the peculiar effect is pro
duced which communicates to the ear the sounds of letters and words,
constituting language. The most simple of these articulate sounds are
those corresponding with the vowels, the differences between which
depend on enlarging and contracting the cavity of the mouth while they
are uttered. The consonants, which, it hardly need be observed, can
not be enunciated without the addition of a vowel, require more com
plicated motions of the parts of the mouth ; and hence some of them
are called gutturals, as being formed in the back part of the mouth ;
some dentals, as requiring the application of the tongue to the teeth ;
and others labials, because they cannot be distinctly pronounced with
out moving the lips.
   The success of the researches of men of science concerning the
theory of vocal intonation has occasioned different attempts to pro
duce speaking machines, the operation of which should depend
wholly on mechanism. In 1779, a prize was offered by the Academy
of Sciences at St. Petersburg, for the best dissertation on the theory
of vowel sounds, illustrated by actual experiments ; and it was
awarded to G. R. Kratzenstein, an account of whose researches was
published in the Transactions of the Academy. This ingenious phi
losopher, showed that the sounds of the four vowels, A, E, O, and U,
might be obtained by blowing through a reed into several tubes, the

278                            ACOUSTICS.
forms of which are represented in the annexed figures 1, 2, 3, and 4 ;
and that the sound of I, as pronounced by the French and other con
tinental nations was produced by blowing at a, into the pipe No. 5,
without using a reed. Kratzenstein continued his investigations, but
probably he did not obtain results of greater importance, as he never
published any further account of the progress of his inquiries.
   M. de Kempelen, of Vienna, who distinguished himself by the con
struction of an automaton chess-player, which excited much attention
when first exhibited at Paris and in London, also devoted his ingenuity
to the contrivance of a speaking machine. He succeeded so far as to
produce an instrument capable of uttering certain words and short
phrases in French and Latin. The sounds appear to have been pro
duced by means of a single cavity, the form and dimensions of which
might be modified at pleasure. It has been described as consisting of
a box, about three feet long, placed on a table and covered with a cloth,
under which the operator, in exhibiting its powers, introduced both his
hands, one of which probably was employed in pressing on keys which
might communicate with pipes after the manner of those of an organ.
This machine was only shown to the private friends of the inventor,
and it does not appear that it was ever completed.*
   A gentleman of Cambridge has more recently prosecuted experi
ments on the formation of articulate sounds ; and having adopted the
method of Kempelen, in using a single cavity, he found that by blow
ing through a reed into a conical cavity the vowel sounds could be
produced by altering the dimensions of the aperture for the passage of
  * See Nicholson's British Encyclopaedia, art. Androkidks ; EncyclopaHiia
Metropolitana, art. Automaton.

                          REFLECTED SOUND.                              279
air from the cavity by means of a sliding board. He also found that
when cylindrical tubes, the length of which could be varied by sliding
joints, were adapted to the reed, the series of vowels could be pro
duced by gradually lengthening the tube : and when its length was
augmented in a certain proportion the same vowels were repeated but
in inverted order ; and by a further augmentation of the length of the
pipe, a second repetition of the vowels took place in direct order.
These results are highly curious, and Sir David Brewster, after no
ticing them, and adverting to some important discoveries recently
made by M. Savart, relative to the mechanism of the human voice,
expresses an opinion that, "before another century is completed, a
talking and a singing machine will be numbered among the conquests
of science."*
    The degree of accuracy with which some birds, and especially par
rots, imitate the human voice, depends more on their propensity to
mimic the sounds they hear than on any peculiar qualifications they
possess for giving utterance to articulate tones ; and therefore many
other animals, beasts as well as birds, might be taught to speak by any
one who was disposed to bestow sufficient time and labour on such a
task. Pliny the Elder mentions certain nightingales, which spoke
Latin and Greek ;t but, as the authority of that ancient writer may be
considered as somewhat dubious, it will be more to the purpose to ob
serve, that Father Pardies, a learned Jesuit, gravely asserts that dogs
had been taught music, and that one of them was so apt a scholar, that
he could sing a duet with his master. The celebrated philosopher
Leibnitz has given an account of a dog which he saw and heard speak,
after it had been under tuition three years. This animal could pro
nounce thirty words, such as tea, c°ffee, ch°colate ; and he merely re
peated them after first hearing them from his master.}
                              Reflection of Sound,
    When sonorous vibrations are propagated through a mass of matter
of great extent, and of uniform density and elasticity, as when they are
   * Letters on Natural Magic, p. 21 1.
  + Plinii Histor. Natur., lib. x. cap. 42.
   t Histoire Critique de l'Ame des Bttes. Amsterd. 1749. t. ii. p. 50. De la
Connoissance des Betes, p. 129. Histoire de l'Academie des Sciences. An. 1715.
p. 3.

280                             acoustics.
continued uninterruptedly through the open air, the sounds will be
heard alike in every direction, and become dissipated or lost in the sur
rounding space. But if they impinge on some obstacle which inter
rupts their progress, they will be driven back or reflected ; and thus a
wall, the face of a rocky cliff, the surface of water, or even a dense
body of vapour, may cause the reverberation of sound.
                           The reflection of sound takes place according to
                        the same laws that govern the reflection of per
                        fectly elastic solids. Hence the sonorous vibra
                        tions being propagated in right lines, the angle of
                        reflection is always equal to the angle of inci
                        dence. Thus suppose a sound to be emitted
                        from A in the annexed figure, and to impinge on
                        a dense plane, E B F at B, it will return in the
                        same line B A, and the reflected sound will be
                        heard at A after the original sound, constituting
                        what is termed an echo.1* If, however, the sound
be emitted from D so that the line of its direction may form an oblique
angle with the plane E F, it will be reflected from B in the line B C,
forming a similar oblique angle with the plane E F. The velocity of
the reflected sound is precisely the same with that of the direct sound ;
therefore the sound will be returned from B to C in the same time that
it passes from D to B. Hence the sound uttered at D will be heard
by a person stationed at C at the end of a period double that which it
takes to pass from D to B. So that as sound travels at the rate of
1130 feet in a second, if the distance from D to B should be 2821 feet,
the echo will be heard at C in half a second, for in that time the sound
would be conveyed 282| X 2 = 565 feet.
   It is requisite that the reflecting body should be situated at such a
distance from the source of sound that the interval between the percep
tion of the original and the reflected sounds may be sufficient to pre
vent them from being blended together. When they become thus
combined the effect is termed a resonance, and not an echo. The shortest
interval sufficient to render sounds distinctly appreciable by the ear is
about i!, of a second ; therefore when sounds follow at shorter intervals
they will form a resonance instead of an echo. So that no reflecting
                  * From the Greek 'Hx^, a reflected sound.

                                 ECHOES.                                 281
surface will produce a distinct echo unless its distance from the spot
whence the sound proceeds should be at least M\ feet, as the sound
will in its progress forward and return through double that distance,
113 feet, take up ]'0 of a second. Resonances, or combinations of
direct and reflected sounds are heard more or less in all inclosed places
of moderate extent ; and as they occasion some degree of confusion in
the perception of sound, inconvenience arises from this source in rooms
appropriated to the purposes of oratory, the voice of a speaker being
heard but indistinctly, especially in some situations ; but in a concert-
room such resonances are rather advantageous, at least they would add
to the effect of instrumental music.
    Some echoes will repeat but one syllable or distinct sound, while
others will repeat several in succession. Hence the distinction of
 monosyllabic and polysyllabic echoes. As it would be impossible to
 pronounce more than ten syllables in a second intelligibly, it must fol
 low, that if the reflecting body causing an echo should be so near the
 speaker as to return his voice in .,'- of a second, the last syllable onlv of
 a word uttered would be distinctly re-echoed, for all the preceding
 would be confounded together. Therefore, if the distance of the re
 flecting object were but 56^ feet, the sound in going and returning
 through twice that space would take up but '0 of a second, and the
 echo would consequently be monosyllabic. If the distance of the re
 flecting object were 113 feet two syllables might be returned; and in
 general there would be as many syllables repeated as the multiples of
 56J in die number of feet between the source of sound and the reflector.
     It will be obvious that two persons may be so situated that one may
 hear the echo of the voice of the other without perceiving the original
  sound ; for the voice impinging obliquely on a reflecting surface may
  be conveyed uninterruptedly to a person placed in the line of reflection,
  while some intervening obstacle may prevent the direct passage of the
  sound. Thus two persons standing one on each side of a mirror might
  see the reflected figures of each other in the glass, though an opaque
  body might entirely conceal from either the real figure of the other.
     Such echoes as have been now described would be produced by a
  single reflecting body, which would necessarily return or repeat but
  once each original sound. The most remarkable echoes, however,
  are those which have been termed polyphonous, because they mul
  tiply sounds, or yield several repetitions of a single original sound ;

282                             ACOUSTICS.
the echo arising from successive reflections from a number of different
surfaces. Numerous instances of extraordinary echoes are related by
travellers and other writers. Dr. Plot, in his History of Oxfordshire,
gives an account of an echo in the park at Woodstock, that would re
peat seventeen syllables in the day-time, and twenty at night : the air
being more elastic during the day than in the colder season of the
night, the sound would travel faster, and be returned more speedily by
the diurnal than by the nocturnal echo. On the north side of the parish
church of Shipley, in Sussex, there is an echo which will repeat twenty-
one syllables. Among the echoes which repeat the same sound many
times one of the most noted is that mentioned by Father Kircher and
Caspar Schott in the seventeenth century, and subsequently by Misson
and our celebrated countryman Addison, as existing at the Marquis of
Simonetta's villa, near Milan, in Italy. It is produced by two parallel
walls constituting the wings of the building, and the echo, which is
best heard from a window between them, will repeat a single word
more than forty times, and the report of a pistol nearly sixty times ;
but not with perfect distinctness except early in the morning or late in
the evening, in calm weather. There is an analogous echo at Verdun,
produced by two towers distant from each other about 165 feet ; and a
single word uttered loudly by a person standing between them, will be
heard repeated a dozen times. On the Rhine, near Lurley, is a re
markable echo, described by Dr. Granville, caused by the reverberations
of sound from the rocky banks of the river, which may be heard to the
greatest advantage from a boat in the middle of the stream. This echo
repeats musical sounds, gradually fading on the ear till they die away ;
and it resembles the polyphonous echoes, which are heard on the Lakes
of Killarney in Ireland. A wonderful echo is mentioned by Father
Gassendi in his remarks on Diogenes Laertius, since he states that
Boissard heard the first verse of the JEneis,
               Anna virumque cano Ttojae qui primus ab oris,
repeated eight times at the tomb of Metellus, an ancient monument
near Rome. At Genetay, near Rouen, in Normandy, a curious echo
is said to exist, the effect of which is such, that a person singing will
hear only his own voice, while others at a distance hear the echo and
not the original sound ; sometimes the reflected sound seems to ap
proach, and at other times to recede, and the sounds are heard in
different directions, according to the situation of the hearer.

        REFLECTION OF SOUND FROM CURVED SURFACES. 283
                                            The reflection of sound instead
                                         of producing an echo may have
                                        the effect of concentrating sono
                                        rous vibrations so as to render
                                        sounds audible with the utmost
                                        distinctness at considerable dis
                                        tances from the places where thev
                                         are emitted. This may happen in
                                         consequence of repeated reflec
tions from a curved or polygonal surface, so that the sound being ut
tered in the focus of one reflecting surface it will be conveyed to the ear
placed in the focus of another reflecting surface. Thus a sound too
weak to be heard in the direct line A B, in the marginal figure, may be
augmented by reflection from B to C, and thence to A, and also by a
number of intermediate reflections from a, b, c, d, e, and various
other points, all tending to A ; so that a whisper or the scratch of a pin,
which could not be conveyed directly from B to A, would be heard
plainly by accumulated reflection from different points in the circular
surface B C A. The most trifling sound may thus be heard from the op
posite side of the circular gallery at the base of the dome of St. Paul's
cathedral, London, hence called the whispering gallery. There is also
a whispering gallery in Gloucester cathedral, where a narrow passage
seventy-five feet in length extends across the west end of the choir ;
and the wall forming five sides of an octagon, the voice of a person
whispering gently at one end of the gallery is carried by reflection to
the ear of a person on the other side of the choir.
   In a very similar manner sound is concentrated by reflection,
from the focus of one reflecting surface to that of another in an;
elliptical vault. The cupola of the Baptistery of Pisa is thus con
structed ; so that a person placed in one focus may distinctly hear a
whisper uttered in the other focus, though it would be inaudible in the
intermediate space. The cathedral of Girgenti, in Sicily, affords an
example of a similar construction ; in consequence of which the gentlest
whisper may be plainly heard from the cornice behind the high altar
by a person at the great western door, a distance of two hundred and
fifty feet. The ecclesiastics, ignorant of this circumstance, had un
luckily placed the confessional in the focus of one of the reflecting sur
faces, and persons who happened to have found out the place whither

284                            ACOUSTICS.
sounds were conveyed, amused themselves for some time by resorting
thither to hear secrets intended only for a confessor : at length one of
these indiscreet listeners was punished by hearing his own wife confess
her frailty ; and the affair becoming public, the confessional was re
moved to a more secure spot.
   The concentration of sounds sometimes produces very singular
effects, of which an instance is thus related by Dr. Arnott: " It happened
one day on board a ship sailing along the coast of Brazil, far out of
sight of land, that the persons walking on deck, when passing a parti
cular spot, heard very distinctly, during an hour or two, the sound of
bells, varying as in human rejoicings. All on board came to listen,
and were convinced ; but the phenomenon was most mysterious.
Months afterwards it was ascertained, that at the time of observation
the bells of the city of St. Salvador, on the Brazilian coast, had been
ringing on the occasion of a festival : and their sound, therefore, fa
voured by a gentle wind, had travelled over perhaps 100 miles of
smooth water, and had been brought to a focus by the concave sail in
the particular situation on the deck where it was listened to."*
   There are some echoes for which it is more difficult to account. Such,
for example, as that observed by M. Biot in the aqueducts of Paris,
where on speaking at the extremity of a tube 951 metres in length, the
voice was repeated sixtimes. The intervals of these echoes were equal,
each being about a half-second ; the last returning to the ear after three
seconds, that is, after the time requisite for the sound to pass through
the space of 951 metres. Similar echoes have been noticed in the long
galleries of mines. M. Beudant observes that probably, in the experi
ment of Biot, the tubes were not laid exactly in a straight line, nor
throughout of the same diameter; and that in the galleries of mines it
may be imagined that the walls or sides were not parallel.t
   The conveyance of articulate sounds by means of tubes through con
siderable distances from one part of a building to another is now com
monly practised in London and other places. By this method a mes
sage or inquiry can be communicated from a person in his study or
office, in the upper part of a high building, to clerks or workmen in the
lower part, without loss of time or inconvenience.
   The facility with which the voice thus circulates through tubes was
                  * Elements of Physics, vol. i. p. 538.
                  t Beudant Elera. de Pnys. pp. 367, 388.

                       THE INVISIBLE GIRL.                          285
probably known to the ancients, and certainly to the cultivators of phi
losophy in the middle ages. Pope Sylvester II., whose proper name
was Gerbert, was almost the only man of science living in the tenth
century, and not now forgotten. By his contemporaries he was re
garded as a magician, because among the wonderful machines he con
structed was a speaking head of brass. Albertus Magnus, and our
countryman Roger Bacon, in the thirteenth century, incurred similar
odium, in consequence of their having formed speaking figures. There
can be no doubt that each of these ingenious men adopted the method
now described of conveying sound from a distance, so that it might ap
pear to proceed from an inanimate bust or statue.
   By far the cleverest deception of this kind was an exhibition which
took place at Paris several years since, and afterwards in London, ap
propriately styled the Invisible Girl, since the apparatus was so con
trived that the voice of a female at a distance was heard as if it ori
ginated from a hollow globe not more than a foot in diameter, suspended
freely from wooden framework, by slender ribbons.
   A perspective view of the machinery, and a plan of the globe and ad-
joing parts as constructed by the inventor, M. Charles, are given
below. It consisted of a wooden frame, much resembling a tent

286                            ACOUSTICS.
bedstead, formed by four pillars A, A, A, A, connected by upper
cross-rails, B, B, and similar rails below, while it terminated above
in four bent wires, C, C, proceeding from the angles of the frame,
and meeting in a central point. The hollow copper ball, M, with
four trumpets, T, T, issuing from it at right angles, hung in the
centre of the frame, being connected with the wires alone by four
narrow ribbons, D, D. Any question or observation uttered in a low
voice close to the open mouth of one of the trumpets elicited a reply
which might be heard from all of them, the sound being perfectly dis
tinct, but weak, as if it was emitted by a very diminutive being. The
real speaker was a female concealed in an adjoining apartment, and the
means by which her voice was made to issue from the globe in the
manner stated were at once very simple and ingenious. Two of the
trumpet mouths, T', T2, as represented in the plan, were exactly oppo
site apeitures leading to tubes in two of the cross-rails, which meeting
at the angle A , opened into another tube descending through the pillar,
and which was continued under the floor into an adjoining apartment,
where a person sitting might hear what was whispered into either of
the trumpets, and return an appropriate answer by the same channel.
This machinery differs from the common speaking-tubes, previously no
ticed, merely in the addition of the hollow ball and trumpets, by means
of which the voice is reflected from the cavity of the globe through the
trumpets T1, T4, into the tube of communication ; and thus the effect
produced is rendered abundantly mysterious, to those unacquainted
with the principles of Acoustics.
   The Speaking-trumpet, used by captains of ships, is an instrument
adapted for increasing the intensity or loudness of sounds, by multi
plied reflection. It consists of a conical tube, as represented above,

                           VENTRILOQUISM.                             287
open at both ends, about three feet in length, and formed of cop
per or tin plate. On speaking slowly and distinctly with the mouth
applied to the opening A, the sound after being reflected from the sides
of the tube in the direction of the cross-lines, will escape from the wide
extremity B, and be conveyed to a distance proportioned to the length
of the tube and the diameter of its bell-shaped aperture. Kircher, in
his " Phonurgia Nova," published in 1673, claims the invention of the
speaking-trumpet, referring to his '* Musurgia," 1650, for an account
of the instrument ; but his contrivance seems to have been constructed
on the principle of the tubes of communication mentioned above, rather
than on that of the speaking-trumpet, which was more probably in
 vented by Sir Samuel Morland, who gave a description of it in a work
 which was printed in London, 1671, under the title of " Tuba Stentoro-
 phonica." It is by no means necessary that the speaking-trumpet
 should be composed of a metallic substance, for the sonorous vibra
 tions will be propagated in the same manner and with equal effect
 through a similar tube lined with cloth.
    A Hearing-trumpet is nothing more than a funnel-shaped tube, like
 a reversed speaking-trumpet ; which, when the small end is held to the
 openirg of the ear, conveys to the person using it articulate sounds
 from without, increased in intensity by repeated reflections from the in
 side of the tube. M. Lecat invented a double acoustic tube, by which
 concentrated sounds might be conveyed to both ears at the same time ;
 and which may be used with great advantage by those whose auditory
 faculty is impaired.
    The art of ventriloquism appears to depend in some degree on the
 reflection of sound within the mouth. Professor Dugald Stewart
 attributed the talent of exciting the perception of articulate sounds, in
 such a manner as to give them the effect of emission from various dis
 tances and directions, wholly to deception and the power of imitation.
 Those who have witnessed the curious monopolylogues, as he appro
 priately styles them, of Mr. Mathews, in his theatrical exhibitions, will
 readily admit that feigned dialogues and other vocal illusions, in which
 the sounds apparently issue from an object very near the performer,
 may be solely the effect of exquisite mimicry. The celebrated Peter
 Pindar, or rather Dr. Wolcot, possessed considerable talent as a mimic,
 and he sometimes amused his friends by the display of his skill. He

288                              ACOUSTICS.
would quit his apartment on the first floor, as if to speak to a person
waiting for him, and shutting the door on those within, he would stand
at the stair head, and bold a fancied conversation with his laundress,
the bard speaking alternately in his own natural tone of voice, and in
the shriller key resembling the voice of a female. He would repre
sent the visiter as demanding payment of her account, and, in spite of
the excuses and expostulations of the bard, raising her voice in reply
to each apology, and becoming gradually more and more abusive, till
at length, when the company, who heard all, might suppose that he had
lost all patience at the woman's pertinacity and insolence, the dialogue
would be suddenly terminated by a noise which seemed to indicate
that he had kicked the laundress down stairs. Such an exhibition,
whimsical enough to those not in the secret, would obviously require
much less skill and address than the scenes where the performer stands
in presence of the audience.
   The deceptions of the ventriloquist are produced in a different man
ner, requiring not only the faculty of disguising the voice so as to
 imitate other sounds, but also the art of determining the apparent
source of sound. Among the numberless examples of the feats on re
cord relative to the professors of this art is the following, related as an
ear-witness, by Van-dale, the author of a treatise on Oracles. There
was, in 1685, in the hospital for the aged at Amsterdam, a woman,
seventy-three years old, whose name was Barbara Jacobi, and who was
visited by a vast multitude of persons on account of her talents as a
ventriloquist. She lay on the side of a small bed, the curtains being
 undrawn, and turning as if to talk to a man near her whom she called
Joachim, she returned answers to her own questions or remarks in a
feigned voice. She would accuse her supposed companion of gallan
tries with other females, make replies for him, sometimes as if he was
laughing, sometimes crying, now uttering groans, and then singing
songs, and all with such address and effect, that the illusion was com
 plete ; and the by-standers occasionally would not be convinced that
 she had no associate till they had satisfied themselves by searching the
bed*
   * Antonii Van Dale Polyatri Harlemensis Dissertationcs de Orijrine ac
 Progressu Idololatriee et Superstitionum. 4to. p. 652.

                             VENTRILOQUISM.                              289
   This woman, who was famous for her skill, is also mentioned by
Balthasar Bekker, in his curious treatise entitled, " The Enchanted
World ;" and another Dutch writer, John Conrad Amman, in his Dis
sertation on Speech, states, that he had heard her singular dialogues,
and that the feigned voice she uttered seemed to issue from a spot at
least two paces from her.* The Abbe de la Chapelle, a learned French-
man, who was a Fellow of the Royal Society of London, wrote a dis
tinct work on Yentriloquism.t in which he has collected a great num
ber of notices of persons skilled in this art, and of their singular ex
ploits. Among those whom he commemorates, was M. St. Gille, a
grocer of St. Germain en Laye, whose exhibitions the Abbe not only
witnessed himself, but he likewise introduced him to the members of the
French Academy, and many other persons, and had frequent opportu
nities of studying his mode of operation. Another distinguished ven
triloquist to whom his work relates, was the Baron von Mengen, a
nobleman of Vienna, who in a letter addressed to M, de la Chapelle,
states, that he had acquired a facility in speaking as a ventriloquist,
by mere practice commenced when a boy, but he professes himself un
able to communicate the art to another. Amman, in the passage quoted
below, expressly asserts that the effect is produced by speaking during
the act of inspiration, or drawing air into the lungs, instead of speak
ing while the air is passing out as usual. The Abbe de la Chapelle
attempts to controvert this notion, which, however, seems to be
founded on correct observation, as articulate tones can be thus formed
differing in intensity from those emitted in the customary mode. Yet
some further modification of the speech appears to be requisite to pro
duce all the effects described ; and one of the most essential peculiari
ties will consist in the art of enunciating all, or nearly all, the letters of
the alphabet without moving the lips.
    It is a remarkable circumstance that the art of ventriloquism is
 practised among the Esquimaux, by individuals who have acquired
 among their countrymen the reputation of being wizards. The late
   * " Amstelodami olim vetulam quandam audivi utroque modo loquentem,
 sibique ad qusesita quasi inspirando respondentem, ut earn cum Viro, duos ad
 minimum passus ab ea remoto, colloqui dejerassem : Vocem mini- inter in-
 spirandum absorptam, & longinquo venire credebam."—Dissertat. de Loquela.
 Lugd. Bat. 1717. 12mo. p. 117.
   t Le Ventriloque ou l'Engastrimythe. Par M. de la Chapelle, Censeur
 Royal a Paris, &c. Deux parties. A Londres, 1772. 12mo.

290                             acoustics.
Captain Lyon, one of the officers who visited the Arctic regions
a few years since, had opportunities of witnessing the exhibitions
of one of the most skilful of the Esquimaux ventriloquists, and
he published an interesting account of the observations he made on
those occasions. One of the most important circumstances which he
noticed was that the ventriloquist, after having uttered a protracted
sound, which lasted while Captain Lyon had made two inspirations
after holding his breath as long as possible, emitted a " powerful yell,
without a previous stop or inspiration of air."* Doubtless the previous
lengthened sound was produced during inspiration, and therefore the
succeeding yell relieved the distended lungs. This observation thus
agrees with those which have been made on other ventriloquists. But
there seems to be little probability that this subject will be perfectly
understood till some skilful ventriloquist may choose to investigate
the manner in which the vocal organs are employed in forming such
anomalous sounds, and communicate the result of his researches to
the public.
        * Private Journal of Capt. G. F. Lyon. 1834. p. 358, 361, 366.

PYRONOMICS.
     oS

  HEAT, BY ENTERING BODIES, EXPANDS THEM, THROUGH A RANGE WHICH IN
CLUDES, AS THREE SUCCESSIVE STAGES, THE FORMS OF SOLID, LIQUID, AND AB
OR GAS ) BECOMING THUS IN NATURE THE GRAND ANTAGONIST AND MODIFIER OP
THAT ATTRACTION WHICH HOLDS CORPOREAL PARTICLES TOGETHER, AND WHICH,
IF ACTING ALONE, WOULD REDUCE THE WHOLE MATERIAL UNIVERSE TO OKI
SOLID LIFELESS MASS,
                                   Dr. ArnotVs Elements of Physics.
    "

                        PYRONOMICS.
   Among those branches of natural philosophy which have attained
the rank and importance of distinct sciences, in consequence of the
researches of our contemporaries, must be included that, the object of
which is, to explore the properties and operations of heat. To de
signate this department of human knowledge, Sir John Leslie has
adopted the term Pyronomics, which signifies the laws of heat.* The
effects of heat, or rather of relative temperature, have so striking an
influence on all bodies around us, and it produces such varied and
singular consequences, that whether considered as arising from the
modifications of matter with which we are most intimately acquainted,
              * From the Greek IMp, fire, and No/40c, a law.

 294                          PYBONOMICS.
 or as depending on the presence of some peculiar subtile agent, it
 most be desirable that the phenomena should be classed and ar
 ranged so as to form a systematic series of facts and observations ; and
 to such a system the appellation Fyronomics may be appropriated, as
 expressive of the objects to which it relates.
    The cause of heat has formed a subject of controversy among modern
 philosophers ; some of them ascribing the phenomena in which it is
 concerned to intestine motions of the minute particles of bodies, ana
 logous to those which give rise to sound ; while others have endea
 voured to prove that heat arises from the presence of a peculiar fluid,
 nr ethereal kind of matter, such as that which has been regarded as
 the cause of light. If such a fluid exists it must be destitute of weight,
 tor it has been ascertained from experiment that the addition of heat
 to any substance produces no sensible alteration in its gravitative
 force. Dr. George Fordyce instituted researches concerning the effect
 of temperature on the weight of bodies, whence it was concluded that
 the abstraction of heat from water occasioned an increase of weight.
  He inclosed 1700 grains of water in a glass globe, and having sealed
 it hermetically, after ascertaining the weight of the globe and its con
 tents with the utmost accuracy, he immersed it in a freezing mixture,
  and on weighing it again after the liquid had become entirely con
  gealed, he found it had gained -| of a grain.* Guyton Morveau, and
  Chaussier, made corresponding experiments in France, on water and
  on sulphuric acid, from the results of which they drew the same in
  ferences. Other philosophers, however, made comparative trials of
  the weight of water and sulphuric acid in the liquid state, and when
  reduced by cooling to the solid form, without being able to detect any
  difference of weight appreciable by the most delicate balances. The
  apparent effect of the variation of temperature on the weight of bodies
  as noticed in the above experiments, may be attributed to the influence
  of the frozen mass on the density of the surrounding air ; therefore, if
  we admit the observations to be perfectly correct, it may still be con
  tended that they are not conclusive. Count Rumford having sus
  pended a bottle containing water, and another containing spirits of
  wine, to the arms of a balance, and adjusted them so as to be exactly
  in equilibrium, he found that it remained undisturbed when the water
                    See Philosophical Transactions; vol. lxxv.
^\

           EFFECTS OF CHANGE OF TEMPERATURE.                         295
was completely frozen, though the heat the water had lost mast have
been more than sufficient to have made an equal weight of gold red-
hot. If, therefore, with Lavoisier and his associates (the founders of
what has been styled the Antiphlogistic System of Chemistry), we
suppose heat to be matter rather than motipn, it must be allowed to be
an imponderable fluid, and also, as denominated by some philosophers,
an incoercible fluid, for though it passes through some bodies with
more difficulty than through others, there is no body or kind of matter
which can completely arrest its progress. The terms Caloric* and
Matter of Heat have been adopted to designate the hypothetical cause
of those phenomena which are referred to the science of Pyronomics ;
and without admitting the separate existence of such an agent as the
caloric of the French chemists, the term may sometimes be advan
tageously employed to denote the amount of effect produced by relative
changes of temperature in the same or in different bodies.
   A variety of phrases occur in our own and other languages ex
pressive of the effects resulting from alterations of temperature, both
as regards the impression on our senses, and the changes of form or
structure produced in the bodies around us. When we touch a sub
stance more heated than the hand applied to it, the sensation arising
from it is styled warmth ; and that caused by a substance less heated
is named chilliness or cold. But warmth and chilliness, or heat and
cold, thus used, are merely relative terms ; for a substance which would
excite in one person the sensation of heat, might at the same time seem
cold to another ; and if a man, after holding one hand near a fire for a
few minutes, and laying the other on a cold stone or marble slab, were
to dip both in a basin of lukewarm water, the liquid would warm the
cold hand and cool the warm one. Dr. James Hutton says, " There
is, perhaps, no subject in which the language and ideas of men are
more vague, or more distant from true science, than in those of heat and
cold. The reason of this will not be difficult to assign. Heat is a
term which is applied in different cases ; for it is both a principle of
action in external things, and a principle of passion in our sensitive
mind. But this is only a part of that intricacy with which this appa
rently simple subject is necessarily involved ; for when heat is a prin
ciple of action in external things, there are two different effects which
                       * From the Latin calor, heat.

 296                           PYRON0M1CS.
 occasionally follow this principle as a cause. First, bodies are by
heat distended or expanded in their volume : here is one distinct effect.
 Secondly, without being thus distended by heat, bodies in receiving
 that distending cause, are made to lose their hardness, or concretion,
 and become fluid in their substance : here, then, is an effect distinctly
 different from the other ; and both of these are perfectly different from
 the feeling of heat and cold which is the immediate information of the
 sense." *
    Among the terms indicating various effects or operations of heat, or
 the appearances which we are accustomed to ascribe to its action on the
 several substances around us, are some which imply a connexion be.
 tween heat and light : thus a body like red-hot iron, or burning coals
 is said to glow or be glowing ; a luminous vapour issuing from a bum
ing body is called flame, and such a body may be said to flame or blaze
 when any substance exhibiting these appearances becomes dissipated
 or dispersed through the air, either wholly or partially, the operation is
 styled burning or combustion ; and when a heated body emits light
 without combustion, it is said to be incandescent, or in the state of in
 candescence. The appearance of heat and light in conjunction is often
 designated fire, a term used by ancient philosophers as characteristic
 of the matter of heat, and regarded as one of the four elements.
    The effects of heat on our senses are too variable and fallacious to
 afford any important assistance in the investigation of its nature and
 properties ; and the principles which form the foundation of the
 science of Pyronomics must therefore be derived from the considera
tion of those phenomena which always appear under certain circum
stances, so that we can produce them at pleasure by proper arrange
ments, and estimate with precision the results of combinations by
means of which heat is accumulated or dispersed, and its operation on
bodies induced, modified, or terminated. The distinguishing properties
or effects of heat, or those phenomena which arise from its addition to
material bodies, or more simply from the augmentation of their tem
perature, are of three kinds. 1 . Mere dilatation, or increase of volume,
which occurs in solids, liquids, or gases, without any change of form.
2. Transformation of a solid to the liquid state, as in dissolving ice or
   * A Dissertation on the Philosophy of Light, Heat, and Fire, by J. Hutton
M.D., F.R.S.E. 1794. pp. 7, 8.

                          SOURCES OF HEAT.                            297
melting lead ; and of a liquid to the gaseous state, as in forming steam
from water, or vapour from any liquid, by boiling or distillation.
3. Destruction of the texture of bodies by combustion, in consequence
of which new combinations of the constituent particles of bodies are
formed, the investigation of which falls within the province of the
chemist rather than of the natural philosopher.
                             Sources of Heat.
   Before proceeding to notice in detail the properties and phenomena
of heat some attention may be advantageously directed to the sources
or efficient causes of heat. These are radiation from the sun together
with light ; certain mechanical operations, as friction, percussion, and
compression ; and a variety of chemical operations, especially com-
bnstion. Heat is also evolved from living animals and vegetables,
either by the immediate influence of the vital powers of organized
nature, or in consequence of chemical processes, modified by the pe
culiar properties of organic matter.
   That the sun is the grand fountain of heat, or the principal cause of
elevation of temperature by its action on bodies exposed to its rays, is
a fact too obvious to require demonstration. As to the manner in
which the effect is produced, differentopinions have been entertained.
The generally received popular notion concerning the nature and con
stitution of the sun, as the source of light and heat, is that of an inex
tinguishable mass of matter in a state of intense conflagration ; or, in
other words, a globe of perpetual fire, the idea of which has manifestly
been derived from comparison of the property of giving heat and light
common to the sun, and to flames arising from combustible substances.
Sir William Herschel entertained a very different opinion relative to
the nature of the solar orb, which from numerous telescopic observa
tions, he was led to imagine to be an opaque globular mass, encompassed
by an atmosphere consisting of transparent elastic fluids, from the de
composition of which heat and light were continually proceeding ; and
he conceived that the body of the sun, far from being the seat or foun
tain of perpetual fire, might with probability be regarded as a world
furnished and inhabited like the earth to which we are confined. In
teresting, however, as such speculations may be, they are not necessarily

298                           PYRONOMICS.
connected with the subject before us, and must therefore be dismissed
with this short notice.
   In reference to the sun as a principal source of heat the question
will recur, whether heat is a peculiar kind of ethereal matter, which
may be emitted from the sun, or rather according to Herschel's hypo
thesis from the solar atmosphere, and radiating through space to
gether with light, be absorbed by various bodies on the surfaces of the
earth and other planets, producing the effects of sensible warmth, ex
pansion of solids and fluids, melting of solids, and boiling or evapo
ration of liquids, and in some cases, destruction of substance accom
panying chemical combinations ;—or whether heat and its concomitant
phenomena just mentioned may not arise from the propagation of
motion through space ; the sun or its atmosphere being the grand ex
citing cause of heat, and producing it in a manner analogous to that ia
which sound is produced by a bell. According to the former mode of
theorizing we must admit the existence of a peculiar penetrating fluid
emanating from the region of the sun, and entering with greater or less
facility into all terrestrial bodies, on which it produces its character
istic effects : and on the latter supposition, it must be admitted that
there exists in the space between the sun and the planets an ethereal
medium of inconceivable tenuity, through which vibrations can be pro
pagated with velocity immensely beyond those to which are to be attri
buted the phenomena of sound.
   Heat, as depending on the influence of the sun is unequally dis
tributed over the surface of the earth. Owing to the oblique position
of the earth's axis, the solar rays fall more directly on cenain parts
of its surface at one season of the year than at another ; and the in
equality of effect arising from this cause, is in some degree compen
sated by the greater length of time during which the sun shines con
tinuously on those parts of the earth where the direction of the solar
rays is least favourable. Thus under the equator the length of the
days never exceeds twelve hours, while they increase in extent on pro
ceeding towards the poles, and at the north and south poles the sun
shines six months together, and then for six months remains invisible,
so that the year consists of one long day and night. The relative
influence of the sun as the cause of heat, at different parts of the earth's
surface, attracted the attention of Dr. Halley, who laid the result of
his observations before the Royal Society, in a " Discourse concerning
the Proportional Heat of the Sun in all Latitudes, with the method of

                           HEAT OF THE SUN.                           299
collecting the same." He asserts, that considering the action of the sun
as the only cause of the heat of the weather, he " could see no reason,
but that under the pole, the solstitial day ought to be as hot as it is
under the Equinoctial when the sun comes vertical, or over the
zenith : for this reason, that for all the 24 hours of that day under the
pole, the sun's beams are inclined to the horizon with an angle of 23J-
degrees ; and under the Equinoctial, though he come vertical, yet he
shines no more than 12 hours, and is again 12 hours absent ; and that
for 3 hours 8 minutes of that 12 hours, he is not so much elevated as
under the pole ; so that he is not 9 of the whole 24 higher than 'tis
 there, and is 15 hours lower."* He subsequently adds, " It is reason
 able to conclude, that were the sun perpetually under the tropick, the
 pole would be at least as warm as it is now under the line itself. But
 whereas the nature of heat is to remain in the subject, after the cause
 that heated is removed, and particularly in the air ; under the Equinoc
 tial, the twelve hours absence of the sun in a very small degree lessens
 the motion impressed by thepast action of his rays, wherein heat consists,
 before he rises again. But under the pole, the long absence of the sun
 for six months, wherein the extremity of cold does obtain, has so chilled
 the air that it is as it were frozen, and cannot, before the sun has got
 far towards it, be any way sensible of his presence, his beams being
 obscured by thick clouds and perpetual fogs and mists, and by that
 atmosphere of cold, as the late Honourable Mr. Boyle was pleased to
 term it, proceeding from the everlasting ice, which in immense quan
 tities does chill the neighbouring air, and which the too soon retreat of
 the sun leaves unthawed, to increase again, during the long winter
 that follows this short interval of summer."t Dr. Halley proceeds to
 notice the influence of local circumstances on the temperature of differ
 ent regions, referring to the effect of the neighbourhood of high moun
 tains, and wide sandy deserts. But his grand object was to ascertain
 the relation between temperature and latitude, as depending on the
 direction of the sun's rays, and the respective intervals during which
 they operate. Since the beginning of the present century, avast num
 ber of facts have been accumulated relative to this interesting subject ;
 and the observations on temperature made in different parts of the
                       * Miscellanea Curiosa, 1705, p. 258.
                       t Idem, p. 260.

300                           PYRONOMICS.
world, and especially in high northern latitudes, have enabled men of
science to form much more accurate conclusions relative to the tem
perature of the earth as influenced by its position at different seasons
of the year, than those deduced from mere theoretical calculations.
From a comparison of the researches of Humboldt in the equatorial re
gions of the earth, with those of Captains Scoresby and Parry in the
colder climates of the north, it has been concluded that there must exist
two poles of maximum cold, one in America, and the other in Asia ;
and that the utmost depression of temperature takes place, not at the
north and south poles of the earth, but at those imaginary points.
This is not inconsistent with the observations of Dr. Halley, for tem
perature and climate must depend much on the figure of the great
continents of the world ; besides which there are a variety of circum
stances which must tend to modify the influence of solar heat as con
nected with the situation of places on the surface of the earth. Mr.
Atkinson, in a paper in the " Memoirs of the Astronomical Society*
(vol. ii.), estimates the mean temperature of the equator at 86°.o5;
and that of the pole at — 10°.53. Mr. Forbes regards the former as de
cidedly too great, and says " it is probable that the mean temperature of
the equator does not exceed 81°.5 or 82°." The mean temperature at
the pole can only be inferred from observations at very high latitudes ;
and hence the following table of mean temperature becomes interesting
and important.
                             Lat.            Mean Temp.              Observer.
Melville Island              74|° .        • - if.                 Parry.
Port Bowen .                 73* .         . + 4 .                 The same.
Igloolik     . .             69i .         . + 7 ,                 The same.
Winter Island
Fort Enterprise
                             66J
                             64i .
                                    .      .. ++151n ..            The same.
                                                                   Franklin.
   " M. Arago had concluded from the results of Scoresby, Parry, and
Franklin, that the mean temperature of the pole is — 13 deg. Fahren
heit. This, however, is upon the idea that the cold is at a maximum
at the pole, which is not probable : it cannot, however, be much short
of that intense degree."*
  * Report upon the Recent Progress and Present State of Meteorology. By
James D. Forbes, F.R.S., in Rep. of the British Association for 1832, p. sij.

                  CENTRAL HEAT OF THE EARTH.                          301
    The relative decrease of heat in ascending ahove the surface of the
 earth is a subject highly deserving of investigation. Mr. Forbes says,
 " The true law of decrease of temperature, such as it would be if the
earth was removed, must be sought for probably by successive stages of
 balloon observation, commencing at a considerable height above the
 surface." The best observations on the relative diminution of heat at
 increasing heights, are those of Humboldt, derived from experiments
 made in the equatorial regions of America. The general result of his
 researches gives 121 toises of ascent for a diminution of 1 deg. of
 Reaumur's thermometer. Comparative observations at Geneva and on
 Mount St. Bernard afford a coincident result highly remarkable, the
 difference of mean temperature of the two stations being 8 deg. 64 min.
 Reaumur, for 1069 toises, which gives 123£ for 1 deg. Reaumur, or
 352 feet for 1 deg. Fahrenheit ; and this is probably the most correct
 mean result which can at present be attained.*
    An inquiry has been started whether the climate of a particular
 place, or that of the globe in general, has materially altered during the
 period of historic record ; and some writers have been inclined to
 decide in the affirmative, alleging the statements of historians that the
 vine was cultivated extensively for the production of wine in England
 formerly, though our summers are now too cold to bring the fruit to
the requisite degree of maturity. Circumstances of this nature, how
 ever, cannot be considered as decisive ; and it may be generally con
 cluded that we have no authority for assuming such a change.
    Yet though the temperature of the earth may be regarded as per
manent, so far as it depends on the heat derived from the sun, there
seems to be great reason for believing that the whole mass of the ter
restrial globe is undergoing a gradual process of cooling, from an
originally very intense temperature. The late Baron Fourier, who dis
tinguished himself by his investigations relating to this curious topic,
has proved that the heat may be very intense at a short distance from
the surface, and yet from the extremely bad conducting power of the
crust or exterior strata of the earth, that it may exert no sensible in
fluence on the climate : he actually computes it as not amounting
to 3'0 of a degree of the centigrade thermometer. Towards the centre of
                               * Idem, p. 219,

302                           PYP.OXOSflCS.
the earth the heat may be of the most extreme intensity, and the pheno
mena of earthquakes and volcanoes may be imputed to its influence.
The process of cooling, which at first must have been comparativerr
rapid, may be considered as having reached such a rare as to be imper
ceptible. From experiments made at Paris, in the caves tinder the
Observatory, it is probable that the influence of the sobu- ravs does not
extend more than about 100 feet beneath the surface. Therefore the
beat there will be nearly invariable ; and throughout the superior strata
a constant influx and efflux of heat must be going on. As the influence
of the sun does not extend beyond a certain depth beneath the suriace
of the earth, it might be expected that beyond such depth the tem
perature would continue the same all the year round in every inferior
stratum relatively to its position ; and that this is the case has been
ascertained by M. Cordier, from a collation of numerous facts observed
in Cornwall, Saxony, Brittany, Switzerland, America, and other parts
of the world. It also appears that in all the inferior strata- the tem
 perature increases as we descend, without any exception : a circum
 stance considered as decisively proving, that there must be a source
 of heat in the centre of the earth.*
    Hence it may be concluded, in conformity with the most rational
 geological speculations, that the planet which we inhabit was at a very
 remote period in the state of fusion, and like other semi-fluid masses
 revolving rapidly under the influence of central forces, it has assumed
 its peculiar form a flattened spheroid. During how many ages the
 terrestrial globe continued to emit heat from its surface before compact
 strata were formed, such as the various modifications of primitive rocks
 which we behold, and how much longer time elapsed before those rocks
  became the basis of this world of land and water, numerously peopled
  with living beings as at present, it would be utterly useless to attempt
  to conjecture. It is sufficient for us to be able to state, as the result of
  the most accurate and extensive observations, that the internal heat of
  the earth no longer affects in a sensible degree the temperature of its
  surface, or of the strata immediately beneath the surface ; and there
  fore the varieties of climate, and the alternations of heat and cold in
                     * Report of British Association, p. 221.

               PRODUCTION OP HEAT BY FRICTION.                                303
the different seasons of the year, as well as the changes attributable to
incidental causes, are chiefly owing to the influence of the sun, as the
general efficient source of heat.*
   Among the mechanical means of producing, or rather of exciting
heat, friction is perhaps the most usual and effective. In sawing
wood, or boring metal, it may be observed that the substances thus
exposed to friction soon become sensibly warm. The wheels of car
riages sometimes take fire, from friction against the axles when in
rapid motion. In some rude countries, as in Patagonia, the inhabit
ants avail themselves of this mode of procuring fire. They either rub
together two pieces of hard dry wood till flame arises, or more artifi
cially insert the blunt-pointed extremity of a rod of hard wood in a
small cavity in a thick plank, and turning it with great velocity be
tween their hands tbns obtain sparks and flame.
    Count Rumford instituted some important experiments on the effect
of friction in producing heat. Having observed that great heat was
excited during the operation of boring cannon, he procured an un-
bored cannon, with the large projecting piece two feet beyond its sur
face, which is usually cast with the cannon to ensure its solidity ; this
projecting piece was bored and reduced to the form of a hollow cylin
der, attached to the cannon by a small neck ; the apparatus being
   * Some very remarkable instances have been recorded of extreme heat, as
noticed by several observers. In Winkler's Elements of Natural Philosophy,
vol. i. pp. 179— 182, are two tables of very high and very low temperatures ob
served at different times, and in various situations, collected by Professor Hein-
sius. The highest atmospheric temperaturewhich he records was observed at
Senegal, on the coast of Africa, in Lat. 16 deg. N. April 12, 1738, when the heat
was 86J deg. of Delisle's thermometer, corresponding to 108J deg. Fahrenheit.
This temperature was considerably below that observed at Bagdad, in August,
1819, as stated in the Journal of Science, Literature, and the Arts, edited at
the Royal Institution, 1820, vol. ix. p. 423. " On the 26th of August, last year
(1819), the thermometer at Bagdad rose in the shade to 120 deg. Fahrenheit,
and at midnight was 108 deg. : many persons died, and the priests propagated
a report that the day of judgment was at hand." The greatest heat accurately
observed in England of which we have authentic accounts, took place in 1808
and 1825; July 13, 1808, the thermometer, according to the Royal Society's
register, rose to 93.5. ; and Mr. H. Cavendish's thermometer at Clapham,
to 96 deg. Dr. Heberden observed the heat in July, 1825, and found that on
the 18th of that month the thermometer stood at 96 deg., and on the following
day at 95 deg. See Philos. Trans. 1826, part ii. p. 69.

304                           PYRONOMICS.
wrapped in flannel to prevent the escape of heat, it was made to re
volve on its axis by the power of horses, while a steel borer pressed
against the bottom of the cylinder. The temperature of the metal at
the commencement of the operation was 60 deg. and the cylinder, having
made 960 revolutions in half an hour, it was stopped, and the tempera
ture was found raised to 130 deg. In another experiment a borer was
made to revolve in a cylinder of brass, partly bored, thirty-two times
in a minute; the cylinder was inclosed in a box containing 18 pounds
of water, the temperature of which was at first 60 deg., but rose in an
hour to 107, and in two hours and a half the water boiled.
   Stockenschneider, an ingenious mechanic of Nieuburg on the
Weser, invented a machine, by means of which great heat might be
produced, and water boiled by friction.
   Air does not appear to be necessary to the production of heat by
the attrition of solid bodies. Boyle procured sensible heat by making
two pieces of brass move rapidly in contact under an exhausted re
ceiver. Pictet, of Geneva, repeated the experiment with success, and
found that the introduction of a soft substance between the rubbing
surfaces, such as cotton, occasioned an increase of heat. Sir H. Davy
insulated an apparatus for exciting heat by friction, by placing it on
ice, in the vacuum of an air-pump, under which circumstances heat
was produced. He likewise ascertained that two pieces of ice might
be melted by rubbing against each other, either in the air of a room
below the freezing point, or under an exhausted receiver.
   Compression produces heat either in solids, liquids, or gases. An
iron bar may be hammered until it is red hot ; and water strongly com
pressed gives out heat, as appears from the experiments of Dessaig-
nes, as well as from the interesting researches of Mr. Perkins on the
compressibility of liquids, which have been noticed elsewhere.* So
lids also give out heat when violently extended, as may be ascertained
by stretching suddenly a piece of Indian rubber, and immediately ap
plying it to the lip, when a sensible degree of warmth will be felt,
Mr. Barlow, in his account of some experiments on the cohesion of
malleable iron, states it as a curious fact, and deserving the attention
of philosophers, that frequently at the moment of rupture the bar ac
quired such a degree of heat in the fractured part as scarcely to suffer
                   * See Treatise on Hydrostatics, p. 122.

                             COMBUSTION.                              305
a person to hold the bar grasped in his hand, without a slight painful
sensation of burning.*
   But the effect of compression is exhibited in a more striking man
ner in the production of heat from gaseous fluids, as common air.
When air is forcibly compressed by driving down the piston of a sy
ringe, nearly closed at the end, great heat is produced ; and syringes
have been constructed for the express purpose of procuring fire, the heat
evolved by the compression of air in this manner being sufficient to
kindle dry tinder or touchpaper.
   The chemical operations in the progress of which heat is produced
are numerous, and among the most remarkable causes of the evolution
of heat from bodies becoming united, so as to form chemical compounds,
are those arising from combustion. All substances are not capable of
undergoing combustion ; and hence the division of bodies into two
classes, namely, combustibles, or inflammable bodies, and incombusti-
bles, or non-inflammable bodies. Among the former are vegetable
substances in general, as wood, charcoal, and oils ; most animal
substances, as hair, wool, horn, and fat ; and all metallic bodies.
The class of non-combustibles includes stones, glass, and salts. The
latter, when exposed to high degrees of heat, under such circum
stances that they cannot undergo chemical decomposition, may be
made to display the usual appearance of fire, or the combination of
light and heat, variously designated by the terms glowing, red heat,
or white heat, denoting different degrees of incandescence, and when
cooled again to their original temperature, it will be found that little or
no alteration has been produced by the high temperature to which they
may have been exposed. But combustible bodies are very differently
affected bv heat. Some of them at comparatively low temperatures be
come combined with the oxygen gas contained in the atmosphere
around them, and they all undergo similar transformations at certain
temperatures, and during such processes beat in the form of fire is
frequently exhibited.
   Among the simple instances of the effect of chemical combination in
causing the appearance of heat may be noticed the increase of tempera
ture that takes place when water is mixed with alcohol, and which may
be readily perceived on applying the hand to a phial containing the
            * Encyclopsed. Metropol.—Mixed Sciences, p. "0.

 306                          PYRONOMICS.
 two fluids just after they have been introduced into it. But the mix
 ture of water with sulphuric acid, or, as it is commonly called, oil of
 vitriol, causes a much greater augmentation of temperature than the
 preceding ; for if an ounce of sulphuric acid be poured into a bottle,
 containing eight ounces of water, the glass will be so much heated as to
 render it impossible to hold it; and a more violent heat may be pro
 duced by increasing the proportion of the acid.*
            CHARACTERISTIC EFFECTS OR PROPERTIES OF HEAT.
                     Dilatation or Expansion of Bodies.
   The most obvious and direct effect of heat or exaltation of temper
 ature is to add to the bulk of the heated body, or to increase its dimen
sions, generally in all directions. This takes place in solids, liquids,
and gases, without altering their essential properties. The expansive
                             effect of heat on solids, may be exhibited by
                             means of a cylindrical bar of iron, as repre
                             sented in the marginal figure. When cold, it
                             will be found that the cylinder A B will ex
                             actly fit into the space C, in the brass gauge
                             annexed ; and it will also pass through the
                             aperture D ; but when heated by plunging it
                             for some time into boiling water, it will be so
                             much expanded that it will no longer fit into
                             the space, or enter the aperture. If the bar
                             be cooled, either slowly by exposure to the
air, or suddenly by covering it with ice or snow, it will again be con
tracted, and pass into the cavities as before. The more highly the bar
is heated the greater will be the amount of its expansion ; and on the
contrary, when cooled, its contraction will be in proportion to the re
duction of its temperature.
   The effect of heat in expanding solid bodies, and especially metals,
has been advantageously applied to practical purposes. Thus coopers,
in fixing iron hoops on a cask, make them previously very hot, and be
ing adapted in that state to the periphery of the cask, their contraction
in cooling binds together the staves of the cask. Wheelwrights also
  * Experiments on the mixture of sulphuric acid and water require caution,
in consequence of the intense degree of heat produced by their combination.

              DILATATION OF SOLIDS BY HEAT.                          307
nail on the iron tire or band, while it is nearly red hot, to the wooden
wheel of a carriage, and as the metal contracts in cooling, it clasps the
parts firmly together. The expansibility and contractibility of iron as
an effect of temperature demands the particular attention of architects
and engineers, now that metal is so frequently substituted for wood and
stone in the construction of roofs of buildings, pillars, arches, and for
other purposes. Due allowance should always be made for any alter
ation of dimensions in metallic beams or supporters, depending on
alternations of heat and cold at different seasons of the year, or arising
from other causes. In the iron arches of Southwark Bridge, erected
by the late Mr. John Rennie oyer the Thames, the extreme variations
of atmospheric temperature occasion a difference of height at different
 times, amounting to about one inch.
    A curious example of the influence of heat on the dimensions of
solids was exhibited some years since at Paris, in the method adopted
for restoring to a perpendicular direction the declining walls of a gal
lery in the Abbey of St. Martin, now the Conservatory of Arts and
 Trades. The weight of the roof had pressed outwards the side walls
 of the structure, and excited apprehensions for its safety, when M.
Molard contrived to render it secure by the following process : Several
 holes were made in the walls opposite to each other, through which
•were introduced iron bars stretching across the gallery, with their ex
tremities extending beyond the walls ; and to these projecting parts
were screwed strong iron plates, or rather large broad nuts. Each
 alternate bar was then heated by means of powerful lamps, and their
lengths being thus increased, the nuts which had become advanced be
 yond the walls were screwed up close to it, and the bars suffered to
cool. The powerful contraction of the bars drew closer the walls of the
building; and the same process being applied to the intermediate bars,
and repeated several times, the walls were gradually and steadily re
stored to the upright position, and the danger apprehended from their
declension was averted.
    Musschenbroek ascertained that heat not only expands metals, but
also different kinds of stones, chalk, burnt brick, and glass. Such sub
 stances, however, must be perfectly freed from moisture, otherwise
increase of temperature will occasion contraction of volume, by dis
sipating the moisture. Thus wood sometimes acquires an increase of
specific gravity by drying. From some experiments to determine the

308                            PYRONOMICS.
weight of different kinds of wood at various degrees of dryness, re
corded by Mr. Barlow, it appears, that in some cases there is a con
siderable augmentation of specific gravity. A piece of Riga fir, 11
inches thick, lost \ of an inch in seasoning, and the weight of a cubic
foot was increased from 546 ounces to 562 ; a piece of American pitch
pine, 7§ inches in thickness, lost \ of an inch, and the increase of
weight of a cubic foot was as 518 to 524 ; a block of Halifax spruce
spar, ;">! inches in diameter, was reduced to 5f , and the difference of
specific gravity was as 541 to 554; and a block of Canada spruce spar,
4i inches in diameter, lost J of an inch, and the difference of specific
gravity, or weight of a cubic foot, was in the ratio of 485 to 512 ; bat
in most other cases, the loss of weight was greater in proportion than
the diminution of bulk.* The effect of temperature in the expansion
and contraction of glass is an object of common observation, and be
comes the cause of frequent accidents. Though the degree of expan
sion which takes place in glass at any given temperature is proportion
ally much less considerable than that produced in metals, platint
excepted, yet from the irregularity of the effect, glass is easily broken
by the sudden application of heat. Glass goblets and tumblers are
very liable to fracture, when water heated almost to the boiling point
is poured into them ; and the danger will increase in proportion to the
thickness of the glass ; for this substance, admitting heat to pass
through it but slowly, the inner surface becomes heated and distended
by the hot water before the outer surface, and the irregular expansion
causes the vessel to break. In this manner, the glass chimneys now in
general use for oil-lamps and gas-burners are often destroyed. M . Cadet
de Vaux states that the danger of fracture may be prevented by making
a minute notch in the bottom of the tube with a diamond ; and in an
establishment where six lamps were lighted every day, this precaution
being adopted, not a single glass was broken by heat in the course of
nine years. A bottle of wine placed near the fire in cold weather, will
sometimes fly, as it is termed, especially if a draught of air falls on one
side while the other is receiving heat ; and the glass cylinder or plate
of an electrical machine may be cracked and spoiled by incautiously
placing it in a similar situation.
   On the relative expansibility of different metals by heat depends tie
           * See Encyclop. Mitropol—Mixed Sciences, vol. i. p. 186.

        DILATATION OF LIQUIDS AND GASES BY HEAT. 309
operation of compensating pendulnms, used for timekeepers and astro
nomical clocks.*
    The influence of heat, as a dilating or expanding power, applied to
 liquids is greater than in the case of solids. But the degree of action
 which it exerts is different with respect to different liquids ; so that
 alcohol is more readily expanded than fat oils or ether, the latter are more
 expansible than water, and water more so than mercury. This might
 be experimentally demonstrated by filling the bulb of a large thermo
meter tube with each of these liquids in succession, and then present
 ing the bulb to a lamp at precisely the same distance, and observing
 the height to which the liquid would rise in each case in a given time.
 A s different liquids undergo different degrees of expansion at the same
 temperature, so the expansibility of one liquid will be found to in
crease or diminish under variations of temperature in a different ratio
 from those which regulate the expansion of other liquids. This irre
 gular effect of heat is chiefly observable in liquids which boil at a
 comparatively low temperature, as is the case with water ; while mer
cury, which requires a great degree of heat to make it boil, or become
evaporated, undergoes more nearly the same amount of expansion by
 the addition of any given quantity of heat, whether at a low or high
temperature ; and hence its utility in the construction of instruments
for measuring heat.
   The influence of temperature on the bulk or dimensions of aeriform
bodies, whether permanent or non-permanent, is more strikingly exhi
bited than in the case of liquids or solids. This may be ascertained by
taking a bladder half filled with air, and tying it so that none can
escape, when, if it be held near the fire, the included air will expand till
the bladder is fully distended ; and if while in that state it be plunged
into cold water, the air will contract in bulk, and the bladder become
flaccid. Such a bladder, if very thin, would form an air-balloon,
which would ascend, when heated, to the ceiling of a lofty room, and
fall down as soon as by the gradual cooling of the air within it the spe
cific gravity of the mass was reduced below that of an equal volume ofthe
surrounding air. The expansibility of air by heat may also be demon
strated by means of the apparatus represented in the margin of the next
page.
                      * See Treatise on Mechanics, p. 96.

310                           PYRONOMICS.
                          It consists of a long glass tube A B, with a
                        bulb at one end, and open at the other, which is
                        plunged into the jar of water C ; then on heating
                        the bulb by means of the lamp D, the air within
                        the tube will become expanded, and issuing in
                        large bubbles from the aperture B, it will rise
                        rapidly through the water in the jar. On re
                        moving the lamp after a considerable portion of
                        the air has been expelled, the water will rise in
                        the tube to supply its place, as the tube cools.
                        The reapplication of the lamp to the bulb at a
greater distance than before will again dilate the included air and de
press the water in the tube ; and the liquid may be made thus to rise
and fall alternately by cooliDg and heating the bulb. It is of import
ance to observe that airs, gases, and vapours, are all alike affected by
given quantities of heat; that is, they not only all expand in the same
proportion at certain degrees of temperature, but their rate of expansion
under any increase of temperature is likewise uniform. In this respect
it will be perceived that gaseous bodies differ from solids and liquids ;
for while both the latter kinds of matter display the utmost dissimi
larity in their relations to heat as an expanding power, the former
 always undergo expansion in exact proportion to the degree of tem
perature to which they are exposed.
                      Instruments for Measuring Heat.
    The universal influence of heat on the dimensions of material sub
stances affords a convenient method of estimating the relative quantity
 of heat which will produce any given effect ; for since it appears that a
certain increase of temperature will always be accompanied by a certain
 degree of expansion of bulk, it follows, that if we can estimate correctly
the degree of expansion in any given case, we may thence infer the
 amount of temperature. Upon this principle depends the utility of
those philosophical instruments called Thermometers* and Pyrometers.t
   * From the Greek Beppoc., hot, or Qippt], heat, and Mlrpov, a measure.
   t From Uvp, fire, and Merpov.

                INVENTION OF THE THERMOMETER.                         311
 Among the former of these instruments is that which frequently accom
 panies the barometer, indicating by the expansion of mercury, or spirit
 of wine, the relative temperature of the atmosphere, at different
 times or places. The- mercurial thermometer consists essentially
 of a glass tube with a bulb at one extremity, and which having been
 filled with mercury at a certain temperature, introduced through the
 open end, has been hermetically sealed while full, so that no air can
 afterwards enter it. As the tube and mercury in it gradually become
 cooled, the inclosed fluid contracts and consequently sinks, leaving
 above it a vacant space or vacuum, through which it may again expand
on the application of heat. To such a tube it is necessary to add a
scale showing at what height the mercury will stand at the temperature
of freezing water, and what will be the rate of expansion at any other
point, as that of boiling water, together with the amount of expansion
at regular intervals between those two points. Thus in what is called
the centigrade thermometer, now used in France, the freezing point
of water is marked on the scale zero (0° ) ; and the boiling point 100",
the intermediate space being accordingly divided into one hundred
equal parts, regularly marked and numbered ; and as the scale may be
continued to any required extent, above or below zero, any degree of
temperature may be thus ascertained, at least between the freezing and
the boiling points of mercury ; and as this metallic fluid requires a far
more intense cold than water does to make it freeze, so it will take a
much greater degree of heat to make it boil ; and the scale may thus
be extended in both directions. Mercury freezes at — 40 deg., or 40
centigrade degrees below zero, or the freezing point of water ; and it
boils or becomes sublimed, in vacuo, at -+-350 deg., that is, it takes a
higher temperature by 250 centigrade degrees to make it boil than is
required to make water boil.
   Any fluid might he employed to mark, by its relative expansion and
contraction, the temperature to which it might be exposed ; and thus
sulphuric acid, water, alcohol, oil, and air, have been variously adopted
in the construction of thermometers for different purposes. The inven
tion of this useful instrument appears to have occurred in the early
part of the seventeenth century ; and the mode of measuring heat first
employed was by observing the expansion of air confined in a glass
tube. It is rather uncertain with whom this idea originated ; but among
those who have laid claim to it may be mentioned Cornelius Drebbel,

312                            PYRONOMICS.
of Alkmaar, in Holland, and Santo Santorio, professor of medicine at
Padua, in Italy ; and it is not improbable that this method of discovering
the relative effect of high or low temperature may have been independ
ently adopted by both those ingenious men. Drebbel, who passed
some part of his life in England, in the reign of Charles I., certainly in
troduced the knowledge of the thermometer into this country. But the
original thermometer was a very imperfect instrument. It consisted
of a glass tube with a bulb turned upwards, and the lower portion of the
stem partly filled with a coloured liquid, and inverted in a globular
bottle partially filled with the same liquid ; so that the portion of air
included in the bulb and upper part of the tube was exposed to at
mospheric pressure, and therefore the effect of heat on it could not be
accurately appreciated. It was indeed merely adapted to afford a ge
neral estimate of the influence of temperature on the bulk of air ; much
in the same manner as it is exhibited by the apparatus previously de
scribed.* This kind of thermometer was improved bythe French phi
losopher Amontons ; and Sir John Leslie, Dr. Wollaston, and others,
have adopted several modifications of the air-thermometer, as a delicate
instrument for indicating trifling variations of temperature ; but the
extreme sensibility of air to the impression of heat must ever confine
its utility to such purposes as those just mentioned.
   The greatest defect in the early thermometers arose from the want
of a regular scale of temperature, with fixed points to form a me
dium of comparison between the effects of heat as exhibited under
different circumstances, or in its operation on different bodies. Boyle
proposed the congealing point of oil of aniseed for this purpose ;
but Dr. Bxibert Hooke, with greater propriety, recommended the
freezing point of distilled water ; and Sir Isaac Newton, adopting
this as the commencement of his scale, or the point zero (0°), he ascer
tained that 34° would mark the boiling point of water, as indicated by
the relative expansion of linseed oil, the fluid which he employed to fill
his thermometer.t The discovery of two fixed points for the thermome-
trical scale contributed vastly to the improvement of the instrument ;
but that of Newton was rendered imperfect by the nature of the inclosed
fluid, which did not move freely within the tube, and by the incon
venient length of the degrees of the scale. Hence other men of science
employed themselves in contriving by various methods to augment the
     * See p. 310.       t See Cotes's Hydrostat. Lect. Appendix, No. II.

             DIFFERENT KINDS OF THERMOMETERS.                          313
Utility and accuracy of this instrument. It caumur, in France, invented
a thermometer filled with tinged spirit of wine, with a scale divided
into 80 degrees between the freezing and the boiling points of water.
But as spirit of wine boils at a lower temperature than water, and it could
afford no indication of any degree of heat beyond its own boiling point,
on this account, the spirituous fluid was exchanged for mercury ; and
such a mercurial thermometer, with Reaumur's scale, was in general
use in France till the period of the revolution, when it was superseded
by the centigrade thermometer, already noticed.
   The employment of mercury as the most suitable fluid for the ther
mometer is usually attributed to Fahrenheit, a native of Dantzic, who
settled at Amsterdam as a philosophical instrument-maker ; and his
instruments having the merit of great accuracy and neatness of exe
cution, became much sought after, and his name has been permanently
connected with that form of the thermometer, now generally used in
England, Holland, and the United States of North America. It ap
pears, however, from the statement of Boerhaave, that the improvement
of the thermometer, so far as relates to filling it with mercury, and
fixing on the peculiar scale denominated after Fahrenheit, ought rather
to be ascribed to Olaus Roemer, a Danish philosopher, to whom we
owe the discovery of the velocity of light.* The peculiarity of this
scale is, that it does not commence at the freezing point of water, but
descends much below it. It is usually stated that Fahrenheit obtained
the point, whence he commenced the graduation of his thermometers, by
producing artificial cold from the mixture of common salt and snow ;
but from the authority just cited, it appears that zero of Fahrenheit's,
or rather Roemer's scale, was derived from the lowest degree of tempera
ture, or greatest cold which had been observed in Iceland, which was
fixed on from an erroneous supposition, that this was the extreme of low
temperature which was ever likely to become the object of philoso
phical investigation.
   Among the numerous modifications of the thermometer proposed by
ingenious men, as adapted to the general purpose of indicating varia
tion of temperature, the only one besides the preceding which requires
to be here noticed, is that of J. Delisle, member of the Academy of
Sciences, at St. Petersburg. It differs principally from other instru
ments in having a scale, the graduation of which commences at the
                * Boerhaavii Elementa Chemise, t. i. p. 720.

314                          PYRONOMICS.
boiling point of water, and is reckoned downwards : the distance to the
freezing point being divided into 150 degrees. Its use is nearly confined
to the Russian empire, where it is generally adopted by men of science.
   As the centigrade thermometer, originally invented by Olaus Cel
sius, of Upsal, in Sweden, and that of Fahrenheit, are at present com
monly used in registering observations on temperature, in France and
Great Britain, while those of Reaumur and Delisle have been employed
by several eminent philosophers in making and recording their peculiar
observations, it becomes requisite that the means should be afforded
for ascertaining the relative value of degrees of temperature, according
to either of these scales, and of converting any given number of de
grees belonging to one scale into degrees belonging to that with which
we are most familiar. Fahrenheit's scale, commencing at zero (0°),
ascends to 32° the freezing point of water, and thence to 212°, the
boiling point ; so that there are 180 degrees, in the scale between
these fixed points.
   The following table exhibits corresponding numbers of the several
scales of Fahrenheit, Reaumur, Delisle, and Celsius,— (or that of the
centigrade thermometer)—from a temperature 12 degrees above the
boiling point, Fahrenheit, to 96 degrees below zero.
 Fahr. Reaumur      Delisle  Centigrade
 224    85  3-9     10        106   6-9
 212    80           0        100         Boiling point of water.
 192    71  1-9     16  4-6    88   8-9
 160    56  8-9     43  2-6    71   1-9
 128    42  6-9     70         53  3-9
   96   28  4-9     96  4-6    35   5-9   Blood heat.
   64    14 2-9   123   2-6    17   7-9
   32     0       150            0        Freezing point of water.
    0    14 2-9   176   4-6    17   7-9
   32   28  4-9   203   2-6    35   5-9
   39   31  5-9   209   1-6    39   4-9   Freezing point of mercury.
   64   42  6-9   230          53   3-9
   90   54  2-9   251   4-6    67   7-9   Greatest known degree of cold
   96   56  8-9   256   4-6    71   1-9
   Hence it will appear, that 1° of Fahrenheit's scale is equal to J° of

                         wedgwood's pyrometer.                       315
Reaumur's, §° of Delisle's, and J ° of the centigrade scale. Therefore,
in order to convert any number of degrees of Reaumur into correspond
ing degrees of Fahrenheit, the given number must be multiplied by 9
and divided by 4, and if it be a number above zero, 32 must be added
to the product, and the amount will be the degree required ; but if the
number be below zero of Reaumur, and above zero of Fahrenheit, that
is, any number less than 14g°, the product must be subtracted from
32 ; and if it be a number below 14j°, 32 must be subtracted from the
product, to obtain the degree required. In the same manner the cor
respondence between degrees of the centigrade scale, and that of Fah
renheit may be ascertained, only the given number of centigrade de
grees must be multiplied by 9 and divided by 5. To convert degrees
of Delisle into degrees of Fahrenheit, the given number must be mul
tiplied by 6 and divided by 5, and the product subtracted from 212
will be the number required ; but if the number be below zero of Fah
renheit, or 176J Delisle, 212 must be subtracted from the product;
and if the number required be degrees of Delisle above zero, 212 must
be added to the product to obtain the number required, denoting the
corresponding degree of Fahrenheit.
   The mercurial thermometer is the most convenient instrument for
measuring any degree of temperature between 644 deg. Fahrenheit, at
which the liquid boils, and 39 deg. below zero, at which it freezes.
For the mensuration of more intense degrees of cold, a thermometer
may be employed filled with alcohol, tinged red by means of alkanet-
root ; for that fluid, when otherwise perfectly pure, will remain uncon-
gealed at a temperature much lower than that at which mercury freezes.*
   As there is no known liquid that continues unevaporated at a higher
temperature than mercury, the relative effect of very high degrees of
heat is usually estimated by the alteration of balk that takes place in
solid bodies. Heat generally expands substances of all kinds ; but
 Mr. Wedgwood observed that fine porcelain clay becomes contracted
by exposure to great heat ; and he found, on investigation, that pieces of
pure clay carefully dried, and then exposed to a red heat in a furnace,
exhibited a sensible degree of contraction, which remained when they
again became cool ; and as it further appeared that the contraction pro
ceeded with the augmentation of heat, till vitrifaction took place in the
clay , he conceived the idea of forming a pyrometer, or measurer of heat,
  * Mr. Brande says, " Alcohol has never been frozen." Manual of Chemis
try, 3d edit. vol. ii. p. 669.

316                           PYRONOMICS.
consisting of a number of test-pieces of prepared clay, in the shape of
small flattened cylinders; and a scale composed of brass rods i-inch
square, and 2 feet long, fixed to a brass plate, obliquely inclining in
wards, so as to be somewhat nearer together at one end than at the
other, and marked with a scale of equal parts, commencing at the
wider extremity. As the contraction of the clay pieces is permanent,
a fresh one must be used for each trial, which is to be made by expos
ing one or more test-pieces to the heat, the intensity of which is to be
ascertained, and when thus heated and again cooled, the contraction
that has occurred is to be measured by sliding the piece between the
brass rods as far as it will go, and observing the diminution of bulk as
indicated by the scale, all the pieces being adapted exactly to fit the
widest part of the scale before their exposure to the heat, the estimation
of which is the object of experiment. The seemingly anomalous effect
of heat on which the property of this instrument depends may be ac
counted for, as the result of the concentration of the particles of the
clay by the more intimate union of the argillaceous and siliceous earths
of which it is composed.
   Each degree of Wedgwood's scale is equivalent to 130 degrees of
that of Fahrenheit ; and the former commences at 1077p.5 of the latter
scale. The mode adopted for instituting a comparison between the two
scales was by observing the expansion of a pyrometric piece of silver
and of a test-piece of clay, as relatively exhibited at 50 deg. and 212
deg. Fahrenheit, and at higher temperatures as indicated by the brass
scale. Having thus obtained a common measure of high temperature,
the inventor of the pyrometer proceeded to make various researches
concerning the melting points of metals, and other subjects ; and it
may be stated as the result of his inquiries, that the greatest heat he
ever procured was from an air-furnace, amounting to 160 deg. Wedg
wood, equal to 21,877 deg. Fahrenheit. Doubts have been started
whether the contraction of clay affords a uniform measure of tempera
ture ; and the more recent investigations of M. Guyton Morveau, and
Mr. Daniell, render it very probable that Wedgwood formed his com
parison of the pyrometric and the thermometric scales on an erroneous
assumption relative to the melting point of silver. Hence the calcula
tions grounded on experiments made with his pyrometer are not to be
absolutely depended on ; though the instrument is well adapted to the
exigencies of the potter, as affording the means of ascertaining the heat
of furnaces with sufficient exactness for many purposes.

                       METALLIC PYROMETERS.                               317
   A great many pyrometers have been invented by various experi
mentalists, exhibiting different methods for measuring, with more or
less accuracy, the relative expansion of bars or wires of iron, or of
some other metal.*
                                                Several of these are construct
                                               ed on the principle of that re
                                               presented in the margin, in
                                               which abar of metal, A, maybe
                                               so placed, that when expand
                                               ed by the'heat of a lamp, B, one
                                               extremity being fixed theother
                                               will press against a lever and
                                               cause an index, C, to move
                                               along the graduated arc D ;
                                               and by means of such a pyro
meter, the effect of heat, applied in the same manner, for a given length
of time, to bars of different metals having the same length and diameter,
may be ascertained. Mr. Daniell contrived a pyrometer adapted to
measure the expansion of a rod of platina, made to move an index over
a dial-plate divided into 360 degrees, each equal to 7 degrees of Fah
renheit. He published an account of experiments made by means of
his pyrometer, the result of which may be subjoined, as being probably
the most exact yet extant relative to the effects of high temperatures.
                                                    Daniell.     Fahrenheit
     Melting point of tin                              63°           441°
                          bismuth     .            . 66              462
     ^———                 lead                         87            609
     Boiling point of mercury         .                92            644
     Melting point of zinc                             94            658
     Red heat visible in full daylight             . 140             980
     Heat of a common parlour fire .                 163            1141
                          brass . . . .
     Melting point of silver                       . 267            1869
                                                     siy            2233
                        , copper                     364            2548
                        • gold                       370            2590
                        • cast iron                . 497            3479
  * For descriptions and figures of a number of pyrometers, invented by inge
nious British and foreign philosophers, see a Treatise on the Thermometer ami
Pyrometer, published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge.

318                           PYRONOMICS.
   Pyrometers, or rather metallic thermometers, suited for measuring
with great accuracy small variations of temperature, have been con
structed by contemporary artists, among whom may be specified Breguet
and Frederic Houriet, of Paris, and Holzmann, of Vienna.
   In the prosecution of delicate experiments on the influence of tem
perature, those thermometers may be most advantageously employed in
which the effect of heat is exhibited by the expansion of air, included
in a small tube with a scale annexed. Among the more recent and
useful forms of such instruments, the most important is that called the
 Differential Thermometer, invented by Sir John Leslie, and described
in his " Experimental Inquiry into the Nature of Heat."
                      It consists of two bulbs or glass spherules, A and B,
                    connected by the tube CDEF, bent twice at right
                    angles, and supported by a wooden stand, G. Witliin
                    the tube is a small quantity of coloured sulphuric
                    acid ; and when a heated substance is brought near to
                    the bulb A, the inclosed liquid recedes, and rises on
                    the opposite side, where its relative height, as indi
                    cated by the scale attached to the tube E F, will show
                    the degree of expansion of the air in the tube and bulb
                    A C D. One of the principal advantages attending
                    the use of this instrument is its not being liable to
                    error from changes in the temperature of the atmo
sphere ; for the heat of the surrounding air must act on both bulbs
in the same manner, therefore when a heated object is applied to one
bulb only, the whole effect produced by it will appear from the dif
ferent amount of expansion of the inclosed air ; or if a cold object be
applied the effect will be equally obvious from the different contraction
which takes place ; and hence the instrument is named a differential
thermometer.
   The actual amount of expansion that takes place in different bodies
raised to the same temperature is, as already observed, by no means
equal. According to recent experiments of Herbert on the expansion
of solids by heat, it appears that rods of glass and several metals, of the
same length at the freezing point of water- were variously extended at
the boiling point. Thus the longitudinal dimensions of each being
supposed divisible into 100,000 parts, at 32 deg. Fahrenheit, each sub
stance, at 212 deg. was augmented in the following proportions :

                 KATE OF EXPANSION OF LIQUIDS.                       319
                    Platina                        85 parts
                    Glass     ...                  86
                    Gold .                         94
                    Iron      .     .            107
                    Copper                       156
                    Brass                        172
                    Silver .      .     .        189
                    Tin       ...                212
                    Lead .                       262*
   Liquids also expand unequally at different temperatures, and differ
ent liquids are variously affected by the same temperature. The irre
gular expansion of liquids interferes with the results of experiments
made by means of common thermometers ; but mercury as exhibiting
more uniformity in its rate of expansion than other fluids, as water or
alcohol, is betteradapted than they are for thermometrical investigations.
Indeed the more readily liquids evaporate under the influence of heat,
the greater will be their dilatation, when it takes place without change
of form ; and therefore ether and alcohol expand more in proportion at
relatively high than at low temperatures, and mercury, which requires a
great heat to make it boil, increases its rate of expansion more slowly.
   The following table of the expansions of liquids is derived from the
researches of Mr. Dalton, who ascertained that an elevation of tempera
ture from the freezing to the boiling point of water would cause an in
crease of volume in the ensuing proportions :                            •
              In Mercury s'0, or .                     . 0-0200
              Water         ....                    .   . 0-0466
                                                       . 00500
              Sulphuric acid                        .   . 0-0600
              Muriatic acid .         .    .     .     . 00600
              Oil of turpentine                     .  . 00700
              Fixed oils ....                       .  .  0-0800
              Nitric acid                           .  .  0-1100
                * Vieth's Elem. of Nat. Philos. (Germ.), p. 314.

 320            •              PYRONOMICS.
    Aeriform fluids, as before stated, all dilate alike, and undergo uni-
 form degrees of expansion at different temperatures. This property of
 gases and vapours depends on their being destitute of cohesion, so that
 the influence of heat operates on them simply and independently, its
 effect not being modified by any opposing power, as in the case of
 solids and liquids. From the experiments of Gay Lussac in France,
 and those of Dalton in England, it appears that all elastic fluids, whe
 ther airs or vapours, when raised from the temperature of 32 deg.
 Fahrenheit to K12 deg., become expanded nearly in the ratio of 100 to
 137.5 ; or 100 cubic inches of gas at the freezing point of water, if
heated to the boiling point, would be augmented in bulk to 137i inches.
 Hence the expansion of volume for each degree of the centigrade ther
mometer would be 0.375, or reckoning the bulk at zero as 1 (unity),
the augmentation for each degree would be 0.00375. Dalton estimates
the increase of bulk for every degree atO.00372, which would be nearly
equivalent to 0.00208 for each degree of Fahrenheit's thermometer.
    Thus it appears that the density of substances generally bears a cer
tain relation to their temperature, being augmented by cold and dimi
nished by heat, or in other words contracted by exposure to a low tem
perature, and expanded at a high temperature. So far as we can judge
from experiment, the maximum density of solid bodies must be at the
lowest temperature which can be produced. And the same may be
stated with respect to liquids which are not susceptible of being solidi
fied by cold, or frozen. But this does not always hold good with regard
to freezing or congealing liquids ; and water is especially remarkable
for its property of expanding in the act of congelation ; whence, as is
generally known, vessels are liable to be burst in winter by the freezing
of aqueous liquors contained in them ; and loose ice is always seen to
float on water, in consequence of its inferior specific gravity. From
the researches of Deluc and others, it appears that pure water acquires
its maximum density at the temperature of 40 deg. Fahrenheit, whence,
if the cold be increased, it expands till it reaches the freezing point
32 deg. ; so that ice at 32 deg. has the same specific gravity as water
at 48 deg. But for this property of water, large ponds and lakes ex
posed to intense cold would not merely be frozen over, as is usual in
the winter season, but they would become entire masses of solid ice.
For ice once formed, if heavier bulk for bulk than the water beneath it,
would sink to the bottom of the pond or lake, and remain there to be

                              LATENT HEAT.                            321
augmented by fresh descending portions, as long as a frost lasted ; but
its relative levity causes it to continue on the surface of the liquid,
which it protects in some degree from the cold atmosphere, and conge
lation consequently proceeds more slowly.
    This remarkable property of liquids near the point of congelation is
certainly not, as generally stated, peculiar to water, for other aqueous
fluids are affected in the same manner ; and there is reason to believe
that metallic and other substances, which have been melted by expo
sure to great heat, contract in cooling only to a certain point, and then
expand, like water, so that the density of a mass of metal just become
 solid will be inferior to that of the same metal a few degrees above that
 at which it takes the solid form. Reaumur states that iron, bismuth,
 and antimony, are more condensed just before they become solid than
 afterwards ; and he observes that hence figures cast in iron are correctly
 marked, from the expansion of the metal in cooling, which causes it to
 press into the most minute indentations of the mould. Sulphur exhi
 bits the same appearances, when used for taking impressionsof medals ;
 and it is probable that all bodies capable of fusion by heat, would,
 under similar circumstances, be found to have less density at the point
 of solidification than just before the commencement of that process.
 As to the cause of this phenomenon, the most probable conjecture is
 that of De Mai ran, who, in his Treatise on Ice, ascribes the expansion
 of freezing water to the new arrangement of its particles consequent to
 crystallization, so that the minute and still invisible intervals between
 the molecules of the mass are larger or more numerous in ice than in
 water 8 deg. above the freezing point. But this interesting topic de
 mands further investigation.
            Latent Heat, and its Influence an the Forms of Bodies.
     No indication is afforded by the thermometer of the absolute quantity
  of heat which any substance may contain, but merely of the amount of
  free or sensible heat capable of producing a certain degree of expansion
  in a column of mercury. If a quantity of ice at 32° Fahrenheit be
  placed in ajar set in a basin of water considerably heated, the ice will
  gradually melt, absorbing heat from the water through the sides of the
  jar ; but though it must thus receive successive portions of heat, they

322                          PYRONOMICS.
would produce no effect on a thermometer within the jar, the mercury
in which would remain at the freezing point till all the ice became dis
solved. So that any quantity of heat thus absorbed by ice in the act of
thawing would become combined with the liquid, constituting what is
termed latent heat, as not being appreciable by the thermometer. Dif
ferent bodies require different quantities of heat to raise them to the
same thermometrical temperature, or at least they are differently
affected by exposure to the same temperature. Thus, if a quart of water
and a quart of olive oil be removed, from a room in which the heat of
the air is but 40° Fahrenheit, to another room heated to 80°,both liquids
would gradually acquire the latter degree of heat, as might be ascer
tained by placing a thermometer in either liquid. But the oil would
be perceived to have become raised to the temperature of 80° much
sooner than the water , and hence it has been inferred that a smaller
quantity of heat is required to produce an augmentation of 40° of tem
perature in the former liquid than in the latter. As oil becomes heated
more speedily, under the same circumstances, than water, so likewise
it cools faster than water ; as would appear on reversing the preceding
experiment.
   When equal quantities of the same body at different temperatures
are mixed, the temperature of the mixture will be at the medium be
tween those of the two portions : thus a pint of water at 32° added to
another pint at 98° would produce a quart of water at 65° ; half the
difference between the temperature of the hot water and the cold (33°)
having been taken from the former and added to the latter. But the
result is very different when dissimilar bodies at different temperatures
are mingled : for if one pound of water at 156° be mixed with one
pound of mercury at 40°, the common temperature will be 152*, instead
of 98°, the medium temperature, which would have been that of the
mixture if water had been used instead of mercury. From this expe-
ment, it appears that the water gives up 4° of its heat to raise the
mercury 112° ; whence it has been concluded that water has a greater
capacity for heat than the metallic fluid, in the ratio of 112 to 4, or 28
to 1. If the experiment be reversed, by mingling one pound of mer
cury at 1 56° with one pound of water at 40°, the common temperature
will be 44"; the mercury having been deprived of 1120 of its heat,
while the water has acquired but 4°. A pound of gold at the tempera
ture of 150° added to a pound of water at 50° will raise the temperature

                        SPECIFIC HEAT OP BODIES.                          323
of the liquid but 5°, while it will lose 95°, the common temperature
being 55°. Hence the relative capacity for heat of gold and water
would be as 6 to 55° ; so that the capacity of water for heat must be 11
times greater than that of gold.
     From the result of other researches, it has been assumed that mer
cury has only 3j of the capacity for heat possessed by water, instead of
 28 ; and it likewise appears that the capacity for heat of any substance
 varies at different temperatures ; so that there seems to be little pro
 bability of obtaining accurate estimates of the relative powers of bodies
 to absorb heat by means of such experiments as those just described.
 Several attempts have been made to ascertain with greater precision the
 quantities of heat given out by different substances under various cir
 cumstances. Lavoisier and Laplace constructed for this purpose an
 instrument called a calorimeter, adapted to measure the quantity of ice
 melted by different bodies, in the process of cooling from any given
 temperature to 32° Fahrenheit. Various precautions were employed
 to prevent the access of external heat, while the cooling process was
 going on, and for estimating with exactness the quantity of water pro
 duced by the fusion of ice within the body of the instrument. After
 having determined from experiments with the calorimeter, that the heat
 absorbed by one pound of ice in melting would be sufficient to raise an
  equal weight of water from 32° to 157°, or 135 degrees,* the French
  philosophers proceeded to ascertain the relative quantities of heat
  evolved by different bodies, in cooling through a certain number of
  thermometrical degrees, as also in other processes. But the results
  obtained by means of this instrument are liable to inaccuracy from
  various causes, which render it difficult, if not impossible, to collect the
  whole of the water produced from the melting ice ; for it has been ren
  dered probable that a part of the water thus formed may sometimes be
  congealed again in its passage through the lower part of the calori
  meter, so that the quantity obtained will afford no certain measure of
  the effect of the evolution of heat from the body under investigation.
      Other experimentalists have therefore had recourse to different me
  thods of appreciating the specific heat of various substances. Count
     * Dr. Black estimated the heat required to melt a given quantity of ice as
   equal to that which would raise the temperature of the same weight of water
   from 32 to 162 degrees.
                                        T 2

324                           PYUONOMICS.
Kumford invented a calorimeter, for estimating the quantity of heat
given out, in the cooling of heated bodies or other processes, by ob
serving the increase of temperature in a body of water, adapted to
receive the heat evolved from the subjects of his experiments. On a
similar principle is founded the method for ascertaining the capacityfor
heat, or as it is also termed the specific heat of gaseous fluids, employed
by MM. Delaroche and Berard. Another mode of conducting re
searches of this nature, consists in noticing the time required to cool
any substance through a certain range of temperature, as indicated by
the thermometer, and comparing its rate of cooling with those of other
substances. The experiments of Leslie, and those of Dalton, on the
specific heat of different bodies were thus conducted ; and a similar
plan was pursued by MM. Dulong and Petit in their experiments on
metals.
   All these methods of operating are more or less liable to objection ;
and the results thus obtained can only be regarded as affording some
approximate estimates concerning the relative influence of temperature
on different bodies. It may, however, be stated, that in solids the ca
pacity for heat is augmented in proportion to the increase of temper
ature ; and that this is also the case with respect to mercury, whence
it may not unreasonably be conjectured that other liquid substances are
acted on by heat in the same manner. But it must be remarked, that
as bodies become dilated by raising their temperature, the increase of
capacity accompanies and probably depends on the increase of expan
sibility ; and this conclusion derives support from the fact that those
metals which are most readily expanded by heat are also susceptible of
the greatest variation of capacity for heat.
   As the general effect of heat is to cause an increase in the volume of
bodies exposed to its action, producing expansion commonly in all
directions, but in different degrees according to the nature of the sub
stance on which it operates, an estimate of the quantity of heat thus
operating, or rather of the amount of the effect thus produced, may in
this manner be obtained ; and the instruments adapted for measuring
heat on this principle have been described. But, as already stated,
important changes may be caused in bodies by the addition or abstrac
tion of heat without affecting the thermometer in the usual manner ;
thus solids by exposure to heat may be converted into liquids, and the
latter, when heated, boil or become evaporated, or altered from the liquid

ABSORPTION OF HEAT DURING THE MELTING OF SOLIDS. 325
to the gaseous or aeriform state. It was by observing the dissimilar
effect of heat on given portions of ice and water, both at the temper
ature of 32°, being placed in equally advantageous circumstances for
receiving heat, that Dr. Black was led to form his theory of latent heat,
as the cause of the liquefaction and vaporization of different bodies.
    It may be stated as a general principle, deduced from numerous ex
periments, that when any substance becomes liquefied or melted by
heat, a quantity of heat appears to be absorbed by that substaace in the
process of fusion, which cannot be appreciated by tbe thermometer ;
though the depression of temperature in bodies placed in contact with
the melting substance is found to be very considerable. Thus water
 maybe frozen by placing a small bottle partly filled with that liquid
 in a basin containing pounded ice or snow mixed with the salt called
 muriate of lime ; and supposing the temperature of the water to be 52°,
 or 20° above the freezing point, it will gradually give out heat till con
 gelation takes place, and the quantity of heat which thus escapes from
 it will be absorbed by the frigorific mixture of snow and salt, which
 will progressively melt or become liquefied, but will retain the same
 thermometrical temperature so long as any part of the mass continues
  undissolved.
     On this principle depend the artificial modes of reducing liquids to
  the solid state, by means of freezing mixtures, which usually consist
 of mineral acids or powdered neutral salts, mixed with snow. Ana
 logous effects will be observed when fusion takes place at a high tem
 perature. Thus spermaceti melts at the heat of 112°, which temper
  ature it will retain as long as any portion remains solid ; so that a per
 son might dip a finger into the melting mass while fragments continued
  undissolved, but when the fusion was completed, any addition
  would raise the thermometer above the melting point. Tin becomes
  fused at 442°, and lead at about 600°, and at those temperatures re
  spectively, the metals would remain during the process of fusion ; but
  after it was completed, they might be raised to a red heat. And lead,
  melted and then made red hot, in a crucible, would immediately be
  cooled down to its melting point by throwing into it a piece of solid lead.
     As absorption of heat or diminution of temperature in surrounding
  bodies always takes place when a solid substance is melted or changed
  to the liquid state, so heat is given out when the contrary change
  occurs of a liquid into the solid state. If a strong solution of Glauber

326                          PYRONOMICS.
salt (sulphate of soda), made with hot water, be poured into a phial,
and corked up while warm, provided it be left quite undisturbed , the salt
will remain dissolved when below the temperature at which it would
otherwise crystallize ; then on suddenly opening the bottle a mass of
crystals will be immediately formed, and their production will be accom
panied with an elevation of temperature easily perceptible by the hand
applied to the outside of the bottle. When water is poured on quick
lime it loses its liquid form, and, entering into combination with the
calcareous earth, constitutes the pulverulent solid called slaked lime,
giving out at the same time abundance of heat, a great part of which is
carried off by a portion of the water rising in the form of misty vapour.
   When liquids are exposed to heat they become converted more or
less readily into aeriform fluids : thus water is changed into steam, and
ether and alcohol into inflammable vapours ; and generally all liquids,
heated without being decomposed, assume the gaseous form at certain
temperatures, and are condensed to the liquid state again by exposure
to cold. Different liquids require different degrees of temperature in
order to their conversion into the form of vapour. Water boils or be
comes evaporated at 2 12 deg., while alcohol enters into ebullition at
173j deg., and ether at 100 deg. But similar changes take place to a
certain extent at almost any temperature ; for all kinds of aqueous
liquids slowly evaporate when exposed in shallow masses at the coldest
season of the year; and spirituous or ethereal liquids cannot be preserved
long in that state at ordinary temperatures except in closely-stopped
vessels. Oily and saccharine liquids do not very readily evaporate in
cold weather, but they also become dissipated through the air after
longer exposure than those of a more volatile kind. This is a wise
provision of nature, for if water obstinately retained its liquid form at
all temperatures below 212 deg., the moisture that fell to the earth in
the state of rain would never be evaporated during the hottest sum
mers ; and abundant inconvenience would arise from the presence of
liquids which are now removed more or less speedily at all seasons,
through the agitation of the air by the wind.
   Evaporation at low temperatures takes place from the surfaces of
solids as well as from those of liquids. Even ice and snow may be
observed to diminish in quantity from evaporation during the conti
nuance of a frost. Some interesting experiments on this subject were
made in North America in the winter of 1814-15. On the eastern

          ABSORPTION OF HEAT DURING EVAPORATION.                             327
coast of LakeWinnepie, latitude 52 deg. N., November 28, 1814, Mr.
Holdsworth bung up a disk of ice, 2 inches thick, weighing 201b. : on
the 14th of February it had lost 17 oz., the highest temperature in the
interval being 23 deg. Fahrenheit. The experiment was continued till
the 31st of March, when the entire loss of weight of the ice by evapora
 tion amounted to 41b. ; and though the temperature on the 26th and
 28th of February had been as high as 36 deg. during more than two
hours each day, no dropping took place from the ice, nor was any
 moisture perceptible on its surface. February 16, 1815, snow was sus
pended in a crape bag or handkerchief, which, together with the snow,
 weighed 30 oz. In ten days it had lost 2 oz. ; and in nine days more
 an additional 2 oz. ; on the 14th of March, the total loss was 6 oz., or
 one-fifth of its weight in twenty-six days ; the crape continuing dry
 during the whole period.* Hence it appears that a very considerable
 amount of evaporation takes place from solid ice, when the tempera
 ture of the atmosphere is below that of freezing water.
     Among those circumstances which materially affect the vaporization
 of liquids one of the most important is atmospheric pressure. All liquids
 readily become evaporated in a highly rarefied medium. Mercury is
 sublimed with a small degree of heat in the vacuum formed in the
 upper part of a barometer tube ; and water may be made to boil in an
 exhausted receiver of an air-pump, at a temperature much inferior to
 that at which ebullition takes place under common circumstances. In
 the same manner the boiling point of water becomes lowered, in propor
 tion to the rarefaction of the air, in ascending high mountains ; and in
 general the boiling points of all liquids will vary in some degree ac
 cording to the pressure of the atmosphere, as indicated by the baro
 meter.
     Ether, when placed under an exhausted receiver, rapidly evaporates.
  It may thus be made to boil while water placed in contact with it
 freezes. To exhibit this phenomenon, a small flask, B (see p. 328),
  must be procured made of thin glass, and nearly fitting into a bell-shaped
  drinking-glass, C, as represented in the figure. Ether must be poured
  into the flask, and water into the glass, so that both liquids may stand
  at the height of the dotted line A D, and the apparatus thus arranged
  is to be placed under the receiver of an air-pump, on working which
     * Journal of Science, &c, ed. at Royal Institution, vol. ix. pp. 423, 424.

328                           PYRONOMICS.
                              the ether will boil or be converted into
                              vapour ; and as it requires beat for this pur
                              pose, it will absorb it from the containing
                              vessels and the water with which it is sur
                              rounded, and the latter liquid thus deprived
                              of its heat will be reduced to a tempera
                              ture below the freezing- point and become
                              ice. The diminution of temperature pro
                              duced by the evaporation of ether is so
                              considerable, that by means of it mercury
                               may be reduced to the form of a solid.
                               This may be effected by inclosing- a small
                               quantity of mercury in a flattened"spheroid
                               of thin glass, and covering it with fine
                               muslin on which ether is to be dropped as
fast as it evaporates, and the heat will thus be so rapidly abstracted
from the mercury that it will soon be frozen to a solid mass.
    Water alone will boil speedily under the exhausted receiver of an air-
 pump, at the temperature of about 100 degrees of Fahrenheit ; but in
 this case the ebullition soon ceases, in consequence of the pressure of
 the steam or aqueous vapour, which occupies the space from which the
 air has been withdrawn. The manner in which a liquid may be made
 to boil by diminishing the pressure of the atmosphere on its surface
 may be amusingly exhibited by means of the following experiment :
                      Let a stop-cock be fitted into the neck of a Florence
                   flask, containing a small quantity of water, and after
                   holding the flask over the flame of a spirit-lamp till the
                   water boils and partly escapes in the form of steam
                   through the stop-cock, let it be suddenly removed from
                   the flame at the same time shutting the stop-cock ; the
                   ebullition will soon cease, and the flask is to be plunged
                   into ajar of cold water, as represented in the margin.
                   The water in the flask will instantly begin boiling
                   again, in consequence of the condensation of the in
 cluded steam, and the vacuum thus formed in the upper part of the
  flask. If it he kept long immersed in the jar of water, the ebullition
  will cease from the gradual cooling of the water within tbe flask ; but
  if it be taken out of the jar and held near the fire, fresh steam will be

                               EBULLITION.                             329
formed, and the ebullition may be renewed by plunging the flask afresh
into the cold water.
   The mode of making liquids boil at a comparatively low temperature
by the diminution of surface pressure, has been advantageously adopted
in some manufacturing processes. Thus it has been applied to prac
tice in the art of refining sugar, the saccharine syrup being concentrated
by this means to the point at which it crystallizes or granulates, with
out any hazard of its burning, or becoming decomposed by excess of
heat. In the preparation of vegetable extracts for medical purposes,
similar processes have been adopted ; and also in making jellies or
other kinds of confectionery.
   Distillation is an operation conducted on similar principles with those
just described ; but the object is different, for the vapour or steam
which, in refining sugar, or making extracts, is dissipated and suffered
to escape, as useless, is on the contrary, in distillation carefully pre
served, and reduced again to the liquid form by condensation. The
method of distilling at a low temperature, by removing the pressure of
the atmosphere, has been profitably employed in cases where it was a
 principal object to obtain products as free as possible from an empyreu-
matic flavour, or peculiar disagreeable taste. Mr. Henry Tritton has
invented an apparatus for distilling spirits, by means of which the va
pour is raised in a vessel not exposed as usual to the fire, but surrounded
with hot water; and the pipe proceeding from the upper part of it,
 after passing in the usual way through a large body of cold water, ter
minates in a spacious cavity or close vessel, from which the air can be
extracted by an air-pump or exhausting syringe. A similar process
 has been used with advantage in the distillation of vinegar.
    As liquids boil readily at comparatively low temperatures when the
 pressure of air or elastic vapour on their surfaces is inconsiderable, so
 they remain unevaporated at relatively high temperatures, if exposed
to extraordinary compression, as when confined in a strong close vessel.
 Such an engine is that called Papin's Digester, from the name of the
inventor. It consists of a metallic vessel of a cylindrical form, with
 very thick sides, having a cover fitting air-tight, and confined by a
 cross-bar fastened with screws. When such a vessel, partly filled with
 Trater, is exposed to the heat of a fire, a quantity of vapour will be
 formed within it, which being prevented from escaping will press

330                           PYBONOM1CS.
powerfully on the surface of the liquid, and prevent ebullition, though
the beat of the water be raised far above the boiling point, while the
quantity and elasticity of the included vapour or steam will also be
augmented. The digester ought to be furnished with a safety-valve,
which may open when the steam acquires a certain degree of force,
below the estimated pressure which the' sides of the vessel would be
capable of withstanding, and thus the risk of its bursting if over- heated
would be obviated. Such machines are employed for extracting the
gelatinous matter from bones to make portable soup, and for other pur
poses.
   The temperature of steam is always the same with that of the liquid
from which it is formed, while it remains in contact with that liquid ;
and as the elastic force of the vapour is increased in proportion to its
degree of heat, the amount of pressure which it exerts will depend on
the temperature at which it is formed. Hence the distinction between
high and low pressure steam and steam-engines. Steam has for more
than a century been extensively employed as a mechanical agent or
moving power for a variety of important purposes. Its mode of action
will be presently elucidated in describing the steam-engine ; but some
previous observations may be introduced relative to the manner in
which the production of steam takes place, and the precautions requi
site for conducting that operation with security and advantage.
    When steam begins to be produced, as in the process of making
water boil, and the heat overcomes the atmospheric pressure on the
surface, small bubbles are formed adhering slightly to the sides of the
 vessel, as may be conveniently observed by boiling water in a Florence
flask or any thin glass vessel. These bubbles are formed most rapidlv at
those points against which the flame is most strongly directed ; and if
any particular portion of the surface of a common boiler be more in
tensely heated than the surrounding parts, the abundant formation of
bubbles will drive off the water from the inner surface of that portion
of the boiler, and thus the metal becomes irregularly heated, and when
the water again comes in contact with it very elastic steam is suddenly
formed, which may cause the boiler to burst. Such appears to be the
most probable mode of accounting for the numerous accidents resulting
from the employment of steam as a moving power ; and hence Mr.
Perkins has been led to the invention of an improved steam-boiler, in

                            STEAM-BOILER.                              331
which a constant circulation of the water is kept up through a tube or
open cylinder in the centre of the boiler, which sweeps off the bubbles
from the heated surface of the vessel as fast as they are produced ; and
thus the formation of steam goes on with uniform regularity. He had
observed that two vessels being filled with water, and one placed within
the other, when heat is applied so that it can only reach the inner vessel
through the liquid contained in the outer one, no steam-bubbles will
rise in the former, while they will be rapidly formed in the latter. The
fluid in the exterior vessel consisting of water mixed with air-bubbles,
and that in the interior vessel of water only, the contents of the two
vessels at the same temperature will differ in specific gravity, those of
the outer vessel of course being the lightest. If therefore the bottom
of the inner vessel be removed, so that it will constitute an open cylinder
with its upper edge a little below the surface of the water in the larger
 vessel, and supported in that position, as shown in the annexed figure,
                             the unequal density of the fluids in the ex
                             terior and interior parts of the boiler, when
                             exposed to the action of fire, will cause the
                             formation of a circulating current. The
                            bubbles contained in the water of the outer
                             vessel, adjoining the fire, will rise conti
                            nually to the surface ; when at a low tem
                             perature with a power somewhat exceeding
                            the difference between the specific gravities
                             of air and water, but if the heat be aug
                             mented, and the bubbles formed more ra
                            pidly, the difference of specific gravity of
                             the respective fluids will be increased, and
                             also the velocity and force of the current.
                             For the fluid in the inner vsssel or cylinder,
                            being free from bubbles, will, in conse
 quence of its superior specific gravity, descend and arrange itself be
 neath the rising columns of the outer vessel, and thus continue the cir
culation. If then the fire be urged so as to produce an extremely in
tense heat around a boiler of this construction, so rapid and forcible
will be the ascending current, that it will draw into its vortex and carry
upwards sand, gravel, or stones, or almost any kind of heavy sub

332                           PYRONOMICS.
stance of moderate size which may happen to be in the boiler, swi
ing off, in its ascent, all the steam-bubbles which form on the inte
surface of the boiler, and keeping it clear from the vapour which m:
otherwise interrupt the free passage of the heat which it receives
the water ; and it will effectually prevent the adhesion of any salin
earthy matter which might be contained in the water ; and through
uniform and constant agitation of the whole mass of the liquid, aregi
and abundant absorption of heat takes place, and steam is evolved v
astonishing rapidity, and without any risk of explosion.*
   The steam-engine, as being a machine of the highest importance,
effective power of which depends on the expansive force of steam
vapour, its general construction and mode of action may here be
scribed. The vapour of water occupies a space about 1700 tir
larger than the bulk of the water from which it is formed ; and he
it may be conceived that in consequence of its expansibility it ir
strongly resist compression, and that the impetus thus obtained may
variously directed or modified so as to produce motion. At w
period steam was first employed as a moving power is uncertu
However the mode of thus applying it was known as early as the m
die of the seventeenth century, since the Marquis of Worcester in
" Century of Inventions," published in the reign of Charles 11.,
scribes a machine for producing motion by the force of steam ; 1
though the idea of using steam as a moving power seems to have
curred to several persons about the same period, the invention of
steam-engine properly so called may be fairly ascribed to an ingenu
man named Newcomen, who was a locksmith in the West of Englar
and a patent for such a machine, for raising water from mines, ,
taken out by Newcomen, in conjunction with Captain Savery, an <
gineer, who contributed to the improvement of the invention.
    The mode in which steam is made to act is by causing it to raise
 solid piston working in a cylinder, like that of a forcing-pump or fi
 engine ; and the piston-rod, rising by the impulse of expanding stes
 admitted into the cylinder below it, must communicate motion to a be;
 or lever connected with it. When the piston is thus raised, if t
   * The apparatus invented by Mr. Perkins is exhibited at the National Gallt
 of Practical Science.

                           THE STEAM-ENGINE.                              333
steam be suddenly condensed or withdrawn from under it, a vacuum
will be formed, and the pressure of the atmosphere on the piston above
will drive it down. It may then be raised afresh by the admission of
more steam, to be condensed in its turn, and in this manner the alter
nate motion may be continued indefinitely. Newcomen's claim to
be considered as an inventor depends on his having been apparently
the first person who conceived the idea of condensing the steam the
moment it had effected its object, by throwing into the cylinder a jet of
cold water. Two very important improvements on the original engine
were made by the celebrated James Watt. He observed that the cool
ing of the cylinder by the water admitted into it lessened the expansi
bility of the steam it received, and that thus much power was dissi
pated : to prevent which be contrived a method of withdrawing the
steam from the principal cylinder into another, in which the condensa
tion takes place, and from which the water it yields is returned to the
boiler to form fresh steam. The other improvement consisted in em
ploving the expansive force of steam to depress the piston as well as to
raise it. In the original, or atmospheric engine, the piston, as above
stated, was driven down by the mere impulse of atmospheric pressure ;
but in the improved, or double-action engine, steam is admitted into
the cylinder above the raised piston at the same moment that it is re
moved below it ; and thus the expansive force of steam is exerted in the
returning as well as the ascending stroke, and a much greater impetus
is given to the machinery than by the old method.*
   * The following notices concerning the invention and improvement of the
steam-engine are furnished by Dr. T.Young :—Denis Papin, in 1695, published
an account of " a mode of employing the force of steam, by removing the fire
continually from one part of the machine to another." Captain Savery exhi
bited a model of a steam-engine, June 16, 1699 ; which is described in the Phi
losophical Transactions. The date of Savery and Newcomen'a patent for a
steam-engine is in the year 1705; and the latter "introduced the piston."
Among the improvers of this valuable machine, Dr. Young mentions the names
of De Moura, Smeaton, Belghton, Francois, who contrived " an engine with
out a piston, working the cocks by a tumbler ;" Droz, Cartwright, Horn-
blower, Woolf, and Edelcrantz, besides Watt.—Lectures on Natural Philo
sophy, 1807, vol. ii. pp. 257, 258.

334 PYRONOMICS.
              DESCRIPTION OF THE STEAM-ENGINE.                       335
   The preceding figure will enable the reader to form a correct idea of
the principal parts of a steam-engine, and of its mode of action. A B
denotes the principal cylinder ; P its piston, acting by its rod Y on the
extremity of the beam G H, the other extremity of which is connected
with the fly-wheel ; C C, a tube or passage by which steam formed in
the boiler is conveyed to the conducting pipes T U, to be admitted on
either side of the piston P alternately ; O, the fly-wheel, which by the
rods R S, moving excentrically, acts upon the rectangular lever V,
which by means of the valve Z regulates the admission of steam by the
conducting pipes ; M, the condenser ; X, a tube by which the steam
passes from the cylinder into the condenser ; N, a tube to convey the
water after condensation to the pump L ; F, the piston of the pump L,
worked by its rod E attached to the beam G H ; K, the piston-rod of a
pump to inject water into the condenser.
   From this description, the mode of action of the engine may be
readily understood. Suppose the piston P to be at the top of the cylin
der A B, the lower part being filled with steam, then by means of the
lever V, the steam-valve Z will be drawn down so as to admit steam by
the upper branch of the conducting pipe U into the cylinder above the
piston : and at the same time a passage will be opened to let the steam
below escape into the condenser. Thus the piston will be driven to the
bottom of the cylinder, when the steam-valve again opens to admit steam
by the lower branch of the conducting pipe T into the cylinder below
the piston, while the other passage also opens to permit the steam above
the piston to escape through the tube X into the condenser. Thus the
manner in which the piston alternately rises and falls is shown, and by
the connexion of its rod with the lever G H, it works the pumps, and
turns the fly-wheel, whence the moving power may be propagated
through trains of machinery for any purpose required. The fly-wheel
may be moved in the manner represented in the figure, by a crank con
nected with a rod descending from the arm H of the great lever ; or the
toothed wheels called the sun and planet wheel may be applied, in the
mode that has been explained elsewhere.* Various other arrangements
are adopted for modifying or regulating the motions of different parts
of the machine. Thus the piston rising vertically is connected by a
system of jointed rods with the extremity of the arm G of the great
                    * See Treatise on Mechanics, p. 94.

336                          PYKOXOMJCS.
lever ; and as that lever turns on a pivot, the end of the arm most form
an arc of a circle, hut by means of the rods the motion is so modified
that the piston is allowed to rise in a curve of so large a radius as not
to differ sensibly from a right line.* Another contrivance, for regulating
the velocity of a steam-engine, is that called the governor, previously
described ; t and there are various others adapted to particular pur
poses.
    It has been mentioned that the degree of the elastic force of steam
depends on the amount of pressure sustained by the sides of the vessel
in which it is formed. In the common low-pressure engine the steam
used is geoerally formed under a pressure not exceeding twenty pounds
on a square inch, the boiler being furnished with a valve loaded with
that weight ; and therefore when the expansive force of the steam ex
ceeds it, the valve opens, and the force of the steam is consequently re
duced. This pressure is only five pounds more than that of the atmo
sphere ; but in the double-action engine, the pressure of the atmosphere
 being excluded, the whole pressure of twenty pounds is made available ;
 and thus such an engine, if its piston be of equal size, will have the
same power as a high-pressure engine working with steam of the force
 of thirty-five pounds on the square inch.
    The high-pressure engine being simpler in construction as well as
 smaller than the double-action low-pressure engine, is more advan
 tageously used than the latter, where it is requisite to employ consider
 able power within a confined space ; and therefore it has been adopted
 in st^n-carriages. In these engines, the steam is not condensed, but
 is sulered to escape, after it has acted on the piston ; and as it is
formed under extraordinary pressure, varying from fifty or sixty to two
 hundred and sixty pounds on a square inch,} its expansive force is
 relatively very great. The attention of those who have been engaged
 in the construction and improvement of steam-carriages has therefore
 been chiefly directed to the contrivance of boilers in which high-pres
 sure steam may he formed most readily and with the least possible
 risk of explosion ; and Mr. Goldsworthy Gurney and others appear to
 have so far succeeded as to have produced carriages worked by steam
 in which persons may travel as safely as in coaches drawn by horses.
and with a degree of velocity incomparably greater.
   * See Treatise on Mechanics, p. 94.         t See p. 98.
   t See Gordon's Treatise upon Elemental Locomotion. 1832. pp. 62, 80, 96.
 •unl 100.

            PROPAGATION OF HEAT BY CONDUCTION.                        337
   Very recently an engine has been invented by Mr. Ericsson, the
effect of which depends, not on the expansion of steam, but on that of
heated air ; and which has been therefore called the Caloric or Rare
fied Air Engine. A model engine of five-horse power has been con
structed, which has two cylinders with their pistons, into the larger of
which is admitted air heated by traversing tubes passing round a fur
nace, and this is styled the hot cylinder ; while tie other, which re
ceives the cold air after it has escaped from the former, is named the cold
cylinder. By means ofrods and a double crank-shaft connected with these
cylinders, the machine is worked . As the power of an engine of this
land must depend on the density of the aerial medium employed, a
 small forcing-pump is attached, by means of which the power and
pressure may be varied at pleasure.
    The trial engine, which has been found in every respect satisfactory,
may be estimated at five-horse power, with reference to its efficiency,
compared with that of steam-engines. It makes fifty-six revolutions
in a minute, having a break-wheel fixed on the fly-shaft loaded with
 more than 5000 pounds. The working cylinder is 14 inches in dia
 meter, and the cold cylinder 10J inches, both making 18 inches
 stroke, working under a pressure of 35 pounds to the square inch.
                    MODES OF PROPAGATION OF HEAT.
    When any considerable mass of matter, whether consisting of a sin
 gle substance, as a body of water or atmospheric air, or of several sub
 stances mingled together, exhibits a uniformity of temperature, if an
 other substance, either more or less heated than the general mass, be
 added to it, the equilibrium of temperature will be partially disturbed,
 for a time, and then restored ; the whole mass taking heat from the
 substance added to it, if the latter be comparatively hotter than the
 mass, and giving out heat to it, if it be relatively cooler. Heat is thus
 propagated, or communicated from one body to others, having a tend
 ency to become generally diffused among bodies, and cause them all
 to exhibit the same degree of thermometrical temperature. There are
 two modes in which the propagation of heat may take place ; namely,
 by conduction, and by radiation.

   338                             PYRONOMICS.
       Propagation of heat, by conduction, always takes place wher
   substance is brought into contact with another which is relat
   colder. Hence it is that the temperature of the air in deep cellar
   caves seems to be higher in winter than in summer. The degr
   heat in such places is at both seasons nearly the same ; but the h
   body in winter being colder than the air of a subterraneous cave
   attract the heat from it, and in the summer, on the contrary, the ai
   rob the body of its superior heat. It appears, from the ex peril
   of MM. Bertholet, Fictet, and Biot, that heat is communicated
   readily by impact from a heated body than by simple contact.*
      The laws of the propagation of heat through bodies by conduc
   may be deduced from the following experiment : Suppose a bar o
   tal, two or three yards in length, to be placed in communication v.
   constant source of heat, and let ten holes be bored in it at equal
   tances from each other, from one end to the other, and rilled with
   cury, thermometers being plunged into the fluid metal in all the h
   then, deducting the difference of the temperature of the air from
   of the several thermometers, we obtain the temperature of the bar
   many relative distances from the source of heat. These distances
   necessarily constitute an arithmetical progression of numbers, ai
   will be found that the decrease of temperature will take place
   geometrical progression, forming a rapidly diminishing scale of i
   bers. The rate of diminution of heat is indeed so rapid, that it w
   be impossible to raise the temperature of one end of a bar of iron
   yards and a half in length, a single degree, by any heat applied t<
   other extremity ; for the heat requisite for that purpose woulc
   greater than what was sufficient to melt the iron, as might be showi
   calculation, t
       Though heat has a tendency to spread by conduction througl
   bodies, yet some receive and give it out with much greater fac
   than others. Among solid substances the power of conducting
   varies very considerably. Metals in general conduct it more rea
   than wood, and the power of conduction is different in different me
      * Memoires d'Arcueil, t. ii. p. 447.
      t See an account of an experiment by Biot, on the propagation of hea
   solids. Dr. Young's Lectures on Natural Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 405.
k.

             PROPAGATION OP HEAT BY CIRCULATION.                         339
Hence the handle of a metal tea-pot or coffee-pot is commonly made of
wood ; since, if it was of metal, it would become too hot to be grasped
with the hand, soon after the vessel was filled with boiling water. Dr.
Tngenhousz ascertained the difference of conducting power among
several metals by dipping into melted bees-wax cylindrical rods of
various metals of the same dimensions, and when the equal coating of
wax on all the rods was become solid by cooling, he plunged them to
the same depth into beated oil, and from the difference of time required
to melt the wax, in each case, he inferred the conducting power of the
respective metals. It thus appeared that silver was the best conduc
 tor of heat, then gold, tin, copper, platina, steel, iron, and lead. So
 that the power of conduction in metals seems to be independent of their
 density, tenacity, or fusibility ; for the specific gravity of silver is in
 ferior to that of gold or platina, yet its conducting power is greater ;
 while it has less tenacity than either of those metals ; and it is not so
 readily fusible as tin or lead. Next to metals, precious stones, as the
  diamond, the topaz, and other dense earthy compounds, appear to be the
 readiest conductors of heat : then stony bodies, porcelain, and glass, and
  porous earthy compounds, such as brick and pottery. Wood conducts
  heat very imperfectly, whether in its usual state or in that of charcoal ;
  either of which may be held by the fingers very near the part which is '
  burning and red hot.
     Animal and vegetable substances of a loose texture, as fur, wool, and
  cotton, are extremely indifferent conductors of heat. Hence their uti
  lity, either as natural or artificial clothing, in preserving the warmth of
  the body, in consequence of the obstruction they present to the passage
  of heat through them. It is probable, however, that in such cases the
  effect partly depends on the quantities of air contained in the inter
  stices of such loose substances ; since air is one of the very worst con
  ductors of heat.
      Liquids conduct heat very slowly and imperfectly. If mercury be
  poured into a jar, and boiling water poured over it, the metallic fluid
   will receive heat but slowly from the water above it. A thermometer
   let down a few feet below the surface of a pond or of the sea, would, on
   being drawn up, indicate a lower temperature than that of the surface
   water; for the latter, heated by the rays of the sun, would communi
   cate by conduction little or no heat to the water below. Indeed it may
   be questioned whether water has the power of conveying heat at all by

  340                          PYRONOMICS.
                    conduction. In the marginal figure, let A represent
                    a cylindrical jar of water, with an air thermometer,
                     C, immersed in it, and having its bulb very near the
                     surface ; B is a small copper basin floating on the
                    water, just above the bulb, and separated from it only
                    by a thin stratum of the aqueous fluid ; yet, when
                    burning charcoal is placed in the basin, though the
                    surface of the water beneath it may be heated to the
                    boiling point, the temperature just below will scarcely
                    be sufficient to produce any effect on the thermome
                    ter : so that it may be concluded that water does not
 transmit heat downwards by conduction.
    It may be reasonably inquired how it happens that water is readily
 made to boil by the application of heat. A little consideration will
 show that the effect in a great measure depends on the manner in
 which the liquid is heated, by placing it above the source of heat.
 Thus, the lowest stratum of the liquid, being expanded by the heat
 communicated to it through the bottom of the containing vessel, rises
 to the top in consequence of its inferiority of specific gravity, and the
 water above sinks down to supply its place and be heated in the same
 manner, till the whole mass acquires the same temperature. The mode
in which ebullition is facilitated by the formation of air and steam-
 bubbles, and the ensuing circulation of the fluid in ascending and
 descending currents, has been already described.
   Air, like water, appears to have no appreciable effect on the propa
gation of heat by conduction ; and it may be concluded that gaseous
fluids conduct heat, if at all, with degrees of difficulty increasing in
proportion to their rarefaction. It is owing to the extreme rarefaction
of the atmosphere at great distances from the common level of the
earth's surface, as upon high mountains, that the excessive cold ob
servable in such situations is to be attributed. Yet though the atmo
sphere is so bad a conductor of heat, substances may be warmed or
cooled by the relative temperature of the air ; for the expansion of air
by heat, and necessary production of aerial currents, causes a rapid
transmission of heat through the air, and thus the temperature of any
body in contact with it may be raised or lowered according to circum
stances. Air also readily conveys heat by radiation, as will be subse
quently explained.

                      THE CALORIC ENGINE.                       *337
   Since the brief account of the Caloric Engine (p. 337) was printed,
a more perfect description of that machine, illustrated by a diagram,
has been obligingly furnished by the inventor, Mr. J. Ericsson, for
insertion in this work.

PYROXOJHCS.
                        THE CALORIC ENGINE.                         *339
                     THE CALORIC ENGINE.
   Very recently an engine has been invented by Mr. Ericsson, called
the Caloric Engine, which is actuated by a successive dilatation and
contraction of a quantity of compressed and partially heated atmosphe
ric air, or other permanent gas.
   This air or gas being wade to circulate in opposite currents through
a series of small metallic tubes, causes a constant transfer of heat from
one part of the machine to another, whereby an alternate dilatation
and contraction of the impelling medium is effected and kept up.
   Thus the Caloric Engine possesses a novel and important feature
when compared with the steam-engine, viz., that of being actuated
over and over again by the same heat, or nearly so ; and it may be
added, that it presents to natural philosophy an illustration of the fact
that heat does not lose its energy in producing mechanical force, but re
mains in undiminished quantity after having caused the dilatation which
produces that force. At the same time this new invention presents to
mechanical science a wide field for improvement, since (unlike the
steam-engine) its principle is such that the quantity of force it pro
 duces has no other relation or proportion to the fuel it requires than
 that established by a more or less perfect machine and transferring
 apparatus.
    The action of the Caloric Engine and the transfer of the heat will be
 readily understood by referring to the annexed diagram.
    The engine consists of two cylinders, A and B, of unequal diameters,
 the large one being always kept at a high temperature, and the small
 one always cool . These cylinders are provided with pistons and valves,
 similar to those of a high-pressure steam-engine, and their piston-rods
 are connected so that the one piston cannot move without the other.
 The two cylinders communicate with each other by means of a num
 ber of small tubes, C, passing through a vessel, D, called the regene
 rator, and all terminating in chambers or caps, E and F, attached to the
 ends of the regenerator, and so arranged that the hot air, after having
 performed its duty in the large or working cylinder A, passes through
 the pipe G, into the body of the regenerator D, for the purpose of
 giving out its heat to the small tubes C, in its passage towards the
 small cylinder B, and thereby becomes cooled and reduced in volume.

*340                          PYROKOMICS.
In order to effect this more completely, a number of partitions, H, hav
ing segments cut out alternately from their tops and bottoms, are in
troduced into the body of the regenerator, giving a very circuitous
motion to the hot air in its passage from the pipe G to the pipe K.
   The cold air, forced, by the action of the piston of the small cylinder
in a contrary direction, through the small tubes C (these being also
provided with small partitions for changing or intermixing the particles
of air), will, during its passage from the cap F to the cap E, on its
way to the hot cylinder, take up the heat imparted to those tubes by
the contrary hot current which passes through the body of the regene
rator, and thereby become heated and enlarged in volume.
    It will be evident that if compressed air be admitted into both cylin
ders on one side only of their pistons, the greater surface of the one
 will be acted upon with greater force than the less surface of the other ;
 hence motion must ensue : and by reversing the position of the •• slide
 valves" at the termination of each stroke, it will be continued. It
 need hardly be stated that tie difference of the volumes of air contained
 in the two cylinders will cause neither deficiency nor accumulation
 during the action ; because in the large cylinder the air is in a heated
 state, and in the small one cold.
    Some loss of heat will of course be unavoidable in the transferring
 process, and this is compensated by passing the air, previous to its
 entering the hot cylinder, through a series of small tubes, L, communi
 cating with the cap E, and induction-pipe Q, and exposed to fire, con
 tained in a stove, M, the combustion being supported by ordinary
 draught, and the waste heat made to pass round the regenerator, and
 carried off at N into a common chimney. At the same time the air
 which has passed through the body of the regenerator, still retains a
 small quantity of heat when entering the pipe K ; it is therefore passed
 through tubes O, immersed in cold water, or exposed to some other
 cooling medium, previous to entering the small cylinder.
     The marked difference, then, between the Caloric Engine and the
 steam-engine consists in this : that the heat, which is required to givs
  motion to the Caloric Engine at the commencement, is returned by the
 transferring process, and thereby made to work the engine over and over
 again, requiring but a small addition of beat to compensate for losses
  caused by radiation, &c. ; while on the other hand, in the steam-en
 gine the heat is constantly lost by being thrown either into a cold
  londenser, or into the atmosphere, like so much waste fuel.

                         RADIATION OF HEAT.                         341
   From what has been stated it must be inferred that those bodies
which absorb heat most freely also part with it most rapidly ; that is,
they are sooner heated and more speedily become cooled than other
bodies. Metals, which are generally the best conductors, and therefore
communicate heat soonest, cannot be handled when raised to a temper
ature of more than 120 deg. ; water becomes scalding hot at 150 deg. ;
but air applied to the skin occasions no very painful sensation when
its heat is far beyond that of boiling water. Some curious experiments
on the power of the human body to withstand the influence of heated
air were made by Sir Joseph Banks, Sir Charles Blagden , Dr. Solan-
der, and Dr. George Fordyce ; and an account of them was published
in the Philosophical Transactions for 1775. These gentlemen found
that they could remain for some time without inconvenience in a room
where the heat was 52 deg. above the boiling point. But though they
could thus bear the contact of the heated air, they could not bear to
touch any metallic substance, as their watch-chains or money. Eggs
placed on a tin frame in the heated room were roasted hard in twenty
minutes ; and a beef steak was overdone in thirty-three minutes.
Similar experiments have been often repeated, especially by persons
who have made public exhibitions of their power of sustaining heat ; in
which, however, there is nothing extraordinary, or which may not be
explained as the result of habitual practice. Mr. Chantrey, the cele
brated sculptor, made some observations analogous to those just no
ticed, by means of a stove or oven which he uses for drying plaster
casts and moulds. A thermometer, suspended in this heated cell,
usually stands at 300 deg., yet the workmen enter and remain in it oc
casionally some minutes, without difficulty. Persons unused to such a
temperature found that they could easily support the heat for a short
time ; but one gentleman inadvertently entering the oven with a pair
of silver-mounted spectacles on, had his face burnt where the metal
came in contact with the skin ; thus experimentally ascertaining the
different effect of air and silver at the same temperature.
    On the strong attraction of metals for heat, and the consequent faci
lity with which they abstract it from other bodies, depends, in a great
 measure, the effect of Sir Humphry Davy's safety-lamp, to be used
 in mines, or other places infested with that kind of inflammable gas
 called fire-damp. Flame is gas, or air in the state of combustion, and
 all gases require a very high temperature to make them burn ; so that

  342                    •    PYRONOMICS.
 the flame of gas becomes extinguished by lowering its temperature.
 This may be experimentally demonstrated by approaching to a weak
  flame a large mass of iron, as by gradually lowering a thick iron ring
 over the flame of a small cotton thread dipped in oil ; which, being de
 prived of its heat by the metal, would go out. In a similar manner,
 the temperature of any inflammable vapour may be reduced below
 what may be termed the burning point, by passing through fine wire-
 gauze. Thus, if a small portion of camphor be placed in the centre of
 a piece of wire-gauze about a foot square, and a lighted candle applied
 to the under surface, the vapour of the camphor will be kindled and
 burn below the gauze, without passing through to inflame the camphor
 upon it. Hence may readily be understood the effect of the safety-
 lamp, which is a kind of lantern of fine wire-gauze, within which a
 candle or wick, fed with oil, will burn in security amidst an atmosphere
 of fire-damp ; for though the vapour may enter and become inflamed
 within the lantern, the flame cannot pass through the close tissue of the
 wire-gauze to occasion an external explosion.
    Heat is not only communicated from one body to another by con
 duction, or by means of circulating currents, but it is also conveyed
 to considerable distances, through any elastic fluid, as air, by radiation.
 This mode of the transmission of heat resembles that in which light is
 propagated ; and, as light and heat are frequently transmitted together
 by radiation, the effects of radiant heat were generally attributed to
 the light by which it is observed to be accompanied. The ancient
 Greeks and Romans were acquainted with some of the extraordinary
effects of radiant heat produced by burning-glasses ; and thus Archi
medes is said to have consumed the ships of the Romans by such in
 struments, during the siege of Syracuse ; and several centuries later
the philosopher Proclus in the same manner destroyed the fleet of
Vitalianus, before Constantinople.
    Many experiments have been made in modern times on the effect of
 the transmission of radiant heat through convex lenses, and of its re
flection from concave mirrors, which show that by these means its
power may be vastly augmented, and which tend, upon the whole, to
corroborate the statements of ancient writers relative to the action of
burning-glasses.
    The following results are said to have been obtained from the ex
posure of different substances to the rays of the sun, collected by

                      CONCENTRATION OF HEAT.                                  343
means of a lens two feet in diameter, with a focal distance of three
ells, in experiments made at Leipsic in 1691.
    Pieces of lead and tin were instantly melted ; a plate of iron was
soon rendered red hot, and afterwards fused ; a burnt brick was
converted into yellow glass; and amianthus, one of the most refractory
bodies, was in a short time reduced to the state of black glass.* Analo
gous experiments were subsequently performed in France, with a
more powerful lens, constructed by order of M. Trudaine de Montigny ;
and in England, with Parker's burning lens, which was presented to
the Emperor of China, when Lord Macartney was sent on an embassy
to the court of Pekin. This last instrument was a double convex
lens, three feet in diameter, three inches thick in the centre, and weigh
ing 312 pounds. Its aperture, when set, was 32£ inches; its focal
distance^ feet 8 inches : but the focal length was generally shortened
by a smaller lens. The most refractory substance fused was a corne
lian, which required 75 seconds for its fusion ; a crystal pebble was
fused in 6 seconds ; and a piece of white agate in 30 seconds. t
    Important experiments have likewise been made with concave mir
rors and with combinations of plane mirrors, which, though relatively
less powerful than lenses, may more conveniently be rendered efficient
at greater distances. M. Dufay used both parabolical and spherical
mirrors made of plaster of Paris gilt and burnished ; and with one of
the latter, 20 inches in diameter, lie set fire to tinder at the distance of
50 feet. The Abbe Nollet made corresponding experiments with con
cave mirrors constructed of pasteboard, covered with silver or gold
leaf and burnished. $ But the most remarkable experiments of this
nature were those of Button, who had a machine composed of one hun
dred and sixty-eight small plane mirrors, so arranged that they all
reflected radiant heat to the same focus. By means of this combina
tion of reflecting surfaces he was able to set wood on fire at the dis
tance of 209 feet, to melt lead at 100 feet, and silver at 50 feet.$
    The beat of the sun may be concentrated by means of a concave
mirror, or by being transmitted through a convex lens ; but the heat
of burning bodies in general, though readily reflected by a concave
   * Sigaud de la Fond Elem. de Physique, vol. iv. pp. 172, 173.
   t Dr. Young, in Led. on Nat. Philos., vol. 11. p. 407, from Cavallo.
   t V. Histoire de l'Academie Roy. des Sciences, An. 1726, p. 165. Nollet
 Lemons He Physique, t. v. p. 218.
   i V. Hist, de l'Acad. Roy. des Scien., An. 1747, p. 82 ; and 1748, p. 305.

 344                           PYRONOMICS.
 mirror of metal, produces little or no effect by means of a lens. In a
 paper published in the Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences of Paris,
 in 1682, by M. Mariotte, he stated that radiant heat from a common
 fire, concentrated by a concave mirror, has its effect destroyed by the
 interposition of a plate of glass ; and the Swedish philosopher, Scheele,
 from numerous experiments, inferred that glass intercepts entirely the
 radiant heat of a fire ; and that a glass mirror reflects the light, but
 prevents the passage of the heat, while a metallic mirror reflects both
 heat and light. 1 1 has, however, been since discovered, that though
the heat of burning bodies commonly exhibits different effects, in pass
ing through glass, from those which are perceived in the passage of
solar heat, they may probably depend on the far inferior intensity of
the heat arising from combustion compared with that of the sun. For
when a very intense artificial heat with light is produced, as that of
charcoal ignited by a voltaic battery, if a small lens be placed before
the brilliant star of fire thus obtained, and its focus be cast on the ball
of a delicate air thermometer, some elevation of temperature may be
 perceived.
    That heat radiates from bodies in right lines, and that it may be
reflected to a focal point by a mirror, like light, may be demonstrated
by the apparatus represented above. It consists of two concave mirrors,
A and B, of planished tin or plated copper, about one foot in diameter,
and placed exactly opposite each other, at the distance of about ten feet.
In the focus of one mirror, at C, must be placed a heated body, as a ball
of iron; and in the focus of the other mirror, at D, a differential ther-

                        RADIATION OF COLD.                           345
mometer. The rays of heat then, impinging on the mirror A, are
reflected through the air to the mirror B, whence they converge to its
focus at D, and produce an effect on the thermometer proportioned to
the degree of heat of the iron ball or other heated body. That this
effect is not produced by the mere dispersion of the heat through the
air may be evinced by holding a pasteboard screen between the mirror
B and the thermometer, when the latter, though as near the source of
heat as before, would be hardly, or not at all, affected by it. And if
the ball be moved out of the focus of the mirror A, towards the ther
mometer, though thus brought nearer to it, the effect will be greatly
diminished. The flame of a candle, or a flask of boiling water, being
substituted for the heated ball, the same effect will be produced. If
a body yielding a stronger heat, as burning charcoal, be placed in the
focus of one mirror, and a piece of phosphorus in that of the other, the
phosphorus will be instantly inflamed : and in the same manner may
be effected the detonation of fulminating silver, or the deflagration of
gunpowder. For the exhibition of the latter experiments may be
adopted Sir H. Davy's arrangement of the mirrors, vertically opposite
to each other.
    An extraordinary and somewhat problematical phenomenon which
may be exhibited by such mirrors, is the apparent radiation of cold.
 For if a ball of ice or snow be substituted for the heated iron in the
focus of the mirror A, the thermometer will show a reduction of tem
perature. It has been hence inferred by some, that cold is a peculiar
kind of subtile fluid, capable of being propagated by radiation ; but the
 effect has been more generally attributed to the abstraction of heat
 from the thermometer by the frozen mass opposite to it.
    Those bodies which reflect heat most powerfully, like the polished
 mirrors above described, do not acquire heat from the rays impinging
 on their surfaces ; so that such a mirror might be held a long time
 opposite to a fire without becoming perceptibly warmer. But if the
 surface of the metal be made rough by scratching it with sand-paper,
 or covered with paste mixed with chalk or lamp-black, it will rapidly
 absorb the rays of heat, instead of reflecting them. Hence it appears
 that the effect of radiant heat greatly depends on the state of the sur
 faces of bodies. " Leslie discovered, by experiments made in 1802,
 that the heat emitted by radiation was affected by the nature of the sur
face exposed. The action of a blackened surface of tin being 100, that
of a steel plate was 15, of clean tin 12, of tin scraped bright 16, when

346                            PYRONOMICS.
scraped with the edge of a fine file in one direction 26, when scraped
again across ahout 13, a surface of clean lead 19, covered with a gray
crust 45, a thin coat of isinglass 80, resin 96, writing-paper 98, ice 85.
Heat as well as light is so projected from a surface, as to be equally
dense in all directions, consequently from each point in a quantity
which is as the sine of the angle of inclination. The radiation is not
affected by the quality of the gas in contact with the surface, but it is
not transmitted by water."* A s polished metals absorb heat very slowly,
so heat is but slowly emitted from the surface of such metals ; and
thus boiling water would continue at a high temperature much longer
in a silver tea-pot than in one of black earthenware ; so that vessels of
polished metal are best adapted for preparing tea or other vegetable
infusions. Substances of a light and very brilliant colour reflect heat
readily, but do not absorb it ; while black or very dark-coloured bodies
absorb the heat that falls on them, reflecting little or none of it. If
pieces of white cloth and other pieces of black cloth be laid, in similar
circumstances, on the surface of snow, it would soon become melted
beneath the black cloth, but remain perfectly solid under the white. In
Borne of the mountainous parts of Europe, the farmers are accustomed
to spread black earth or soot over the snow, in the spring, to hasten its
dissolution, and enable them to anticipate the period of tillage.
   It may be generally assumed that all bodies of unequal temperature
tend to become of equal temperature ; if in contact, by conduction ;
if at sensible distances, by radiation of the excess of heat ; and in the
latter case whether the radiation reach the cooler body directly, or by
an intervening reflection.-|-
  * Dr. Young's Lectures on Natural Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 407.
  t See Report on the present State of the Knowledge of the Science of Ra
diant Heat, presented to the British Association, by Professor Powell, in 1833.

OPTICS.
IN THOSE DEPARTMENTS OP EXPERIMENTAL OPTICS WHICH REVEAL TO US THE
  MORE INTIMATE NATURE AND AFFECTIONS OF LIGHT, IN VERY RECENT TIMES
  ASTONISHING ACCESSIONS HAVE BEEN MADE TO OUR KNOWLEDGE BOTH OF THE
  PHENOMENA AND OF THE THEORY. AFTER SLUMBERING MORE THAN A CENTURY,
  DURING WHICH SCARCELY A SINGLE FACT WAS ADDED TO THOSE ELICITED BY
  NEWTON, THIS BEAUTIFUL AND INTERESTING BRANCH OF INQUIRY BEGAN TO
  REVIVE. IN THE HANDS OF MALU8, ARAGO, AND BIOT, IN FRANCE, AND OF
  WOLLASTON, BREWSTER, AND HERSCHEL, IN GREAT BRITAIN, THE PHENOMENA
  OF POLARIZED LIGHT GAVE A COMPLETELY NEW TURN TO THE TRAIN OF INQUIRY J
  AND A SUCCESSION OF EXPERIMENTAL FACTS AND LAWS, SERVED TO EXCITE THE
  ADMIRATION, AND IN SOME DEGREE TO EXERCISE THE THEORETICAL SKILL OF
  THESE AND OTHER PHILOSOPHERS.
        Prof. Powell's Historical View of the Progress of the Physical and
          Mathematical Sciences.

                              OPTICS.
   Among the grand sources of our knowledge of the works of nature
is the faculty or sense of sight and vision, to which we owe the percep
tion of light and colours, and the means of judging concerning the
forms and appearances of the numerous bodies around us. The highly
curious, interesting, and important phenomena with which we thus
become acquainted constitute the subjects of the science of Optics,*
or the theory of light and vision. This department of natural philo
sophy may be considered as furnishing topics for investigation under
different points of view : 1. As relating to the general properties of
light, and its effect on the organ of vision ; 2. With reference to the
                     * From the Greek "Oflrouai, to see.
                                                                        *

  350                              optics.
 reflection of light from the surfaces of bodies ; 3. With reference to the
 refraction of light, or the alteration it undergoes in passing through
 transparent bodies ; 4. As regards the phenomena of colours -. 5. As
 respects certain modifications of reflected and refracted light, which
 have been characterized as resulting from the polarization of light.
    Among the multitudes of bodies which we can perceive, some are
 visible by their own light, and these are styled luminous bodies;
 while others have no such illuminating property, and can be seen only
 by means of the light afforded by the former. Luminous bodies con
 sist of those which are original and permanent sources of light, as the
 sun, fixed stars, and probably comets ; and those which exhibit light
 only under certain circumstances, especially while undergoing com
 bustion, as in the case of minute fragments of steel struck off by the
 collision of flint with steel, or in the common process of burning a
 candle, oil in a lamp, or coal-gas.
    Any bodies which do not interrupt the passage of light, or which
 admit of other bodies being seen through them, are called transparent
 bodies;* those which prevent entirely the passage of light are termed
 opaque bodies ; and those which allow other bodies to be seen through
 them obscurely and imperfectly are named semi-transparent substances.
Transparency and opacity, however, depend much on the relative
 thickness or thinness of substances ; for even air, which affords less
 interruption to the passage of light than any other kind of matter, is
 not perfectly diaphanous ; nor will the densest metal completely pre
 vent the influence of light. It has been calculated that the atmosphere,
 when the rays of the sun pass perpendicularly through it, interrupts
 from 3 to i of their light ; but when the sun is near the horizon, and
 the mass of air through which the solar rays pass is consequently vastly
increased in thickness, only 5\5 part of their light can reach the surface
of the earth. " By a peculiar application of my photometer," says Sir
John Leslie, " I have found that half of the incident light, which might
pass through a field of air of the ordinary density, and 15J miles ex
tent, would penetrate only to the depth of 15 feet in the clearest sea-
water, which is therefore about 5400 times less diaphanous than the
   * The words transparent and diaphanous are synonymous; the former
being derived from the Latin trans, through or beyond, and pa rt us, apparent ;
and the latter from the Greek Aiafavtfc-, shining through, or translucent.

               RELATIVE TRANSPARENCY OF BODIES.                        35 I
ordinary atmospheric medium. But water of shallow lakes, although
not apparently turbid, betrays a greater opacity, insomuch that the
perpendicular light is reduced one half in descending only through the
space of six or even two feet. The same measure of absorption would
take place in the passage of light through the thickness of two or three
inches of the finest glass, which is consequently 500,000 times more
opaque than an equal bulk of air, or 300 times more opaque than an
equal bulk or mass of this fluid. But even gold is diaphanous. If
 a leaf of that metal, either pure or with only 8'0 part of alloy, and
 therefore of a fine yellow lustre, but scarcely exceeding aooioo of an
 inch in thickness, and inclosed between two thin plates of mica, be
 held immediately before the eye, and opposite to a window, it will
 transmit a soft green light, like the colour of the water of the sea, or of
 a clear lake of moderate depth. This glaucous tint is easily distin
 guished from the mere white light which passes through any visible
 holes or torn parts of the leaf. It is indeed the very colour which
  gold itself assumes when poured liquid from the melting-pot. A leaf
  of pale gold, or gold alloyed with about 8'0 part of silver, transmits an
  azure colour; from which we may with great probability infer, that
 if silver could be reduced to a sufficient degree of thinness, it would
  discharge a purple light. These noble metals, therefore, act upon
  white light exactly like air or water, absorbing the red and orange
  rays which enter into its composition, but suffering the conjoined
  green and blue rays to effect their passage. If the yellow leaf were
  to transmit only /0 part of the whole incident light, we should only
  conclude, that pure gold is 250,000 times less diaphanous than pel
  lucid glass. The inferior ductility of the other metals will not allow
  that extreme lamination, which would be requisite, in ordinary cases,
  to show the transmission of light. But their diaphanous quality may
  be inferred, from the peculiar tints with which they affect the trans
  mitted rays when they form the alloy of gold. Other substances
   which are commonly reckoned opaque, yet permit in various propor
   tions the passage of light. The window of a small apartment being
   closed by a deal board, if a person within shut his eyes for a few
   minutes, to render them more sensible, he will, on opening them
   again, easily discern a faint glimmer through the window. If this
   board be planed thinner, more light will successively penetrate, till
   the furniture of the room becomes visible, and perhaps a large print

  352                              optics.
  may be distinctly read. Writing-paper transmits about the third part
  of the whole incident light, and when oiled it often supplies the place
  of glass in the common workshops. The addition of the oil does not,
  however, materially augment the diaphanous quality of the paper, but
  renders its internal structure more regular, and more assimilated to
  that of a liquid. The rays of light travel without much obstruction
  across several folds of paper, and even escape copiously through paste
  board."*
     The chief sources of light, as already observed, are permanently lu
 minous bodies, or celestial fire, especially the sun; and terrestrial fire,
  or that given out during combustion or incandescence. There are,
  however, some cases in which light is exhibited under circumstances
  apparently unconnected with the influence of the solar rays, or of ter
  restrial fire.   The exhibition of light accompanies many electrical
  phenomena ; as lightning, the luminous traits produced by brushing
  with the hand a cat's back in the dark, and many others, which will
  be more particularly noticed in the subsequent part of this volume.
  Phosphorescence is another kind of luminous exhibition, where light
  is emitted without sensible heat, and the effect seems to be but re
  motely, if at all, dependent on either of the grand sources of luminosity
  which have been pointed out. Common phosphorus is a highly com
  bustible body, burning fiercely at a certain temperature, with intense
  light and heat : it also gives out light at a very low temperature, with
  out apparent heat, but this is the effect of slow combustion : it was,
  however, ascertained by Dr. Van Marum, a Dutch philosopher, that
  phosphorus covered with dry loose cotton, or sprinkled with resin,
  would shine under the exhausted receiver of an air-pump, t a situation
  in which it seems impossible that any combustion can take place, on
  account of the deficiency of atmospheric air. But there are phos
  phorescent bodies which yield light under circumstances which have
  no connexion whatever with the process of combustion.            Decayed
  wood, and sometimes peat or turf, have been observed to shine in the
  dark ; and some kinds offish, as soles, whiting, tench, and carp, be
  come luminous when tainted, but before they grow putrid ; lobsters
|    * Elements of Natural Philosophy, vol. i. pp. 20—22.
     t Sec Arcana of Science, for 1832, p. 130 j from Brewster's Edinburgh
     unial of Science, N. S.

                   PHOSPHORESCENCE OF THE SEA.                         353
and crabs often display phosphorescence in similar circumstances ; and
also butchers' meat, occasionally.
    There are many animals of the lower orders that emit light in greater
 or less abundance while living. Among insects, the glow-worm (Lam-
pyru Splendidulu) is the most generally noted for its illuminating
 powers, as being common in England and other European countries ;
 there are, however, others of our native insects in some degree possess
 ing similar properties, as the common centipede, found under tiles or
 flowerpots in gardens, which when irritated gives out bright flashes of
 light. But the most remarkable shining insects are natives of the
 West Indies and South America ; and of these the Elater Noctilucus, a
 coleopterous insect, affords a splendid specimen. " It is an inch long,
 and about one-third of an inch broad, gives out its principal light from
 two eye-like tubercles placed upon the thorax ; and the light emitted
 from them is 30 considerable that the smallest print may be read by mov
 ing one of these insects along the lines." * The surface of the sea is
 observed by mariners to be occasionally illuminated ; and the light ge
 nerally, if not always, is produced by certain marine phosphorescent ani
 mals. There are some peculiarities in these luminous appearances,
 which have been described as exhibiting five varieties : " the first shows
 itself in scattered sparkles in the spray of the sea, and in the foam
 created by the way of the ship, when the water is slightly agitated by
 the winds or currents ; the second is a flash of pale light, of momentary
 duration, but often intense enough to illuminate the water to an extent
 of several feet j the third, of rare occurrence and peculiar to gulfs,
bays, and shallows, in warm climates, is a diffused pale phosphores
 cence, resembling sometimes a sea of milk, or of some metal in a state
 of igneous liquefaction ; the fourth presents itself to the astonished
 voyager under the appearance of thick bars of metal of about half a
foot in length, ignited to whiteness, scattered over the surface of the
ocean, some rising up and contiuuing luminous as long as they remain in
view, while others decline and disappear ; and the fifth variety is in
distinct spots on the surface, of great beauty and brilliancy. The light
of the first variety is more brilliant and condensed than that of any
of the others, and very much resembles every way the red gold and
   * Introduction to Entomology. By Rev. W. Klrby and W. Spence. 8vo.
vol. ii. p. 413.
                                    2,A
                                                                            u

 354                               optics.
 silver rain of the pyrotechnist. It and the third kind are produced by
 myriads of various minute crustaceous animals, the smaller Medusa-
and Mollitsca, and perhaps some Annelides; the second appears to pro
ceed from the gelatinous Medusa, of a larger size ; the Pyrosomtt are
the cause of the fourth kind, which may be often witnessed by vessels
bound to India, or the eastward of the Cape of Good Hope, occurring
in the calm latitudes near the line. The Sapphirina Indicator, an insect
sowewhat resembling in appearance the woodlouse (Ouiscus), and
about one-third of an inch in length, emits the last variety enumerated,
which appears to be limited to the seas situated to the north and west
of a line drawn from the Cape of Good Hope to the southern extremity
of the Island of Ceylon."*
    Some flowers have been remarked to emit flashes of light while
growing on the plants to which they belong. These miniature light
nings sometimes are perceived of a summer evening, in warm close
weather, issuing from the petals of the African and the common mari
gold, the nasturtium, and the tuberose.
    Many mineral bodies give out light under particular circumstances.
This is the case with some diamonds, and varieties of rock crystal,
which become luminous on being removed into a dark room after ex
posure to the rays of the sun. What is called the Bolognian phos
phorus, is artificially prepared by mixing into a paste, with gum traga-
canth, powdered sulphate of barytes, or ponderous spar, and dividing
the mass into thin cakes, which are to be carefully calcined in an open
fire and suffered to cool slowly : they then shine in the dark after being
exposed to the sun. Canton s phosphorus, which consists of sulphuret
of lime; and Baldwin's phosphorus, which is nitrate of lime, have
analogous properties ; and oyster-shells, calcined by putting them into
a coal or charcoal fire, for about an hour, and when cold, taking off a
thin scale from the inside, will befound to have become phosphorescent.
There are minerals which are rendered luminous in the dark by ex
posure to a temperature somewhat below red heat, as phosphate of
lime, from Estremadura, in Spain, some kinds of fluor or Derbyshire
spar, fetid carbonate of lime or swinestone, quartz, and ponderous
spar. Light may be elicited from violent friction or collision of in
combustible bodies, just as fire is from flint and steel. Thus bright
sparks may be produced by striking one piece of common flint or rock
       * Thompson's Zoological Researches and Illustrations, 1832, 8vo.

         CAUSE AND MODE OF PROPAGATION OF LIGHT.                     355
crystal against another ; rubbing together two pieces of bonnet-cane
will cause the emission of light, in consequence of the epidermis or
scaly coating of the cane being composed of siliceous earth ; and loaf
sugar yields a pale light, from the collision of two lumps in the dark,
the effect being merely the exhibition of phosphorescence, for though
sugar is an inflammable substance, the luminous appearance is unac
 companied by combustion.
   Light, considered as the cause of vision, or the medium by which
objects become perceptible to sight, exhibiting a variety of tints to the
 eye, has generally, since the publication of Sir Isaac Newton's theory
of light and colours, been ascribed to the emission of a peculiar
ethereal fluid from the sun and all other luminous bodies. This subtile
fluid or ether was supposed to be perpetually streaming in all direc
tions from the sun and fixed stars, travelling with a velocity 900,000
times beyond that of sound through the air, and yet consisting of par
ticles so extremely minute as to pass through the densest substances
without at all altering their structure, or interfering during their
 progress in the slightest degree with each other. Descartes, who
 died in 1650, had advanced a different hypothesis to account for the
action of light, founded on the admission of the existence of an
ethereal fluid, not subject to a motion of translation, or passage from
one part of space to another, but capable of being thrown into the
state of undulation by the impulse of luminous bodies ; and the undu
lating motion being indefinitely extended, would obviously propagate
the influence of light through any given space. The theory of undula
tion, as it is termed, was adopted and improved by Huygens, the con
temporary of Newton, but the system of emanation or emission of light,
proposed by the latter, principally through the authority of his great
 name, prevailed almost universally till about the middle of the last
century, when it was attacked by Leonard Euler, who in his " Let
ters on different subjects of Natural Philosophy, addressed to a Ger
man Princess," has pointed out the difficulties which occur in attempt
ing to explain the phenomena of light according to Newton's doctrine
or theory of emanation, and has advanced many striking arguments in
favour of the theory of undulation, showing the analogies between the
modes of propagation of light and sound, and demonstrating the gene
ral agreement of the hypothesis with those facts which constitute the
basis of optical science. Euler, however, gained but few converts
                                  2a2

356                                  optics.
among his scientific contemporaries, and the opposite theory ma
generally admitted as correct till about the beginning of the present
century, when Dr. Thomas Young, in the Bakerian Lecture, read be
fore the Royal Society, 1801, entered into an elaborate disquisition
concerning the theory of light and colours; and deduced from the
principles laid down by Newton himself, the three following hypo
theses : 1. That a luminifcrous ether, rare and elastic in a high degree,
pervades the whole universe. 2. That undulations are excited in this
ether whenever a body becomes luminous. 3. That the sensation of
different colours depends on the frequency of vibrations excited by
light in the retina. To these he added a fourth hypothesis, assuming
that all material bodies have an attraction for the ethereal medium, by
means of which it is accumulated within their substance, and for a
 small distance around them, in a state of greater density but not of
 greater elasticity.*
    Subsequent discoveries have tended to confirm the theory of undu
lation, which affords a more unobjectionable mode of explaining the
 phenomena of polarized light, and other appearances, than is furnished
 by the theory of emanation ; and the former has been embraced by
 the most distinguished philosophers now living or recently deceased ;
 as Fresnel, Arago, Sir John Herschel, Sir D. Brewster, and others,
 who by their own discoveries have gTeatly contributed to extend the
 boundaries of science.
     The propagation of light always takes place in right lines, pro.
 jecting on every side from luminous bodies.                     Such radiating
 lines, or rays, diverge from each other in their passage, forming
 what is called a pencil of light, as exhibited in the marginal
 figure. A similar effect may be produced by admitting into a
                              darkened room, through a minute aperture in >
                              window-shutter, the light of the sun, which
                              would be perceived proceeding in a diverging
                              bundle or pencil of rays ; and on presenting to
                              it a flat board, a luminous image would be
                              formed, increasing in diameter with the in
                              crease of distance from the aperture at wbicb
                              the plane was held, and which, by variously in-
   .* See Piiilos. Transact- for 1802 ; and Abstract of Papers in the PbU. Tnuis .
  ,ol. i. pp. 64, 65.

                 RELATIVE INTENSITY OP LIGHT.                         357
dining the plane, might be made to assume elliptical or other curved
figures.
   Images of variously-shaped bodies seen by light thus admitted through
a small opening are always in a reversed position, in consequence of
the obliquity or divergence of the rays of light.
    That this effect must take place will be readily perceived from the
preceding figure, which shows that the rays in passing through the
opening must cross each other ; and thus rays coming from the superior
parts of objects, impinge on the relatively inferior portion of the plane,
 and those from the higher parts strike on that portion of the plane below
the other rays: the spectra or images produced must consequently be
inverted. It is stated above that the dimensions of the images thus
formed decrease in proportion to the distance from the opening at
which they are situated. Thus if the plane on which the image of an
object is received, be placed at exactly the same distance before the
aperture, as the object stands behind it, the size of the image will coin
 cide with that of the object, for the pencils of rays on either side
would be alike. If, however, the plane be removed nearer the aper
 ture than before by one-half, the image will be but one-fourth of the
size of the former ; at one-third the distance, its size would be one-
ninth ; at one-fourth the distance, one-sixteenth ; the diminution
 taking place in the ratio of the squares of the distances of the plane
 from the aperture. The intensity of light diminishes in the same
proportion as the distance increases : thus suppose a candle to be
 placed at the distance of one yard from the face of a dial or timepiece,
 the light thrown on it may be represented by the number 1 ; if then it
                                                                   '
                                                                         "\

358                              optics.
be removed back to two yards, the light will be but J as much as
before ; at 3 yards 5, at 4 yards }„, at 5 yards ,',, at 25 yards 6' 4. Tbis
reduction of light, in proportion to the distance of the luminous body,
is the necessary effect of the divergence and consequent dispersion of
the radiant pencil; and hence it may readily be conceived, that an
inconsiderable light can only be visible at a comparatively trifling dis
tance, and that its influence in rendering non-luminous objects visible,
must be limited to a much shorter distance than the extreme point at
which its light will be perceptible.
   The apparent siie of all visible objects is to be explained on the
same principles with those that govern the formation of images by light
transmitted through an aperture, as just described. When we take a
view of an illuminated body its image becomes traced in shadow, ex
hibiting, however, its proper colours on the retina, a nervous membrane
that lines the interior surface of the eye. A more particular descrip
 tion of the structure and apparent uses of the different parts of the
 organ of vision will be introduced after the nature and causes of the
 refraction of light have been explained ; but the relation between visible
 images of objects and the angular distances of the objects themselves
 may here be concisely pointed out. From what has been previously
 stated concerning the diminution of the light of a pencil of rays in pro
 portion to the distances of the point whence they diverge, it must be
 evident that the nearer to the eye any object may be placed, so much
 more numerous will be the rays of light passing from it which can act
upon the eye so as to form the image on the retina. The number of the
rays indeed will increase or decrease as the squares of the distances of
objects, after the manner already described. Tbis, however, is to be
 understood as the law that regulates the propagation of light simply
 and independently of the medium it traverses , for air, the most trans
parent of bodies, interrupts in some degree the passage of light through
it, as elsewhere observed ; and therefore the apparent dimensions of
objects must be considerably influenced by the nature of the medium
 through which they are beheld.0 The angle formed by the crossing of
 the rays of light passing from the opposite extremities of a visible ob
ject is called the angle of vision. Now that angle will be relatively
   * See the subsequent part of this treatise, relating to the Refraction of
 Light.

                         VELOCITY OF LIGHT.                           359
very contracted when 'the radiating lines are emitted from an objec
extremely minute, or from one placed at a great distance. Thus there
are insects too small to be visible to the naked eye even when brought
as near to it as possible ; and some objects of immense size, as the fixed
stars, each of which probably is many thousand times larger than the
earth, appear as mere points from the remote situations they occupy ;
while there are doubtless multitudes of other stars yet more remote,
and therefore quite invisible, even when the heavens are surveyed
through the best telescopes. Unless the angle of vision be more than
one second of a degree, the object whence the rays proceed will not
be visible, without it be very strongly illuminated.
    The velocity of light is so great that it was long supposed to pass in
stantaneously through any given space ; and though it has been ascer
tained that it occupies a certain time in its passage proportioned to the
distances traversed, yet so rapid is its apparent motion, that in observ
ing the effect of light at places a few miles distant from each other the
time need not be taken into the account. The rate at which light is
propagated was discovered by Olaus Roemer, in making observations
on the eclipses of the satellites of Jupiter. If the transmission of light
were instantaneous, it must be obvious that the reflected light of the
"Bun would take up no more time in passing from any one of the pla
 netary bodies to the earth, when they are farthest from us, than it does
 when they are nearest ; and as the situation of the earth with respect to
 the other planets is different in different parts of her orbit, the satel
 lites of Jupiter, on emerging from the shadow of that planet, would be
 seen as quickly when the earth was in one part of her orbit as in ano
 ther. But this is by no means the case ; and the effect of the trans
 mission of light is such, that when the earth is between Jupiter and
 the sun, the satellites, after being eclipsed, are perceived rather more
 than eight minutes sooner than they ought to appear according to the
 time as calculated by the most accurate tables ; and when the earth is
 in the opposite part of her orbit, so that the sun is between this planet
 and Jupiter, the satellites emerge about eight minutes later than the
 calculated or mean time.

 360                                OPTICS.
                              In the annexed diagram, let S represent the
                           sun, A and B the earth in different parts of her
                           orbit, J, Jupiter, D, his nearest satellite enter
                           ing the shadow of that planet, and C, the same
                           satellite, emerging from the shadow. Now the
                           time of the commencement or termination of
                           an eclipse of the satellite, as stated from cal
                           culation in tables, is the instant at which the
                           satellite would appear to enter or emerge from
                           the shadow, if it could be seen by an observer
                           from the sun ; and it is found from repeated
                           observation, that the eclipse takes place about
                           8 minutes earlier than the calculated period,
                           when the earth is in the nearest part of her
                           orbit, as at A, and 8 minutes later when she is
                           in the opposite part of her orbit, as at B.
                           Hence it will be apparent that light takes up
                           8 minutes in passing through a space equal to
                           half the diameter of the earth's orbit, or the
                           distance between the earth and the sun, which
                           is ninety five millions of miles; so that it
                           moves at the rate of 95,000,000 -j- 8 X 80
 — 197,916, nearly 200,000 miles in one second.
   The aberration of the fixed stars also shows with what speed light is
propagated ; Dr. Bradley having ascertained that this phenomenon de
pends on the motion of the earth in her orbit, in connexion with the velo
city of light. The effect thus produced on the apparent places of the fiied
stars at different times, termed aberration, is familiarly explained by
Professor Robison. He observes, that if hailstones were falling per
pendicularly, they would pass freely through a tube held steadily in a
vertical position : but if the tube were moved round in a circle while
the hailstones were falling, they would impinge against its side, un
less the tube were inclined forward, at an angle of 45 deg., supposing
the velocity with which the tube was moved was equal to that of the
falling hail. " In the very same manner, if the earth be at rest, and we
would view a star near the pole of the ecliptic, the telescope must be
pointed directly at the star. But if the earth be in motion round the

                          CAUSE OF SHADOWS.                             30
son, the telescope must be pointed a little forward, that the light may
come aloug the axis of the tube. The proportion of the velocity of
light to the supposed velocity of the earth in her orbit is nearly that of
10,000 to 1 : therefore the telescope must lean about 20 sec. forward.
Half a year after this, let the same star be viewed again. The tele
scope must again be pointed 20 sec. ahead of the true position of the
star : but this is in the opposite direction to the former deviation of the
telescope ; because the earth, being now in the opposite part of her
orbit, is moving the other way. Therefore the position of the star must
appear to have changed 40 sec. in the six months. It is easy to show
that the consequence of this is, that every star must appear to have
40 sec. more longitude when it is on our meridian at midnight than
when it is on the meridian at mid-day. The effect of this composition
of motions which is most susceptible of accurate examination is the
following. Let the declination of some star near the pole of the ecliptic
 be observed at the time of the equinoxes. It will be found to have
40 sec. more declination in the autumnal than in the vernal equinox,
if the observer be in the latitude of 66 deg. 30 min. ; and not much
less if he be in the latitude of London. Also every star in the heavens
should appear to describe a little ellipse, whose longer axis is 40 sec ."*
   As the total absence or privation of light produces darkness, so the
partial defect of light occasions shade ; and when any opaque body in
terrupts the passage of the rays of light, the figure of that body, or its
outline surrounding a dark area, will be formed on any plane surface
 beyond the opaque body, constituting its shadow. The depth or dark
ness of the shadow is always in direct proportion to the intensity of
the light; and if an opaque body be illuminated by several lights at
once, differently situated, as many shadows will be formed as there are
lights present ; as may be observed with respect to any object in a
room where two or more candles are burning. If the luminous body
be larger than the opaque body that intercepts its rays, the shadow will
be in the figure of a pyramid the base of which will be equal to the sur
face of the opaque body, and its extent will depend on the distance at
which the luminous body is situated from that which intercepts its
light.
       * Elements of Mechanical Philosophy, 1804, vol. i. pp. 264, 265.

  362                             OPTICS.
     Thus in the preceding diagram, suppose S to represent the sun, V
  the planet Venus, and E the earth ; then if the two planets were of
  equal size, Venus being nearer than the earth to the sun would cast a
  shorter conical shadow than our planet.
     If a shadow be formed by an opaque body of exactly the same
  dimensions with the luminous body whose rays it interrupts, the
  shadow will be a cylinder of an area equal to that of the two bodies,
  and extending infinitely in length. But if the luminous body be
  smaller than the opaque body the shadow will be a truncated pyramid,
  the larger base of which must be at an infinite distance. In the former
  case the rays of light will proceed in parallel lines till they are inter
  cepted, and the consequent shadow will preserve the same dimensions
  throughout its indefinite extent; and in the latter case the rays will be
  divergent, and the shadow formed will increase in dimensions in pro
  portion to the distance between the two bodies.
     This will further appear from considering the relative dimensions of
  the same figure when the shadow is thrown on a plane surface at dif
  ferent distances from the source of light. Thus let A be an object illu
  minated by the light of a candle, and B, C, D, E, be a succession of
  screens, B being the nearest, and E the most distant ; the former, there
  fore, will have the smallest shadow, and the latter the largest.
(^

                       COLOURED SHADOWS.                            363
   The proper shadow or dark outline of an opaque body, formed
when it intercepts the rays of light from a luminous body, is always
encompassed or bordered by a kind of demi-shadow, or as it is termed,
                                    penumbra." Thus, in the annexed
 jm                                 diagram, let S represent the sun, or
                                    any other source of light, and A B
                                    any opaque body, the true or proper
                                    shadow of which, on the plane M N,
                                    will be terminated by the tangential
                                    line C A F, and the space B A F
                                    will be entirely shaded ; but the
                                    penumbra will extend from F to I,
                                    including the space F A I, which
     -*'—^"      'r '    -^—fi- will be partially enlightened, the
shade gradually diminishing as it recedes from F towards I, where
it will be terminated by the second tangent E A I.
   An eclipse of the sun being occasioned by the interposition of the
opaque body of the moon between the earth and the sun, the proper
shadow will be a frustum of a cone converging from the moon to
wards the earth, and there will be a fainter shadow or penumbra sur
rounding the former. This is shown in the annexed figure, where S
represents the sun, M the moon, and L the earth : the dark space is
denoted by the inner conical shadow, beyond which, on either side,
extends the penumbra.
   Shadows are in general regarded as being perfectly black, as they
certainly must be where the light of a luminous body is completely
excluded by an opaque body placed before it. But shadows, as they
commonly appear, are found to vary in colour as well as intensity, ac
cording to circumstances. Thus, the shadows produced by the sun
           * From the Latin pate, almost, and umbra, a shadow.

364                              OPTICS.
at different hours of the day, and those caused by different sorts of
light, if attentively examined, will be perceived to consist of green,
blue, violet, or red tints, more or less sullied by black.
    The figure of the enlightened part of an opaque body, seen by means
of a fixed light, depends on the relative position of the light and of
the observer.
                                                     Let L, in the marginal
                                                  figure, be the place of
                                                  the luminous point, and
                                                  O the situation of the
                                                  observer ;     then,   an
  I. ^.^^                 ^^TTTy ^" ~ \?          opaque sphere placed
                                                  at A would not appear
                                                  at all enlightened ; at
                                                  B, the enlightened por
                                                  tion of the sphere would
                                                  assume the form of
                                                  a crescent ; at C it
                                                  would be        a semi*
circle ; at D it would approach to a circle ; and at E the circle
would be complete. The phenomena would he repeated, but in in
verse order, in proceeding through the opposite positions, from E
to A. The extent of the enlightened part visible from the point 0,
 is determined by the tangents drawn from the small sphere to the
 points L and O : thus a 6 marks the enlightened part which is visible
 of the sphere D. This diagram and description will serve to explain
 the phases of the moon, or her various appearances, as enlightened bv
 the sun, and viewed from the earth in different parts of her orbit.
 That satellite being invisible at the change, or new moon, as at A ;
 and afterwards exhibiting more and more of her surface till it becomes
 a complete circular disk, or full moon, as at E ; after which the waning
 moon travels on to A, whence a fresh succession of changes takes
 place.
                              CATOPTRICS.
     Besides the general effect of light in rendering visible all objects
     thin the influence of the rays extending from luminous bodies to

                       REFLECTION OF LIGHT.                         365
those around them, there are peculiar phenomena which take place
when the rays are thrown on substances presenting very bright or
smoothly-polished surfaces. For in such cases, if the surfaces are very
highly polished, they are no longer visible when thus illuminated, but
exhibit perfect pictures of any objects placed in front of them, that is,
between the light and the polished surface. The effect just described
is one with which all adult persons in civilized countries are so fami
liarly acquainted, in consequence of the general use of mirrors or look
ing-glasses, that they cease to excite wonder or observation ; but brute
animals, ignorant savages, and doubtless very young children, when
they behold for the first time an image in a mirror, must suppose it to
be a real object. The effect of such an exhibition on a game-cock has
been often noticed, and that brutes and children may be thus deceived
 may easily be admitted ; but it might be apprehended that a savage
 could hardly be ignorant of the effect of light on the smooth surface of
 clear water, and that he would therefore view without surprise his own
 image in a looking-glass. This, however, is not always the case ; and
 a modern traveller relates an amusing story of a savage, who, on being
 shown his face in a pocket glass, became excessively alarmed, and
could by no means be induced to approach again either the glass or its
 owner, conceiving that the individual who could take his likeness, by
 means of his mysterious machine, might perhaps appropriate his proper
 person, and keep him or sell him for a slave.
    The common term reflection has been adopted to denote the direct
 effect of light in producing images of bodies in their proper places,
 and also the indirect effect of light in forming, by means of polished
 surfaces, images of bodies in some place or places different from that
 where they appear by direct light. The latter kind of reflection alone,
 or that caused by variously-formed mirrors, or more or less perfectly-
 polished surfaces, constitutes the subject of that branch of science
 called Catoptrics.* Reflecting surfaces may form images the apparent
 situation of which will be more distant from the observer than the sur
 face or mirror itself, as happens in the case of common looking-glasses,
 or convex mirrors ; or the images may be formed between the eye of
 the observer and the reflecting surface, and may therefore appear in
 the air, as will be perceived in some cases where concave mirrors are
                   * From the Greek Karo7rrpov, a mirror.

366                                OPTICS.
used. Other singular effects may be exhibited by means of cylindrical
or conical mirrors, or by various arrangements of mirrors, and by
combinations of them with other optical glasses.
                       Reflection from Plane Surfaces.
    Rays of light are transmitted according to the same laws that regu
late the motions of perfectly elastic solids ; for a ray impinging on a
reflecting surface will be returned or reflected in such a manner that
the angle of incidence shall be exactly equal to the angle of reflection.*
Hence if a ray of light falls horizontally on a plane mirror held verti
cally, it will be reflected in the same right line ; but if it falls obliquely,
it will be reflected with the same degree of obliquity ; that is, the re
turning line and the line of incidence will form similar angles with a
                           perpendicular drawn between them. This may
                           be shown by admitting through a small aper
                           ture, into a dark chamber, a ray of light, and
                           receiving it on a metallic mirror, A B ; if it fall
                           obliquely in the direction C D, it will be re
                           flected in the line D E, and will form a lucid
                           spot at £ on a plane properly placed to meet it.
                           Since all rays falling on a reflecting surface
                           relatively preserve, after reflection, directions
corresponding with those they had previously, therefore a ray fall
ing on a mirror perpendicularly would be reflected on itself, and con
sequently could produce no lucid image.
                                The relative position of the image of an
                             object as seen in a reflecting plane will be
                             such that every part of the image will ap
                             pear as far behind the plane as the object
                             itself is before it. Let A B represent a
                              plane mirror, and E F any object, as an ar
                             row ; then draw, from the points E and F,
                             the perpendiculars E G and F H to the sur
                             face of the mirror, and produce those lines
                             to e and/, so that E G shall be equal to e (J,
                             and F H to/ II, and ef will be the position
                     * See Treatise on Mechanics, p. H.

                   EFFECT OF PLANE MIRRORS.                            367
of the image, which will he exactly equal to the object, as the quadri
lateral figure G tf H will be equal to the quadrangle G E F H. From
inspection of this figure it will be perceived, that the rays of light pro
ceeding from that part of the object nearest to the surface of the mirror
will be reflected so as to form the part of the image nearest to the plane
of the mirror in the opposite direction. Hence when trees or buildings,
or any other objects, are reflected from an horizontal plane, as the sur
face of a pond or a smooth stream of water, they will appear inverted ;
for their lower parts being nearest to the reflecting surface are seen
immediately within it, while their tops seem to hang downwards, or to
extend deeper beyond the surface.
       .-n?«ft       ^       When a mirror, C, in the annexed figure,
      \- ' a'        ?h   is inclined forward at an angle of 45 deg., an
                          object, A B, if placed in a vertical position,
                          will form an horizontal image ab ; and if the
                          position of the object be horizontal, that of the
                          image will be vertical.
                             A person standing before a plane mirror
                          placed vertically opposite to him, will not per
                          ceive the image of his whole person, if the
length of the mirror be less than half his height. But if the upper
part of the mirror be inclined forward, more of the image will become
visible, in proportion to the dimensions of the mirror, than when it is
placed vertically; and hence a person may view himself from head to
foot in a looking-glass of a moderate size, by giving it a due degree of
inclination, but then the image as well as the mirror will appear in an
oblique position.
    Any one lookfng into a fixed mirror, and at the same time stepping
 backwards or advancing forwards, would perceive his image also re
 cede or approach, but with double the velocity of the actual motion.
 This will be understood by recurring to what has been stated relative
 to the angle under which the image is perceived.
    A number of images may be formed and peculiar effects produced by
 means of two mirrors, either inclined or parallel, and opposite to each
 other, for the image of an object which is delineated behind one mirror
 may thus serve as an object to be reflected from the surface of ano
ther mirror.

    368                             OPTICS.
                                         If any object, as M N, be placed
                                      between two plane mirrors inclined
                                      towards each other at an angle A C B,
                                      several images will be perceived, all
                                      situated in the circumference of a
                                      circle. This may be demonstrated
                                      by drawing the image in its place
                                      behind each mirror, and considering
                                      each image as forming an object in
                                      its turn, the image of which is also to
                                      be drawn. Thus it will be per*
                                      ceived that the image of M N in the
                                      mirror A C is mn, while its image in
                                      B C is M' N' ; and in the same man
   ner the image formed by the reflection of the first image m n in b C
   will be M" N", while the image of M' N' in a C will be mn. It will
   further appear that m" n" is the image of both M" N" in the mirror f C,
   and of m' n in the mirror a' C, one of the images covering the other, if
   the angle A C B be 60 degrees, or the sixth part of a circle, as in the
   diagram ; but, if the angle be any greater or less, the image m" n" will
   be twofold ; that is, the two images will not exactly coincide. On this
   principle is formed the Kaleidoscope,* invented by Sir D. Brewster, and
   by means of which the reflected images, viewed from a particular point,
   exhibit symmetrical figures under an infinite variety of arrangements
   of beautiful forms and colours.
      If the two mirrors are placed opposite and parallel to each other, an
   indefinite multitude of images will be perceived, becoming more and
   more indistinct by repeated reflection, till at last they vanish in ob
   scurity. This effect may be advantageously observed in an apartment
   where two mirrors are fixed on opposite sides of it, with a lustre, or
   some such object between them. One of the rooms at Fonthill House,
   built by Alderman Beckford, was wainscoted, as it were, with mirrors
   of plate glass ; and thus it presented to the spectator an interminable
   vista on every side, filled with a seemingly infinite multiplicity of
   objects.
      Common mirrors are formed of glass, to the back of which is at
   tached an amalgam or mixture of tin and quicksilver, which adhering
"V. * From the Greek KaXoc, beautiful, 'Eidoj, a form, and 2iC07rl*), to view.

                     ATMOSPHERIC REFLECTION.                          369
to the surface of the glass forms a smooth polished plane, capable of re
flecting the rays of light which impinge on it more abundantly than
almost any other kind of mirror. The principal reflecting surface in
this case is that where the metallic covering joins the back part of the
glass ; and the image there formed under ordinary circumstances is so
bright and distinct as to prevent any other from being perceived. If,
however, a lighted candle be held before a glass mirror, so that its rays
may fall on the glass obliquely, several images may be perceived ; as a
faint one at the outer surface, another much more intense just behind
the former, and several others gradually receding, and becoming fainter
and fainter, till they vanish in the distance. The first faint image is
formed by reflection from the outer surface of the glass, the second, or
principle image, at the surface of the amalgam, and the others by re
flection within the glass. These interfering secondary images, though
of no importance in a common mirror, would produce confusion in more
delicate optical instruments, such as the reflecting telescope, the mir
rors of which therefore are constructed entirely of polished metal, which
presenting only one reflecting surface, affords a single image.
   Among the natural phenomena produced by the reflection of light, by
far the most important Is that of atmospheric reflection, for without it
few objects would be visible excepting those on which the rays of the
sun might fall in a direct line between that luminary and the eye.
 But the rays of light falling on the particles which compose the atmo
sphere are thence reflected in every direction, and thus daylight is
produced even when the whole visible hemisphere is covered with
clouds, and the face of the sun is hidden from our view. But for re
flection, all opaque bodies would cast perfectly dark shadows ; and on
turning our backs to the sun the objects before us would be involved
in the deepest obscurity.
   Some of the less usual phenomena depending on atmospheric reflec
tion are extremely curious, as that called the Mirage, and a variety of
aerial spectra of an analogous kind. The mirage is generally perceived
on sandy plains in hot climates, as in Egypt and in South America ;
and it has been often described by travellers. In the middle of the
day, when the sun shines on the level surface of the sand, the appear
ance of a sheet of water is observed at the seeming distance of about a
quarter of a mile ; the deception being so complete, that any person un
acquainted with its cause would inevitably suppose he was approaching
                                    2 B

 370                               optics.
a lake or river. Like real water, the spectral lake reflects objects
around, so that houses, trees, and animals, are perceived with the ut
most distinctness in this singular mirror. As the observer advances,
the visionary stream recedes, still keeping at the same apparent dis
tance, but with changes of scene, by the disappearance of images first
beheld, and the formation of new ones from other objects, as they suc
cessively become liable to reflection. The French philosopher Monge,
who witnessed this phenomenon in Egypt, published a satisfactory
explanation of it in the first volume of the Btcade Egyptienne ; anil
about the same time a similar exposition of the cause of it was given by
 Dr. Wollaston, in the Philosophical Transactions for 1800. '1 he latter
also produced an artificial mirage in the heated air over a mass of red-hot
iron ; and he observed the same appearance in bodies seen across the
 surfaces of two differently reflecting fluids placed one above the other
in a transparent vessel. He thus accounts for the phenomenon : In
 the middle of the day, the sandy soil becoming very hot, the stratum of
 air in contact with it acquires a very elevated temperature, and hence
being dilated its density is found inferior to that of the strata imme
 diately above it, and the luminous rays which fall on this dilated stra
 tum, at an angle comprised within a certain limit of 90 degrees, are re
 flected at its surface as from a mirror ; and they convey to the eye of the
 observer the reversed image of the lower parts of the sky, which ars
 then seen on the prolongation of the ray received, and consequently
 appear below the real horizon. In this case, if nothing corrects the
 error, the limits of the horizon will appear lower and nearer than they
really are. If any objects, as villages, trees, or the like, render it evi
 dent to the observer that the limits of the horizon are more remote, and
that the sky is not so low as it seems, the reflected image of the sky will
appear to form a reflecting plane of water. The villages and the treet
will emit rays which will be reflected just as rays would have been
coming from the part of the sky intercepted by them. And these rays
will produce a reversed image below the objects seen by direct rays.
The limit at which the luminous rays begin to be reflected being con
stant, and the rays that form the largest angle with the horizon appear
ing to come from the point nearest to the spot where the phenomenon
commences, this point must be at a constant distance from the observer:
hence if he advances, the border of the lake will seem to recede, as
actually happens.

                           AERIAL. SPECTRA.                              371
   MM. Jurine and Soret, in September, 1818, observed on the lake of
Geneva, a phenomenon analogous to the mirage, but which, instead of
being caused by horizontal reflection, was produced laterally by the
difference in temperature and density of vertical strata of air on the sides
ofmountains, which border on the lake where the phenomenon occurred.*
   Those meteorological phenomena, called paraselinet and parhelion, J
appear to be produced by reflection. When the moon rises after mid
day, and consequently at a time favourable to the appearance of the
mirage, if the light of the sun and the clearness of the atmosphere allow
the moon to be seen just as she gets above the horizon, two images of
that satellite may be perceived. The parhelion is sometimes observed
at sea, but it is a much more rare phenomenon than the preceding, de
pending, however, on a similar cause. Among the instances recorded
of the appearance of these mock suns may be mentioned the occurrence
of four solar images observed at Rome in March, 1629, one being much
tinted with the colours of the rainbow, and the others faintly coloured.
 Parhelia were seen by Cassini, in 1689 ; and they have also been noticed
 in F.ngland, Scotland, and North America.
    On similar principles to those which serve to explain the mirage de
pend those appearances called looming, or the elevation of objects seen
in the distant horizon above the usual level ; the Fata Morgana, ob
 served in the Straits of Messina; and the singular apparitions of ships
 and other objects in the air ; sometimes in a direct position, but more
 frequently inverted.
    The following figures are given from drawings of aerial spectra, ob
 served at Dover in May, 1833. When the real ship is visible, a double
 image may be formed, consisting of an inverted figure immediately over
 the ship itself, and another figure in an erect position, above the pre
 ceding. If there is a single figure only, it will usually be inverted with
 respect to the real ship below it. Sometimes a double image, or an erect
 figure with one below it inverted, will appear when the vessel thus re
 flected is wholly invisible, or perhaps its topmasts may be seen, while
 the remaining parts are hidden by the convexity of the earth's surface.
   * V. Pouillet Elem. de Physique Exp. et de M&eorologie. 2d. Ed. 1832. T. iv.-
 P- 7»7.
    t From the Greek preposition Hapa, with, and 2tA?;i/n, the moon.
    t From rictpd, and"HAiog, the sun : i. e., appearing together with, or ac
 companying the sun.
                                   2 b2

372                               OPTICS.
   The manner in which these and similar phenomena may be caused
by reflection may be comprehended by reference to the analogous effect
of spherical mirrors, subsequently noticed. But it is probable that, where
double images of objects appear, the effect depends chiefly on the re
fraction of light, owing to the varying density of the atmosphere ; and
the circumstances under which such a state of the air may be produced
have been pointed out and illustrated by Dr. Wollaston.* The refrac
tion being greatest where the change of density is the most rapid, and
less on each side of this point, the whole effect must be similar to that of
a convex lens.
   In reference to the Fata Morgana, Dr. T. Young says, " It may fre
quently happen in a medium gradually varying, that a number of dif
ferent rays of light may be inflected into angles equal to the angles of
incidence, and in this respect the effect resembles reflection rather mors
than refraction."!
                     Reflectbn from Convex Surfaces-
   The effect of light reflected from a convex mirror is to produce »
miniature picture of any objects placed opposite to it ; the images thus
  * See a paper " On Double Images caused by Atmospherical Refraction ''
  the Philosophical Transactions for 1800.
    Lectures on Natural Philosophy, vol. ii. p. 302.
      \

                  EFFECT OF CONVEX MIRRORS.                            373
formed appearing, to the eye of the observer in front, to be situated
within or behind the mirror. Thus the globular bottles filled with
coloured liquids in a chemist's shop-window present in pleasing variety
the moving scenery of the street without ; the upper hemisphere of
each bottle exhibiting all the images inverted, while the lower dis
plays a duplicate of them in an erect position. Hollow spheres of
glass, covered on their interior superficies with an amalgam similar to
that used for silvering looking-glasses, are sometimes suspended in
apartments, where they present panoramic pictures of surrounding ob
jects ; and convex mirrors are common articles of ornamental furniture,
exhibiting analogous phenomena.
    The images formed by reflection from a convex mirror must always
be smaller than the objects by which they are produced, because the
rays which form them become convergent in their passage to the eye
of the observer. In the annexed figure let A B represent a convex
                                              mirror, the segment of a
                                              sphere, whose radius is the
                                              line G C ; and therefore the
                                              point G will be the centre
                                              of the sphere, and the focus
                                              of the mirror. If an object
                                              be placed at E, at a great
                                              distance before the mirror,
                                              its image will appear behind
                                              the mirror at a point near D,
                                              which will become the vir
                                              tual focus, and will be si
 tuated at half the length of the radius of the sphere, or at the middle
 point between the imaginary focus and the surface of the mirror ; and
 the magnitude of the image will be to that of the object in the ratio of
 the line C D to C E ; that is, it will be as much smaller than the object
 as the line C D is shorter than the line C E. If, therefore, the object
 be brought nearer to the surface of the mirror, the image also will ap
  proach to meet it, and become proportionally enlarged ; so that if a
  part of any object be brought into contact with the convex surface of
  the mirror, the image of that part will appear of precisely the same size
  as in the object itself: but unless the object be extremely small, or the
  mirror be a segment of a very large sphere, it must be obvious that only

374                                  optics.
a small portion of an object can be made to touch the mirror, and hence
the entire image must ever be to some extent inferior in size to the ob
ject by which it is produced. Not only will the rays falling directly on
the mirror, as E C, be reflected so as to form an image at D, but so
likewise will any incident ray whatever, as E JVI, which will be reflected
in the direction M N, so that the angle B M N will be equal to the
angle C M E ;* and when the eye is at N, receiving the reflected ray
 M N, it will see the object E, according to that direction, and the image
 will appear in the mirror at D.
     A convex mirror by reflection converts parallel rays into divergent
 rays, those that fall on it in diverging lines are rendered still more
 divergent when reflected, and convergent rays are reflected, either pa
 rallel or less convergent. Suppose then an object of some assignable
                                                    magnitude A B, as repre
                                                    sented in the margin, to
                                                    be placed before a convex
                                                    mirror M N, the rays of
                                                    light proceeding from each
                                                    part of it will be reflected
                                                     as if from a single point,
                                                     and an image will be form
                                                     ed as before, in the line
                                                     drawn from each extre
  mity of the object to the imaginary focus of the mirror F ; and in the
  same manner from other points, so as to form a complete image of the
  object. And this image must necessarily appear less than the object
  itself: for the rays which proceed from the extremity A will be re
  flected to the eye as if they proceeded from the point a, and those
  reflected from B as if from the point b, while the rays from the parts
  between A and B will be reflected from intermediate points ; and
  therefore the image must appear smaller than the object, by which it is
  produced.
      An object reflected from a convex mirror will not only form an image
      * Every ray falling obliquely on the surface of a convex mirror may be re
   garded as impinging on a point which forms part of a plane tangential to the
  curved surface of the mirror ; and a line drawn perpendicular to such tangen
  tial plane will bisect the angle formed by the incident and the reflected ray, as
   is shown by the dotted lines in the preceding diagram.

           SINGULAR EFFECT OF A CHINESE MIRROR.                       375
diminished in proportion but also defective in the outline ; for the vir
tual focus of reflection will vary for different parts of the same figure ;
therefore unless the object be relatively very small, or the curvature of
the mirror very considerable, the central portion alone of the object will
yield a correct image. Such at least will be the effect unless the curva
ture of the mirror be accurately formed, and expressly adapted to the
purpose. The human eyeball constitutes an admirable convex mirror,
reflecting miniature images, the delicacy and beauty of which have re
peatedly furnished topics of poetical allusion and metaphor. Here we
perceive a striking instance of the vast superiority of the works of na
 ture over those of art.
   A convex reflecting surface of variable curvature may afford many
ludicrous caricatures of the human figure, or of that of any other ani
mal, especially if the object be brought very near the mirror. That
part of the surface which is most protuberant will exhibit a compara
tively diminished image, and the effect will be heightened by alternately
advancing and withdrawing different parts of the person, and thus the
disproportion between the head and the body or lower limbs may be
rendered more remarkable. For if the head and trunk be thrown back
 ward while standing near the mirror, the image will display a diminu
tive head and body, supported by preposterously swelled and gouty
legs ; and on the contrary, if standing more backward the body be bent
with the head stretched out towards the mirror, it will present a mon
strous bloated figure with a dropsical head and body perched on spindle
 shanks.
 . Sir David Brewster has published, in the Philosophical Magazine,
an account of a curious convex metallic mirror, recently brought from
China to Calcutta, the general appearance and effect of which is thus
 described : " This mirror has a circular form, and is about 5 inches in
diameter. It has a knob in the centre of the back, by which it can be
held, and on the rest of the back are stamped, in relief, certain circles
with a kind of Grecian border. Its polished face has that degree of
convexity which gives an image of the face half its natural size ; and its
remarkable property is, that when you reflect the rays of the sun from the
polished surface, the image of the ornamental border and circles, stumped
upon the back, is seen distinctly refected upon the wall." Mr. Swinton,
the gentleman who transmitted from the East Indies the preceding

376                               optics.
statement of this apparent reflection of figures through an opaque sub
stance, proposed a conjectural explanation of the strange phenomenon,
as depending on the difference of density in different parts of the metal,
occasioned by the stamping of the figures on the back, the light being
reflected more or less strongly from parts that have been more or less
compressed. But Sir D. Brewster, judging from the description,
which alone had been transmitted to him, infers that " the spectrum in
the luminous area is not an image of the figures on the back ; but that
the figures are a copy of the picture which the artist has drawn on the
surface of the mirror, and so concealed by polishing, that it is invisible in
ordinary lights, and can be brought out only in the sun's rays." He had
observed radiated lines and concentric circles to be similarly reflected
by the light of the sun from polished steel buttons, which having been
finished in a turning lathe, the lines and rings had been formed on their
surfaces by the action of the polishing powder or some similar cause, but
too faintly to be visible except in the strongest light. Thus the figures
on the back of the Chinese mirror were doubtless placed there merely to
mislead the observer into a belief that he beheld them reflected through
the metal, while he actually viewed the reflection of a duplicate of those
figures lightly traced and concealed by the polish on the front surface.
                     Reflection from Concave Surfaces.
   Concave mirrors exhibit a variety of phenomena depending on the
situation of the object with respect to the mirror and to the observer,
some of which are highly curious and interesting. " The concave
mirror," says Sir David Brewster, '• is the staple instrument of the
magician's cabinet, and must always perform a principal part in all
optical combinations."* Some of the most extraordinary optical effects
in nature are also produced by reflection from concave surfaces, the
properties of which therefore demand investigation.
   The manner in which light is reflected from concave mirrors may be
thus explained : Let ACB, in the marginal figure, p. 377, represent a mir-
                      * Letters on Natural Magic, p. 01.

                 EFFECTS OF CONCAVE MIRRORS.                          377
                                                    ror forming a part of a
                                                    sphere whose centre
                                                    is G, and G C, a ra
                                                    dius ; and suppose
                                                    E to be an object far
                                                    distant from the mir
                                                    ror, then its image
                                                    will appear in front
                                                    of the mirror at D,
                                                    the central point of
the radial line C G. For any ray of light whatever, as E M, from the
object E, falling on the surface of the mirror at the point M, will be re
flected thence in such a manner as to pass through the point D ; and
when the eye is placed at N, the object will be seen at or near D : but
this image will be to the object in the ratio of C D to M E, and con
sequently less than the object. If the object be made to approach
nearer to the mirror, the image will recede from D towards G ; and
if it be placed there, the object and image will coincide ; and the ob
ject still advancing from G, the image will retreat beyond it, till the
object arrives at D, when the image will appear infinitely beyond E,
But if the object be placed yet further forward, between U and C,
the image will fall behind the mirror, and it will look larger than the
object.
   Thus it appears that when parallel rays fall on the surface of a con
cave mirror forming a portion of a sphere, they will be reflected and
meet in a point at half the distance between the surface and the centre
of concavity of the mirror. If the rays fall convergent on a concave
mirror, they will be brought to a focus sooner than parallel rays ; and
the focus will be nearer to the surface of the mirror than to the centre
of concavity. When the rays fall in divergent lines, the focus to which
they will be reflected will be more distant than that formed by parallel
rays.
   There are three cases to be considered with regard to the effects of
concave mirrors :
   1. When the object is placed between the mirror and the principal
focus.
   2. When it is situated between its centre of concavity and that
focus.

378                              optics.
   3. When it is more remote than the centre of concavity.
   1. In the first case, the rays of light diverging after reflection, hut
in a less degree than before such reflection took place, the image will
be larger than the object, and appear at a greater or smaller distance
from the surface of the mirror and behind it. The image in this case
will be erect. 2. When the object is between the principal focus and
the centre of the mirror, the apparent image will be behind the object,
appearing very distant when the object is at or just beyond the focus,
and advancing towards it as it recedes towards the centre of concavity,
where, as already stated, the image and the object will coincide.
During this retreat of the object, the image will still be erect, because
the rays belonging to each visible point will not intersect before they
reach the eye. But in this case, the image becomes less and less dis
tinct, at the same time that the visual angle is increasing ; so that at the
centre, or rather a little before, the image becomes confused and im
perfect; owing to the small parts of the object subtending angles too
large for distinct vision, just as happens when objects are viewed too
near with the naked eye. 3. In the cases just considered, the images
will appear erect ; but in the case where the object is further from the
mirror than its centre of concavity, the image will be inverted ; and
the more distant the object is from the centre, the less will be its image,
and the further from the said centre, or the nearer the focus, and the
converse ; the image and object coinoiding when the latter is stationed
exactly at that centre, as noticed in the preceding case. If an observer
view his own image at a considerable distance beyond the centre of a
concave mirror, the image will appear small, faint, and somewhat con
fused. This is owing to the smallness of the number of rays that can
enter the eye ; hence the apparent distance is augmented or rendered
 uncertain, so that the image is conceived to be beyond or within the
mirror, and this misconception increases the confusion. As the ob
 server advances towards the mirror, his image will gradually appear
larger and brighter, and likewise draw nearer to him ; but if he do not
 view it in a line between himself and the mirror, it will continue still
indistinct. At length he will arrive at the station whence the image
 assumes a determinate and correct figure, appearing perfectly distinct.
 After a few trials, the true place for viewing the image may be ascer
 tained with tolerable accuracy ; and it will continue distinctly percep
 tible when the observer moves a short distance backwards or forwards

                          OPTICAL DECEPTIONS.                           379
from the proper position ; but advancing beyond it, the image will soon
begin to appear indistinct, and this indistinctness will increase till he
arrives so near the mirror as its centre of concavity, when the image
will be lost in confusion, being in fact confounded with the object. If
he still advances, another image in an upright position gradually be
comes visible, as explained in the preceding case.
    The most singular and curious effects of concave mirrors are those
resulting from the position of objects at a greater distance from the
mirror than its centre of concavity, as in the third case above described,
when a diminished and inverted image will be formed in the air be
tween the object and the mirror. In order that this may be seen to the
utmost advantage, particular situations must be assigned both to the
object and the observer, which will be regulated by the concavity of
the mirror and its consequent focal distance. For the exhibition of
such phenomena, however, spherical concave mirrors are not so well
 adapted as those of an elliptical figure, for the latter having double
 foci, any object placed in one focus of an elliptic concave mirror will
 form an accurate image in the other focus.
                                                        The marginal figure
                                                     exhibits a convenient
                                                     mode of arrangement
                                                     for producing optical
                                                     images in the air by
                                                     means of a single mir
                                                     ror. Suppose C D to
                                                     be one side of a room,
                                                     or a screen dividing
                                                     one part of the room
                                                     from another, and hav
                                                     ing in it a square aper
                                                     ture E F, the centre of
                                                     which may be about
  five feet above the floor. This opening may be surrounded with a black
  border, or a gilt moulding, so as to resemble a picture-frame. A large
  concave (elliptical) mirror, M N, is then to be placed in an adjoining
  apartment,- so that when any object is placed at A, in one focu* of the
  mirror, a distinct image of it may be formed in the other focus at B, or in
  the centre of the aperture E F. This image will be inverted with respect

380                               optics.
to the position of the object ; therefore if a small statue, bust, or any
definite object, as a crucifix, be placed upside down at A, an observer
in the apartment at O will behold an erect image of the object at B. In
order to give the greater effect to this exhibition, the object should be
white, or at least of a very bright colour, and should be strongly illu
minated by a powerful lamp, the rays of which must be prevented from
reaching the opening E F. In this case, the image being formed, not
in the single focus of a spherical concave mirror, but in one of the foci
of an elliptical mirror, it will not be confused or reduced, but will be
rather larger than the object. When the image appears in the air, as
here described, it will be distinctly visible only from the point O, and a
person placed at a little distance, on either side, will see nothing of it.
If, however, the opening E F be filled with smoke, rising from burning
frankincense, or other perfumes, the cloudy vapour will serve as a screen
to receive the reflected image, which may thus be rendered generally
visible to persons within the room O.
   Among the natural phenomena which appear to be caused by reflec
tion from concave surfaces may be mentioned what is called in Ger
many the " Spectre of the Brocken," a gigantic figure sometimes seen
at a distance upon the highest peak of the Harz Mountains, in the king
 dom of Hanover. It has been ascertained, from careful observation,
 that the figure is a reflected spectrum of the observer, such as might
 be produced in certain situations by means of a concave mirror. A
 singular instance of atmospheric reflection, as observed in Sicily, from
 Mount Etna, has been noticed by a modern traveller. He says, '* At
 the extremity of the vast shadow which Etna projects across the island,
 appeared a perfect and distinct image of the mountain itself, elevated
 above the horizon, and diminished, as if viewed in a concave mirror."*
    Various forms may be given to mirrors besides those already de
 scribed, and thus various modifications of the reflected images may be
 produced. Cylindrical, conical, pyramidal and prismatic mirrors are
 sometimes constructed, but they merely serve the purpose of creating
 amusement, by the singularity of the effects which may be exhibited by
 means of such instruments. A common method of displaying these
 optical phenomena consists in the rectification of distorted figures
 (drawn for the purpose), by reflection from certain mirrors. These
   * Travels in Sicily, Greece, and Albania. By the Rev. T. S.Hughes, 1830.

                         REFRACTION OP LIGHT.                               381
exhibitions are termed Anamorphoses;* and the rules for delineating
deformed figures to suit the different kinds of mirrors, with directions
for their proper arrangement, may be found in several works relating to
optical instruments and phenomena. t
                                  DIOPTRICS.
   R ays of light in passing to any distance through a medium of uniform
density will proceed in right lines ; but if a ray or pencil of rays be
made to pass from one transparent medium to another, as from air into
water or glass, its direction will be changed at the surface of the new
medium, and it will afterwards proceed in a line varying more or less
from that in which it passed through the air. Hence a ray is said to be
refracted or bent, in consequence of its transit from one medium to
another ; the effect produced is termed refraction of light ; and the
laws by which the phenomena are regulated constitute the science, or
branch of science, called Dioptrics, f
   The effect just described may be easily subjected to observation, by
laying a piece of money near the centre of the bottom of a china bowl,
or basin, placed on a table or on the floor, and then retreating back
ward till the money is no longer visible, being hidden from the eye by
the side of the bowl : if then water be poured into the vessel, the piece
of money will become visible, just as if the bottom of the basin was
raised above its real level. As this experiment may be readily re
peated, and affords a convincing proof of the position above stated, it
may be proper to observe that the money, or any other flat object
which will equally well answer the purpose, should be fastened to the
bottom of the basin with sealingwax, that it may not be moved from
its place when the water is poured on it, and that the vessel must be
filled to a certain height before the object can be seen. The refraction
of light may be exhibited more simply by plunging a straight cane or
  * From the Greek preposition 'Ai'd, and Mopipoiaig, an appearance : i. e.,
a reversed exhibition.
  t V. SchottiMagia Universalis, p. i. lib. 3; P. Dubreuil Perspective Pratique,
t iii. Trait. 5, 6, 7 j and Hutton's Recreations in Nat. Philos. vol. iii.
   j From the Greek Aioirro/iai, to see through.

382                              OPTICS.
long ruler obliquely into a pond or a bucket of water, when it will
appear bent at the surface of the water ; that part of the cane held by
the hand in the air appearing to be joined at an obtuse angle to the
part under water.                                                       - ,
   There is, however, one case in which rays of light, in their passage
from one medium to another of different density, will proceed without
changing their direction ; and that is when their direction is perpendi
cular to the connecting surfaces of the two mediums. Thus, if the eye
be placed vertically above a piece of money in a basin, it will be seen
in the same vertical line whether the basin be empty or filled with wa
ter; and for the same reason a straight stick held perpendicularly in
water will not assume the bent figure which may be remarked when it is
held obliquely.
   If, from the point where a ray of light passes from one medium
through the surface of another medium, we conceive a line to be drawn
perpendicular to that surface, and prolonged indefinitely beyond it, the
ray after refraction will either approach the perpendicular more than
before refraction, or recede further from it than before. If the medium
which the ray enters be more dense than that which it quits, it will
approach the perpendicular ; but if the second medium be rarer than
the first, the contrary effect will take place, and the ray will recede
from the perpendicular.
                                  These effects may be illustrated by
                               means of the marginal figure. Suppose O
                               to be the point at which the luminous ray
                               passes from one medium to another, and
                               that the two are separated by the line B D,
                               representing any surface either plane,
                               concave, or convex ; suppose the medium
                               above B D to be more rare than that be
                                low it, and let H O represent the incident
                                ray, and O C the refracted ray, and draw
                               through the point O, I F perpendicular to
                               the plane B D ; then if the ray H O had
 preserved its direction after passing the plane, the angles HOI and
 F O C must have been equal ; but the latter is more acute than the
 former, because the line of refraction O C approaches more to the per
pendicular I F than the line of incidence H O. On the contrary, if

                     ATMOSPHERIC REFRACTION.                            383
the medium below B D had been rarer than that above it, the ray would
have been less refracted than before, and would consequently have di
 verged further from the perpendicular I F than the ray H O does, and
would therefore have formed an angle F 0 A more obtuse than HOI.
From the point O as a centre describe the circle I D F B, cutting the
directions of the incident and the refracted ray in the points II and C ;
from those points draw the lines H N and C R perpendicular to I F,
which lines will be the sines of the angles HOI and F O C. It has,
been ascertained from numerous observations that these lines are always
in the same ratio, whatever be the angle of incidence at which the ray
falls, provided the mediums through which it passes remain the same ;
for though there is no fixed relation between the angle of incidence and
the angle of refraction, there is always a certain proportion between
the sines of those angles. H N is called the sine of the angle of inci
dence, and C R the sine of the angle of refraction.
   When a ray passes from air into glass, the sine of its angle of inci
dence will be to that of the angle of refraction, in the ratio of 3 to 2 ; if
it passes from air into water, the ratio of the sines will be as 4 to 3 ;
but these ratios will be inverted when light passes from glass or water
into air ; for in the former case the ratio of the sines will be as 2 to 3,
and in the latter as 3 to 4. These ratios, as just noticed, are constant,
whatever be the angle of incidence, for the respective mediums. But
they diifer considerably for different substances ; and the refractive
powers of a considerable number of bodies have been ascertained by
experiment. No general principle has been discovered which connects
the refractive power of bodies with their other physical properties ;
though it is usually highest in the densest transparent substances, and
in such as are of an inflammable nature. Sir Isaac Newton having ob
served that several inflammable bodies possessed high refracting powers,
and noticing a similar property in the diamond, ingeniously conjec
tured that gem to be an inflammable substance, long before its compo
sition was known ; and analysis has verified his idea, and shown it to
consist of crystallized carbon.
    As the effect of any transparent medium, in the refraction of light,
generally increases with increase of density, so air and vapours when
 dense display greater power of refraction than when comparatively rare ;
 and hence some curious and important phenomena depend on atmo

384                               OPTICS.
spheric refraction. Light, on entering the atmosphere of the earth,
encounters a medium less rare than that more ethereal space beyond it,
and as the lower portion of the atmosphere is relatively the densest,
rays passing through the air from objects far above us must be consi
derably refracted. From this cause the sun and other celestial bodies are
never seen in their true situations, unless they happen to be vertical ;
and the nearer they are to the horizon, the greater will be the influence
of refraction in altering the apparent place of any of those luminaries.
  Thus, a spectator at A, in the annexed figure, would see the sun at
C, when its real situation was at S ; and so its apparent place would
be relatively altered till it arrived at the zenith vertically above the
point A ; but it can be so situated only with respect to observers under
the equator, or at least in the torrid zone. In consequence of this at
mospheric refraction the sun sheds his light on us earlier in the morn
ing and later in the evening than we should otherwise perceive it. And
when the sun is actually below the horizon, those rays which would else
be dissipated through space are refracted by the atmosphere towards
the surface of the earth, causing twilight ; the greater the density of
the air, the higher is its xefractive power, and consequently the longer
the duration of twilight. In cold climates, as near the poles, where th«
year is naturally divided into seasons of light and darkness, each last
ing six months, the twilight of the circumpolar atmosphere diminishes
the winter-night of those gloomy regions by a period equal to several

                  EFFECTS OF TRANSPARENT PLATES.                        385
days. Hence also terrestrial objects, viewed at a great distance, are
affected by atmospheric refraction ; and they therefore appear more
elevated and nearer to the observer than they would seen through a
medium of uniform density.
     Those optical phenomena depending on refraction, with which we
are most familiarly acquainted, are such as are produced by the passage
of rays of light from any medium, as air or water, into another more or
less dense, and their entering again the former medium after they
have traversed the more or less refracting medium. Thus objects seen
through a common reading-glass or a pair of spectacles, if observed at
certain distances, will be in some degree magnified ; and glasses used
by short-sighted persons have the effect of reducing the size of objects
seen through them. And when any transparent substance is held be
tween the eye and any object, the rays which render that object visible
 will be refracted in their passage from the air through the transparent
 substance, into the air again, before they reach the eye; and the effect
 produced will depend on the refractive power of that substance, and
 the figure of its surfaces.
     The most simple case of this nature is when the denser or more re
  fracting substance is terminated by plane surfaces parallel to each
 other. Suppose A B to be a section of a plate of polished glass, ter
                                 minated by parallel surfaces I i, on which
                                 falls obliquely the ray DC: at the point
                                 C, it will be more refracted on entering
                                 the glass, and its direction will be changed
                                 so as to approach nearer to a perpen
                                 dicular to the plane of the glass, passing
                                 through it in fie line C c ; but on emerg
                                 ing at c it will be again refracted in the
                                 contrary direction, and will proceed in the
   line c d, parallel to D C d'. Thus rays being restored to their former
   direction after being refracted through plates of glass, or other trans
  parent bodies with parallel surfaces, the effect is not perceptible ; and
   hence the forms and situations of objects are not affected by viewing
   them through the panes of a glass window.
      When the plane surfaces of a transparent substance are not parallel
   to each other, different effects will be produced. Let X represent a
                                        2 c

 386                               optics.
                     section of a medium denser than that surrounding'
                     it, and terminated by inclined planes, across which
                     pass rays of light, from the point O. Then the ray
                     O b will be refracted in the direction b V, and after
                     emerging, it will pass in the line b' o ; another ray,
                     O a, from the same luminous point 0, will in the same
                     manner be refracted from a to a', and meet the former
                     ray in the point o. If an eye be supposed to be placed
                     at o, the luminous point 0 will be doubled ; one image
                     being formed by rays passing through the surface b,
          °          and another by those passing through the surface a.
If, instead of a and b only, there were three, four, or any greater number
of plane surfaces, the eye at o would perceive a lightor other object at O,
multiplied as many times as the number of facets into which the sides
a b were thus divided. Hence also when glass is furrowed into a mul
tiplicity of minute surfaces by grinding, the rays of light in passing-
through it are refracted as from innumerable small facets, and therefore
objects are not perceived at all through it : for, if the images of them
were formed in proper directions, they would be too diminutive to be
visible. Such glass, forming a transparent screen, is sometimes used
in the windows of offices and counting-houses, as the light passing-
through them is more generally diffused, and the shadows are very-
faint; and for these reasons, circular screens of ground glass are
adapted to lamps, hence called sinumbral* lamps.
   Glass and transparent crystals, but chiefly the former, are the sub
stances generally employed in the construction of optical instruments
for exhibiting the phenomena depending on the refraction of light ; and
having noticed the effects produced by transparent bodies with plane
surfaces, we shall now proceed to investigate the properties of glasses,
with curved surfaces. There are numerous varieties of such glasses,
usually termed optical lenses ; but they may all be arranged in two
classes: (1.) convex lenses, or those which are thicker in the centra
than towards their borders; (2.) concave lenses, or glasses thinnest in
the centre.
            * From the Latin, sine, without, and umbra, a shadow.

                                 LENSES.                               387
        AA
   Among convex leases are the double convex, A , to which the appel
lation, lens, was originally applied, from its resemblance to a lentil
seed (lens, in Latin), being bounded by two convex spherical surfaces,
 whose centres are on opposite sides of the lens ; the plano-convex, B,
 having one side bounded by a plane surface, and the other by a convex
surface; and the meniscus, or concavo-convex, C, bounded on one side
by a concave, and on the other by a convex surface ; the former being
a portion of a larger circle than the latter, and therefore the surfaces
meet, when produced.
   There are also three principal varieties of concave glasses ; as the
double concave, D, bounded by two concave surfaces, forming portions
of spheres whose centres are on opposite sides of the lens ; the plano
concave, K, bounded on one side by a plane, and on the other, by a
concave surface ; and the convexo-concave, F, bounded by a convex
surface on one side, and by a concave one on the other, but these sur
faces when produced do not meet.
   The varieties of both classes of lenses admit of numerous modifica
tions depending on the relative curvature of their several surfaces.
The radius of a lens will be the radius of the sphere of which its sur
faces form a part, if both surfaces have the same curvature ; but other
wise each side will have a different radius. In all the various kinds of
lenses there must be a point where the opposite surfaces are parallel ;
this point is termed the optical centre of the lens, and a line passing
through it perpendicularly to the surface will be its axis. On this line
will be situated the geometrical centres of the two surfaces of the lens,
or rather of the spheres of which they form portions. A lens is said to
be truly or exactly centred when its optical centre is situated at a point
                                  lei

388                              OPTICS.
on the axis equally distant from corresponding parts of the surface in
every direction ; as then objects seen through the lens will not appear
altered in position when it is turned round perpendicularly to its
axis.
   The general effect of those glasses which are styled convex lenses,
or which are thickest in the centre, is to render rays which pass through
them more convergent ; and that of concave lenses, on the contrary, to
render rays more divergent. The manner in which light is refracted
by a convex lens may be illustrated by means of the annexed figure.
                                                    Suppose AB to be a
                                                 double convex lens, the
                                                 axis of which is D'C G',
                                                 and C its optical centre,
                                                 then the parallel rays
                                                 D A, D" B, will be so
                                                 refracted at the two sur
                                                 faces as to meet at G',
                                                 which point is termed
                                                 the "principal focus" of
                                                 the lens. And the pa.
                                                 rallelrays EA, E'C, and
                                                 E"B, and also FA.F'C,
and F" B, falling obliquely on the lens, will in a similar manner be re
fracted, and have their foci at G and G", at the same distance behind
the lens. It may be observed that the rays E'C G", D'C G', F' C G,
passing through the centre of the lens, do not alter their direction. C G '
is termed the " focal distance" of the lens ; and in a double convex
lens, formed of equal spherical surfaces, its length will be that of the
radius of the sphere of which those surfaces form portions . In a plano
convex lens the focal distance will be equal to double the length of the
radius of its curved surface. If the lens be unequally convex, the focal
distance may be found by multiplying together the radii of its two sur
faces, and dividing the product by the sum of the two radii, the quo
tient being the focal distance required.
   When converging rays, or those proceeding towards one point, as
DAG, E C G, and F B G, fall on the surface of a convex lens A B, the
principal focus of which is at O, they will become more convergent,

                   EFFECTS OF CONVEX LENSES.                          389
                                         and will therefore be refracted
                                         to a focus at H, nearer the lens
                                         than the point 0. The more
                                         distant may be the point a, at
                                         which the rays would meet if
                                         uninterrupted, the further will
                                         the point H recede from the
                                         surface of the lens towards 0>
                                         beyond which point it never
                                         goes ; and the nearer the point
a to the lens, the nearer will the point H advance towards it. The
points G and H are named " conjugate foci," because the place of one
depends on that of the other, and though every lens has only one prin
cipal focus, it may have an indefinite number of conjugate foci, as rays
may fall on it converging at innumerable angles. The conjugate focal
distance, C H, may be found by multiplying the principal focal dis
tance, O C, by o C, the distance of the point of convergence, and
dividing that product by the sum of the same numbers, when the quo
tient will give the distance required C H.
   When diverging rays, or those issuing from one point as E A,
and E B, fall on a convex lens A B, the principal focus of which is at O,
the refractive power of the lens will make them converge to a focus at
G, beyond O. As the point whence the rays diverge recedes from the
lens, the focus G will advance towards it, and when the point of di
vergence E is infinitely distant, the point G will coincide with the prin
 cipal focus 0, for rays issuing from a point at an infinite distance must
 be virtually parallel rays. If E approaches to O', the focus G will re
 cede from O, and when E coincides with O', G will be infinitely distant,
 or the rays will become parallel after refraction. And when E is be

 390                              OPTICS.
 tween 0' and C, as at H, the refracted rays will become divergent, as
 A L, BK, as if they had proceeded from a focas I, beyond O', and in
 front of the lens. The points E and G are termed the conjugate foci, as
 before; and the conjugate focal distance may be found by multiplying
 the principal focal distance by E C, the distance of the point of diver
 gence from the lens, and dividing the product by the difference of those
 numbers, and the quotient will be the required distance C G.
                                             Rays of light passing through
                                          concave lenseswill in most cases
                                          be rendered more divergent
                                          by refraction, whatever be their
                                          previous direction. Suppose
                                          A B to be a double concave
                                          lens, whose axis is ECe, and
                                          C, its optical centre ; then the
                                          parallel rays DA, F B, falling
                                          on it, will be refracted into the
 lines A d, B f, as if they diverged from a point O, before the lens, which
 is its principal focus. The principal focal distance is relatively th»
 same as in a convex lens, and may be ascertained in the same manner,
 whether the sides be of equal or unequal curvature.
                                                         When converging
                                                     <2 rays DA, F B, pro
                                                        ceeding to a point
                                                        G, beyond the prin
                                                        cipal focus O of a
                                                        concave lens, fall
                                                        on it, they will be
                                                        refracted into the
                                                        diverging lines Ad,
                                                        and B/, as if they
                                                        issued from a focus
 H in front of the lens beyond O'. When G, the point of conver
 gence, coincides with O, the rays will be parallel after refraction ;
 and when the point G falls within the point O, the refracted rays will
  :onverge to a focus on the same side of the lens with G, but on the
other side O. G and H are styled conjugate foci, and the situation of
.one of them, when the other is known, may be found by the rule given
,in the case of converging rays falling on convex lenses.

                          MAGNIFIED IMAGES.                             391
                                              When diverging rays D A,
                                           F B, from any point F beyond
                                           the focus O' fall on a concave
                                           lens A B, they will diverge in
                                           the directions A d, hf, as if
                                           proceeding from a point H, be
                                           tween O' and C ; and as F ad
                                           vances towards C, so will H
                                           likewise : that is, the more di
                                           vergent the rays are before re
                                           fraction the more will they di
                                           verge afterwards. When the
                                           distance F C or H C is given,
the other point may be found by the rule for diverging rays falling on
convex lenses.
   Meniscus, or concavo-convex lenses, have the same effect on rays of
light as convex lenses corresponding with them in focal distance. Con
vexo-concave lenses have the same effect as concave lenses agreeing
with them in focal distance.
   The manner in which images are formed by means of optical lenses
may be readily conceived from the preceding figures and descriptions :
                                       _    and the effect of convex glasses,
                                  ,^i       in magnifying the images of
                                   la;      objects, may be further eluci
                                            dated by reference to the an
                                            nexed diagram. Let A B re
                                            present a convex lens, of which
                                            C d is the optical axis; and
                                            let E F be any object to be
                                            examined, placed between the
                                            principal focus and the surface
                                            of the lens ; then a ray E g
falling on the lens parallel to its axis will be refracted in the direction
gC, and another ray EG H, from the same point, falling obliquely on
the lens and passing through its optical axis, will be continued in the
same direction without being affected by refraction, and the two rays
will become more divergent after passing through the lens; whence it
follows, that if the ray E G H were prolonged beyond E, it would cut the

392                               optics.
line g e in the point e, and an eye placed behind the lens would see the
extremity E of the object at e; and rays proceeding from every other
part of the object being refracted in a corresponding manner, the image
of the object E F would appear as at ef, and therefore be larger than
the object.
    But if the object be placed at the focus of the lens, the rays reflected
being chiefly such as were parallel to its axis before reflection, the eye
 will not perceive a distinct image of the object. If we suppose the ob
ject E F to be placed beyond the focal distance, the rays Eg, EG, from
 the same point E will become convergent after having traversed the
 lens, and will intersect each other below the axis, E G as passing
 through the centre of the lens not having its direction altered by refrac
 tion ; all the rays from different points of the object will take analogous
 directions, and thus there will be formed on the opposite side of the
 lens a reversed image of the object. And if the lens be fixed in an
 aperture in a window-shutter, and all light but what passes through it
 be excluded, the image may be rendered visible, by placing a sheet of
 white paper opposite the aperture to receive it. A room thus fitted up
 would be literally a camera obscura, a darkened chamber.
                            The Organs of Vision.
    The eyes of animals bear a certain analogy to the optical instrument
 called a camera obscura, just mentioned ; for the images of external
 objects, within the sphere of vision, are actually formed or traced
 within the eye, in the manner that will be subsequently described.
     In man and other animals destined to inhabit the surface of the earth,
  the eyeball is a mass nearly spherical, but somewhat flattened in front.
  Those animals that dwell in the water have eyes very much flattened ;
  the eyeball in most fishes forming but half a sphere, and in the ray
  species, it is but one quarter of the thickness of a sphere. In those
  birds that soar to the higher regions of the atmosphere, the anterior part
  of the eye is sometimes flat, and sometimes in the figure of a truncated
  cone : the front forming a short cylinder, surmounted by a very
  convex eminence. The eyes of spiders, scorpions, &c. are merely very
  minute points, which it would be difficult to recognise as organs of
  vision, if their functions had not been demonstrated by precise expe

                       DESCRIPTION OF THE EYE.                            393
riments. Millepedes, flies, &c., have eyes often very large in propor
tion to the bulk of the insect, and composed of a multitude of small
facets. Many insects have, at the same time, simple and compound
eyes : as is the case with wasps, grasshoppers, and some others. There
exist likewise, multitudes of animals, in which no organ of vision can
be discovered ; but it appears that in such the sense of feeling is ex
tremely delicate, and therefore supplies the defect of the other senses.
    In the following descriptive notices of the organs of vision, and the
phenomena depending on them, our attention will be restricted to the
structure and functions of the human eye. But the eyes of some
quadrupeds, as the ox or the sheep, so far resemble those of man, that
sufficiently accurate ideas of the essential parts of the eye may be ob
tained by dissecting and examining an eye of either of those animals,
and comparing its mechanism with the ensuing description.
                                    The annexed figure exhibits a front view
                                 of the eye, or the anterior portion of the
                                 eyeball. The white part surrounding the
                                 centre is called the sclerotic* coat ( tunica
                                 sclerotica), aa, and it is continued within
                                 the orbit, round the back part of the eyeball,
                                 being formed of a dense membrane, which
                                 includes, as in a hag, the other parts of the
 eye. It is perfectly opaque, and therefore is not continued over the
 front of the eye, but joins the transparent cornea,t b, which differs from
 it chiefly in being completely pervious to light, and therefore serves
 like a window to admit it to the interior of the eye for the formation of
 images. Within or behind the cornea may be perceived the iris.f c, a
 sort of coloured fringe, usually either of a dark brown or a grayish-blue
 tint ; and hence the distinction between black, and blue or gray eyes :
 but there are persons with extremely light complexions and white hair
 (Albinos), who have red eyes, the iris being red, as in the eyes of a
 white rabbit. In the centre of the eye, surrounded by the iris, is a
 dark circular space of variable dimensions, called the pupil, d, through
 which the rays of light pass into the chambers of the eye.
    * From the Greek SkXi/oAc, hard, firm ; or SkXnpornc, hardness.
    t From the Latin corneus, horny, or like horn.
    I So called from its being like the rainbow {Ms), variously coloured.

 394                                OPTICS.
                                           An horizontal section of the eye is
                                         represented in the marginal figure,
                                         in which the parts already de
                                         scribed are shown, as well as those
                                         of the interior. It will be per
                                         ceived that the eye is enveloped in
                                         four membranes or tunics, the scle
                                         rotic coat, AAA; the cornea, or
                                         horny coat, B B, connected with
                                         the former, in the front of the eye ;
                                         the choroid coat,* T T, which
                                         forms a lining to the sclerotic coat,
and on its opposite surface is covered by a black pigment (pigmentum ni
grum), on which lies the interior coat of the eye, called the retina, t RR,a
delicate reticular membrane, expanded over the posterior chamber of the
eye, and proceeding from the optic nerve, O, by which sensations are con
veyed to the brain. The interior of the eye, or the cavity surrounded
by the coats just described, is filled by three substances called
humours : the first, or the aqueous humour, D, is a fluid situated im
mediately behind the transparent cornea, and chiefly in front of the
iris ; the second in situation is the crystalline humour, C, directly be
hind the iris, being a solid, transparent lens, more convex behind than
before ; and the third is termed the vitreous humour, V, a kind of
viscous solid mass, of a medium consisteuce compared with the other
two, occupying the posterior chamber of the eye, supporting the other
parts, and contributing chiefly to preserve the globular figure of the
eye. Between C and D is the pupil or opening in the iris 1 1, through
which light is admitted into the eye ; and behind the iris the crystalline
humour or lens is suspended in a transparent capsule, by the ciliary
 processes, L L, which proceed from the iris.
    The eyes are situated in basin-shaped cavities in the skull, called the
orbits, and there are various muscles attached to the ball of the eye and
to different parts of each orbit, which by their contraction give a cer
tain degree of lateral or rolling motion to the eye, and thus assist in
directing the sight towards particular objects. Eyelids, also moved by
   * From its resemblance to another membrane called, in Greek, Xopiov.
   t From the Latin rete, a net, in reference to its resemblance to network.

                         THEORY OF VISION.                           3&5
muscles, and fringed by the eyelashes, serve to guard the eyes from
dust, and screen or shut them altogether from the access of too intense
a light; and there are glands for the secretion of fluid to moisten the
cornea, and by the motion of the eyelids keep its surface clear, and in a
state adapted to yield perfect vision.
   As already observed, the eye may be compared to a camera obscura,
the rays of light from any object entering the pupil, and forming an
image on the retina, which produces the perception of a visible object
conveyed through the optic nerve to the brain. That a perceptible
image is really formed in this manner on the retina, may be experiments
ally demonstrated by paring away the back part of the sclerotic coat of
the eye of an ox, with a sharp knife till it becomes so thin as to be
transparent : it will thus be converted into a miniature camera obscura,
and objects held before the cornea, will then be seen behind, deline
ated on the retina. It may be imagined, that if a luminous point, or
illuminated object be placed too near the eye, the rays proceeding from
it will form an image beyond the retina, or rather the image they form
on it will be confused and imperfect; so on the contrary, if the lumi
nous point be too distant the image will be confused in consequence of
the rays converging to a point before they reach the retina. In order
therefore that the image may always be formed distinctly on the retina,
provision must be made for increasing or diminishing the refraction of
rays within the eye, in proportion to the distance of the objects to be
viewed. This seems to be effected by means of the crystalline humour or
lens.which is composed of concentric lamina; oftransparent fibres, by the
action of which its form may be modified, so as to adapt the eye to the
distances of different objects. And in various animals the figure of the
crystalline, and its situation with regard to the retina are varied so as
to accommodate the powers of vision in each animal to its peculiar cir
cumstances and mode of life.
   The vision of objects at different distances may possibly also be
further facilitated by the variable pressure of the muscles on the
ball of the eye ; though it must be concluded, from the experiments
of Dr. T. Young, that their action cannot produce any alteration in
the shape of the cornea. In viewing near objects, the pupil of the
eye is contracted, fewer rays enter the eye, and such objects are
thus distinctly perceived ; while in viewing distant objects, the pupil
dilates to admit more rays to fall on the retina. In obscurity, the

396                           . optics.
pupil of the eye becomes dilated to admit as many rays as possible;
and in a strong light its dimensions are much contracted, as may be
observed by holding a candle near the eye of another person . Sudden
exposure of the eyes to much light produces an uneasy sensation,
from the quantity of rays admitted through the dilated pupil; and,
on passing from open daylight into an obscure apartment, objects are
not seen till the contracted pupil becomes enough dilated to take in s'
sufficient number of rays to render them visible.
   An object may be seen distinctly and singly, though separate images
of it be formed on the retina of each eye. This depends on those
images occupying corresponding points on either retina, and thus the
directions of the optical axes of the two eyes intersect each other, and
a distinct image is perceived at that point. If, however, while a person
looks steadfastly at any near object with both eyes open, be tries to
direct his view to some rather more distinct object, without suffering
the first to escape attention, a double image will be perceived, one
somewhat above the other ; and, on ceasing the effort to look beyond
the object, the images will coalesce into one. Similar effects may be
produced by pressing with the finger on the ball of one eye, so as to
displace its optical axis. Double vision is also in the same manner
occasioned by intoxication or by frenzy. Many animals never see ob
jects with more than one eye at a time ; as most kinds of birds, lizards,
and fishes ; while there are some species of fish that can only see objects
situated above them.
   Though the perception of visible objects is certainly produced by
means of their images formed on the retina, yet the manner in which
the sensation is conveyed by the optic nerves to the brain is a mysterv
which we are utterly unable to penetrate. There are also some pecu
liar relations between the images of objects, and the manner in which
they are perceived, which have given rise to various conjectures, and
have never yet been clearly explained. Thus, it is certain that the
image formed on the retina is always inverted with regard to the posi
tion of the object producing it ; just like the images formed by a single
lens in a camera obscura, as may indeed be ascertained by repeating the
experiment on an ox's eye, previously mentioned.* Some writers on
optics content themselves with asserting that we really see all objects
                                * See p. 3js.

                            ANGLE OP VISIOM.                            397
inverted, but that the judgment corrects the erroneous perception, a pro
cess of the occurrence of which no satisfactory evidence can be produced.
Others more philosophically attempt to explain this phenomenon by al
leging the formation of a secondary image within the eye, reflected from
that received on the retina to another plane, by means of which the posi
tion of the image is corrected.* But further investigation is requisite to
enable us to explain the relation between the visible direction of objects,
 and the position of the images formed by them within the eye.
    There are, however, some cases in which the judgment, with the aid
 of the other senses, enables us to correct erroneous perceptions pro
 duced by vision ; and it is thus, by means of the sense of feeling and
 by habitual observation, that we ascertain the figures and relative dis
 tances of visible objects. It has been remarked that persons born
 blind from the existence of cataracts t in the eyes, on being restored to
 perfect vision by a surgical operation, after arriving at years of dis
 cretion, believe at first that the objects they see are in immediate contact
 with their eyes, every thing appearing to them as if painted on a plain
 surface ; and they are unable to recognise objects by sight alone, gra
  dually acquiring that power by comparing their new sensations with
  the real objects by feeling them. Thus, a person born blind and just
  restored to sight by the operation for the cataract, would not be able to
  distinguish a die or any other cube from a marble or a billiard-ball,
  without touching them ; neither would he know the persons with whom
  he was most familiarly acquainted, or discriminate his father from his
  mother, or his brother from his sister, without examining their persons
  and dresses by the sense of feeling, or hearing their voices. Indivi
  duals thus situated acquire the correct sense of vision only by degrees,
  like infants ; and it is by experience that they learn to walk about
  among the objects around them, without the continual apprehension of
  striking themselves against every thing they behold.
     The processes by which we judge at all times concerning the dimen
  sions and distances of visible objects are, in an analogous manner, the
  result of reasoning on visual phenomena ; and thus experience modi-
    * See a New Theory of Vision. By Andrew Horn. Also Encyclopedia Me-
  tropolitaoa—Mixed Sciences, p. 459.
     t From the Greek KarapaKTijt, a cataract or obstruction.

  398                               optics.
  fies considerably the ideas we form of the size of any object and its
 position in space, according to the visual angle. For instance, in judg
 ing by the visual angle, a man would appear to us much smaller at
 three hundred paces distance than at one hundred ; notwithstanding
 which we are able to form as exact a judgment of a man's height at one
  distance as at the other, provided there be other objects at hand which
 may serve as scales of comparison. Thus, we rectifv the image formed
 under the visual angle by our preconceived idea of the common height
 of a man, comparing it in imagination with the door of a house, the trunk
 of a tree, or any other object in view, with the size of which we are-
 acquainted. Hence, if we see a man three hundred paces off, upon a
 naked plain, as on a wide sandy level by the sea-side, he will look very
 small, and maybe mistaken for a little child, as we cau judge of bim
 only by the visual angle, and have no other object near to rectify the
 erroneous perception. Dr. Arnott has adduced an interesting example
 of the optical effect just illustrated. He says he " once sailed through
 the Canary Islands, and passed in view of the far-famed Peak of Tene-
 riffe. It had been in sight during the afternoon of the preceding day,
 at a distance of more than 100 miles, disappointing general expectation
 by appearing then only as an ordinary distant hill rising out of the
 ocean ; but next morning, when the ship had arrived within about
twentymilesof it, andwhile another shipof the fleet, holding her course
six miles nearer to the land, served as a measure, it stood displayed as
one of the most stupendous single objects which, on earth, and at one
view, human vision can command. The ship in question, whose side,
showing its tiers of cannon, equalled in extent the fronts of ten large
houses in a street, and whose masts shot up like lofty steeples, still ap
peared but as a speck rising from the sea, when compared with the huge
prominence beyond it, towering sublimely to heaven, and around which
the masses of cloud, although as lofty as those which sail over the fields
of Britain, seemed still to be hanging low on its sides. Teneriffe alone,
of very high mountains, rises directly and steeply out of the bosom o£
the ocean , to an elevation of 13,000 feet, and as an object of contem
plation, therefore, is more impressive than even the still loftier summits
of Chimborazo or the Himalayas, which rise from elevated plains and
  > the midst of surrounding hills."*
                 * Elements of Physics, vol. ii. pp. 2t>4, 265.
     ^

                             DISTANT VISION.                               399
      Various optical deceptions are produced when we are obliged to
judge of the sizes and distances of objects merely by the visual angle.
M'hus, any person placed at one extremity of a long avenue, a gallery,
or a rectilinear canal, will perceive the trees of the avenue diminishing
 in height as they are more distant, tbe two ranges of trees seeming to
 converge towards each other, and come to a point if the avenue is very
 long1 ; and the two sides of a canal, and the floor and lateral walls of a
 gallery, in the same manner, become convergent, and meet in a point
 when greatly extended. These optical effects may be imitated by con
 structing the sides of a canal or alleys of trees in converging lines, the
 more distant trees gradually diminishing in height ; and thus the ave
 nue or canal would appear longer than the reality. The annexed dia
                                                  gram may serve to illus
                                                  trate the apparent diminu
                                                  tion of objects under dif
                                                  ferent visual angles. Sup
                                                  pose a b to be any object,
                                                  as a tree : to an eye situat
                                                  ed at O, it will appear
                                                  under tbe visual angle
                                                  a O b, and tbe dimensions
                                                  of the image on the retina
 will have a certain propertion ; then, if another tree, c d, of tbe same
 height with the first, he placed as far again from it, the visual angle
 will be c O d, and the apparent height of the latter tree will be to that
  of the former, as c, & to a b ; and if a third tree be situated at a further-
  distance, ef, its apparent height will be to that of the first, as e'f toab;
  that is, the spectator will see three trees really equal in height, as if
  they were three trees at the same distance of the relative heights, a 6,
  c' d', and e'f.
     When objects are extremely distant it is impossible to judge correctly
 concerning their particular situations ; and hence an irregular line ap
 pears to be an arc of a circle, because we suppose all the points to
 be equally distant from us ; and thus when stationed in the midst of a
 plain, remote objects seem to form a circle around us. It is for the
 same reason that the heavens present the appearance of a concave hemi
 sphere sprinkled with stars; for at first view the stars seem to be all
 equidistant from the observer. A small curved or polygonal line seen
 afar off appears to be a small right line ; a polyedron cut in facets, or

400                          .      optics.
an irregular mass, at a distance, will look like a sphere, and yet further
off will exhibit the contour of a flattened disk. This happens with
respect to the sun and moon, which we see as circular disks.
    Optical illusions take place in consequence of the figures of bodies
in motion. If a sphere revolving on its axis be placed at a distance,
it will be impossible to perceive the movement, unless there are on its
surface spots or visible irregularities, the alternate appearance and
disappearance of which may be observed ; and it is thus only that as
tronomers have been able to ascertain the rotation of the sun and
the planets, by observing spots on their surfaces. A lighted candle or
torch whirled in a circle at a great distance merely appears to come and
go, in a line, from one extremity to the other of the diameter of the circle.
The visible paths of the planets through the heavens, in their revolu
tions round the sun, thus have the appearance of right lines, from one
extremity to the other of which each luminary seems, to a spectator on
the earth, alternately to advance and return.
    The impression of light on the eye is not merely instantaneous, but
continues during a certain time after the luminous or illuminated object
has been withdrawn. From the experiments of D'Arcy, it has been
ascertained that the effect of light on the retina remains about \ or } of
a second after the light has actually been removed.* To this cause is
 to be ascribed the circle of light formed by whirling round a burning
stick, a phenomenon with which every one must be acquainted. And
 on the same principle is constructed the amusing toy called the Thau-
 matrope.t contrived by Dr. Paris, and described in his " Philosophy in
 Sport made Science in Earnest."
    * See a paper " On the Duration of the Sensation of Sight," in Mlmoiro
  de l'Aead&nie des Sciences, :i Paris, 1765, p. 439.
    t Prom the Greek Qav/ta, a wonder, and Tpljra), to turn.

                         THE PHANTASCOPE.                             401
   It consists of a number of circular cards, having silk strings attached
to their opposite edges, as represented in the preceding figures. Bv
these strings, one of the cards being twirled round with a certain velo
city, both sides of it will be visible at the same time, and any objects
traced on them, as a dog on one side and a monkey on the other, may
be perceived simultaneously. Hence the parts of the picture being
united, when it is whirled round, the monkey will be seen seated
on the back of the dog. In this case the revolving card becomes
virtually transparent, so that the objects on opposite sides of it may be
viewed together, nearly as they would be if painted on the two surfaces
of a plate of glass. An improvement of the thaumatrope, as already de
scribed, has been made by the inventor, which consists in altering the
axis of rotation, while the card is revolving, in order that the images
on its opposite sides may be brought into different positions with re
spect to each other. This is ingeniously effected by affixing two elastic
strings to one or both sides of the card, which are so connected as to
act on different points of the border, according to the degree of tension
applied to them. The appearances exhibited are thus diversified, and
rendered more amusing. A card , with a horse on one side and a jockey
on the other, may by twirling it be made to show the rider in his saddle ;
then by merely tightening the string, while the card continues re
volving, the jockey may be seen as if making a summerset over the
bead of his steed : on relaxing the string he will again appear in the
saddle, and by various degrees of tension other postures may be dis
played. Many singular effects may be produced by modifications of
the machinery, all depending on the continuance of the impression of
visible objects on the retina during the space of about one-eighth of a
second, so that the figures on either side of the card, when it is made
to revolve, are renewed before the preceding impression has censed its
action ; and consequently the figures on both sides of the card are seen
at the same time.
   Another curious machine has been recently invented, called the
Phantascope, or Phantasmascope,* the effect of which further illus
trates the phenomenon of the perception of visible impressions during
a certain period after the objects producing them are withdrawn. Mr.
Faraday exhibited at a meeting of the members of the Royal Institu-
       * From the Greek tavTaopa, a spectacle, and 2ico7rsw,

402                              OPTICS.
tion, some remarkable phenomena in the case of figures seen through
revolving wheels, or circular disks of pasteboard, with deep narrow
notches at their edges. If a transparent star, highly illuminated, be
placed behind a disk of pasteboard or blackened tin plate, with a single
narrow opening extending from the circumference to the centre, it will
necessarily hide the whole of the star except that part immediately op
posite the opening ; but if the disk be made to revolve rapidly, the
whole star will become visible ; as may easily be conceived from what has
been stated relative to the duration of impressions of light on the retina.

                        THEORY OF COLOURS.                            403
   In the phantascope the pasteboard disks are painted with a variety
of figures, in different positions, and the borders of the disks being
cut into cogs or teeth, leaving openings between them, when made to
revolve on a spindle, on looking at the objects as exhibited in a mirror,
through the openings, they will display the most diversified and gro
tesque attitudes.
   Thus the figures given in the preceding cut, when properly viewed,
would all appear to be pirouetting, like so many opera- dancers. This
phenomenon is owing to the image of each successive figure remaining
impressed on the visual organs about one-eighth of a second after it is
formed, so that every figure becomes combined with the next, and is con
sequently seen as if in the act of turning ; and from the rapid revolu
tion of the wheel all the figures appear to be in motion, turning simul
taneously in the same direction. By different arrangements of the
openings, and varied designs, may be exhibited in a similar manner,
yawning figures, jumping frogs, creeping serpents, and a multiplicity
of other strange combinations.
    One of the most curious facts relating to the faculty of vision is the
absolute insensibility to the impression of light at a certain point of the
retina, so that the image of any object falling on that point would be
 invisible. When we look with the right eye this point will be about
15 deg. to the right of the object observed, or to the right of the axis
of the eye, or the point of most distinct vision. When looking with
the left eye the point will be as far to the left. The point in question
 is the basis of the optic nerve ; and its insensibility to light was first
 observed by the French philosopher Mariotte. This remarkable phe
 nomenon may be experimentally proved by placing, on a sheet of
writing-paper, at the distance of three inches apart, two coloured
 wafers, then on looking at the left-hand wafer with the right eye at the
 distance of about a foot, keeping the eye straight above the wafer, and
 both eyes parallel with the line which joins the wafers, the left eye
being closed, the right-hand wafer will become invisible ; and a similar
effect will take place if we close the right eye, and look with the left.
According to Daniel Bernoulli, this insensible spot is about J part of
the diameter of the eye.
                 CHROMATICS, OH THE THEORY OF COLOURS.
    Among the most striking and important properties of light is that
                                   2 d 2

  404                              OPTICS.
  of communicating colour to bodies. Popular language asoribes the ex
  istence of colours to some inherent qualities of the substances on whose
  surfaces we perceive them ; and thus, in using the phrases a red brick
  or a green wafer, an uninformed person would conceive the redness of
  the brick, or the green tint of the wafer, to be as much peculiar proper
  ties of those bodies as the quadrangular shape of the one and the cir
  cular 6gure of the other. But we find, from experiment, that though
  colour partly depends on the texture of substances, and the nature of
  their surfaces, the essentially efficient cause of colour is light, since not
  only are bodies destitute of colour in the absence of light, but, as will
  be subsequently shown, their colours may be altered by subjecting to
  certain modifications the light by which they are rendered visible.
  Hence it happens, that variously coloured objects, the peculiar tints of
  which are discriminated without difficulty in broad daylight, appear
  to wear the same hue in the dusk of the evening, or by candle-light.
  It may therefore be properly stated, that the colour of a substance is
  the effect of light on a surface adapted to reflect its peculiar colour.
     The influence of light in the production of colour is remarkably mo
  dified by refraction. This effect of light is most conveniently exhibited
  by means of a triangular prism of glass. If such a prism be held with
  one of its angular edges opposite to the eye, the objects seen through it
  will not be doubled, as when viewed directly through one of the flat
  sides of the glass, but they will be more or less elongated, according to
  the angle at which the prism is held, and will also be clothed with all
  the colours of the rainbow.
                                                                            a
I

                            CAUSE OF COLOURS.                         405
     The dissection of a ray of solar light into different colours, by re
  fraction, may be more accurately displayed by admitting a ray through
 an aperture in a window-shutter into a darkened chamber, and causing
 it to fall on a diaphanous prism, A B C, as represented in the preceding
 figure. A ray D thus entering, and suffered to pass unobstructed,
 would form on a plane surface a circular disk of white light, E, but the
 prism being so placed that the ray may enter and quit it at equal angles,
 it will be refracted in such a manner as to form on a screen, M N, pro
 perly placed, an oblong image called the solar spectrum, and divided
 horizontally into seven coloured spaces, or bands of unequal extent,
 succeeding each other in the order represented : red, orange, yellow,
 green, blue, indigo, violet. These bands are not separated by distinct
 lines, so that it is difficult to determine where one ends and another
commences, the several tints at their borders being blended, and each
 almost imperceptibly united with those next it ; the whole spectrum
exhibiting the seven principal colours, with intermediate shades or
 mixtures. Indeed some writers enumerate but six colours in the
spectrum, omitting the indigo ; and Dr. Wollaston observed , that when
a very small ray was submitted to the prism, there were only four co
lours, namely, red, yellowish-green, blue, and violet. Bands of colours
 more precisely terminated may, however, be obtained by receiving the
 ray on a lens before it is allowed to fall on the prism ; and the image
 thus formed will be more extended in length and very narrow.
    Similar phenomena may be produced by means of other kinds of
 light as well as that of the sun ; and all transparent substances, in
masses not terminated by parallel surfaces, have in some degree the
same effect as the glass prism. Hence the diamond, sapphire, topaz,
and other precious stones cut in facets, display the prismatic colours ;
as also do angular crystals of quartz, Iceland spar, and many saline and
stony substances ; the cut-glass ornaments of lustres, &c, exhibit the
same glittering tints, by lamp-light ; and the refraction of the sun's
rays in passing through drops of water produces a like effect in the
rainbow.
    From the preceding and many other experiments of a similar nature,
Sir Isaac Newton was led to the construction of a theory relating to
the cause of light and colours, which was during a long period, almost
universally received among men of science. The production of co
loured spectra by the refraction or reflection of light had been observed

 406                              optics.
 long before Newton commenced his researches, and some imperfect
 attempts had been made to explain the phenomena ; but he not only
 showed that these conjectures were wholly unsatisfactory, but also
 proposed a highly ingenious hypothesis, founded on the doctrine of
 the emanation of light, or that system which refers the phenomena of
 vision, light, and colours, to the presence and motion of an ethereal
fluid, constantly issuing from the sun and other luminous bodies. " The
 sun's direct light," says Professor Maclaurin, " is not uniform in
respect of colour, not being disposed in every part of it to ex
cite the idea of whiteness which the whole raises ; but on the con
trary, is a composition of different kinds of rays, one sort of which,
if alone, would give the sense of red, another of orange, a third of yel
low, a fourth of green, a fifth of light blue, a sixth of indigo, and a
seventh of violet ; all these rays together, by the mixture of their
 sensations, impress upon the organ of sight the sense of whiteness,
though each ray always imprints there its own colour ; and all the dif
 ference between the colours of bodies when viewed in open daylight
 arises from this, that coloured bodies do not reflect all sorts of rays fall
ing upon them in equal plenty ; the body appearing of that colour of
which the light coming from it is most composed."*
    Hence, according to the theory of emanation, white light is an as
semblage of molecules of various colours, which may be separated from
each other by the action of a prism ; and bodies, when exposed to the
 rays of the sun, display any given colour because they are so consti
tuted as to absorb all the molecules except those of the rays of their
own peculiar colour : thus perfectly white substances absorb none of
 the molecules, but reflect the white or compound light unaltered ;
black substances absorb all the rays, and therefore yield no colour ;
and red, yellow, and blue substances respectively reflect those rays
alone by which they are distinguished. The least that can be said in
favour of this system is, that it accounts for all the phenomena ; but it
must be admitted that the notion of material particles perpetually tra
versing space in all directions, with almost infinite velocity, is abso
lutely gratuitous, and hardly consistent with the simplicity and economy
generally observable in the works of nature. The appearances likewise
may be explained by having recourse to a different theory, advanced
            * Maclaurin's Philosophy of Newton, 4to, b. iii. p. 318.

         HYPOTHESIS OF LL'MINIFEROUS UNDULATIONS.                          407
by Huygens, and advocated by Euler, which refers them to the excite
ment and propagation of undulations through an ethereal fluid pervad
ing all space, which, by inconceivably rapid vibrations conveys white
or coloured light to the eye, in a manner analogous to that in which
musical and other sounds are brought by slower vibrations of the air
to the ear. " Every simple colour," according to this system, " de
pends on a certain number of vibrations which are performed in a cer
tain time ; so that this number of vibrations made in a second, deter
mines the red colour, another the yellow, another the green, another
the blue, and another the violet, which are the simple colours repre
sented to us in the rainbow. If, then, the particles of the surface of
certain bodies are disposed in such a manner, that being agitated, they
make in a second as many vibrations as are necessary to produce, for
example, the red colour, I call such a body red. —And rays which
make such a number of vibrations in a second may, with equal pro
priety be denominated red rays ; and, finally, when the optic nerve is
affected by these same rays, and receives from them a number of im
pulsions, sensibly equal, in a second, we receive the sensation of the
red colour.—The parallel between sound and light is so perfect that it
 holds even in the minutest circumstances. When I produced the phe
 nomenon of a musical chord, which may be excited into vibration, by
the resonance only of certain sounds, you will please to recollect, that
the one which gives the unison of the chord in question is the most
 proper to shake it, and that other sounds affect it only in proportion as
 they are in consonance with it.* And it is exactly the same as to light
 and colours ; for the different colours [of the solar spectrum] corre
 spond to the different musical sounds."t
    It ought to be observed that while the phenomena of light and colours
 may be accounted for according to the system of emanation or that of
 undulation, it is not absolutely necessary to adopt either in reasoning
 concerning them : and it will be sufficient here to state that rays of
 light, whether they be trains of material particles, issuing from lumi
 nous bodies, or chains of undulations taking place in an ethereal me
 dium, are always propagated in right lines till they enter or impinge
         * See Treatise on Acoustics, p. 263.
          t Euler's Letters to a German Princess. Ed. 1823, vol. I. p. 85.

408                              optics.
on a refracting or reflecting medium, when they are either bent at cer
tain angles, or returned in the same lines in which they advanced ; and
thus, when a luminous ray is refracted or reflected it still proceeds in
a right line, though that line may not be parallel with its original
direction.
   If the coloured image obtained by means of a glass prism be extended
longitudinally, by making it first pass through a convex lens, it will be
found that the rays of different colours possess different degrees of re-
frangibility, or are variously refracted by the same medium. The
red tint which forms the inferior band of the spectrum produced by the
apparatus above described, consists of rays which have undergone a
smaller degree of refraction than those which constitute the orange tint,
the latter are somewhat more refracted than the yellow rays, the refrac
tion is greater in the other rays successively, and most considerable in
the violet rays, which therefore form the colour of the superior band of
the spectrum.
    If after the solar spectrum has been rendered more distinct, by sub
jecting a beam of light to a lens before it is refracted by the prism, an
aperture be made in the screen, on which it is received, opposite to any
one of the coloured bands, a small pencil of light similar to that of the
 band will pass through, and if it be refracted by a second prism, and
even agaiu by a third, and then received on another screen, it will not
be decomposed any further, but will produce a circular image of a uni
form colour corresponding with that of the band of which it originally
formed a portion. By a similar method the various refrangibility of
the differently coloured rays may be further demonstrated. For this
purpose it is only necessary to make the first prism revolve slowly on
its axis, and thus each part of the spectrum will transmit its rays suc
cessively through the aperture iu the first screen, and form a succession
of little circular images on the second, traced at different heights, the
 violet colour appearing strongest, the red weakest, and the interme
diate tints varying as they are nearer to one or the other. Thus may
be produced an ascending or descending procession of images on the
screen, by turning the first prism in one direction or the other.
   Rays of light, when reflected, exhibit properties analogous with
those which they show when refracted ; those coloured rays which are
most refrangible being also the most reflexible ; so that the violet is

                     CHROMATIC DIFFRACTION.                             409
reflected more readily than the indigo, the latter more than the blue,
and the others in succession becoming less and less reflexible, and the
red least of all. This order of reflexibility explains in some measure
the azure tint of the heavens ; for the atmosphere being a reflecting me
dium, those rays most subject to reflection, namely, those which are
violet, indigo, and blue, are reflected most abundantly, and hence the
appearance of the unclouded celestial vault. To a similar cause is to
be attributed the bluish tints of distant mountains, often imitated with
great effect by landscape painters, in the display of aerial perspective.
   As the decomposition of solar light into variously coloured rays may
be exhibited by the means already stated, so there are methods by
which white light may be composed by uniting the different colours of
the solar spectrum into one image. This may be most perfectly effected
by causing the spectrum to pass through a convex lens, and receiving
the image on a card or screen placed in the focus of the lens, where a
circular disk of white light will be formed. A mixture of seven pow
ders tinted as the prismatic colours, and in the proportions of the
breadths of the several corresponding bauds will produce a whitish
compound ; and seven coloured wafers fixed at proper distances on
the border of a circular piece of pasteboard would, when it was whirled
round on a pin passing through its centre, display a wheel or circle of
a hue more or less approaching to white.
   Instead of reuniting all the rays of the prismatic spectrum by means
of a lens, certain parts may be united, a screen being placed to inter
cept the others, when the image produced will not consist of white
light, but of particular tints resembling some of the simple colours of
the spectrum. Thus the yellow and the blue will form a green- the
yellow and red an orange, or the red and blue a violet tint ; but these
artificial colours are distinguishable from the original colours corre
 sponding with them by their susceptibility of decomposition into their
 constituent parts when transmitted anew tbrough a prism. However,
 though certain colours thus reunited form coloured mixtures, there are
 other colours which when united by a second transmission through a
convex lens reproduce white light ; and these are termed complement
 ary colours.
   As the coloured rays that compose white light have different degrees
of refrangibility, it follows that a pencil of rays of light, as E F, in the

410                              OPTICS.
                                    marginal figure, falling on a lens A B<
                                    the violet rays being the most refran
                                    gible will be broughtto a focus sooner
                                    than the other rays, as at C, and the
                                    red rays which are the least refran
                                    gible will meet in a focus as at D,
                   B                the intermediate rays meeting at re
                                    lative distances between those two
points. Hence the images which are formed at the focus of a lens will
be surrounded by various colours constituting what is termed an iris.
It is likewise obvious that those rays which enter the lens near its
border will be more dispersed than those which pass through near its
axis. Thus when an object is viewed through a single glass lens, the
parts of it most distant from the centre will be deformed, and as just
observed surrounded by a coloured irradiation.
   It has been shown that rays of light in passing through different
transparent media are more or less refracted or diverted from their
original direction ; and that the degree of refraction which light under
goes varies with the medium through which it passes. The manner
also in which light is affected by being made to traverse a refracting
substance, the sides of which are not parallel to each other, as a prism
of glass or crystal, has been stated ; and the phenomenon of the pro
duction of coloured light, from the dispersion or analysis of the rays of
white light has been generally illustrated. Sir Isaac Newton, in
making his original experiments on solar light with a glass prism, ascer
tained that the relative breadths of the coloured spaces in the prismatic
Spectrum, supposing its whole extent to be/ divided into 360 parts,
would be, for the red stripe, 45 parts ; for the orange, 27 ; for the yel
low, 48 ; for the green, 60 ; for the blue, 60 ; for the indigo, 40 ; and
for the violet, 80. These numbers, however, are by no means constant,
depending on the peculiar nature of the refracting body emploj'ed to
dissect a ray of white light ; and it is a very singular circumstance, that
though Newton made use of prisms composed of different substances
in the prosecution of his researches, yet he neglected to observe
that the dispersion or divergence of the differently coloured rays is
greater when produced by some refracting media than by others :
he therefore erroneously concluded that the refractive and dispersive

          DISPERSIVE POWERS OF DIFFERENT BODIES.                      411
powers of bodies always corresponded ; but that is far from being
the case.
   The effects of a considerable number of transparent solids and fluids
on rays of solar light transmitted through them have been ascertained
by Sir D. Brewster and other scientific inquirers, and tables of their
dispersive powers have been constructed, from which it appears that
the dispersive and the refractive powers of various bodies hold no
definite proportion to each other.
   The effect of prisms composed of different refracting substances on a
ray of white lightmay be explained by reference to the following figures.
Oil of cassia and sulphuric acid are transparent liquids which exhibit
great diversity of dispersive power. Suppose A B to represent a spec
trum, such as would be formed by transmitting a solar ray through a
                                prism having its sides of glass, and filled
                                with oil of cassia ; and A' IV, a similar
                                spectrum produced by a prism filled with
                                sulphuric acid. Then it will appear that
                                the least refrangible colours, red, orange,
                                yellow, numbered, 1, 2, 3, will be more
                                contracted in the spectrum A B, or that
                                formed by the oil of cassia, than in A' B/,
                                or the spectrum formed by the sulphuric
                                acid ; and that the most refrangible co
                                lours, blue, indigo, violet, 5, 6, 7, will
                                be more expanded in the former spec
                                trum than in the latter : the centre of one
                                spectrum lying just within the blue space
                                in the line C C, and in the other that line
                                dividing the green space, but less un
                                equally. Hence the coloured spaces
                                bear not the same proportion to each
                                other as the lengths of the spectra ; and
 this want of correspondence is termed the irrationality of dispersion,
 or irrationality of the coloured spaces in the spectrum.
    On this inequality of dispersive power among transparent bodies
 depends the construction of those optical instruments called achromatic,*
     * From the Greek a, privative, and Xpwua, colour; without colour.

  412                               optics.
  or aplanatic,* telescopes ; by means of which the coloured fringes
  and other defects in images formed by a single lens are removed,
  or prevented from interfering with the distinct observation of the
  object. The principle on which this is effected is by combining to
  gether refracting substances possessing different dispersive powers, in
  such a manner that the aberration caused by one shall be counteracted
  or neutralized by the opposite effect of the other. Suppose a compound
  prism ABC, as represented in the diagram below, to be formed by
  joining two prisms A CD, and DC II, composed of the same sub
  stance ; then if a ray of white light be made to fall on it, an image of
  the spectrum will be obtained, the colours of which will be less distinct
                            than they would have been if the prism A CD
                             alone had been employed, because the light de
                            composed by the first prism will be partially
                             recomposed in passing through the second ;
                             and it would be entirely so, if B C were'parallel
                             to A H ; because then the second prism hav
                             ing the same dispersive power as the first,
                             would be so placed as to counteract its effect.
                             If, instead of employing two prisms of the
                             same kind, one of the prisms, D B C, be com
   posed of a substance the dispersive power of which is much stronger
   than that of the other, ADC, the rays dispersed in passing through the
   former prism will be re-collected by the second, and an achromatic
   prism will thus be formed. If the refringent power, likewise, of the
   prism D B C be the same with that of the prism ADC, the refraction
   will not be corrected ; but if the refringent power of D B C is the great
   est the refraction will be in some degree corrected.
     It is practically impossible to form a perfectly achromatic prism be
  cause the dispersive power of different transparent substances differs
  with respect to the differently coloured rays. But the effect may be
   produced with regard to any two colours ; and it is therefore usual to
  take the extremes of the spectrum, namely the red and violet, or the
  red and blue.
     If, as Sir Isaac Newton too hastily concluded, the dispersive pro
  perty and the refringent power had in all substances increased and
-^    * From a, privative, and ITXdvij, error or deception ; without error.

                         ACHROMATIC LENSES.                                 413
diminished in the same ratio, the refraction, as well as the dispersion
produced by one substance would be counteracted by another : the rays
emerging after the double refraction would thus become parallel. It
would hence have been impossible to achromatize a lens ; for if a com
pound lens were formed by uniting a convex with a concave glass in
such a manner that the rays should become deprived of colour after
issuing from it, they would resume their original parallel direction :
that is, the colorization and the refraction produced by the convex glass
would be destroyed both together by the concave one, and the rays
could not, therefore, be united in a focus. The effect of single convex
lenses in producing an indistinct image with a coloured fringe, termed
chromatic aberration, previously noticed, will be such that, " for pa
rallel rays, the circle of least chromatic aberration, or of least colour,
will have the same absolute magnitude, whatever be the focal length of
the lens, provided the aperture remains the same. Now since in a
telescope (with a given eye-glass) the image is magnified in proportion
to the focal length of the object-glass, it follows, that by increasing the
focal length the magnitude of the image increases, while that of the
coloured border remains the same : by continuing, therefore, to increase
the focal length we get an image so much magnified that the colour
bears an insensible proportion to it. Hence, as long as simple lenses
only were used, in order to correct the aberrations and secure a due
quantity of light, it was necessary to have telescopes of very unma
nageable length. Some of those constructed by Huyghens were of one
hundred and one hundred and fifty feet focal length." * Newton, after
numerous attempts to render refracting telescopes more portable and
effective, found himself foiled, in consequence of the incorrect opinion
he had formed concerning the correspondence of the dispersive with
the refringent powers of bodies, and therefore inferring that " the im
provement of the refracting telescope was desperate,"t he devoted his
future attention to the construction of telescopes of a different kind,
in which the images of objects are formed by reflection.t
    But that which was despaired of by this great man has fortunately
been accomplished by others. The meritof having first discovered the
method of forming an achromatic refracting telescope appears to be due
   * Short Elementary Treatise on Experimental and Mathematical Optics.
Dy the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A., F. R.S. Oxford, 1833. p. 101.
   t Optics. Lond. 1701, 4to. Parti. Prop. vii. Theor. 0.
   : Sec subsequent part of this treatise, relative to Optical Instruments.

414                              OPTICS.
to Mr. Chester More Hall, a private gentleman who, about 1733,
had completed several achromatic object-glasses, by the combina
tion of lenses of different kinds of glass, having different degrees of
dispersive power. In 1747, Leonard Euler published a paper in the
Memoirs of the Academy of Sciences at Berlin, on the improvement of
refracting telescopes : and this attracted the attention of several philo
sophers to the subject, among whom was John Dollond, an eminent
optician in London, who having fully ascertained the diversity of dis
persive power in different substances, found that an achromatic lens
might be formed by joining together crown glass, or that kind with
which windows are glazed, with flint glass, or that of which cut-glass
vessels and ornaments are made. Peter Dollond, the son of the opti
cian just mentioned, made a further improvement by forming an object-
glass of three instead of two lenses, including a concave lens of flint
glass between two convex lenses of crown glass. It is now, however,
most usual to employ only two lenses, one, partly concave, of flint
glass ; and the other, double convex, of crown glass. These glasses
have different curvatures, and are formed in such a manner that, after
refraction, the red rays and the violet rays will become reunited at the
same point: the intermediate rays will also be reunited at nearly the
same point, it being impossible to reunite all the rays in precisely one
point (as above stated), though they may be made to approach it suffi
ciently to prevent the usual effect of chromatic aberration.
                             In the marginal figure, representing the sec
                          tion of a compound lens, the ray E F falling
                          on the centre of the lens A B, will pass through
                          it without any alteration ; but anotherray, G H,
                          falling on one side of the centre will be di
                          vided, and the violet ray, as being the most
                          refrangible, will pass through the convex lens
                          in the line H I, but the red ray in the line H K.
                      |b The concave lens of flint glass will make both
                          these rays diverge from the axis E F, the red
                          taking the direction K L, and the violet the
                          direction I N ; and in passing again through
                          the air to the focus, the red ray will take the
                          direction L F, and the violet the direction
                          N F : both consequently will be reunited at
                          the point F.

                          CAUSE OF. THE RAINBOW.                          415
    Achromatic lenses thus constructed are still subject to imperfection,
and hence subsequent attempts have been made to improve them, which
hare been attended with a considerable degree of success. Dr. Robert
Blair, of Edinburgh, between 1787 and 1790, having conceived the
idea of employing transparent fluids in the construction of compound
lenses, at length succeeded, by inclosing muriatic acid, properly pre
pared, between glass lenses, in forming an object-glass by which the
differently coloured rays were all bent from their rectilineal course
with the same equality and regularity as by reflection. Other experi
mental philosophers have occupied themselves in analogous researches ;
and especially Mr. Barlow, of Woolwich, who has been very success
ful.* To the instruments thus constructed it has been proposed to
apply the term aplanatic, or free from error, as possessing the utmost
degree of accuracy.
     Among the most interesting natural phenomena is that of the rain
bow, the production of which wholly depends on the refraction and
reflection of the sun's rays by clouds or drops of rain, and the conse
quent formation of prismatic colours ; and the subject may therefore
here be properly noticed. The bow in the sky, as the French cor
 rectly term it (/ arc-en-ciel), is seen when the sun darts his rays on
 a cloud dissolring in rain, and the observer places himself opposite to
 it, with his back turned to the sun. Sometimes one bow only is per
 ceived, but more usually there are two bows, the interior or lower one
 exhibiting brighter colours than the other, the tints of which are com
 paratively pale. Both present the colours of the prismatic spectrum ;
 but in the interior bow the tints gradually ascend from the violet to the
 red, while in the exterior bow the violet is most elevated . Some writers
 remark that a third bow has been observed, but very rarely ; and
 according to theory many bows must be formed, though all beyond the
 second must, in general, be utterly imperceptible.
     The colours of the rainbow are the result of the decomposition of
  white light, in its passage through the globular drops of water forming
  a shower of rain. Each coloured ray produced by this decomposition
  traverses the globule, and is reflected in part at the opposite concave
  surface ; it then traverses the globule again in a new direction, and
    * See Philosophical Transactions for 1928 ; or Abstract of Papers in Plains
  Trans., vol. ii. pp. 333, 334.

416                                optics.
presents itself to escape towards the observer. A part only, however,
actually passes out, and the other part is again reflected and carried
hack into the interior of the globule. In this manner a multitude of
successive reflections may be caused, at each of which some portion of
the light will escape, but its intensity becomes more and more feeble
with the increase of the number of reflections. It is from those rays
that thus first issue from the drop on the side towards which the ob
server is looking that the effect is produced. The rays which pass out
from a globule after having suffered one or more reflections form a cer
tain angle with their primitive direction. This angle is constant for
all rays of the same nature that penetrate the globule at the same inci
dence, and which undergo within it the same number of reflections ;
but it varies for those rays the incidences of which are different, and
which undergo a greater or smaller number of reflections. It will
appear from calculation that in a series of parallel rays of the same na
ture, which fall on a globule, and which undergo but one reflection
within it, that the angle will be successively augmented, from the normal
or direct ray, at which there will be no angle, to a certain limit, beyond
which it will decrease till the ray becomes a tangent to the sphere or glo
bule. Hence within those limits, the parallel rays entering the globule
very near together, and undergoing deviations not very dissimilar, will
remain sensibly parallel at their escape : and therefore an eye placed
in the direction of such a bundle of rays will be affected with a suffi
ciently vivid sensation of colours ; while elsewhere encountering only
isolated rays, the sensation produced will be extremely inconsiderable.
The rays which thus issue from a globule so as to form a small bundle
capable of making a sensible impression, are termed efficacious rays.
   It is the same with regard to rays which undergo two reflections, or
a greater number, within the globule. There will always be certain
limits within which several parallel rays, near together, issuing from
 the globule, and remaining sensibly parallel, will produce a distinct sen
sation on the eye. These limits are not the same for all kinds of co
loured rays, but vary with their refrangibility. Thus, with respect to
the red rays, which are the least refrangible, when the ray issues after
one reflection, it makes with the incident ray an angle of 42° 2' ; this
angle is successively smaller for the other coloured rays, to the violet,
which is the most refrangible, and for which it is 40° 17'. When the
 emergent ray undergoes two reflections in the interior of the globule,

                          IRIDESCENT CIRCLES.                              417
the limit in the case of the red rays will be at an angle of 50° 55', and
in the case of the violet rays, at an angle of 54° 9'.
    The formation of the coloured bands of the rainbow may be thus ex
plained: The sun, considered as a simple luminous point at an infi
nite distance, transmits to the shower a bundle of rays, of which each
globule of water receives some. Hence on each of the globules fall
some efficacious rays, which pass off to observers at different points.
Thus, the first coloured ray which can come to an observer, after a
single reflection in the globule, will be that which makes the smallest
angle with its original direction ; and will therefore be the violet ray,
of which the angle is 40° 17'. All the globules situated in the same
circle, to the centre of which the axis of the bundle is incident, will
excite the same sensation, and consequently form the first coloured
line. The efficacious red rays, which form with their original direction
an angle of 42° 2', will produce the last or highest line of the first bow ;
and between these extremes there will be the five other colours of the
prismatic spectrum, in the order of their refrangibility. Such is the
mode of formation of the first or principal bow : its dimensions will
be the difference between 40° 17' and 42° 2', and therefore equal to
1° 45'.
    Beyond the red rays the observer will perceive those only which
have undergone two reflections, and their intensity will consequently
 be more feeble. The first ray in this case will now be the red, which
 makes the smallest angle equal to 50° 59' ; forming the commencement
 of a secondary bow, at a distance from the first, corresponding with
 the difference between 42° 2' and 50° 59', and therefore equal to 8°
 57'. The last or highest line of the second bow will be the violet, of
 which the rays will make, with theiroriginal direction, an angle of 54° 9',
 and between these extremes will be found the other colours. The di
 mensions of the second bow will be 54° 9' — 50° 59' = 3° 10'.
    It may readily be understood from the preceding observations how
three or more bows may be formed by successive reflections ; and why
 also they must be too faint to be perceptible.* We have supposed the
   * Under peculiar circumstances, more than two rainbows, or rather irides
 cent circles, may be formed by the refraction of the sun's rays so as to be dis
 tinctly visible. A remarkable instance of such a phenomenon is related by
                                      2 £

 418                                 optics.
 sun reduced to a luminous spot, and thus a circular line only of each
 colour would be produced ; but as the sun has a sensible diameter, it
 follows that each band of the bows must have certain lateral dimen
  sions depending on the apparent diameter of the sun.
     Lunar rainbows occasionally occur, but in most cases they are faint
 or colourless, from the inferior intensity of the moon's reflected light.
 Coloured halos are also sometimes seen, but they are among the more
 unusual meteorological phenomena. Clouds of rare colours, as green,
 have been noticed by some observers ;* and the effect may be traced
 to the same causes with the more frequent and beautiful rainbow.
 Professor Winkler, from "L'Histoire General des Voyages," as occurring to
 the French and Spanish philosophers who were employed in the last century,
 in measuring a degree of the meridian, in Peru. "As Don Antonio de Ulloa
 was with the French Academicians on the high and desert mountain of Pam-
 bamarca, in the kingdom of Quito, each of them saw his own image over
 against the side on which the sun rose, as in a mirror, and the head of each
 image encompassed with three rainbows, having all one and the same centre.
 The last or outmost colours of the one rainbow touched the first of the folio w-
 ing. And externally, round all the three circles, but at some distance from
 them, a fourth bow appeared, which showed white only. When one of the
 spectators moved from one side to the other, the whole appearance followed
 him, in the like form and order. And though the observers were six in num
 ber, and stood quite close together, yet each could see only his own image, and
 not those of the others. As the figures of their bodies were portrayed in the
 middle space of the encompassing rainbow, the vapours of this space must
 have been in the state for the incident and reflected rays to form equal angles."
 —Elem. of Nat. Philos. Delin., vol. ii. pp. 63, 64.
    * The following instance of the occurrence of this phenomenon is derived
 from a diary kept by the person who witnessed it, then residing at Afalmesbury
 in North Wiltshire : " December 24- 1812. Returning home just before sunset,
 I observed a line of clouds, situated above the sun, tinged of a most beautiful
pea-green colour. Ahove and below the green clouds were situated clouds of
a dusky purple hue, intermixed with narrow stripes of orange. As the sun
was sinking below the horizon the green belt of clouds became gradually
lighter ; and when the orb of day ceased to be seen, the green tinge also
vanished. This appearance continued about a quarter of an hour."
   Musschenbroek notices the occurrence of green clouds, and observes mat
" such were seen by Frezier, and are described in his 'Voyage to the West In
dies.'"— Stem- of Nat. Philos., translated from the Latin, by Colson. 1744 vol
ii. p. 241-

                     COLOURS OF THIN PLATES.                       419
        .  •                                                   •        i
                            Colours of thin Plates,
   The phenomena of coloured rings observed in the simple experi
ment of blowing bubbles of soap and water ; in thin films of oil of
turpentine or other essential oils floating on water ; on the surface of
polished steel when heated ; and in general in thin plates of transpa
rent substances, as quartz, Iceland spar, and mica, are extremely
curious, as exhibiting a peculiar mode of the decomposition of white
light. It may be most conveniently studied by examining what takes
place when a very thin stratum of air or any other fluid is confined
between two plates of glass ; and the experiment may be advantage
ously made by placing a convex lens of small curvature upon a con
cave lens of a radius somewhat greater, and on pressing them together
the colours will appear arranged in the form of rings round a central
spot, which if the pressure be sufficiently powerful will be perfectly
black, when viewed by reflected light, but when examined by trans
mitted light, as by looking at the sky through the glasses, instead of
placing the eye between the light and the reflecting surface, the
central spot will be white, and be surrounded by rings, the colours
of which will be complementary to those seen by reflection. Hence
it appears that the colours seen by reflection and by transmission of
white light through thin plates, are those which form the greatest
contrasts with each other.
   The coloured rings are seen in the following order, proceeding
from the centre to the circumference, forming different series of tints :
                 Colours of thin plates viewed by reflection.
   1st series. Black, blue, white, yellow, orange, red-
   2d series. Violet, blue, green, yellow, red.
   3d series. Purple, blue, green, yelUyw, red.
   4tb series. Bluish-green, red.
             Colours of thin plates viewed through the glasses.
   1st series. White, yellouish-red, black, violet, blue,
   Sid series. While, yellow, red, violet, blue.
   3d series. Green, yellow, red, bluish-green.
   4th series. Red, bluish-green.
   These tints are none of them identical with the simple prismatic
colours. Sir J. Herschel observes, respecting the reflected colours,
                                    2 £ 2

420                              optics.
that " the green of the third order (or series) is the only one which
is a pure full colour, that of the second being hardly perceptible, and
of the fourth comparatively dull, and verging to apple-green ; the yel
low of the second and third orders are both good colours, but that of
the second is especially rich and splendid ; that of the first being a
fiery tint passing into oraDge. The blue of the first order is so faint
as to be scarce sensible, that of the second is rich and full, but that
of the third much inferior : the red of the first order hardly deserves
the name, it is a dull brick colour ; that of the second is rich and full,
as is also that of the third ; but they all verge to crimson, nor does
any pure scarlet or prismatic red occur in the whole series."*
   The breadths of the rings are unequal, becoming narrower and
more crowded, as they recede from the centre ; and the extent of the
rings or circles depends on the curvatures of the glasses between
which they are formed. In order to make experiments with accuracy
a proper apparatus is requisite. That used by Sir Isaac Newton, in
experiments on this subject, consisted of a plano-convex lens, the radius
of the convex surface of which was twenty-eight feet, and a double
convex lens, the radius of whose surfaces was fifty feet ; and the
latter being placed on the convex surface of the former, they were held
together, with any required degree of pressure, by three pairs of screws.
fixed at equal intervals on their borders.
   The colours may be shown by reflected light, by pressing together
with the fingers a concave and a convex glass slightly differing in
curvature, that of the former having the largest radius ; but it is im
possible by this means to maintain equable pressure, and the figures
become distorted from circles into irregular ovals, or angular lines.
 Hence it will be obvious that no correct observations can be made on
 the dimensions of the coloured rings, unless the glasses can be sub
jected to uniform pressure. It is also necessary that the eye of the
 observer should always be similarly placed, or at the same angle of
 obliquity ; for if the obliquity be changed, by elevating or depressing
the eye or the glasses, the diameters (but not the colours) of the rings
 will change.
    It is of importance to the explanation of this phenomenon to ascer
 tain the thicknesses at which the respective tints, or the several points
            * Eucyclopsed. Metropol.— Mixed Sciences, vol. ii. p. 463.

                            COLOURED RINGS.                            421
of greatest brightness and greatest obscurity occur. This may be done
by means of Newton's apparatus ; for the coloured rings being per
fectly regular, by exactly measuring their diameter, may be found the
thickness of the plate of air corresponding to each of them ; for the in
terval between a plane and a spherical surface, the centres of which
are brought into contact, will increase in the ratio of the squares of the
distances from that point of contact. Hence Newton found that in
the most brilliant parts of the circles the thicknesses followed the pro
gression 1 , 3, 5, 7, 9 ... . while in the darkest parts, commencing with
the centre, they followed the progression 0, 2, 4, 6, 8 ... . The same
philosopher ascertained that when water is substituted for air between
the glasses, the proportions of the diameters of the rings will be the
same, but they will be relatively smaller ; whence it follows that the
plates of water reflecting any given colours must be more attenuated
than those of air. It further appears that glass plates, to reflect the
same colours, must be thinner than those of water ; and it may be
generally concluded that the thinness of the plates increases in pro
portion to the density of the bodies of which they are composed, or
rather in proportion to their refracting powers. Air in a plate but half
a millionth of an inch in thickness ceases to reflect light ; and the same
is the case with water at three-eighths of the millionth of an inch, and
with glass at one-third of the millionth of an inch. A plate of air two
millionths of an inch in thickness, exhibits whatSir I. Newton terms
"the beginning of black." A plate nine-millionths of an inch reflects the
red of the first circle or series ; one nineteen-millionths of an inch the
red or scarlet of the second series ; and tables have been calculated of
the thicknesses of plates of air, water, and glass respectively, for each
colour of each of the four series given above, and also for those of
three more series, which may be observed extending in narrower cir
cles beyond the preceding. Air seventy-seven millionths of an inch
in thickness reflects a reddish-white colour, forming the boundary of
the seventh or outer circle ; and beyond that thickness it reflects quite
white or undecomposed light.
   As to the cause of the coloured rings formed by thin plates, Newton
proposed an explanation founded on the doctrine of the emanation of
light as consisting of molecules traversing space ; and his hypothesis
is deserving of notice as being in some degree applicable to the undu-
latory theory, which represents light as arising from the vibrations of

 422                               optics.
an ethereal medium. Having ascertained from experiment that the
 different rays become reflected at the successive thicknesses 1, 3, 5,
 7, &c, and transmitted, on the contrary, at the intermediate thick
nesses 0, 2, 4, 6, &c., he regarded these laws as resulting from a par
ticular disposition of the luminous molecules, which he denominated
 "fits of easy reflection," and "fits of easy transmission." Thus he
concluded that any ray would be thrown into a fit of easy reflection on
falling on a plate the thickness of which was one of the terms of the
series 1, 3, 5, 7, 9, &c. ; 1 being the first or least thickness at which it
became susceptible of being reflected : and on the other hand, a ray
would be in a fit of easy transmission when the thickness of the plate
was one of the terms of the series 2, 4, 6, 8, &c. Thus far Newton's
hypothesis is little more than an enunciation of facts, but he also con
jectured that the fits of easy reflection and transmission might depend
on a sort of magnetic polarity belonging to the particles of light; to
which supposition, however, it does not appear that the illustrious
author himself attached any great importance.
    According to the undulatory theory both of the surfaces of the thin
lamina are concerned in the production of the colours ; and the inter
ference of the light reflected from the second surface with the light re
flected from the first interrupts or facilitates the passage of the ray at
 certain intervals of thickness of the plate.*
    " The colours of natural bodies in general are the colours of thin
 plates, produced by the same cause which produces them in thin la
mina; of air, glass, &c. ; viz., the interval between the anterior and pos
 terior surfaces of the atoms, which, when an odd multiple of half the
length of a fit of easy reflection and transmission for any coloured ray
moving within the medium, obstructs its penetration of the second
 surface, and when an even, ensures it. The thickness, therefore, of the
 atoms of a medium, and of the interstices between them, determines
the colour they shall reflect and transmit at a perpendicular incidence.
 Thus, if the molecules and interstices be less in size than the interval
 at which total transmission takes place, or less than that which corre
 sponds to the edge of the central black spot in the reflected rings, a
medium made up of such atoms and interstices will be perfectly trans-
            * See Powell's Elem. Treatise on Optics, pp. 138—146.

                    DOUBLE REFRACTION OF LIGHT.                             423
parent. If greater, it Will reflect the colour corresponding to its thick
ness."*
   There are several very curious optical phenomena arising from the
interference of the rays of light, besides the colours exhibited by thin
plates ; and among these may be included the variable colours of fine
fibres and striated surfaces. " Fine fibres and striae give beautiful
colours by interference, when single, between rays reflected from their
opposite sides ; and when many are placed together, more complex
colours are produced by their combined interferences. A striking
example of this kind is seen in the iris buttons, invented by Mr. Barton,
the surface of which is covered with minutely-engraved parallel lines,
in some instances not more than one 10,000th of an inch apart. A phe
nomenon very similar is that of the colours exhibited by the surface of
mother-of-pearl. This substance, when examined by a powerful mi
croscope, is found to present a surface covered with minute stria;
 arranged in parallel waving lines." t
                        DOUBLE REFRACTION OF LIGHT.
    Repeated instances have been already adduced of the appear
ance of double or multiplied images of bodies viewed through
transparent media ; f but these phenomena are all conformable to
the common law of optics, which indicates the correspondence be
 tween the angles of incidence and of refraction or reflection, and the
 relation of their sines to each other. There are, however, many cases
 in which a different effect is produced by the transmission of light
 through certain transparent substances, as some kinds of salts and
 crystalline spars, plates of which having parallel surfaces, when any
 object is viewed through them exhibit a double image, instead of a
 single one like similar plates of glass. Such bodies are called doubly
 refracting substances, and the property they possess, Double Refraction.
         A                     B                    C                  D
   * Encyclopsed. Metropol.—Mixed Sciences, vol. ii. p. 580.
   t Powell's Elem. Treatise on Optics, p. 150. See also Papers in the Philo
 sophical Transactions, 1814 and 1829, by Sir D. Brewster ; and Abstr. of Papers
 in Philos. Trans., vol. i. pp, 502-504 ; and vol. ii. pp. 378—379.
    : See p. 385, 386.

 424               .-              optics.
    This mode of refraction may be experimentally demonstrated by
 means of a small plate of Iceland spar, or crystallized carbonate of lime,
 not more than 1 of an inch in thickness. If a plate of glass be placed
 over either or all the preceding figures, A,B,C,D, p. 423, each will appear
 singly, as to the naked eye ; but if a plate of Iceland spar be held above
 one of the figures, a double image will be perceived, as two dots, two
 circles, or two lines instead of one. The distance between the two
 images will depend on the thickness of the plate of spar. If it be J of
 an inch thick, the images will be so near together that the little circle B
 will look like a figure of 8. There is, however, another circumstance
 which will influence the relative separation of the images ; and that is
 the position of the plate ; for if it be laid flat on the paper and slowly
 turned round horizontally, one of the images will be perceived to re
 volve round the other ; so that the circle will in one position appear
thus 8, and in another thus co ; and the lines will coalesce and diverge
 successively, as the plate is made to revolve.
    In explanation of this phenomenon it may be stated that a ray of light
 on entering into the transparent spar becomes divided into two portions,
 one of which follows the ordinary law of refraction, as to the ratio of
 the sine of the angle of incidence to that of the angle of refraction,
 while the other undergoes a separate refraction, according to a new
 and extraordinary law. The Iceland spar consists of rbomboidal
 crystals, masses of which are always reducible by natural cleavage
 into exact rhomboids, having each of their faces equal and similar
 rhombs. These are the forms of the ultimate molecules into which
 the mass can be separated by continued subdivision ; and in every one
 of these rhomboids the short diagonal is called the optical axis. Thus in
                        the annexed figure the diagonal line C represents
                        the axis of the rhomboidal solid A B.     Now if a
                        ray of light is transmitted through a crystal is
                        the line of its optical axis no double image will
                        be formed, and the ray will be refracted simplv
                        according to the ordinary law of the proportion!!
                        sines ; for in this case the ordinary and extra
                        ordinary rays, as they have been termed, will
                        coincide. But in all other cases the law is essen
 tially different, the ray becoming divided, and one part of the pencil
 will be refracted, according to a law of a very singular and com
plicated nature. A plane passing through the axis is called a principal

                DOUBLY REFRACTING CRYSTALS.                            425
section ; and if a ray be incident, so that the ordinary refraction takes
place in the plane of a principal section, then for all incidences, the or
dinary ray having its index of refraction constant, the extraordinary
ray will also be in the same plane, though with an index of refraction
which varies according to its position. If the ordinary refraction be
in a plane perpendicular to the axis, the extraordinary ray will also in
this case be in the same plane, and the index of refraction of the ordi
nary ray remaining of course constant, that of the extraordinary ray
will also be constant.*
   Hence it appears that both the ordinary and extraordinary rays have
a certain relation to the optical axis of the crystal ; " all the phe-
nomena being the same, as though some power emanating from that
axis had produced that extraordinary refraction, by separating a por
tion of the light from the original ray in its transmission through the
prism, and attracting it towards the axis, or repelling it from it. Some
times the extraordinary refraction is negative, or a deflection further
from the axis, as in the Iceland spar ; and sometimes it is positive, or a
deflection nearer to the axis, as in common quartz crystal ; but it is
always with the axis that the angle of extraordinary refraction is
made." t
   A considerable number of crystalline substances are found to possess
analogous properties, though with some modifications, depending on
their peculiar structure. Thus some crystals have only one axis of
double refraction, while others have two or more such axes. Dr.
Brewster ascertained that all those bodies which crystallize in the form
of the rhomboid, the regular hexaedral prism, the octaedron with a
square base, and the right prism with a square base, have but one axis
of double refraction; some, like the Iceland spar, having negative
axes, as tourmaline, alum-stone, sapphire, emerald, and phosphate of
lime ; while a smaller number- as quartz, zircon, and oxide of tin, have
positive axes. Among the crystals which have two axes of double
refraction, are glauberite and sulphate of iron. But with respect to
these bodies, as also the crystals with many planes of double refrac
tion, and those with circular double refraction, the effects follow a very
complicated law ; and M. Fresnel made the remarkable discovery
            * Powell's Elementary Treatise on Optics, p. 111.
            t Readings in Science, p. 148.

 426              •                 optics.
 that in such cases neither of the images is refracted according to the
ordinary law, hut that hoth undergo a deviation from their original
plane, exhibiting a sort of complicated double refraction.* The pro
perty of double refraction was first discovered in the Iceland spar, by
Erasmus Bartholin, a Danish philosopher, towards the close of the
seventeenth century ; it was particularly investigated by the celebrated
Huygens ; and the subject has in our own times acquired a peculiar
interest in consequence of its intimate connexion with polarization.
    Concerning the nature of Polarization of Light, we can only afford
room for Sir David Brewster's concise account of the discovery of this
property of light, which was made by M. Malus, colonel of the imperial
corps of engineers, who, in 1810, published a most valuable memoir on
double refraction, for which he gained the prize offered to the writer of
the best work on that topic, by the Institute of France.
    M. Malus, " having accidentally turned a doubly refracting prism
to the windows of the Palace of the Luxembourg, which were at the time
illuminated by the setting sun, he was surprised to observe that one of
the double images of the windows vanished alternately during the ro
tation of the prism ; and after various fruitless speculations on the cause
of this singular phenomenon, he was conducted to the great discovery,
that light reflected at a particular angle from transparent bodies, is
polarized tike one of the rays produced by double refraction. This sin
gular result opened a wide field of inquiry to philosophers: and the
successive labours of Malus, Arago, Biot, Fresnel, and Cauchy, in
France ; Seebeck and Mitscherlich, in Germany ; and Young, Herschel,
and Airy, in England—present a train of research ' than which,' as a
distinguished philosopher remarks, ' nothing prouder has adorned the
annals of physical science since the development of the true system of
ths universe.'" t
   * See Sir J. Herschel's Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy,
pp. 30—33.
   t Report on the recent Progress of Optics j by Sir D. Brewster, in Report
of the British Association for 1832, p. 314. For further information relative to
Double Refraction and Polarization of Light, the reader is referred to the
Treatise on those subjects published by the Society for the Diffusion of Useful
Knowledge ; and to the very valuable Essay on Light, by Sir John Herschel,
in the Encyclopaedia Metropolitana, of which a French translation, enriched
with Notes, by MM. Verhulst and Quetelet, has been printed at Paris.

                   INVENTION OF SPECTACLES.                           427
                     OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS.
   There are two principal kinds of optical instruments ; namely, those
which may be more properly called dioptrical, as they consist of one or
more lenses, their effects depending on the refraction of light ; and
those called catadioptrical instruments, in the construction of which
lenses and mirrors are combined, and hence telescopes of this descrip
tion have been termed reflecting telescopes, to distinguish them from
other telescopes, whose powers depend on refraction alone. The per
fection of these instruments must consist in the excellence of the lenses
and mirrors of which they are formed, and in the accuracy of their
arrangement, so that the axes of the respective glasses maybe situated
in a right line. They must be placed one behind the other, at distances
exactly calculated with reference to their several foci. The eye must
also be placed at a fixed point for observation. That lens in a telescope
or microscope which is nearest the observer is named the eye-glass ;
and the lens or mirror which is turned towards the object to be exa
mined is named the object-glass. The eye-glass is usually fixed in a
tube, and so arranged that its distance from the object-glass may be
varied according to circumstances.
                                 Spectacles.
   The employment of convex or common spectacles, or at least of sin
 gle convex glasses to assist the sight, must have been coeval with the
 knowledge of the magnifying power of convex lenses. The invention
 of spectacles has been ascribed by some to Alessandro Spina, an Italian,
 who died in 1313 , * and according to others the inventor was a Flo
 rentine nobleman, named Armato Salvini, who died in 1317. t It may
 not improbably be inferred, from these statements, that the mode of
 adapting two convex lenses to a frame, so as to form a pair of spectacles,
 originated about the close of the thirteenth century. But the magni-
                    * V. Redi Epistola ad Falconcrium.
                    t V. Acta Lipsiensia, Ann. 1740.

428                               optics.
fying properties of convex lenses or some similar transparent bodies
was certainly known at an earlier period, though we are ignorant of
the precise manner in which they were used. There is a very remark
able passage in a treatise of Roger Bacon on " The Secret Works of Art
and Nature," in which he says, " Transparent bodies may be so figured
that one thing may be made to appear many, and one man an army ;
and several suns and moons may be rendered visible at pleasure. • *
* * * * Thus also things which are afar off may be brought near,
and on the contrary ; so that from an incredible distance we might read
very small letters, and distinguish the numbers of things collected to
gether, though extremely minute ; and make the stars appear when we
please.* Thus it is thought that Julius Caesar, from the sea-coast of
Gaul, observed by means of very large glasses (specu/fl), the disposi
tion and site of the camps and towns of Britannia Major. "t This ce
lebrated writer also thus expresses himself relative to the refraction of
light, in his " Opus Majus :" " Greater things than these may be per
formed by refracted vision.        For it is easy to understand, by the
canons before mentioned, that the greatest things may appear exceed
ingly small, and contrarily. For we can give such figures to transpa
rent bodies, and disperse them in such order, with respect to the eye
and the objects, that the rays shall be refracted and bent toward any
place we please, so that we shall see the object near at hand, or at a
distance, under any angle we please ; and thus from an incredible
distance, we may read the smallest letter, and may number the smallest
particles of dust and sand, by reason of the greatness of the angle under
which we may see them : and on the other band, we may not be able
to see the greatest bodies close to us, by reason of the smallness of the
angle under which they may appear. For distance does not affect this
kind of vision, except by accident, but the quantity of the angle does.
And thus a boy may appear to be a giant, and a man as big as a moun
tain ; because we may see a man under as large an angle as the moun
tain, and as near as we please. And thus a small army may appear to
be a very great one, and though very far off, yet seem very
  * This must apparently be understood of a telescope, or some such instru
ment, by means of which the stars may be seen in broad daylight.
  + Epist. Fr. R. Bacon, de Secretis Operibus Artis et Naturae, et de Nullitate
Ma|?ue. Hamburg. 1572. Cap. 5. De Experientiis Perspectives Artijicialibus.

                 EFFECT OF CONVEX SPECTACLES.                        429
near us ; and contrarily. Thus likewise the sun, moon, and stars may
be made to descend hither in appearance, and be visible above the
heads of our enemies ; and many things of a similar nature may be
effected, which would astonish unskilful persons."
   From the manner in which Bacon, in the preceding passages, notices
the effects of refracting substances in modifying the power of vision, it
can hardly be doubted that single lenses, at least, were in his time
sometimes used for other purposes than those of mere experiment ;
though the general employment of spectacles to assist the visual organs
of aged persons or others, may be dated from the beginning of the
fourteenth century, or just after the period when they are said to have
been invented at Florence.
   There are two distinct kinds of spectacles, namely, those with con
vex glasses, which magnify objects, or bring their images nearer to
the eyes; and those with concave glasses, which diminish the apparent
size of objects, or extend the limits of distinct vision. In old persons
the transparent cornea becomes more flattened than in youth, and pro
bably the crystalline humour undergoes a corresponding alteration,
in consequence of which the rays coming from objects do not converge
to a focus, so as to form a distinct image on the retina, unless they are
relatively at a considerable distance from the eye. Hence it happens,
as may be often observed, that aged persons when they attempt to read
or examine a minute object, without spectacles, are usually obliged to
hold the book, letter, or other object at arm's length. Such long-sighted
individuals are termed pjresbytet.* The manner in which they may be
 assisted by convex glasses may be illustrated by the annexed diagram.
    Let C D be supposed to represent a section of the crystalline lens,
                   * From the Greek Tlpsofivc, an old man.

430                                 optics.
and A B a similar section of a spectacle lens, then the object O, at
about six inches from the eye, will form a perfect image on tbe retina,
at R ; but if the latter lens be removed, the object at the same distance
will become confused, and in order to obtain a proper view it must be
withdrawn to treble or perhaps four times that distance, and if it be
very small, the unassisted eye may not be able to distinguish it at anv
distance.
   Those called short-sighted persons are such as have the transparent
cornea unusually prominent, and therefore the rays from objects enter
ing their eyes converge to a focus before they reach the retina, unless
any object be placed very near the eye.* Where this peculiarity of
vision exists only in a slight degree, it is rather an advantage than other
wise, as the individuals are thus gifted with a kind of microscopic
sight ; for they can see smaller objects than are commonly discerned
by others, and are merely obliged to bold them relatively nearer to the
eye. Distant objects, however, can only be seen confusedly ; and hence
the advantage such persons derive from concave spectacles. The na
ture of the assistance which these glasses afford will appear from con
sidering the following diagram.
    Let C D, as before, represent a section of the crystalline lens, then
 the rays from the object 0 will be rendered somewhat divergent in
 their passage through the concave glass A B, so that the effect of the
 prominent cornea on them will be diminished, and they will form a
   * Short-sighted persons are called in Latin Myopes, from the Greek Mt'w-
 to wink or half-shut the eyelids, and "Q^i the eye.

                      PERISCOPIC SPECTACLES.                           431
 perfect image on the retina at R ; whereas, if the concave glass were
 removed, the rays would come to a focus before they reached the retina,
 and diverging again the image would be confused.
    Common convex spectacles and reading-glasses, especially if they
magnify considerably, have the defect of deforming more or less objects
not viewed through the centre of the lens. For the rays which issue
from distant objects and reach the eye through the borders of a lens,
falling on it obliquely, are more refracted than the other rays, and hence
the images become confused . To remedy this inconvenience Dr. Wol-
laston proposed employing concavo-convex lenses, with the concave
sides turned towards the eyes ; and spectacles thus constructed, called
periscopic* spectacles, if accurately made, and adapted to the peculiar
degree of long-sightedness which they are intended to relieve, will be
found far superior to those constructed as usual with double convex
lenses.
   The Esquimaux, inhabiting a country covered with snow, would be
subject to a weakness of vision approaching to blindness, but for the
method they adopt to guard their eyes from the constant stimulus of the
bright white light reflected from the objects around them. For this
purpose they use a sort of spectacles which they call snow-eyes, formed
of small pieces of wood or bone, with a narrow slit in the middle, which
are fixed near the eyes, by strings or thongs passing round the head, so
that no light can reach the eyes, except that which enters through these
apertures. These rude instruments not only protect the wearers from
the excess of light, but also enable them to distinguish more readily
distant objects.t
   Persons whose sight is so much impaired that they find spectacles
nearly useless may derive great benefit by viewing objects through
conical tubes without glasses, but having only a small aperture at the
end furthest from the eye, and blackened in the inside. Such tubes
may be fitted into a frame and worn like spectacles ; and they may be
rendered more serviceable by being so constructed as to be lengthened
        * From the Greek Iltpi, about, around, and Sico7rtiD, to look.
        t V. Sigaud de la Fond. Ekm. de Phys., t. iv. p. 193.

432                              optics.
or shortened, and have the apertures enlarged or diminished at
pleasure.
                              The Microscope*
    The transition from the use of a single lens to assist vision to that of
 comhinations of lenses for viewing small objects may be conceived to
 be by no means difficult ; yet it appears that three centuries elapsed
 between the invention of spectacles and that of the microscope. Huy-
 gens attributes the invention of the latter instrument to Cornelius
 Drebbel.t about 1621 ; others to the famous Galileo, or to F. Fon-
 tana, a Neapolitan ; and it is extremely probable that the idea may have
 occurred to different persons engaged in scientific pursuits, about the
 same period.
    The Simple Microscope is merely a single convex lens of high mag
 nifying power ; and it may consist of a globule of glass, formed by
 holding a small fragment of flint glass, on a piece of iron wire, flat
 tened at the end, in the flame of a spirit-lamp, and letting it drop, when
 fused on a sheet of paper placed to receive it. The globule must then
 be fitted into an aperture drilled in a small plate of brass ; or if the
 glass fragment be placed in the first instance over such an aperture in
 a thin plate of platina, it may be fused by exposing it to the flame, and
 becoming fixed in the little hole, it will form a microscope ready
 mounted! Such microscopes must necessarily have very short foci,
 and can therefore be used only for examining extremely minute
 objects. The magnifving powers of lenses are inversely as their focal
 leno-ths : thus a convex lens whose focal distance is 2 inches, will
  increase the linear dimensions of the image of an object 5 times,
  and its whole superfices of an object 25 times ; and a lens the focal
  distance of which is ^of an inch will magnify an object 100 times as
 to linear extent, and 10,000 times as to superficial extent.
    * From the Greek Muepdc, minute, and 2K07rea».
    t See Treatise on Pyronomics, pp. 311, 312. Huygens Dioptrica, p. 221.

                   THE REFRACTING TELESCOPE.                           433
                                         The Compound Microscope must
                                      consist of two or more convex
                                      lenses. The object-glass is a small
                                      lens of very short focus ; and there
                                      may be one or several eye-glasses.
                                      Among the most usual forms is the
                                      microscope with three glasses ; but
                                      various modifications have been
                                      adopted, vwth a view to the im
  B'"%!                               provement of these instruments, by
                                      forming both the eye-pieces and the
                                      objectives of two or more glasses.
                                         The effect of the compound mi
                                      croscope maybe described by means
                                      of the accompanying diagram, which
                                     represents the object A B placed a
                                     little beyond the object-glass C D :
                                     then the rays issuing from it would
                                     form an image at A' B', while the
                                     lensE F diminishes the convergence
                                     of these rays, whence it follows that
                                     the image is formed at A" B". This
                                     latter image becomes the immediate
                                     object of vision, seen by the eye
through the lens GH, and therefore at A"'B'", greatly magnified.
                              The Telescope*
                       1. REFRACTING TELESCOPES.
   The invention of the telescope is usually stated to have taken place
about 1590 ; but it is manifest from the writings of Roger Bacon, al
ready referred to, as well as from other sources of intelligence, that the
effect of combinations of optical glasses must have been ascertained by
                * From the Greek TijXf, afar, and 2/co;rew.
                                   Si

434                             optics.
experiment, long before that period, though the arrangement of them
so as to form telescopes, and their general application to the purposes
of science may be dated from the time just mentioned. Accident is
supposed to have led to the discovery of this important instrument,
which has been variously attributed to Zachary Jansen, or to John Lip-
persheim, who were Dutch spectacle-makers; and the improvements
made on these perspectives, as they were styled, by Galileo, John Bap
tist Porta, Simon Marius, and others, may account for their being
sometimes represented as the inventors of the telescope.
   The most simple kind of refracting or dioptrical telescope is that
termed the astronomical telescope, consisting of two convex lenses, in
object-glass and an eye-glass, the foci of which concur in the same
point.
                                                                   1KV
                                                 <$^
    Let A B represent rays from some distant object, as a star, then the
 image formed by the object-glass C D, being viewed through the
 eye-glass G H, will have its apparent diameter magnified accordingly.
 Thus, if the object-glass have a magnifying power equal to 10, and that
 of the eye-glass be equal to 6, the object will be magnified to 10 x 6
 = 60 times. With such a telescope the image will be formed inverted
 with respect to the object ; but as it is only used, as its name implies,
 for surveying celestial bodies, this defect is of no importance.
    The terrestrial telescope invented by A. de Rheita, differs from the
 preceding in being furnished with two additional eye-pieces, so that it
 has in all four glasses : and thus the images of objects appear erect,
 and the instrument is adapted for viewing ships, buildings, &c.
    The effect of common lenses in producing spherical and chromatic
 aberration, and the consequent imperfections of such telescopes as those
 just described, have been already pointed out ; as also the methods of
 correcting such errors, with reference to the principles on which achro
 matic lenses are constructed ; and therefore the subject need not here

                   THE REFLECTING TELESCOPE.                            435
be further noticed. For the description and development of the pro
perties of various modifications of dioptrical telescopes, we must refer
the reader to the works mentioned in the note below.*
                        2. REFLECTING TELESCOPES.
    Newton, as elsewhere stated, despairing of the discovery of a method
of forming achromatic lenses, directed his attention to the improvement
of the catadioptric telescope, invented by Professor James Gregory, in
which an image formed by means of a concave mirror, or speculum, is
viewed, after a second reflection, through a convex lens or eye-glass.
    The preceding diagram shows the general construction and effect of
the Newtonian Reflecting Telescope, in which the concave metallic
speculum C D receives the rays issuing from the object A B, which it
renders convergent, and thus forms a reversed image in the plane
mirror E F, inclined at an angle of 45 degrees ; and this image being
reflected to d c, at the focus of the lens or eye-glass G H, is seen,
through the aperture before it, by the observer. In the original or
Gregorian telescope, the image is viewed by looking towards the object,
as in the refracting telescope ; and there are other modifications of this
instrument, as those of Cassegrain and Herschel ; for descriptive no-
   * Treatise on Optical Instruments, published by the Society for the Diffu
sion of Useful Knowledge. Treatise on New Philosophical Instruments, by
Sir D. Brewster, 1813. Coddington on Optical Instruments, forming the
second part of his enlarged Treatise on Optics. These works may likewise be
advantageously consulted for information concerning optical instruments in
 general.
                                     2 e2

436                              optics.
tices of which the works mentioned in the preceding note may be con
sulted.
                           The Camera Obscura.
   The manner in which images may be formed in a Camera Obscura, or
darkened chamber, has been already described ; but there is an instru
ment in a portable form, and adapted for immediate use, which bears
the same designation, as its effects depend on the application of the
 same principle to practice. There are also various modifications of the
 portable camera obscura, among the more convenient of which is that
 represented in the annexed figure.
                                       It consists of a square box, A, with
                                    a circular aperture in front, into which
                                    is fitted a short tube, a, having at its
                                    extremity a convex lens. This tube
                                    is made to slide backward or forward,
                                    so that it may be adjusted to the pro
                                    per point for near or distant objects.
                                    Then the rays O P, proceeding from
                                    any object, passing through the
                                    lens will form an inverted image in
 the posterior focus of the lens, which being received on a reflecting
 mirror E, inclined at an angle of 45 degrees, will be thrown on a
 plate of ground glass at the top of the box. The image thus formed
 may be traced on the rough surface of the glass, by a blacklead pencil
 or crayon of red French chalk, and afterwards taken off on paper ; or
 the figures maybe drawn on tracing-paper placed on the ground glass,
 through which they will be readily perceptible. The lid of the box, X,
 has two side wings, which being raised when the instrument is in
 use, will exclude the superfluous light, and thus render the images
 distinct.
    The Camera Lucida, invented by Dr. Wollaston, is an instrument
 analogous in its effects to the preceding, but of smaller dimensions,
  nd therefore more convenient for many purposes, as for delineating
  Ntant objects, and for copying or reducing drawings. It consists essen-
  JUSV of a quadrangular glass prism, by which the rays from an object
   corWice reflected, and thus form an image on a plane placed below it.
   matprism is fitted horizontally to an axis on which it turns, so that it

                      THE MAGIC LANTERN.                               437
may be placed in a proper position ; and the brass frame of the instru
ment has usually two lenses adapted to it, a concave and a convex one,
the former to be used by short-sighted persons, and the latter for long
sights. There are various improvements and modifications of the
camera lucida, the best of which appears to be that contrived by Signor
Amici.
                           The Magic Lantern.
   As an amusing as well as instructive optical machine, there
is hardly any superior to the Magic Lantern, invented by Father
                                             Kircher. It is composed, as
                                             shown by the sectional view
        /T\                                  in the margin, of a square tin
                                            box, containing a lamp, be
                                             hind which is placed a me
                                            tallic concave reflector ; and
                                             in front of the lamp is a
                                             plano-convex lens, which re
                                             ceives on its plane surface the
                                             reflected light of the lamp,
                                             and concentrates it on the
                                             object, which is magnified
                                             by another lens fitted to the
                                             extremity of a tube project
                                             ing from the lantern. The
objects are painted on thin plates of glass, which may be passed through
 a narrow opening in the tube between the two lenses. This tube
must be double, one end moving within the other, so that the tube
 carrying the outer lens may be drawn backward or forward, till the
 object is in the conjugate focus of that lens. Then if it be turned
 towards a vertical screen, a magnified image will be formed ; and the
 further the lantern is withdrawn from the screen, the larger will the
 object appear : but when the distance is considerable it becomes indis
 tinct.
    Several years ago an exhibition took place at London, and afterwards
at Edinburgh, conducted by M. Philipsthal, and called the Phantasma
 goria,* resembling, in the general principle on which it was founded,
 the magic lantern, but rendered more imposing, by having the objects
   * From the Greek ^avraa/ia, a spectre, and 'Ayopd, an assembly

 438                                optics.
 painted on a larger scale, and the figures being projected on a trans
 parent curtain of gummed taffeta, by which the machinery was con
 cealed from the spectators. Images to represent ghosts, skeletons, and
 other objects, singular or appalling, were thus displayed, and for a time
 formed an attractive source of popular amusement. The manner in
 which such effects might be produced has been described by Dr. Thomas
 Young, and also more recently by Sir D. Brewster.*
                             The Solar Microscope.
    This instrument differs from the magic lantern principally in the na
ture of the objects exhibited by it, and the manner in which they are
illuminated. This purpose is effected by admitting the rays of the sun
into a darkened room, through a lens placed in an aperture in a window-
shutter, the rays being received by a plane mirror fixed obliquely, out
side the shutter, and thrown horizontally on the lens. The object is
placed between this lens and another smaller lens, as in the common
microscope ; and the magnified image thus formed is to be received on
a screen, as in the case of the magic lantern.
    Mr. George Adams, an eminent optician, invented an instrument,
which he called the Lucernal Microscope, so constructed that objects
might be illuminated by the light of a lamp ; and thus the microscope
 could be used at any time, or in any situation. An improvement on
this mode of displaying highly magnified images of minute objects has
recently been adopted, by employing the splendid light produced by
the combustion of oxygen and hydrogen gases on lime ; and instru
ments have been fitted up for the public exhibition, in the metropolis,
of some of the most curious and interesting phenomena with which op
tical science has made us acquainted.
   * See Young's Lectures on Natural Philosophy, 1807, vol i. ; Brewster's
Natural Magic, pp. 80—85 ; and likewise the Repertory of Arts and Manufac
tures, First Series, No. 95, in which is a copy of the specification of the phan-
tasmagorian machinery, for which M. Philipsthal took out a patent.

ELECTRICITY.
EST ELECTRICITAS EA CORPORUM PROPRIETAS, QUA POSTQUAM FRICATA, CUSA.
  ICTA, VEL A SOLE IGNEVE CALEFACTA SUNT, VIM ACQUIRUNT ALIA CORPORA
  REMOTA ALLICIENDI ET REPELLENDI, AC S.EPE, 8ED NON SEMPER, SIMLL LUCSM
  CONSPICUAM SPARGENDI.     QUIA H-EC PROPRIETAS PRIMUM DETECTA FCIT IK
  ELECTRO SIVE SUCCINO, PLACUIT RECENTJORIS JE.VI PHILOSOPHIS EAM VOCI
  ELECTRIC ITATIS INSIGNIRE, NOVISQUE SIMILIBUS VERBIS AB EA DERIVATIS
  DIVERSAS OPERATIONES INDICARE.
                                 Musschenbroek lnstitutlones Physic*.

                        ELECTRICITY.
   Among the physical sciences, there is, perhaps, no other so imme
diately and completely the result of the researches of modern, and
especially of contemporary, philosophers as Electricity. It is true that
the ancients were acquainted with one of its grand characteristic phe
nomena, namely, the property which some hodies, under certain cir
cumstances, possess of attracting various other bodies. Thus Plato,
Theophrastus, Dioscorides, Pliny the Elder, and other Greek and Ro
man writers, state that Amber* may be made, by rubbing it, to attract
very light substances, much in the same manner as the loadstone at
tracts iron. They were even aware that a similar property belongs to
  * From "RXtKTpov, the Greet name of Amber, the term Electricity is
derived.

442                           ELECTRICITY.
jet, belemnite, the emerald, jasper, and some other precious stones.*
And notices occur in the writings of the ancients concerning other na
tural phenomena now known to depend on electricity ; but all these are
reported as isolated facts, which they never referred to a common cause-
nor proposed any theory to explain and illustrate them.
    The first attempt towards a generalization of phenomena which had
been so long before observed, and to so little purpose, was made towards
the end of the sixteenth century, by Dr. William Gilbert, a physician,
who wrote a very curious and original treatise on the Magnet, and
being led by analogy to make experiments on the attractive property of
amber, he found that the power it possessed of attracting light sub
stances, was one which might be induced by friction in several other
bodies ; and he therefore regarded it as originating from a common
cause. In the following century the subject was further investigated
by Boyle, Otho Guericke, Sir I. Newton, and others ; but though the?
accumulated facts, they were not such as were of a nature on which
to found general principles ; and what was known of electricity by no
means deserved the appellation of science. In the early part of the
last century, Dr. Hauksbee, a physician, made many electrical experi
ments, from which he ascertained that glass was a substance in which
the property of electric attraction could be most readily excited by
 friction ; and that some other bodies, especially metals, treated in the
 same manner, manifested no electric power whatever. But the grand
 discovery, which led to the classification of all material bodies under
 two divisions, as being either conductors or non-conductors of electri
 city, was made by Mr. Stephen Gray, a pensioner at the Charterhouse,
 London, who died in 1736. This gentleman, having occupied himself
 with various experiments, partly suggested by the researches of Hauks
 bee, in attempting to ascertain how far the electric influence could be
 propagated by means of a line connecting two bodies, found that
 when an ivory ball was suspended from an electrified glass tube, by a
 silk cord, the electric influence would be distinctly manifested by the
 ball at the distance of more than 700 feet ; but when a metal wire was
 used to suspend the ball, it gave no signs of electricity whatever. It
 was likewise ascertained that glass, horsehair, amber, and resin, as well
 as silk, and in general all those bodies which can be most readily ren-
       * V. Musschenbroek Institutiones Physicie, 1/48, 8vo, pp. 198, 199.

                       ELECTRIC PHENOMENA.                               443
dered electric by friction, also possess the property of in sulation , or pre
venting the escape of electricity ; while metals, wood, linen, and water,
have no such effect, suffering electricity to escape through them into
any other bodies with which they may come in contact. Thus in
Mr. Gray's experiments the electric fluid was conveyed by the silk
line from the excited tube to the ball, and not suffered to escape
through the points at which the line was supported ; but the wire being
a good conductor of electricity, it passed off freely into the first sub
stance with which it came into contact. Could the wire have been
extended for a mile, or any given distance, through a dry atmosphere,
without touching any substance in its passage, it would have trans
mitted the electric influence with facility from one end to the other.
   It had been previously observed that light was often given out in the
passage of electricity from one body to another through the air, when,
in 1744, Dr. Ludolf, of Berlin, discovered that ether could be set on fire
by sparks produced by friction from a glass tube : and in 1746, the dis
covery was accidentally made at Leyden, that the electric influence
could be accumulated in a bottle partly filled with water ; and, by
making a communication between the water and the exterior surface of
the bottle, what is termed an electric shock might be communicated ;
whence a bottle or jar with a metallic coating, which has the same
effect with water, has been termed the " Leyden Phial." These disco
veries led the way to those of Dr. Benjamin Franklin, who experi
mentally ascertained what had been before conjectured, that lightning
is an electrical phenomenon. The mode in which be conducted the
investigation was by raising a kite, during a thunder-storm, in June,
 1752, and having attached a key to the lower end of the hempen string,
 and insulated it by fastening it to a post by means of silk, he found that
when a thunder-cloud had appeared for some time over the kite, elec
tricity was received by it and conveyed through the string to the key,
which gave out electric sparks, on the knuckles of the hand being pre
sented to it. Science is also indebted to Franklin for the construction
of a theory to account for the phenomena of electricity, which, with
some modifications, is still regarded as affording the most satisfactory
mode of explaining them.
   The exhibition of phenomena apparently depending on electricity, by
the voluntary action of animals, in the case of the Torpedo and some
other fishes, which communicate a kind of electric shock to those who

444                           ELECTRICITY.
touch them, had long been known, when Galvani, professor of anatomy
at Bologna, in 1790, observed that the contact of metals with the nerves
and muscles of a frog, recently killed, produced convulsive motions,
which might, for some time after the death of the animal, he renewed
at pleasure, by repeating the application of the metals. These singular
phenomena, with others of an analogous kind, were at first supposed
to depend on some peculiar action of metals and some other bodies on
the nerves of animals ; and regarded as constituting the foundation of a
new science, to which, in honour of the original discoverer, was appro
priated the appellation of Galvanism. Some philosophers, noticing
the apparent connexion of these appearances with the benumbing
power of the Torpedo, and the relation that seemed to exist between
the effects and those arising from electricity, ascribed the former to
some peculiar modification of the electric influence, to which they gave
the designation of Animal Electricity. However, the important disco
very by Professor Volta, of Pavia, of the electric effect of certain ar
rangements of different metals, forming what has been since called t
Voltaic Pile, and sometimes a Galvanic Pile, and that of the similarity
of the effect of electricity accumulated from bodies excited in the usual
manner by friction, with the effect of such a pile, in causing the che
mical decomposition of water and metallic oxides, contributed to the
introduction of more correct views of the nature of electrical and Gal
vanic phenomena, as all depending on the various operation of the same
causes, and as belonging to the same science.
   Among the very latest discoveries in natural philosophy are certain
 singular and important facts which afford grounds for extending the
 theory of electricity so as to include the rationale of all those pheno
 mena previously regarded as belonging to the separate science of mag
 netism, which, however, from its connexion with the art of navigation,
 and its application to practical purposes, may with propriety form a
 distinct subject of investigation. The term Electro-magnetism has
 been adopted to designate this class of phenomena ; and that of Electro
 chemistry has been used with reference to the effect of the electric in
 fluence on the chemical composition of bodies : the manner in which
 bodies are affected by the irregular distribution of heat, inducing in
 them or dissipating electricity or magnetism, has been made the sub
ject of research, and provided with a peculiar appellation, in that of
 Thermo-electricity ; there seems also to be some mysterious connexion

                       THEORT OF ELECTRICITY.                         445
between the electric or magnetic influence and light : so that it must
be obvious that the science of electricity affords a most extensive field
for research ; and that it is so intimately connected with other branches
of natural philosophy, as to claim the closest attention from those who
are interested in the progress of physical science.
   Within the limited space to which this sketch is restricted, it will
be impossible to attempt more than a cursory view of the most striking
and essential phenomena of electricity or electro-magnetism, with a
few illustrative experiments and observations, which may furnish cor
rect ideas of the present state of our knowledge, and enable the
young inquirer to study with advantage works of greater extent and
deeper research.
   Electricity may be investigated under several points of view. 1.
 With reference to the sources of electric influence. 2. With respect
to its cause, including the development of the hypothesis of the electric
fluid, or fluids, and the properties ascribed to them. 3. The distribution
 of electric fluid in bodies imbued with it. 4. The action of electrified
bodies on those which are in their natural state ; and the phenomena
of accumulated electricity. 5. The production of electricity by the
 contact of different substances ; or, Galvanic electricity. 6. The pro
 duction of electricity by heat ; or, Thermo-electricity. 7. The pheno
mena of electric currents ; or, Electro-magnetism. To these might be
 added several other heads of inquiry, as regarding the effect of electri
 city on the living bodies of animals, in health or disease ; the investi
 gation of the natural electricity of marine animals, as the Torpedo and
 Gymnotus Electricus ; the chemical effects of electricity ; and the
 nature of atmospheric electricity, or the causes of lightning, hail, the
 northern lights, and other meteorological phenomena.
               Origin and Properties of the Electric Influence.
    Some of the usual effects of electric influence, such as the attraction
of light bodies by glass tubes excited by friction, the production of
 sparks of fire under certain circumstances, and other phenomena,
 have been mentioned as owing their origin to a common cause, the
 investigation of which forms the subject of that branch of natural phi
 losophy constituting the science of Electricity. Like the essential

446                           ELECTRICITY.
causes of light and heat, that of electricity can only be inferred from
observation and experiment. But in order to trace with accuracy the
operations of this powerful agent, and elucidate its mode of action, some
hypothetical principle may be advantageously assumed, by means of
which the phenomena may be connected and accounted for, as result
ing from its influence under any given circumstances. Hence the ex
istence of an ethereal fluid, either identical or analogous with that on
which depend the phenomena of light and heat, may be admitted ; and
the term electricity or electric fluid may be employed to designate it.
But we should carefully avoid considering it as a palpable form of
matter, the existence of which can be directly demonstrated. Instead
of which, it should be regarded as merely a convenient method of ex
plaining certain appearances, and showing their mutual relations, so
that we may be enabled to contemplate them in connexion with each
other.
    Dr. Franklin advanced a theory of electricity by means of which he
accounted for the phenomena as depending on the action of a particular
fluid, existing in all bodies, and of which each, according to its capa
city, possessed a relatively greater or smaller quantity. When this
 fluid is in a state of equilibrium, or equally distributed among two
or more bodies in communication with each other, it is quiescent,
and no particular effects are perceived ; but if the equilibrium be
destroyed, as by the contact of a body in a different electrical state,
a new distribution takes place, and various phenomena may arise from
the passage of electricity from one body to another. Thus the pheno
mena were supposed to depend on the excess or defect of the electric
fluid ; those bodies which were overcharged with it having a tendency
to impart it to others, and those in which it might be less abundant to
receive it. It further appeared that bodies in a similar state of electri
city, whether of excess or deficiency, always attracted each other ;
while bodies similarly electrified constantly repelled each other : the
terms positive and negative electricity were therefore adopted to designate
the states of bodies as to the quantities of electric fluid contained in
them ; those in which it was supposed to exist in excess being termed
positively electrified bodies, and those in which the quantity was rela
tively deficient negatively electrified bodies.
    This theory accounts satisfactorily for some of the most important
phenomena, but there are others to which it appears to be inapplicable ;

            POSITIVE AND NEGATIVE ELECTRICITY.                         447
in consequence of which, though once generally received, it is now
almost entirely abandoned, and has been replaced by an hypothesis
originally proposed by Mr. Symmer, an ingenious philosopher, who
ascribed the appearances observed to the existence of two kinds of
electric fluid, and their separate or united influence under various
circumstances.       According to this system all bodies in nature
contain electric fluid ; and the earth itself is to be regarded as an
immense reservoir of electricity. This fluid is supposed to consist of
a combination of two distinct ethereal essences, which neutralize each
 other ; and it is only when they are separated that electrical phenomena
 are observed. They may be separately collected, and thus made to
 display their distinct properties ; but they manifest a strong disposition
 to reunite, and it is principally at the instant of reunion that the most
 striking appearances are exhibited ; for their combination paralyzes
 their several powers, and the compound fluid becomes perfectly quies
 cent and ineffective. To these fluids English philosophers have gene
 rally given the names of positive and negative fluids, borrowing in part
 the phraseology of Franklin. In France, however, the former has been
 termed the vitreousfluid, because it is that which is commonly produced
 by the friction of glass ; and the latter has received the designation of
 the resinous fluid, as it is in the same manner exhibited by the friction
 of resin or sealingwax : though, as will be subsequently shown, the
 positive or vitreous fluid may be exhibited by rubbing resin, and the
 resinous fluid on the contrary produced from the friction of glass ; the
 effects of depending partly on the nature of the substances applied to
 the glass or the resin respectively, and being modified by the relative
 temperature of bodies, and other circumstances.
    One of the most simple yet at the same time important experiments
 to show the effect of bodies in different states of electricity may be per
 formed by means of a glass tube, about three feet in length, and three-
 quarters of an inch in diameter ; on rubbing which with a dry silk
 handkerchief, it will become excited with positive electricity ; and if a
 light downy feather, quite clean and dry, suspended from a silk thread,
 be held near the tube, it will be immediately attracted and adhere to it ;
 but if it be then withdrawn, still beld by the silk line, and not suffered
 to come in contact with any other body, it will be found, on again
 bringing it near the tube, to be repelled, instead of being attracted as

 448                          ELECTRICITY.
before. These appearances are to be explained, as depending on the
feather having been imbued with negative electricity in the first
instance, and therefore becoming attracted by the positively electrified
 tube, which having communicated a portion of its electricity to the
feather, sufficient to neutralize its former electricity and bring it into
the positive state, both bodies become similarly electrified, and there
 fore mutual repulsion takes place, manifested by the feather, as being
by far the lighter body, flying off from the tube.
    Let a large stick of red sealingwax be rubbed with dry warm wool
len cloth ; and it will be perceived that the suspended feather presented
to it will be first attracted and then repelled, as in the former case.
 But if the feather, after having been positively electrified by contact
with the excited glass tube, be presented to the sealingwax, it will not
be repelled, as it would be by the tube, if again presented to it, but
would be more strongly attracted by the sealingwax, than when in its
natural state, plainly demonstrating that since it has been positively elec
trified by the glass, the sealingwax which now attracts it must be in a
negative state. This experiment may be reversed by presenting the
feather in its natural state to the excited sealingwax, and then bring
ing it near the glass tube, by which it would be instantly attracted ;
for having been negatively electrified by contact with the sealingwax,
it attaches itself to the positively electrified tube.
   It has been observed that whenever electricity is excited by the
friction of one body against another, both kinds are produced, the one
body becoming negatively, and the other positively electrified. Thus
when glass is rubbed by silk or flannel, negative electricity is excited
in the rubber, while the glass becomes positive ; and if sealingwax or
resin be rubbed with flannel or woollen cloth, the negative electricity
excited in the resin or wax will be accompanied by the development
of positive electricity in the woollen. Polished glass acquires positive
electricity from friction with almost all substances except the back of a
cat, which renders it negative ; but if ground glass be rubbed with silk
or any of those substances which excite positive electricity in smooth
glass, it will become negatively electrified, and the rubbing bodies will
be positively electrified. So sealingwax when rubbed against an iron
chain, if the surface of the former be smooth, it will be excited with
negative electricity ; but if its surface be previously roughened with

               CONDUCTORS AND NON-CONDUCTORS.                         449
scratches, it will become positively electrified. Hence it appears that
the excitement of one kind of electricity or the other depends much on
the surfaces of bodies ; and therefore it maybe conceived that the elec
tric fluid is chiefly disposed on the external parts of solid bodies. As
two surfaces rubbed against each other acquire opposite kinds of elec
tricity, it might be expected that they would attract each other, and
that is always found to be the case. If a black and a white ribbon, each
about a yard in length, and perfectly dry, be applied together, and
then drawn several times between the finger and thumb so as to
rub against each other, they will be found to adhere, and if separated
by pulling one end from the other, they will fly together again. While
they remain united they manifest no sign of electricity ; for being
in opposite states, they neutralize each other ; but if completely sepa
rated, each will exhibit its peculiar electricity, those bodies being
attracted by the one ribbon which are repelled by the other. When
the experiment is made in a dark room, flashes of light are perceived
from the surfaces of the ribbons, together with a rustling noise. The
black ribbon in this case will be found to be negatively electrified, and
 the white ribbon positively. By taking ribbons from the same piece
and of equal length, and drawing one of them lengthwise at right
 angles across the other, the former will acquire positive and the latter
 negative electricity. The friction of liquids or gases against solid
 bodies will excite electricity ; and the effects of contact, pressure, or
 friction of any one body against another will in some degree produce
 the same effect, the appearances being variously modified according to
 circumstances.
    The following substances become positively electrified if rubbed
 with either of those mentioned after them, and on the other hand when
 one of these substances is rubbed with either of those named before it,
 the substance rubbed becomes negatively electrified. 1. The back of
 a cat. 2. Polished glass. 3. Wool and woollen cloth. 4. Feathers.
 5. Dry wood. 6. Paper. 7. Silk. 8. Gum lac. 9. Ground glass.
    It has been already stated that some kinds of substances freely trans
 mit electricity to bodies in contact with them, or suffer it to escape
 through them ; while others retain it or obstruct its passage : the former
 are named conductors of electricity, and the latter non-conductors. Among
 solid bodies, the metals are all good conductors, though their powers of
                                     2 o

450                           ELECTRICITY.
conduction appear to be influenced by temperature and other circunw
stances. Linen, straw, and wood charcoal are likewise good conductors:
while glass, resins, sulphur, silk, wool, sugar, fat, and various other sub
stances are either non-conductors, or possess the conducting power in
a very imperfect degree. Most kinds of wood when quite dry, and ani
mal fibres deprived entirely of the juices they naturally contain, become
nearly absolute non-conductors ; but in their fresh state they conduct
electricity freely, doubtless in consequence of the liquid matter with
which they are penetrated. Hence the bodies of men and other animals
suffer the electric fluid to pass through them, with the utmost facility.
   All liquid substances, except fat oils, are good conductors, though
not equally so ; for essential oil, and spirit of wine do not conduct elec
tricity so readily as water ; and the latter fluid has its conducting
power augmented by combination with acids or saline substances.
   Air and all gaseous fluids, when free from moisture, are bad con
ductors, and the more dense they are the greater will be their resistance
to the passage of electricity through them. Atmospherical air, there
fore, in dry weather becomes a non-conductor ; but when charged with
moisture, as from a fog, the electric fluids traverse it more readily.
Temperature also, as might be concluded, influences its conducting
 power, which is greatly augmented by heat.
   Those bodies which are good conductors of the electric fluids may be
excited by friction as well as the non-conductors, but the effects pro
duced will depend on the circumstances in which they are placed.
Thus a cylinder of brass, or any other metal, grasped by the hand, if
 rubbed with silk or flannel, will be perfectly inert, not displaying any
nttractive power, like rubbed glass or sealingwax, when brought near
to n light feather. But if a handle of baked wood or glass be fixed to a
 metal cylinder, so that it may be held without touching the cylinder
itself, and the latter be rubbed with a dry silk handkerchief, or piece of
flannel, it may be readily excited, generally manifesting negative elec
tricity, and it will act on the feather accordingly.     In such a case the
electricity is prevented from passing off from the metal, through the
body of the person who holds it, by the insulating or non-conducting
handle of dry wood or glass, i'rom the power which the most perfect
non-conductors possess of preventing the escape of the electric fluids
from conductors supported by them, they have been termed insulators,

                   INDUCTION OF ELECTRICITY.                         45L
and as they most readily exhibit electricity by friction, they have also
been called electrics, while the appellation of non~electrics has been ap
plied to the metals, and other freely-conducting substances. These
terms, however, can hardly be considered as correct, since bodies dif
fer more essentially in their power of retaining electricity than in their
capacity for receiving it ; and hence the more obvious distinction be
tween conductors and non-conductors.
   In making experiments relative to the accumulation or transfer of
the electric fluids, it is necessary to use instruments so constructed as
that a conducting body may be supported and thus insulated by means
of a non-conductor. On this principle is formed that necessary part of
electrical apparatus called the conductor, usually consisting of a brass
cylinder fixed horizontally by one or more rods or thick tubes of glass
to a wooden stand.
   It may be inferred from the experiment with a glass tube and an insu
lated feather, that any body capable of free motion, on approaching an
other body powerfully electrified will be thrown into a contrary state of
electricity ; and thus a feather brought near to a glass tube excited by
friction is attracted by it, and therefore previously to its touching the
tube negative electricity must have been induced in it : and on the
other hand, if a feather be brought near excited sealingwax it will be
attracted, and consequently positive electricity must have been induced
in it before contact. Hence it appears that electricity of one kind or
the other is generally induced in surrounding bodies by the vicinity of
a highly excited electric. During thunder-storms clouds strongly
charged with electricity may sometimes be observed sailing towards a
hill, hovering a while above its summit, and then passing away. This
has been explained as owing to the electric cloud having induced a
contrary state of electricity in the mountain peak by its approach, and
after coming near enough to discharge a portion of its electricity, the
peak and the cloud having acquired the same electrical state, the latter
is repelled and driven away. This mode of communicating electricity
by approach is styled induction.
   When an electrified body thus causes electricity in another by in
duction, the effect extends only to that part of the surface of the latter
body immediately opposite to the former, while the other extremity
will exhibit a contrary state of electricity.
                                    2c 2

 452                          ELECTRICITY.
                                                     This may be shown
                                                  by means of a brass wire
                                                  A, in the annexed figure,
                                                  moving freely on a pivot,
                                                  and supported by a glass
                                                  tube E ; and a brass cy-
                                                | Under or conductor B,
                                                : similarly supported, and
placed within a few inches of the extremity of the wire C, carrying a
small ball of pith of elder. Now if the conductor he positively elec
trified, the ball C will become negative, as maybe shown by approach
ing to it au excited stick of sealingwax, by which it will be repelled ;
while the ball D will be attracted by the sealingwax, and must there
fore be in a positive state of electricity. In this case the wire A is said
to be in an electro-polar state, having a negative pole C opposite to the
positively electrified conductor, and a positive pole D, at its opposite
extremity. Such an arrangement might be carried to any extent. Thus
if another brass wire similarly insulated and armed with pith balls
were to be placed near the extremity D, the ball opposite to it would
be negatively electrified, that at the other end positively, and so on.
   The instrument above described, or mounted brass wire with its
balls, forms a convenient electroscope,* to indicate the electrical states
of bodies ; and as such it was proposed by the French philosopher
Hauy. On the same principle depends the action of the more simple
electroscope consisting of two small pith balls suspended by a fine linen
thread or silver wire to the extremity of an insulated conductor.
When such an instrument is electrified, the two balls necessarily ac
quiring the same kind of electricity will separate from each other ; and
the nature of their electricity may be ascertained by presenting to them
an excited glass tube, which, if they are positively electrified, will
make them more divergent, if negatively will draw them nearer ; and
with a stick of excited sealingwax, the reverse effects would take
place.
   A more delicate instrument for estimating the kind of electricity is
     <U+2666> From the Greek "HXtKrpov (see p. 441), and 1.Koma>, to observe.

                        ELECTRICAL MACHINE.                             453
 that called Bennet's gold-leaf electrometer, composed of two small slips
 of gold leaf suspended within a glass jar, which by their divergence
 or collapse on the approach of an electrified body to a brass ball con
 nected with them by a wire passing through the neck of the jar, indi
 cate that its electricity is similar or contrary to that of the gold leaves.
 An arc of a circle graduated may be so placed as to show the relative
 extent of the divergence of the leaves, according to the degree of elec
 tricity in the body presented to the electrometer. Another very deli-
 eate electrometer is that called the electric balance, invented by M.
 Coulomb ; and others have been contrived, by means of which the
 amount of electric repulsion may be ascertained and measured on a
 graduated scale. From experiments with the electric balance it has
 been concluded that the influence of electricity, like that of gravitation ,
is in the inverse ratio of the squares of the distances of the acting
bodies.
                    Electrical Instruments and Experiments.
    Electricity is usually accumulated, in order to show its effects, by
the friction of glass. The earlier electricians, in the prosecution of
 their researches, merely used glass tubes or other non-conductors, held
in one hand and rubbed with silk or flannel. Dr. Hauksbee made an
improvement on this tedious process, by arranging a glass globe so that it
might be made to revolve continuously on an axis ; and Professor Winkler,
of Leipsic, contributed greatly to render the apparatus useful and con
venient, by affixing a cushion of soft leather stuffed with horsehair, so
that by the pressure of a spring it might rub against the revolving
globe.
   Such an arrangement as that just described constitutes an electrical
machine ; but subsequent experimentalists have made many alterations ;
and among the most simple and yet advantageous modifications of this
instrument may be reckoned that invented by Mr. Nairne, a mathema
tical instrument maker, as represented in the following figure.

 454                         ELECTRICITY.
                                                 It consists of a glass cy
                                             linder, C C, from 10 to 16
                                              inches in diameter, and
                                              about 20 inches in length,
                                              supported, so that it may
                                             turn on its axis, on two pil
                                              lars of glass, fixed to a
                                              wooden stand. Two metal
                                             lic conductors, P, N, equal
                                              in length to the cylinder,
                                              and about one-third of its
                                              diameter, are fixed parallel
                                              with it, on either side, upon
                                              two glass pillars, which are
                                              cemented into two separate
                                              pieces of wood, sliding in
                                             grooves, so that they may
                                             be respectively adjusted at
                                             any distances from the cy
 linder required. To one of these conductors, N, is attached a cushion
 an inch and a half wide, and about as long as the cylinder, against
 which it may be made to press by means of a bent spring ; and to the
upper part of it is sewed a flap of oiled silk, which extends loosely
over the cylinder, to within an inch of a row of brass pins or pointed
wires proceeding from the side of the opposite conductor. The con
 ductor to which the cushion is attached is called the negative conductor,
and the other, which by means of its points collects electricity from the
glass, is named the positive conductor, and also the prime conductor.
The cylinder may be made to revolve, in the direction of the silk flap,
simply by a winch fitted to it, or by a multiplying wheel, W.
   In order that the machine may be worked with the greatest effect,
,the cylinder and every other part must be made perfectly clean and dry ;
,and as it may be supposed, it displays the greatest power when the air
around it is quite free from moisture. To augment the efficacy of the
machine, it is usual to apply to the cushion an amalgam of zinc and tin,
made by melting together one part of tin and two of zinc, and mixing
them in a heated iron mortar with six parts of hot quicksilver ; and

                       ELECTRICAL PHENOMENA.                           455
after the compound hag been reduced by trituration to a powder, it
must be made into a stiff paste, with pure hog's lard.
    When it is requisite to obtain positive electricity, the cushion or ne
gative conductor must be connected with the wooden stand of the ma
chine by a chain or wire ; and thus the electric fluid is supplied from
the earth as fast as it is drawn off by the points of the prime conduc
tor. If it be required to produce negative electricity, the cushion
must be insulated by removing the chain, and attaching it to the
prime conductor P, whence the electric fluid will pass to the earth,
and the conductor N will become negatively electrified.
    There is another form of the electrical machine, consisting of a
circular glass plate, fitted up so that it may be made to revolve between
 two rubbers. It is a powerful instrument, but is only adapted for pro
 ducing positive electricity.
    M. Beudant has described a machine that has the advantage of being
less costly than those of glass, and exempt from injury by accident. It
maybe constructed bytaking two yards of varnished taffeta, and sewing
 together firmly, with a flat seam, the two ends, so as to make it like
 what is called a jack towel ; and it is then to be stretched over two
 wooden rollers, one of which being turned with a winch, the taffeta
 will pass continuously over them, cushions of hare or cat skin being
 placed so as to rub against it ; and a conductor with points may be
 placed near its surface to collect the electricity produced.*
     When an electrical machine, as above described, with a glass
 cylinder, has been properly prepared, and during a dry state of the
 atmosphere, if the cylinder be made to revolve with a certain degree
 of velocity, sparks and vivid flashes of light will be perceived passing
  over the surface of the glass, from the cushion to the conductor ; and
  if the knuckle be presented to the conductor, sparks, with a sharp
  report, will proceed from it to the knuckle, causing a peculiar and
  slightly disagreeable, but momentary sensation. The light is supposed
  to be occasioned by the sudden compression of the air, by the transit of
  the electric fluid ; and it is accompanied by the development of heat,
  for gunpowder, alcohol, fulminating silver, and other highly inflammable
  bodies may be set on fire by means of the electric spark.
     The operation of the electrical machine depends on the glass he-
                         * Traite Elim. de Phys., p. 570.

 456                          ELECTRICITT.
 coming positively electrified by friction against the rubber, when the
 cylinder or plate is put in motion, and the rubber or cushion conse
 quently becoming negatively electrified. The positive electricity thus
 acquired by the glass is regularly attracted and carried off by the
 metallic points ofthe prime conductor, in which it becomes accumulated.
 But if both conductors be insulated, so that the cushion connected with
 the negative conductor cannot continue to derive electricity from the
 earth or surrounding objects, it will soon be exhausted, and cease to
 afford electricity to the other conductor by means of the glass cylinder.
 In order, therefore, that the supply may be kept up, it is requisite that
 the cushion should communicate with the earth, or with the floor,
 by some good conducting medium, as a metal chain or wire. Hence
 it appears that the electricity of either conductor must be extremely
 weak, when both of them are insulated ; that if one conductor alone be
 insulated, the power of the other will be proportionally augmented ;
 that the cushion and the glass must always be in opposite states, the
 one being positive and the other negative ; and that the opposite elec
 tricities are exactly in that proportion which will cause them when
 combined to neutralize each other. The effects produced by the posi
 tive conductor, or that opposed to the cylinder, will be similar to those
 of an excited glass tube ; and the effects of the negative conductor, or
 that connected with the cushion, will correspond with those of an ex
 cited stick of sealingwax. If two suspended pith balls be attached to
 either conductor, they will be observed to repel each other, mani
 festing the same kind of electricity ; but if one ball be attached to the
 positive, and another to the negative conductor, they will attract each
 other. If, however, the two conductors be connected by a metal rod,
their opposite electricities will neutralize each other, and no signs of
either state will be exhibited. The passage of a spark indicates the
annihilation of the opposite states of electricity previously existing
in the bodies between which the spark passes, and which has been
already shown,to be the effect of induction on the approach of bodies
towards each other. Thus, the knuckle, when presented to the posi
tive conductor, becomes negatively electrified; and when the opposite
electricities thus induced, become sufficiently intense, the appearance
of the spark announces that the state of excitation is terminated.
    The most important phenomena depending on the principle of in
 duction are those arising from the accumulation of electricity. This is

                         THE LEYDEN PHIAL.                                457
what takes place in using the electrical jar, or, as it has been termed,
 the Leyden phial, the property of which was accidentally discovered by
Professor Musschenbroek, of Leyden, or, according to some writers,
by M. Cuneus. Its mode of action may be readily exhibited by
taking a glass bottle nearly filled with water, and placing it in a basin
of water ; a chain or rod of metal must be passed into the bottle below
 the surface of the water, and continued from itto the positive conductor
of an electrical machine, and another chain must have one end im
mersed in the water of the basin surrounding the bottle, and the other
end trailing on the floor. Then on turning the machine, the electrical
fluid received by the conductor will pass from it by means of the chain
or rod to the interior of the bottle, where it will be accumulated ; and
in order to discharge it, a communication must be made between the
rod or chain proceeding from the bottle, and that immersed in the basin ;
and thus the confined electricity will make its escape. A person
grasping the latter chain with one hand, and touching the other or the
conductor with which it is connected with the other hand, would
receive the whole charge of the phial, constituting what is termed an
electric shock. It was in this manner that Musschenbroek undoubt
edly became practically acquainted with the effect of accumulated
electricity ; and the sensation he experienced so strongly impressed
him that, in a letter on the subject which he addressed to Reaumur, he
said the crown of France would be but a feeble inducement to expose
himself to the hazard of receiving such another shock.* The sensa
tion caused by the discharge of an electric jar is not, however, so for
midable as might be supposed from the alarm of the alleged discoverer ;
and unless the jar be large and highly charged, the shock will only
occasion a momentary painful feeling, much resembling that some
times caused by suddenly striking the elbow against a hard sub
stance, but more transient.
   A more convenient form of the Leyden phial than that just described
consists of a wide-mouthed jar, coated outside and inside with tinfoil,
to within about two inches of the top ; having a wooden cover, fitted
into the mouth like a cork, and pierced so that a strong brass wire may
pass through the cover, terminating below in a chain in contact with
          * Libes Hist. Philos. des Prog- de la Physique, t. iii. p. 141.

458                              ELECTRICITY.
the inner coating of the jar, and having at the other end a hrass knob Or
ball. A jar or bottle with a narrow neck, as represented in the margin,
                                         may be used, but in that case, if it
                                         be coated only on the outside, it
                                         must be filled with some metallic
                                         substance, as mercury, or steel fil
                                         ings, as high as the outer coating B
                                         reaches ; or moderately warm water
                                         may be poured into it whenever it
                                         is wanted for use.* Such a jar
                                         may be electrified by placing it
                                         near the positive conductor of a
                                         machine, with which the knob A
                                         must be in contact ; and then, on
                                        turning the cylinder, the electric
                                        fluid will pass from the conductor
                                        to the jar, in which it will become
                                        accumulated ; and in order to dis
                                        charge it a bent or jointed wire
must have One extremity placed against the outer coating of the jar,
and the other being advanced towards the knob, nearly the whole
charge will escape from the inside of the jar, through the wire, into
the outer coating, and thence be conducted through the table into the
earth.     A curved brass wire, called a discharger, is sometimes fitted
 up with a knob at each end, C D, and a glass handle; but the jar may
be safely discharged by the bent wire only, as the fluid will pass
wholly through it without affecting the person who uses it.
   As the effect of the electrical jar will be proportioned to the quantity
of coated glass it contains, it must be obvious that its power will
greatly depend on its size. Very large jars, however, would be
awkward and inconvenient, as well as highly expensive. Hence
means have been contrived for combining any numbers of jars, so that
they may be all charged at the same time, and discharged with equal
  * For a description of a convenient method of fixing a metallic coating; to the
inside of a phial, see Dr. Olinthus Gregory's Lessons, Astronomical and Phi
losophical, 6th edit. 1824, p. 127.

                          ELECTRICAL BELLS.                             459
lacility as a single jar. This may be effected by forming a connexion
between all the wires proceeding from the interior of the jars, and
also connecting all their exterior coatings ; and such an arrangement is
styled an electrical battery. The discharge of electricity from such a
combination is accompanied by a loud report ; and when the number
 of the jars is considerable, animals may be killed, metal wires be
melted, and other effects be produced by the discharge of the battery,
 analogous to those of lightning.
    By means of an electrical machine a vast number of curious and in
teresting experiments may be performed, a few of which may be here
described .
   The effect of electricity in producing the divergence of tufts of hair
is sufficiently amusing. This may be shown by placing a person on a
stool with glass legs, so that he may be perfectly insulated, and making
him hold in his hand a brass rod, the other end of which touches the
positive conductor ; then on turning the machine, the hairs of the head
will diverge in all directions,
                  " Like quills upon the fretful porcupine."
The same effect may be more perfectly exhibited by means of an arti
ficial head of small dimensions, with hair glued to it, and fixed on a
brass wire, which is to be placed on the conductor.
   The electrical bells (carillon (lectrique, as designated by the French)
                                  consist of a number of small bells,
                                  as represented in the annexed figure,
                                  suspended from the conductor by
                                  brass chains, with a ball to act as a
                                  clapper banging by a silk thread, be
                                  tween every two bells, one of them
                                  being connected with the table, so that
                                 its electricity is dissipated as fast as it
                                 is received. Thus the insulated ball
                                  will vibrate backwards and forwards,
                                 alternately striking the electrified and
                                 non-electrified bell, when the machine
                                 is put in motion.
                                                                             i

460                          ELECTRICITY.
   The dancing figures, as shown in the margin, may be cut out of
                           writing-paper ; and such figures, or any other
                           light bodies, placed on abrassplate B, connect
                           ed with the ground, and having another brass
                           plate A, suspended at a little distance above it,
                           from the prime conductor, will rapidly dance
                           when the upper plate is electrified. The
                           effect is obviously caused by the figures
                           being attracted by the electrified plate and
                           immediately after repelled, and being robbed
                           of their acquired electricity by the lower or
                           non-electrified plate, they rise again to re
                           ceive a new charge, and thus the dance is
                           continued.
                              The manner in which buildings are in
                           jured when struck by lightning, or the accu
                           mulated electricity of the atmosphere, may
be instructively elucidated by means of the apparatus delineated in
the following figure, called a Thunder-house. It consists of a triangular
piece of mahogany, which may represent one end of a house or barn :
 in the centre a small square piece is fitted loosely into a corresponding
 cavity ; and diagonally across the moveable square passes a brass
 wire, C D. When this instrument is used, the brass knob A must be
                             brought near to the knob of a charged jar,
                             with the outside of which is connected a
                             chain attached to the brass wire B ; thus
                             the jar will be discharged, and its elec
                             tricity will pass through the knob and wire
                              A to B; but the interruption occasioned
                              by the position of the square in the centre
                              will cause it to be driven forcibly from its
                              place. If, however, its position be altered,
                              so that the wire C D may communicate
                              with A and B, forming a part of the same
                              electric circuit, the fluid will pass through
                             the wire C D without displacing the square.
                              It is thus that the highest point or points

                               GALVANISM.                            461
of a building being struck by lightning, if the passage of the electric
fluid be interrupted, by non-conducting or imperfectly conducting
bodies, they may be displaced with violence, injured, or destroyed ;
but if the electric fluid can pass readily through a good conductor,
as a thick metal rod, it will be conveyed into the earth without hazard
of the safety of the building. Hence the utility of conductors affixed
to towers and other lofty edifices.
                              GALVANISM.
    The effects of electricity depending on the accumulation of the
electric fluids by the friction of non-conducting bodies having been
 pointed out, we shall next attempt to explain those phenomena which
 appear to be caused by circulating currents of those fluids, produced
by the contact of metals and other good conductors. Phenomena of
 this nature constitute the objects of that branch of physical science
 termed Galvanism, or Galvanic Electricity, from the discoveries of
 Professor Galvani, of Bologna ; and sometimes Voltaism, or Voltaic
 Electricity, from the subsequent researches of Professor Volta, of
 Pavia, who made great additions to our knowledge of the subject, with
 reference both to facts and theory.
    The earliest notice which has been observed of any phenomenon
 attributable to Galvanism, occurs in a work entitled "A General
 Theory of Pleasures," published in 1767, by John George Sulzer, a
 German writer of some eminence on philology and metaphysical philo
sophy. He states that when two pieces of different metals are applied
 to the upper and under surfaces of the tongue, and then brought into
 contact, a peculiar taste will be perceived. Sulzer made an abortive
 attempt to account for this curious fact, which seems to have attracted
 no particular attention till a later period, when further discoveries led
to the inference that it ought to be regarded as depending on electricity.

 462                         ELECTRICITY.
 Professor Galvani, already mentioned, about 1790, accidentally made
 the discovery that the transmission of a small quantity of electricity
 through the nerves of a frog, shortly after the death of the animai,
 would excite muscular contractions in its limhs. And he afterwards
 found that similar contractions could bo produced, by touching the
 muscles of the leg of a dead frog with one metal, and the nerves be
 longing to them with another, and then bringing the metals into
contact.
                        This singular effect of electricity may be ex
                     perimentally exhibited, by preparing the hind
                     limbs of a frog as represented in the margin. The
                     skin being removed, the crural nerves, C D, may
                     then be perceived issuing from the spine, A B, and
                     resembling two white threads ; a silver wire, E, is
                     to be passed under the nerves, and a small plate
                     of zinc, F, to be laid on the muscles of the thighs;
                     then on bringing the metals into contact, either
                     directly, or by a bent silver wire passing from one
                     to the other, the limbs will be affected with con
                     vulsive twitchings, which may be re-excited at
                    pleasure for some time, by suspending and renew
ing the contact of the metals.
   Similar phenomena may be produced by treating in this man
ner any animals ; but cold-blooded animals, as frogs, toads, ser
pents, and fishes, retain their excitability longer than those with
warm blood, though experiments made with the latter, under
proper arrangements, have a more imposing appearance. Live
 animals also display signs of sensibility to the influence of gal
vanism ; and experiments may thus be made with live flounders,
which may readily be procured in the metropolis. If a flounder
be laid in an earthenware plate, on a slip of zinc, and a piece of
silver or gold placed on its back, on connecting the zinc with the other
metal, by a bent wire, strong muscular contractions will be excited in
the fish.
   In these and analogous experiments it is requisite that the separate
pieces of metal should be of different kinds ; and the effects are most
striking when one metal is readily soluble in acids, as is the case

                          GALVANIC CIRCLE.                            463
with zinc, and the other difficultly soluble, as silver, gold, or pla-
tina. Hence two insoluble metals, as gold and platina, applied
as above directed, have hardly any effect ; while gold, platina, silver,
or copper, may be advantageously opposed to zinc, tin, or iron,
to form a galvanic circuit. It must be observed that the effect is
 chiefly momentary, and the convulsive motions take place at the
 instant of the contact of the metals ; but the phenomena may be re
 newed by separating the metals and repeating their contact with each
other.
   Sulzer's experiment, before noticed, may be performed by placing
a piece of silver, as a halfcrown, upon the tongue, and a disk of zinc
 under it, and on bringing together the two edges of the metals while
 their flat sides remain in contact with the tongue, a peculiar taste
will be perceived, "and a sensation approaching to a slight electric
shock, especially if the metallic plates have rather extensive sur
faces. In that case, also, a flash of light will sometimes pass be
fore the eyes ; but this latter phenomenon may be more certainly ex
cited, by placing one of the metals between the upper lip and the
gums, and the other on the tongue, and bringing their edges in contact
 as before.
    It has been found that when two metals are brought into contact
 and then separated, they will exhibit opposite states of electricity.
 Thus if an insulated disk of zinc be laid on one of silver or copper,
and then removed by means of some non-conducting substance, the
 zinc, on being applied to a delicate electrometer, will show positive,
 and the silver or copper, on the other hand, negative electricity.
 Whence it may be inferred that a portion of electricity had been
 transferred from the silver or copper to the zinc: and to its pas
 sage are to be attributed the convulsions of the muscles of animals
 when their nerves are in contact with metals arranged in a galvanic
 circuit.
   The effect of the contact of different metals may be exhibited by plac
ing on the cap of a gold-leaf electrometer a large plate of any metal, and
sifting over it zinc filings through a copper sieve, insulated by a glass
handle ; when it will be found that the leaves will diverge with positive
electricity, and the sieve will become negatively electrified. On re
peating the experiment, but using a zinc sieve to sift copper filings,

464                           ELECTRICITY.
the effect will be reversed, and the electrometer will show that the
copper filings are negatively electrified, while the zinc sieve will dis
play positive electricity.
   A simple galvanic circle may be formed, by the apparatus repre
                    sented in the margin, consisting of a plate of zinc, Z,
                    and one of copper, C, immersed to a certain depth
                    in sulphuric acid greatly diluted with water, con
                     tained in a glass vessel. Then, when the upper
                     edges of the metals are brought in contact, a current
                     of electricity will take place, the electric fluid cir
                     culating from the zinc to the acid, from the acid to
                     the copper, thence again to the zinc, and so on,
                     in the direction indicated by the darts. Varions
                     modifications of this arrangement may be contrived :
          ^V„.;j; thus, instead of making the metals communicate
                      immediately, as above, a wire of any metal may be
 attached to the upper extremities of each plate, and when the wires
 are brought together the circuit of electricity will go on, but when they
 are separated, it will be interrupted.
   By this means the electric current may be directed through any
bodies, by placing them between the wires, so that they may form
a part of the circuit, and various effects may be produced. As the
wire connected with the zinc in this case is receiving electricity, it is
called '* the negative wire," and that connected with the copper " th«
positive wire."
   The effects of such an arrangement as that just described, at least
with small metal plates, will be but inconsiderable. Hence Professor
Volta conceived the idea of forming what may be termed a compound
 galvanic or voltaic circle, by arranging a number of disks of dif
ferent metals, as zinc and copper, with cloth or pasteboard soaked in
 some acid or saline solution between them ; as thus the effect might
 be indefinitely augmented, according to the number and size of the
 disks.
    The apparatus may be fitted up as represented in the annexed
figure, consisting of an equal number of silver or copper coins,
 or flat pieces of either metal, and of similar pieces of zinc, arranged
 one above another, with wet pasteboard between them, in the foU

                        THE VOLTAIC PILE.                             4C5
                      lowing order : zinc, copper, wet pasteboard, denoted
                      by the letters Z, C, W, in successive layers
                      throughout the series.      One end of the pile
                      must terminate with a zinc plate, and the other
                      with one of copper, with each of which wires
                      may be connected ; and the whole should be
                      made steady by fixing the disks between three
                      vertical glass rods, properly varnished, and ce
                      mented into two thick pieces of wood, one of
                      which serves as the base and the other as the
                      cover of the pile. Any number of such piles
                      may be united so as to constitute a Voltaic
                       Battery, by making a metallic communication
                       between the last zinc plate of one pile and the
                       first copper one of another, to any extent.
   The Voltaic Pile will be found highly efficient, and forms a conve
nient instrument, so long as the cloth or pasteboard disks between the
metals retain the moisture ; but when they become dry, the pile is ren
dered comparatively inactive. Volta therefore contrived a different
arrangement, to which has been given the French designation Couroime
de Tasses as consisting of any number of glasses partly filled with di
luted acid, with a plate of zinc and another of copper in each as before
described ; and the zinc plate in one glass being connected with the
copper one in the next, throughout, the circuit might be completed by
wires attached to the terminating plates.
   But this instrument, though not liable to the same objection with the
pile, was inconvenient; and therefore has been superseded by various
other arrangements, among which we select for description the Galv;mic
Trough, or as it is also termed, the Galvanic Battery. It may consist
of a trough, T, p. 466, constructed of baked mahogany, with partitions
of glass in the interior,; or it may be formed of Wedgwood ware, with
interior cells, each trough containing ten or twelve. The metal plntes
 P P adapted to them are united by a bar of baked wood A B, so that the
whole set may be let down into tie trough, or lifted out to°-ether. The
cells are to be filled with water or diluted acid when the instrument is
to be used, and the plates being placed in them, each cell will contain
a zinc and a copper plate, and the circulation of the electric fluid will
take place throughout the whole, while wires proceeding from the last
                                     2 n

 466                         ELECTRICITY.
line plate on one side, and from the last copper plate on the other, any
bodies, by being placed between the wires will form a part of the cir
 cuit, and be subjected to the action of the electric fluid. When the
 necessary experiments are completed, the plates should be lifted out of
the trough, that they may not be too hastily corroded by the acid.
    Several such troughs may be combined like voltaic piles, after the
manner before stated ; and if very large plates be employed to form the
battery, its power will be exceedingly increased. One has been con
structed, for the use of the members of the Royal Institution, consist
ing of two hundred separate parts, each part composed of ten double
plates, and every plate containing thirty-two square inches. The
whole number of double plates amounts to two thousand, and their
entire surface to 128,000 square inches.
   Though the most efficient voltaic circles, whether arranged as piles
or troughs, are such as consist of plates of different metals and layers of
fluid matter containing oxygen, as already described, yet combinations
may be formed of various kinds of matter, besides metals and acids,

                          THE VOLTAIC PILE.                              467
manifesting analogous effects, though, in most cases, with far inferior
 energy.
    Dr. Bacouio, of Milan, constructed a voltaic pile entirely of vege
table substances ; using disks of red beet-root, two inches in diameter,
and similar disks of walnut-tree, the latter deprived of their resinous
matter by maceration in a solution of cream of tartar in distilled vine
gar. With such a pile, using a leaf of scurvy-grass as a conductor, he
is stated to have produced contractions of the muscles of a dead frog.
Other experimentalists have formed voltaic piles wholly of animal sub
 stances.
    MM. Hachette and Desormes composed piles of layers of metallic
plates separated by masses of common paste made of hour and mixed
with marine salt (chloride of sodium). This, which has been improperly
called the dry pile, appears to owe its efficiency to the attraction of mois
ture from the air by the salt contained in the layers of paste. Professor
Zamboni, of Verona, made a pile with disks of paper gilt on one side,
and coated on the other with layers of black oxide of manganese made
into a paste with honey.
   The most simple arrangementof thiskind is that called Deluc's Electric
Column, consisting ofdisks ofpaper covered with gold or silver leaf, and
similar disks of laminated zinc, properly arranged. Mr. G. J. Singer
constructed an instrument in this manner composed of twenty thousand
pair of disks inclosed in a tube of glass of suitable diameter, having at
each end a brass cap, perforated by a screw for the purpose of pressing
together the disks, a wire being attached to either screw, so that one
might be in contact with the zinc, and that at the other end with the other
metal. Each extremity or pole of such a column will affect the electro
meter and exhibit electrical attractions and repulsions. If two upright
electrical columns be placed near each other with their poles in oppo
site directions, and their upper extremities connected, while a small
bell is attached to the lower end of each column, and a brass ball is
suspended between them, it will alternately strike either bell, and the
ringing thus caused may be kept up for a great length of time. Sir J.
Herschel mentions his having seen such an apparatus in the study of
Deluc, which had continued in action for whole years.*
   * See Discourse on the Study of Natural Philosophy, p. 343. On the prin
ciple of Deluc's column is constructed the electrical clock mentioned in the
Treatise on Mechanics, p. 108.
                                    ShS

468                           ELECTRICITY.
   Some of the remarkable phenomena produced by the agency of the
electric fluids, through the voltaic pile or battery, have been already
noticed ; and a few additional experiments may be adduced, which will
serve more strikingly to illustrate the mode of action of voltaic electri
city, and demonstrate its similarity to common electricity.
   Among the effects of the voltaic pile may be mentioned the produc
tion of sparks and brilliant flashes of light, the heating and fusing of
metals, the deflagration of gunpowder and other inflammable sub
stances, and the decomposition of water, saline compounds, and me
tallic oxides.
   The most splendid exhibition of light may be obtained by fixing
pieces of pointed charcoal to the wires connected with the opposite
poles of a powerful voltaic battery. When the charcoal points are
brought almost into contact, a vivid light and intense heat will be ex
cited ; and on gradually withdrawing the points from each other, a
continued discharge of electric fire will take place, forming an arch of
light of the most dazzling brightness. If the wires be introduced into
a tube partially exhausted of air, and the charcoal points be made
to approach and then recede as before, the effect will be height
ened, and the arch of light will assume a beautiful purple colour.
Wires of metal introduced into the voltaic circuit may be raised to a
red or white heat ; and wires of moderate dimensions, composed of the
least fusible metals, as platina, speedily become melted. The same
effect is produced on some of the most refractory substances, as quartz,
sapphire, magnesia, and lime ; while fragments of plumbago or of the
diamond are dissipated, undergoing a real combustion.
   The spontaneous evolution of electricity observable in some animals,
and particularly in certain kinds of fishes, have been ascribed to gal
vanism ; but though the electrical phenomena exhibited by the Torpedo
and a few other marine animals, have much analogy with the effects of
the galvanic or voltaic pile or battery, the researches of philosophers
have not hitherto enabled us to ascertain how far the structure of the
electrical fishes may be assimilated to the arrangement of bodies in
different states of electricity, forming the galvanic pile. The produc
tion of electric sparks and other phenomena of a similar nature lead to
the conclusion that electrical excitement is a concomitant property of
animal life in general. Many instances are recorded of the sponta
neous display of electric light issuing from the skin of the human body,

                        ANIMAL ELECTRICITY.                           469
and the production of electricity by friction, as from the back of a cat,
is a common and well-known phenomenon. Cardan mentions a Carme
lite friar, from whose hair sparks issued whenever it was stroked back
wards. Scaliger gives a somewhat similar account of a woman at
Caumont, whose hair emitted fire when combed in the dark. Ezekiel
di Castro, an Italian physician, in his treatise " De Igne Lambente,"
relates of Cassandra Buri, a lady of Verona, that when she touched
her body but lightly with a linen cloth, it gave forth sparks in abun
 dance. Scaliger, above quoted, mentions a white Calabrian horse,
whose coat when combed in the dark emitted lucid sparks. Various
instances of a similar nature are recorded by Bartholin, Father Bec-
caria, M. de Saussure, and other writers ; and those cases of sponta
neous combustion which have been related by physicians were pro
bably owing to the evolution of electricity ; but of these further notice
will be taken in the treatise on Chemistry.
    The electrical animals already alluded to display much greater powers
in the development of electricity than those exhibited by human beings ;
and the production of the electric shock appears in these creatures to
 be dependent on the will, and the power of producing it to be be
 stowed on them in order that they may be enabled to defend them
 selves from their enemies, or to take the prey necessary for their sub
sistence. Among these animals the most noted is the Torpedo ( Raia
 Torpedo), the peculiar powers of which were known to the ancients,
and are mentioned by Pliny, Oppian, and other writers. These phe
 nomena have also been noticed by Redi, Koempfer, and other modern
 authors ; but Dr. Bancroft appears to have first conjectured that the
 influence of the Torpedo depended on electricity, and Mr. Walsh made
 some important experiments which served to confirm this conclusion.
 The subject has since been more fully investigated by John Hunter,
 Spallanzani, Humboldt, Volta, and other philosophers. The Torpedo
 is an inhabitant of several different seas, being found on the coast of
 England, in the Mediterranean, and in Table Bay, at the Cape of Good
 Hope. The weight of the animal when full grown is about eighteen
 or twenty pounds. It gives a benumbing sensation, like an electric
 shock, when touched, and these effects are renewed by repeated con
 tacts. The shock may be conveyed, like common electricity, through
 an iron rod or a wet line, but not through non-conductors. The

470                          ELECTRICITY.
greatest shock the Torpedo can give is never felt above the shoulder,
and rarely above the elbow-joint ; its strength depending more upon
the liveliness of the animal than upon its size. The electric discharge
is generally accompanied by an obvious muscular action in the animal,
with an apparent contraction of the superior surface of the electric
organs, and by a retraction of the eyes. These fish appear to be
greatly weakened by the emission of electricity, and those that give
shocks most readily soon become exhausted and die. From dissection of
the Torpedo it is found to be provided with peculiar organs, placed on
each side of the head and gills, and connected with the nervous system.
It lias been ascertained, however, from the researches of M. Geoffroy
St. Hilaire, that a similar organic structure is found in other animals
of the Raia genus, which nevertheless exhibit no electrical power.
   The Gymnotus Electricus or Electrical Eel, is a fish having similar
powers with the preceding. It is a native of the inter-tropical regions
of Africa and America, being frequently found in the rivers and lakes
of Surinam ; and it was first described in 1677 by M. Richer, who was
sent by the Academy of Sciences of Paris, to make philosophical
observations at Cayenne. This fish (which was dissected by Mr.
 Hunter), like the Torpedo, possesses peculiar electric organs, which
consist of divisions, formed by thin plates or membranes, ranged trans
versely, so that in the space of one inch there were two hundred and
forty of these transverse membranes. These organs are copiously
supplied with nerves, and their too frequent use occasions debility
 and death. It seems, however, that they are not essential to the ex
istence of these animals, which live and thrive after the organs have
been removed. Humboldt, in his "Tableau Physique des Regions
Equntoriales," describes a curious method of taking the Gymnoti, by
driving wild horses into a lake which abounds with those fish. Some
of these are very large, and capable of giving most powerful shocks,
by which some of the horses are paralyzed and drowned ; but the eels,
at length, being exhausted by their own efforts, are taken without diffi
culty. This philosopher states, that the Gymnotus in giving shocks
 does not make any motion of the head, eyes, or fins, like the Torpedo.
   Three other electrical fishes have been mentioned besides the fore
going, namely, the Silurus Electricus, found in the Nile ; the Trichiuros
Indicus, which inhabits the Indian seas ; and the Tetraodon Elec

               DIFFERENT KINDS OF ELECTRICITY.                          471
tricus, discovered off the island of Joanna. Little is known concern
ing the two latter ; but they all appear to possess the same general
powers of evolving electricity with those already described.
   The chemical powers of the voltaic battery have afforded the means
for some of the most remarkable discoveries of modern times, among
which it will be sufficient to mention the decomposition of potash and
soda, and the exhibition of their metallic bases, by Sir Humphry Davy.
But for an account of his researches, and of the modes of effecting va
rious other chemical analyses by means of voltaic arrangements, we
must refer the reader to the treatise on Chemistry.
   The decomposition of water by the voltaic battery may, however, be
shortly noticed as one of the most simple yet important processes exhi
biting the chemical influence of electricity. If two wires of platina
connected with the opposite poles of a battery be passed through corks
into the extremities of a glass tube filled with water, on suffering the
electric current to traverse the fluid between the ends of the wires, it
will be decomposed into oxygen and hydrogen gases ; and if one of the
wires be of iron, or any other easily oxidable metal, the oxygen will
combine with the iron as fast as it is evolved, and the hydrogen only
will appear in the form of gas. By a proper modification of the appa
ratus with two platina wires, both gases may be separately collected ;
and on examination it will be found that they are produced exactly in
the proper proportions to form water.
   That the various phenomena of common electricity and galvanism,
to which may be added those of magnetism, depend on the operation
of a common cause, may now be regarded as an established principle
of physical science ; but the investigations which have led to this con
clusion are only of recent date, though the experiments on which it is
founded appear to be perfectly satisfactory.
   In the progress of his electrical researches, Dr. Faraday found it
necessary, for their further prosecution, to establish either the identity or
the distinction of the electricities excited by different means ; and in a
paper of great value, which has been published, he has established
 beyond a doubt the identity of common electricity, voltaic electricity,
 magnetic electricity, thermo-electricity, and animal electricity. The
 phenomena exhibited in these five kinds of electricity do not differ in
kind, but merely in degree ; and in this respect they vary in propor
tion to the various circumstances of quantity and intensity, which can

472                          ELECTRICITY.
be at pleasure made to change in almost any one of the kinds of elec
tricity, as much as it does between one kind and another.
   Dr. Faraday was anxious to determine the relation by measure of
ordinary and voltaic electricity ; and after various excellent experi
ments he found as an approximation, and judging from magnetical
force only, that two wires, one of platina and one of zinc, each ,'s of an
inch in diameter, and placed ,% of an inch apart, and immersed to the
depth of ft of an inch in acid consisting of a drop of oil of vitriol and
tour ounces of distilled water, at a temperature of about 60°, and con
nected at the other extremities by a copper wire 18 feet long and ,'s of
an inch thick (being the wire of the galvanometer coils), yielded as
much electricity in 8 beats of his watch, or ,J„ of a minute (3.2 sec.)
as the electrical battery (of 15 jars) charged by thirty turns of the
large machine in excellent order. The same result was found to be
true in the case of chemical force.*
   It further appeared, from the experiments of Dr. Faraday, that a
great number of bodies which when solid were incapable of conducting
electricity of low tension, acquired by liquefaction or fusion the power
of conducting it in a very high degree. Such are water, and several
saline and other substances ; but sulphur, phosphorus, camphor, sper
maceti, sugar, and various other bodies, including some salts, acquire
no conducting power when melted.
                             MAGNETISM.
    It was long since conjectured by some philosophers that a connexion
 exists between electricity and magnetism, and that electric and mag
 netic phenomena arise from the same cause. The discovery of the
 effects of the contact of metals and other voltaic combinations tended
 greatly to render the analogy more striking ; but the grand discovery
 of the power of electric currents to induce magnetism was made only
 in 1819, by Professor Oersted of Copenhagen ; and Dr. Faraday has
 very recently demonstrated the similarity of electricity and magnetism,
 by ascertaining a method of eliciting electric sparks from the magnet.
           * Encyclopedia Britannica, 7th edition, 1834, pp. 574, S7S.

                         ELECTRO-MAGNETISM.                               473
   The power of the natural magnet or loadstone to attract iron was
known to the ancients, though they did not avail themselves of it for
any useful purpose. The loadstone is an ore of iron, originally found
in the country of Magnesia, in Asia, whence it derived its name ; * but
it is by no means uncommon in various parts of the world. The prin
cipal varieties are those called by mineralogists natural loadstone, earthy
loadstone, and magnetic iron ore, all which are oxides of iron ; and
meteoric iron, or those masses which appear to have fallen from the
atmosphere, t principally composed of metallic iron and nickel, are in
general found to be strongly magnetic. All these bodies, as well as
some other iron ores, have long been known to possess the property of
attracting metallic iron when brought nearly in contact with it. The
magnetic property is capable of being communicated to steel by touch
ing it with a natural magnet ; and in this manner artificial magnets are
formed for various purposes. When steel is touched by a magnet it
acquires permanent magnetism ; but soft iron treated in the same man
ner, though it also becomes magnetic, loses its virtue as soon as it is
 separated from the magnet.
    Other metallic bodies besides iron and steel are susceptible of mag
netism. This is found to be the case with nickel, cobalt, and brass ; the
first-mentioned of these metals especially being observed sometimes to
manifest a high degree of magnetic power. Nor is this property con
fined to metals, for many other substances belonging to the mineral
kingdom, as the emerald, the ruby, the garnet, and some other precious
stones are stated by Cavallo { to be susceptible of magnetic attraction.
More recent researches have led to the detection of magnetism in a great
variety of bodies, including glass, chalk, bone, wood, and other kinds of
animal and vegetable matter. And since it may be concluded that mag
netic attraction is only a peculiar mode of action of the electric fluid or
 fluids, there can be no reason to doubt that its influence in particular
circumstances must be as extensive as that of electricity, and conse
 quently that all kinds of matter are subject to it.
    The attraction of iron is to be regarded as only one of the peculiar
    * In the Greek, language the loadstone is called Mayvnc..
   t See Treatise on Mechanics, p. 39.
   t See Philos. Trans, for 1786 and 1787; and Cavallo's Treatise of Magn
 1787, P- 73.

474                             ELECTRICITY.
effects of magnetism, but there is another which, though less imposing
and obvious, is highly important: namely, the polarity of magnetic
bodies, or that tendency they possess, when capable of free motion, to
assume such a position that one particular part, as one extremity of an
iron rod suspended horizontally, shall be directed towards the northern
regions of the earth, and the opposite extremity towards the southern
regions. On this property depends the utility of the mariner's com
pass, which essentially consists of a magnetic needle suspended on a
pivot, so that it may turn horizontally without obstruction. Such a
needle, if the box containing it be placed on a level surface, will ge
nerally be observed to vibrate more or less till it settles in such a di
rection that one of its extremities or poles will point towards the north,
and the other consequently towards the south. If the position of the
box be altered or reversed, the needle will always turn and vibrate
again, till its poles have attained the same directions as before. All
magnets and magnetic bars have a north and a south pole ; and if the
north pole of one magnet be presented to the south pole of another,
attraction takes place between them ; but if two north poles or two
south poles of different magnets be made to approach, they repel each
other. If the north pole of a common bar magnet be presented to the
south pole of the needle of a compass, the bitter will be attracted, and
may thus he drawn from its proper direction, which it will recover as
 soon as it is left at liberty ; and on the contrary, if a similar pole be
presented, as the north pole of the magnet to the north pole of the
needle, the latter may be repelled, and thus driven from its true direc
tion, to which it will return when the disturbing object is withdrawn.
 When a piece of iron not magnetic is brought in contact with a com
 mon magnet, it will be attracted by either pole ; but the most powerful
 attraction takes place when both poles can be applied to the surface of
 the piece of iron at once. It is on this account that artificial magnets
 are often bent into the form of a horseshoe, the north pole being
 usually marked by a line or point to distinguish it.
    Having thus stated the most common phenomena of magnetism, the
 reader will be prepared to understand the nature of the connexion
 between electricity and magnetism as deduced from the researches of
 Oersted, Ampere, Faraday, and other philosophers. It appears that a
 metallic wire forming a part of a voltaic circuit exercises a peculiar
 attraction towards a magnetic needle. Thus if a wire connecting the

                  ELECTKO-MAGNETIC CURRENTS.                           475
extremities of a voltaic battery be brought over and parallel with a
magnetic needle at rest, or with its poles properly directed north and
south, that end of the needle next to the negative pole of the battery
will move towards the west, and that whether the wire be on one side
of the needle or the other, provided only that it be parallel with it.
If the connecting wire be lowered on either side of the needle, so as
to be in the horizontal plane in which the needle should move, it will
not move in that plane, but will have a tendency to revolve in a vertical
direction, in which, however, it will be prevented from moving in con
sequence of the manner in which it is suspended, and the attraction of
the earth. When the wire is to the east of the needle, the pole nearest
to the negative extremity of the battery will be elevated, and when it is
on the west side that pole will be depressed. If the connecting wire
be placed below the plane in which the needle moves and parallel with
it, the pole of the needle will move towards the east ; and the attractions
and repulsions will be relatively contrary to those observed in the
former case. The connecting wire will be equally efficient whatever
be the metal of which it is composed ; and even a small tube filled with
mercury will answer the purpose. The interruption of the circuit by
water, unless it be carried to a great extent, does not prevent the action
of the connecting wire ; and its influence, like that of common mag
netism, penetrates all bodies not too thick, whether conductors of
electricity or non-conductors.
   If an unmagnetized steel needle be placed parallel with the connect
ing wire of a voltaic battery, and nearly or quite in contact with it,
the two sides of the needle become endued with opposite kinds of
magnetism ; one side being attracted by the north pole of a magnet,
and the other side by the south pole. But if the needle be placed at
right angles to the connecting wire, it will become permanently mag
netic, one of its extremities pointing to the north pole and the other to
the south, when it is suspended and suffered to vibrate undisturbed.
Magnetism may be communicated to steel by means of electricity
from an electrical machine, evidencing the identity of the causa of
attraction in the different cases ; but the voltaic battery is more conve
niently adapted to the purpose of rendering steel magnetic.
   Among the various arrangements for the superinduction of mag
netism in steel bars, one of the most efficient and useful is by inclosing
the bar within the coils of a conducting wire twisted into a helix or

476                           ELECTRICITY.
corkscrew form, by wrapping it round a glass tube. It will then in some
degree represent a polar magnet, and a bar of steel introduced into the
central cavity of the helix will speedily become highly magnetic. The
wire should be coated with some non-conducting substance, as silk
wound round it, as it may then be formed into close coils without suf
fering the electric fluids to pass from surface to surface, which would
impair its effect. If such ahelix be so placed that it may move freely,
as when made to float on a basin of water, it will be attracted and
repelled by the opposite poles of a common magnet, forming a kind of
voltaic magnet. M. Ampere describes such an apparatus under the
appellation of an Electrodynamic Cylinder.
   If a magnetic needle be surrounded by coiled wire covered with silt,
the transmission of a very minute quantity of electricity through the
wire will cause the needle to deviate from its proper direction. A
needle thus prepared, therefore, forms an instrument adapted to indi
cate trifling degrees of electricity produced by the contact of metals,
by slight changes of temperature, or by any chemical action of one
body on another. The magnetic needle thus applied has been termed
an Electro-magnetic Multiplier.
   Professor Henry, and Dr. Ten Eyck, of Yale College, in the United
States of America, have availed themselves of the influence of voltaic
electricity on iron, under the arrangement above described, to form
magnets whose powers are most extraordinary. Those gentlemen first
constructed an electro-magnet capableof supporting the weight of about
750 pounds ; and they have since formed another which it is said will
sustain 2063 pounds, or nearly a ton. It consists of a bar of soft iron
bent into the form of a horseshoe, and " wound with twenty-six strands
of copper bell-wire, covered with cotton threads, each thirty-one feet
long : about eighteen inches of the ends are left projecting, so that only
twenty-eight feet of each actually surround the iron ; the aggregate
length of the coils is therefore 728 feet. Each strand is wound on a
little less than an inch : in the middle of the horseshoe it forms three
thicknesses of wire, and on the ends, or near the poles, it is wound so
as to form six thicknesses." With a battery of 47.9 square feet, the
magnet supported the weight already stated, 2063 pounds. The effects
of a larger battery were not tried. It induced magnetism in a piece of
soft iron so powerfully as to raise 155 pounds. When two butteries
were employed, so that the poles could be rapidly reversed, it was

                ELECTRO-MAGNETIC PHENOMENA.                          477
observed that while one of the batteries was removed, the armature,
with the weights suspended from it, amounting to 89 pounds, did not
fall, though the magnetic influence must for a moment have been inter
rupted. This seemingly surprising phenomenon is readily explained
by adverting to the obvious consideration, that the interruption and
renewal of the voltaic circuit, and consequent magnetic attraction,
occupied too short a space of time to admit of the armature becoming
sufficiently detached from the poles of the magnet for it to sink beyond
its influence, before the circuit was again completed.*
   - A similarly constructed, but less powerful, electro-magnet is at pre
 sent exhibited at the National Gallery of Practical Science. This in
 strument, when submitted to the influence of a small voltaic apparatus,
 becomes sufficiently energetic to support 500 pounds ; but its action
 ceases as soon as ever the circuit of electricity is broken, affording a
 striking illustration of the nature and causes of magnetism. If any
 further evidence had been requisite to prove the analogy between
 electricity and magnetism, it might be derived from the discovery
 recently made by Dr. Faraday, of the possibility of eliciting electric
 sparks from the common magnet. An instrument fitted up for the pur
 pose of exhibiting this experiment is to be seen in action at the N a-
 tional Gallery. It consists of twelve sheer-steel plates, connected
 together, in the form of a horseshoe ; with a keeper or lifter made of
 the purest soft iron. Around the middle of the keeper is a wooden
 winder, having about 100 yards of common threaded bonnet- wire, the
 two ends, composed of four lengths of the wire twisted together, being
 carried out with a vertical curve of about ^ of a circle ; one of these
 twisted ends passing beyond each end of the keeper, and resting on
 the respective poles of the magnet. A small wooden lever is so fixed
  as to admit of the winder and keeper being suddenly separated from
  contact with the magnet, when a beautiful and brilliant spark is per
  ceived to issue from that extremity of the wire which first becomes
  separated from the magnet. By means of this electro -magnetic spark
  gunpowder may be inflamed.
     Some of the latest researches that have been made relative to
  electro-magnetism are those of Dr. Ritchie, Professor of Natural Phi
  losophy in the University of London, who gave an account of his
                 * Dr. SUliman's American Journal of Science.

 478                          ELECTRICITY.
 observations in a lecture delivered at the Royal Institution. One of
 the experiments he exhibited was the continued rotation of a temporary
 magnet on its centre by the action of permanent magnets. This effect
 is produced by suddenly changing the poles of the temporary magnet,
 and thus at the proper moment converting attraction into repulsion.
 The instrument used consists of a series of soft iron cylinders, having
 ribbons, or rather bands, of copper surrounding them, in a similar
 manner as in the apparatus for showing the detonation of oxygen and
 hydrogen gases by the electro-magnetic spark. The cylinders are
 made to revolve rapidly opposite the poles of the permanent magnet,
 so that before one current of electricity ceases the other commences
 its action. By a peculiar arrangement of the apparatus, Dr. Ritchie
 succeeded in obtaining a series of sparks from the common magnet,
 forming a complete circle, appearing in the dark like a lucid ring of
the finest diamonds.*
    The identity of the electric influence under its various modifications
 —whether as arising from the excitement of electrics or non-conductors
 by friction, from the contact of bodies in different states, the one being
positively and the other negatively electrified, from the action of heat,
from compression ; and in its more anomalous forms, as in the production
of meteorological phenomena, of animal electricity, or of magnetism,
from circulating currents of the electric fluids—may be regarded as
having been satisfactorily demonstrated, in consequence of the ex
perimental researches and important discoveries of modern philo
sophers. Most of the topics of inquiry just mentioned have been
already noticed in this treatise, the plan of which prevents the intro
duction of more detailed information, for which the reader may have
recourse to works of greater extent, and to such as are exclusively
appropriated to the discussion of the branch of science now under
review. But the peculiar effects of currents of electricity on metallic
substances, and especially steel, inducing magnetic attraction and
repulsion, and the application of the magnetic needle to the purposes
of navigation, demand some further notice, without which this com
pendium of science would be imperfect.
   The general properties of the magnet, whether natural or artificial,
and the affinity between contrary poles, and antipathy between those
               * New Monthly Magazine for July, 1833, p. 366.

                       TERRESTRIAL MAGNETISM.                             479
 which are similar, as in the case of bodies positively and negatively
 electrified, have been already noticed. Natural magnets or mineral
 loadstones, though sometimes possessing strong magnetic power, are
 not in all respects so well adapted for practical purposes as bars of
 steel artificially magnetized ; and the latter are therefore used in the
 construction of the mariner's compass, and other instruments.
    There are many methods of inducing permanent magnetism in steel ;
 but one of the most simple and effectual consists in passing a strong
 horseshoe magnet over bars previously hardened and prepared. " If
 bar magnets are to be produced, the bars must be laid in a longitudinal
 direction, on a flat table, with the marked end of one bar against the
 unmarked end of the next ; and if horseshoe magnets are required, the
 pieces of steel, previously bent into their proper form, must be laid
 with their ends in contact, so as to form a figure like this c 3 , ob
 serving that the marked ends come opposite to those which are not
 marked ; and then, in either case, a strong horseshoe magnet is to be
 passed with moderate pressure over the bars, taking care to let the
 marked end of this magnet precede, and its unmarked end follow it,
 and to move it constantly over the steel bars so as to enter or com
 mence the process at a mark, and proceed to an unmarked end, and
 then enter the next bar at its marked end, and so proceed. After
having so passed over the bars ten or a dozen times on each side, and
in the same direction, as to the marks, they will be converted into
tolerably strong and permanent magnets ; but if, after having con
tinued the process for some time, the exciting magnet is moved but
 once over the bars in a contrary direction, or if its S. pole should be
permitted to precede after the N. pole has been first used, all the pre
 viously excited magnetism will disappear, and the bars will be found
in their original state. This seems to show an effect of circulation
rather than of any internal mechanical arrangement; and from the
oircumstance of a stronger power in proportion being produced in thin
plates of steel than in thick ones, and the acquired magnetism being
diminished by rust, filing, or grinding, it appears that the virtue com
municated is more external than internal."*
    That a suspended magnet will become fixed in such a direction as
   * Report of Mr. Millington's Lectures at the Royal Institution in 1818 pub
lished in Journal of Science, vol. vi. pp. 82, 83.                          ^.

480                           ELECTRICITY.
if its opposite poles were attracted by certain points of the earth not
very distant from the north and south poles respectively, was known
at an early period, hut it is somewhat uncertain when navigators first
availed themselves of this property of the magnet, in order to discover
the points of the compass in cloudy weather, when neither the sun by
day nor the stars by night can afford them any assistance. Some
writers state that Marco Polo, the Venetian traveller, about 1260, in
troduced among the Italians the use of the mariner's compass, having
learnt it from the Chinese ; but it is more commonly regarded as the
invention of Flavio di Gioja, a native of Amalfi, in the kingdom of
Naples, who says that he used it in the Mediterranean Sea in the thir
teenth century.
    The compass which was first employed by European seamen, about
 the period just mentioned, appears to have been a very rude instru
 ment, consisting of pieces of the natural loadstone, fixed on cork or
 light wood, so that it might float on the surface of water, in a dish on
 which were marked the cardinal points of the compass. At present the
 mariner's compass is more accurately constructed, under various forms
 adapted to peculiar purposes ; but in all cases composed of a small flat
 tened magnetic steel wire, or needle, carefully suspended on a pivot in
 an horizontal direction, so that it may vibrate and revolve with the
 least possible degree of friction ; and when intended to be used on
 board a ship it is made to hang in a frame which preserves its horizon
 tal position independent of the motion of the vessel. A card is placed
 below the magnetic needle, on which are described two circles, one
 divided into 360 degrees, and the other marked with the thirty-two
 points of the compass ; and thus the direction of the magnetic poles in
 any given situation may be ascertained and noted.
     There are several circumstances which interfere with the regular
  action of the magnetic needle, and to which, therefore, the attention of
  the mariner must be directed in making observations, and performing
 calculations founded on them, so as to obtain exact information. These
  are chiefly the " dip"of the magnetic needle, its " secular" and " diurnal
  variation," and that anomalous variation that long puzzled navigators,
  but which is now supposed to depend on the attraction of the iron used
  in the construction of a ship, or any other portions of that metal which it
  may contain, acting on the compass and disturbing its regular operation.
  The dip of the needle is a tendency manifested by either pole to lose

                     VARIATION OF THE COMPASS.                             481
its balance except near the equator, the north pole sinking as if heaviest
on the north side of the equator, and the south pole on the south side.
As it is of importance to the sailor to he able to estimate the extent to
which the compass must be thus affected in any situation, an instru
ment is provided for the purpose, called a " dipping needle," in which
the magnetic wire is suspended in a vertical direction.
    It has been already observed that the magnetic poles of the earth, or
 those points towards which the poles of a compass are directed, do not
 exactly coincide with the poles on which the earth performs its diurnal
revolution ; and this deviation of the magnetic from the true meridian
 is termed the variation of the compass. It appears to have been first
 discovered, or rather accurately observed by Sebastian Cabot, in 1497;
and in the seventeenth century, Henry Gellibrand, one of the profes
sors at Gresham College, ascertained that the variation itself is subject
to a secular alteration. Thus when the variation was first noticed at
 London, the needle pointed to the east of the true meridian ; in 1657
 there was no variation, the needle pointing exactly north and south ; it
 then progressively veered westward, having, as is supposed, attained
 its utmost western declination about 1818, when it had reached 24 deg.
 36 min. W. ; and it now appears to be annually verging towards the
east. Hence it seems not only that the earth's poles of revolution do
 not correspond with its magnetic poles, but also that the latter are not
 stationary, the line of no variation, which passed through London in
 1657, now crossing the continent of North America ; to account for
 which it has been conjectured that the north magnetic pole revolves
 round the north pole of the earth in about 644 years, and consequently,
 in 1979, the line of no variation will again cross the island of Great
 Britain, as it did in 1657 ; for if the period of revolution of the mag
 netic pole be 644 years, half that period, 322 + 1657 = 1979 will in
 dicate nearly the next return of no variation *
     The diurnal variation of the magnetic needle was first noticed by
 Mr. George Graham, who gave an account of his observations to the
  Royal Society in 1722. It amounts to several minutes of augmentation
 or diminution of the secular variation, at any given place, in a day ; and
 it appears to be occasioned by the influence of the sun's light or heat,
    * Prof. Millington's Lectures—Journ. of Science, vol. vi. pp. 88—01. See also
  Dr. Brewster's Edinb. Encycl., vol. xviii. pt. 2, art. Variation.
                                        t I

482                          ELECTRICITY.
or perhaps by both. Its quantity is. likewise affected by the seasons,
being more considerable during the summer than in the winter.
   The intimate connexion between electricity and magnetism, evidenced
by the very important discoveries recently made, affords abundant rea
sons for believing that the polarity of the magnetic needle must be
liable to variations from the influence of certain natural phenomena.
Thus some observers, and especially Captain Franklin, have stated that
the action of the needle is impeded by Aurora Borealis, the appearance
of which seems to be dependent on electricity ; and it has long since
been remarked that atmospheric electricity often powerfully affects the
magnet. Another curious fact is the induction of magnetism by the
exposure of a steel wire or needle to the violet ray of the solar spec
trum. These and other phenomena recently observed certainly indicate
such a connexion between heat, light, electricity, and magnetism, as
affords grounds for regarding them as probably depending on a com
mon cause ; and the very curious discoveries which have been already
made, and the striking analogies observed between the operations of
nature under different circumstances furnish abundant inducement to
contemporary philosophers, and indeed to all who feel an interest in
the advancement of science, to pursue the track already opened, with
the fair prospect that the assiduous inquirer will.be amply rewarded
for his time and attention to these most important topics of investi
gation.
                   WHITING, BttAl'FURT UOl'SK, al'KANJU.

              In October will be published.
           SECOND VOLUME
THE BOOK                    OF SCIENCE.
             CONTAINING TREATISES ON
   CHEMISTRY                         CRYSTALLOGRAPHY
    AEROLOGY                         GEOLOGY
    METALLURGY                       ORYCTOLOGY
    MINERALOGY                        METEOROLOGY.
 ILLUSTRATED BY NUMEROUS ENGRAVINGS ON WOOD.

     *
^ "^





