The pursuit of knowledge under difficulties; illustrated by anecdotes.
Craik, George L. (George Lillie), 1798-1866.
London : C. Knight, 1830-31.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc2.ark:/13960/t95719x9s
                                Public Domain
                                http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd
                                We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                address.



                                                     r
    B v\nnR THE SUPERINTEVDEXCE   OF THE SOCIETV FOR
       THE DIFFUSION OF VSEFUL KNOWLEDGE.
           THE LIBRARY
                       OP
 ENTERTAINING KNOWLEDGE.
                      THE
PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE
          UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

                                                  COMMITTEE.
                                 r* c ;nOT-H. BROUGHAM.                 Esq., F.R.S ., M.P.
                                 Viet   ftairman-LORD JOHN RCSSELL, M. P.
                                  TMowKr-WJLLIAM TOOKE, Esq., F.R.S.
Rt. Hon. J.AbeTcrombie.M.P.                  H. Hallam, Esq., F.R.S., M.A. Sir rl.
                                                                                                  rameu, iiaru,      i.i  .
                                                       Hill.                          Professor      Pattison.
                 K,q., F.R.S.                M. D.           K>q.
                                             Rowland Hill, Esq.                        T. Spring Rice, Esq., M.P.
Lord Althoip. W.I'.                                                                        F.A.S.
Kt. Hon. Lord Auckland.                      Edwin Hill, Esq.
W. 1!. Raring. KM)., Ml'                     Leonard Homer, Esq., F.R.S.               Dr. Roget, Sec. R-S.
                                                                                       C. E. Rumbold, Esq., M.P.
rapt. F. Beaufort. R.N , F.R.S. David .lardine. Esq.                                   ,f. Smith, Esq., M.P.
(..Bell, Esq. F R.S..L.& E.                  Henrv B. Ker. Esq , F R.S.
T. F Buuon, Esq., M.P-, .1 (i.'s. Lefevre. Esq.,M.A.                        F R.S.     \V"m. Sturch, Esq.
     r.K B.                                  Edward Llovd.Esq.,                        Rt. Hon. Lord Surfield.
R. OtwaT Care, Esq., M.P.                    JamesLoch,'Esq.,M.P., F.G.S. Dr. A. T. Thomson, F.L.S.
John Conullv. M.I).                          George Lonu, E>q ., A . M .               C. P. Thomson, Esq., M.P.
 William Coulson, Esq.                       J. W.LabbocMba. F.R.&L.S. WilliamVieo'rs,               Erton Tooke, Esq.
                                                                                                             Esq., F.R.S.
 Win. I'rawford, Esq.                                        nan, IM I,., M.P.         A. N.
 Frl. Daniel), Ksq . F.R.S.                  li. H. Malkin, Esq., M.A.                  H. Warburton, Esq., M.P ,
John Datis, Esq., F.R.S.                      Rev. Ed .Maltbv, D.D ,F.R S.                 F.R.S.
T.    Denman, Esq.                           James Manning, Esq.                        H. \Vavmouth,          Esq.
                                     M.A.     F. d. .Martin, Esq.                       J.Whiihaw.Esq . M.A. , F.R.S.
 Hon.      0. Agar Ellis,
     M.P.                                     J. Manual!, Esq., M.P.                    Mr. Serjeant Wilde.
 T. F, Ellis, Esq., M.A.                      John Herman Merivale, Esq.                J. Wood,      Esq.,    M.P.
 J I. (ioldsmid, Ksq.. F.R.S.                 James Mill, Esq.                          John Wrottesley, Esq. M -A.
                                                                                     '
 B. Gompenz, Esq., F.R.S.                     James Morrison, Esq, F.G.S.
                           THOMAS COAXES,               Ktcrttary, 4, South Square, Graj's Inn.
                        LOCAL COMMITTEES OF THE SOCIETY.
 AJUrio-J.F.Klngston,                  Esq.    EdinlmrgkK.         Gre-rille, LL.D.      ilanchetler      Local Asiaciation.
  /,,rm|.,^Um        l^.li  A,,,'C:,ti.<.          I). Ellis, Esq.,  F.RS.                   (i.VV.Wood, Esq.,C/iuirm<in
       Her. John        Corrie,     CAair-         Capt.     Basil    Hall,   R.N.,          B. Heywood, Esq. Treat.
            M1U                                        F.R.S L. & E.                         T. W.          X\ instanley, Esq.
       Paul Moon         Junes,       Esq.,        Fras. Jeffrey, Esq.                             Hon. Sec.
           Trtmturtr.                               Prof. Napier, F.R.S.E.                    Sir G. Philips, Bart., M.P.
       Wm Redfern.Esq. 1 Hon.                      Rev. A. Thomson, D D.                  Kervcastle James Losh, Esq.
       Jot Parka, Esq.
  Brutal J. N. Sanders, Esq.,
                                 /  Sta.           W. Thomson, Esq.
                                               F.trvria     Jos. Wedgwood, Esq.
                                                                                              Rev. W. Turner.
                                                                                          Newport        Ab. Clarke, Esq.
           Chairman.                           Exeter Re*.       J. P. Jones.                 T. Cooke. Jun ., K>q
       J. Re>nolds, Esq , Treat.                    J. Tjrrel, Esq.                           R. G. Kirkpatrick, Esq.
                      n.K-.| F.I..S.. >.r.     Gltugtrrr K. Finlay, Esq.                  Newport PagneU James Mil-
   Camtiridet       Rev. James Bow.                 D. Bannatvne, Esq.                             lar, Esq.
             lead, M A.                             Rt. (irahame, Esq.                    Korrrick Rich. Bacon, Esq.
       Rev. Prof. Henilor, M.A.,                    Professor Mylne.                      Plymouth         Geo. Harvev, Esq.,
           F.L S.     \                             Alexander McGrigor, Esq.                       F.R.S.
       R       I>eonard Jenyns, M.A.,               Charles     Macintosh,      Esq.      Poiimouth E. Carter, Esq.
                                                        F.R.S.                                G. Grant, Esq.
       Her. John Lodee, M.A.                        Mr. T. Atkinson, Hon. Sec.                D. Howard, Esq.
       Hrnrr Maiden, E<q, M.A.                  HuH-DI. Svkes, Esq., M.P.                     Rev. Dr. Inman, Nav. Col.
        Frrd' M.lkin, Esq., MJk.                Kcightry.YorkMre           Kef. Th.        Sheffield     J. H. Abraham. Esq.
        Rrr.     Ceo.   Peacock      M.A.,             Dury,  A.M.                         South    PethertonJ.       NicholetU,
                                                Launcetttm      ReT. J.Barfitt.                     Esq.
        Mmnaduke Ramsay, Esq.,                  Ltam'ifim SpoDr. Loudon.                   Tariitock Rer. W. Eians.
            M.A., F.I -.                        Leedt Benjamin Gott, Esq.                     John Rundle, Esq.
        lUr.    Prof. Sedgwick,      M.A.,                          J
                                                    J. Marshall. un ., Esq                 Trtiro Wm. Peter, Esq.
            F.R.S      StGS.                   Letret-J. W. Woollgar.Esq.                  Wate rford       Sir John Newport.
        PrfeorSmjth,           M.A.             Liverpool Local Anocialwn.                          Bart , M.P.
        Her.      Connop       Thirlwall,           Dr. Trail), CHairman.                  WolverHampton            J.   Pearson,
           M.A.                                     J. Mulleneux, Esq.,Trt.                         Esq.
   Dtikv Jowph Strut!, Esq.                         R*T. W. Shepherd.                      War cater Dr. Corbet, M.D.
        William Slruu, Esq.                         J. Ashton Yates, Esq.                       C.H. Hebb, Esq.
   Dmmpcrt          Cha. Greaves, Esq           Jf aidmHead-R. Goolden, Esq.,                   Mr. Henrj Martin.
   VuUi^-llon. Thov Vetej.                              F.L.S.


                 _. T.W^gbc
BEF . L.L.BI.F.R.S.

    THE LIBRARY OF ENTERTAINING           KNOWLEDGE.
                           THE
PURSUIT               OF        KNOWLEDGE
             UNDER      DIFFICULTIES;
        ILLUSTRATED BY ANECDOTES.
                      LONDON:
     CHARLES KNIGHT, PALL MALL EAST                    ;
  LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, & GREEN, PATERNOSTER-ROW;
OLIVER & BOYD, EDINBURGH;   ROBERTSON & ATKINSON, GLASGOW ;
        w AXEMAN, DUBLIN; WILLMER, LIVERPOOL; AND
                    BA1NES  & CO., LEEDS.
                         MDCCCXXX.

          LONDON:
Printed by WILLIAM CI.OWKS,
       Stamford Street.

                             Stack
                            Annex
                             31
                      CONTENTS.
                            CHAPTER I.
                                                                            Page
INTRODUCTION.         Newton  ;   Galileo   ;   Torriceili ;      Pascal  ;
      Prince Rupert; Montgolfier.          Self-education         .      .     1
                           CHAPTER             II.
Strength   of the Passion for Knowledge.         Pythagoras     ;   Archi-
      medes ;    Leibnitz; Galileo; Heyne                .        .      .19
                          CHAPTER             III.
Humble Station no Obstacle.          Epictetus ; Protagoras; Cle-
      anthes; Haiiy;     Winckclman ; Arnigio ; Duval.              Affec-
      tation of high birth.   Bandinelli    ;  Scaliger.    Men proud
       of their low Origin.     Protogones;      Baudouin    ; Gelli.
      Obscure origin.      Metastasio;     Haydn; Opie; Parini            ;
      Prideaux; Saunders; Linnaeus; Lomonosoff; B. Jonson;
      the Milners; John Hunter.         Application of Examples .             31
                           CHAPTER             IV.
Artists rising from the lower to the higher branches.              B. Cel-
      lini ; Q. Matsys ; Ibbetson ; Kent ; Towne              ;   Kirby ;
      Schiavoni   ;   Hogarth ;   Sharp  ;    Thevv  ; Caslon.        Late
      learners.     Cromwell; Sir W. Jones; Cato Censor;
      Alfred   ; Moliere; Valerianus ; Vondel ; Pilot; Paucton;
       Ogilby                                                                 56

VI                                 CONTENTS.
                                 CHAPTER V.
                                                                                    Page
Early Age of Great Men.             Short Term of their Laves.               New-
      ton , Gregory        ;  Torricelli  ;  Pascal      ;   Cowper    ;   Burns ;
      Byron    ;   Sydney ; Otway ; Collins           ;    Mozart   ;  Raphael
       Correggio ; Politian ; Mirandola                  .        .        .       .71
 Self-educated Men.
                                CHAPTER VI.
                               T. Simpson             ,          ...                  87
                                CHAPTER            VII.
 Self*ducated Men continued.               E. Stone ;        J. Stone.      Pursuit
       of Knowledge and Business united.                       Cicero; Jones;
       Caesar;        Scipio ;  Polybius; Frederick II. ; Sully; De
       Thou ; More         ; Selden ;    Hale   ;  Grotius               .       .     99
                                CHAPTER            VIII.
 Literary Pursuits of Soldiers.           Descartes ; B. Jonson ; Buch-
       anan  ;      Cervantes.       Of Sailors.             Dampier;        Davis;
        Drury    ;    Falconer ; Giordani     ;  Fransham ; Oswald ; Co-
       lumbus; Cook; Vancouver; Collingwood                              .       .   123
                                 CHAPTER IX.
  Literary Pursuits of Merchants.             Solon       ;   Guys  ;  D. North ;
        Ricardo                                                                       137
                                  CHAPTER X.
                               ......*
  Literary Pursuits of Booksellers and Printers.                          Gesner;
        Aldus Manutius, Paul, and Aldus the Younger; R.
        Stephens ;       H. Stephens   ;  Scapula      ;    Colinaeus ; Badius ;
        Froben      ;  Oporinus;     Ruddiman       ;       Bowyer;      Nichols;
        Richardson                                                                   153

                                 CONTENTS.                                      Vll
                              CHAPTER XI.
                                                                              Page
Booksellers    and    Printers     continued.       W. Hutton       ;    R.
      Dodsley ;   Almon     ;  Cruden   ; the    Panckouckes     ;   Roth-
     scholtz; Bayford; Ames: Herbert; Patterson. Lite-
      rary Pursuits in other Trades. Walton; Defoe; Lillo 172
                          CHAPTER XII.
Self-educated men continued.           Ferguson.      Influence of ac-
      cident in directing pursuits. Rennie, Linnaeus; Vernet;
      Caravaggio; Tassie; Chatterton ; Harrison; Edwards;
      Villars; Joly ; Jourdan       ; Bandinelli; Palissy               .       196
                          CHAPTER            XIII.
                                           .....
Early Life of Franklin                                                          217
                           CHAPTER            XIV,
Life of Franklin continued                                                      232
                              CHAPTER XV.
 Account of Franklin's Electrical Discoveries             .        .        .   244
                              CHAPTER XVI.
 Devotion to Knowledge           in   extreme     poverty.    Erasmus;
       Kepler; Schaeffer; Bullinger; Musculus; Postellus;
       Castalio; Adrian VI.; Perrier; Claude Lorraine ; Sal-
       vator Rosa   : Marmontel ; Hoche        ;  Lagrange  ; Dr.     John-
       son ; Dr. Parr; Spagnoletto; Le Jay ; Castell; Davies;
       Tytler ; William Davy. In exile and Imprisonment.
       Ovid  ; Boethius   :    Buchanan    ;  Tasso ; Smart    ;   Maggi      ;
       Le Maistre ; Lorenzini ; Prynne ; Madame Roland ;
       Raleigh; Lady Jane Grey; James I. (of Scotland) ;
       Lovelace                                                                  264

Viii                              CONTENTS.
                            CHAPTER            XVII.
                     ........
                                                                             Page
Natural Defects overcome.             Demosthenes      ;   De Beaumont     ;
       Navarete    ;   Saunderson   ;  Rugendas; Diodotus         ;   Didy-
       mus; Eusebius; Nicaise ; De Pagan; Galileo;                  Euler;
       Moyes                                                                  284
                          CHAPTER XVIII.
Difficulties occasioned      by   Blindness     conquered.        Homer    ;
       Milton; Salinas; Stanley; Metcalf; Henry the Min-
       strel; Scapinelli; Blacklock ; Anna Williams; Huber 304
                            CHAPTER XIX.
                                                                          .313
                                          .....
Account of James Brindley         ;   Canals      .         .       .
                            CHAPTER XX.
Knowledge        of   Languages. Magliabecchi            ;  Hill;     Wild;
       Aram    ;  Purver ; Pendrell                                           342
                            CHAPTER XXI.
                                                  ....
 Force of Application.       Dr. Alexander Murray                   .      .  361
                          CHAPTER           XXII.
 Self-tuition.     Shakspeare;    Burns                                       383
                           CHAPTER           XXIII.
GiffbrJ; Holcroft.        Conclusion                                          398
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN,
JOHN
J\\u>
        Hi  NTER,    F.R.S.
Captain JAMES COOK, F.R.S.
         FERGUSON,
                            LL.D.
                        F.R.S.
                                      ....
                             PORTRAITS.
                                        .....
                                             .
                                                    .
                                                     .        To face the1 Title.
                                                              .
                                                                       Page    52
                                                                              133
                                                                              209

                                    THE
      PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE
                       UNDER DIFFICULTIES;
                ILLUSTRATED BY ANECDOTES.
                            CHAPTER          I.
  Introduction. Newton  ; Galileo ;  Torricelli ; .Pascal ; Prince  Rupert j
                       Montgolfier.   Self-education.
  WE are about to select from the records of Philo-
  sophy, Literature, and Art, in all ages and countries,
 a body of examples, to shew how the most unpro-
 pitious circumstances have been unable to conquer
 an ardent desire for the acquisition of knowledge.
 Every man has difficulties to encounter in this pur-
 suit; and therefore every man is interested in learn-
 ing what are the real hindrances which have opposed
 themselves to the progress of some of the most dis-
 tinguished persons, and how those obstacles have
 been surmounted.
     The Love of Knowledge will of itself do a great
deal towards its acquisition ; and if it exist with that
force and constancy which it exhibits in the cha-
racters of all truly great men, it will induce that
ardent, but humble spirit of observation and inquiry,
without which there can be no success.                         Sir ISAAC
NEWTON, of all men that ever lived, is the one who
has mos extended the territory of human know-
ledge ; and he used to speak of himself as having

2           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
been all his life but " a child gathering pebbles on
the sea-shore"     probably meaning by that allusion,
not    only to express his modest conviction how
mere an outskirt the field of his discoveries was,
compared with the vastness of universal nature, but
to describe likewise the spirit in which he had pur-
sued his investigations.      That was a spirit, not of
selection and system-building, but of childlike alacrity
in seizing upon whatever contributions of knowledge
Nature threw at his feet, and of submission to all
the intimations of observation and experiment        On
some occasions he was wont to say, that, if there
was any mental habit or endowment in which he
excelled the generality of men, it was that of pa-
tience in the examination of the facts and phenomena
of his subject.   This was merely another form of that
teachableness which constituted the character of the
man.     He loved Truth, and wooed her with the un-
wearying ardour of a lover.      Other speculators had
consulted the book of nature principally for the pur-
pose of seeking in it the defence of some favourite
theory ; partially, therefore, and hastily, as one would
consult a dictionary : Xewton perused it as a volume
altogether worthy of being studied for its own sake.
 Hence proceeded both the patience with which he
traced its characters, and the rich and plentiful dis-
coveries with which the search rewarded him.           If
he afterwards classified and systematized his know-
ledge like a philosopher, he had first, to use his own
language, gathered it like a child.
    It is, indeed, most instructive to all who are
anxious to engage in the pursuit of knowledge (and
is therefore properly introductory to the general sub-
ject we are about to treat), to consider the manner
 in which both this great man and many others,
 possessing a portion of his observant and inventive
 genius, have availed themselves, for the enlargement

                       NEWTON.                        3
of the boundaries of philosophy,      of such common
occurrences   as, from their very commonness, had
escaped the attention of all less active and original
minds.     We are not now speaking of such lucky
discoveries as mere chance has sometimes suggested,
even to the most inattentive understandings.      How
far we are indebted to this source for many of those
ordinary arts, the origin of which is lost in antiquity
and fable, it would not be very easy to determine.
The accounts relating to such subjects have been
principally handed down to us by poetry and popular
tradition, both which are lovers of the mysterious
and the marvellous.       Hence, there is abundant
reason to believe that they are much too full of
those wonders which strike an unenlightened fancy ;
and that, instead of the slow and successive efforts
by which the arts in question were actually disco-
vered and improved, there has been substituted, in
many cases, the more dramatic incident of a sudden
inspiration, merely for the sake of effect. Nay, in
those times, the discoverer himself might probably be
not unfrequently the first to contrive and spread the
fiction; preferring, as he would in all likelihood do,
the credit of being the chosen transmitter of super-
natural communications to his fellow-mortals, to that
of excelling those around him in such mere human
and unvalued attributes as philosophic sagacity and
patience.   Add to this, that the legend of a mystical
origin was not only the best recommendation by
which any invention could, in the early ages of the
world, be introduced to the notice of men ; but, per-
haps, under the tyranny of a jealous and engrossing
superstition, was almost a necessary passport to its
reception.   However this may have been, it is worth
remarking, that the current tales had probably some
share in leading away the spirit of antiquity from that
investigation and application of facts, from which

4             THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
chiefly has arisen the glory of the philosophy of mo-
dern times.      This was a necessary consequence of
stripping observation and experiment of their due
honours, by substituting speculation in their place.
The ancients thought, erroneously, that discoveries
were to be made by pursuing a train of conjecture,
instead of ascertaining results ; and thus, whatever
patience and labour philosophers might exercise, it
came to be popularly thought that discoveries were
dependent upon chance, because the steps from one
train of speculative reasoning to another could not
be traced with the same ease as we now trace the
progress of any experimental research.
    But, of all sorts of observation, that which exhibits
the most penetrating and watchful philosophy is,
when, out of the facts and incidents of every-day
experience, a gifted mind extracts new and important
truths, simply by its new manner of looking at them,
and, as it were, by the aid of a light of its own which
it sheds upon their worn and obliterated lineaments.
From one of these simple incidents did Sir Isaac New-
ton read to the world, for the first time, the system
of the universe. It was in the twenty-third year of his
age that this extraordinary man was sitting, as we
are told, one day in his garden, when an apple fell
from a tree beside him. His mind was perhaps oc-
cupied, at that fortunate moment, in one of those phi-
losophical speculations on space and motion which
are known to have, about this time, engaged much
of his attention ; and the little incident which inter-
rupted him was instantly seized upon by his eager
spirit, and, by that power which is in genius, assi-
milated with his thoughts*. The existence of gra-
   * This anecdote  is given by Dr. Pemberton, the friend of
Newton, as well as by Voltaire, who states that he had it from
Newton's niece. See Life of Newton (Library of Useful Know-
ledge), p. 5.

                         NEWTON.                        5
 vitation, or a tendency to fall towards the centre
 of the earth, was already known, as affecting all
 bodies in the immediate vicinity of our planet ; and
 the great Galileo had even ascertained the law, or
 rate, according to which their motion is accelerated
as they continue their descent.      But no one had yet
 dreamed of the gravitation of the heavens,      till the
idea now first dimly rose in the mind of Newton. The
 same power, he said to himself, which has drawn this
apple from its branch, would have drawn it from a po-
sition a thousand times as high. Wherever we go, we
find this gravitation reigning over all things.   If  we
ascend even to the top of the highest mountains, we
discover no sensible diminution of its power.       Why
may    not its influence extend  far beyond any height
to which we can make our way?           Why may it not
reach to the moon itself?        Why may not this be
the very power which retains that planet in its orbit,
and keeps it revolving as it does around our own
earth ?    It was a splendid conjecture, and we may be
sure that Newton instantly set all his sagacity at work
to verify it.    If the moon, he considered, be retained
in her orbit by a gravitation towards the earth, it
is in the highest degree probable that the earth itself,
and the other planets which revolve around the sun,
are, in like manner, retained in their orbits by a simi-
lar tendency towards their central and ruling lumi-
nary.    Proceeding then, in the mean time, upon this
supposition, he found by calculation, and by comparing
the periods of the several planets and their dis-
tances from the sun, that, if they were really held in
their courses by the power of gravity, that power
must decrease in a certain proportion, according to
the distance of the body upon which it operated.
This result he had already anticipated from the consi-
deration that, although we could not detect any such
diminution within the comparatively small distance
                                          B 3

6            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
to which our experience was limited, the fact was yet
consistent with the whole analogy of nature. Sup-
posing, then, this power, when extended to the moon,
to decrease at the same rate at which it appeared to
do in regard to the planets which revolved around
the sun, he next set himself to calculate whether its
force, at such a distance from the earth, would in
reality be sufficient to retain that satellite in its orbit,
and to account for its known rate of motion. Now,
this step of the discovery was marked by a very sin-
gular circumstance, and one strikingly illustrative of
the truly philosophic character of this great man's
mind.      In the computations which he undertook
for the purpose of this investigation, he naturally
 adopted the common estimate of the magnitude of
 the earth, which was at that time in use among
 our geographers and seamen.       Indeed, no other then
 existed for him to adopt : but it was even then known
 to scientific men that this estimate was loose and
 inaccurate.    In fact, it allowed only sixty English
 miles to a degree of latitude, instead of sixty-nine
 and a half, which is the true measurement.             The
 consequence was that the calculation did not answer;
  it indicated, in fact, a force of gravity in the moon
  towards the earth, less by one sixth than that which
  was necessary to give the rate of motion actually pos-
  sessed by that satellite.  Another might have thought
  this but a trifling discrepancy, and, in such circum-
  stances, might have taxed his ingenuity to account
  for it in a variety of ways, so as still to save the
  beautiful and magnificent theory which it came so
  unseasonably to demolish.      But Newton was too
  true a philosopher, too single-hearted a lover of truth,
  for this. In his mind, the refutation was a complete
  one, and it was admitted as such at once.          He had
  made his calculation with care, although one of its
  elements was false ; it did not present the result it

                       NEWTON.                        7
ought to have done, had his hypothesis been as true
as it was brilliant ; and, in his own estimation, he
was no longer the discoverer of the secret mechanism
of the heavens.   By an act of self-denial, more heroic
than any other recorded in the annals of intellectual
pursuit, he dismissed the whole speculation from his
mind, even for years.      We need hardly state how
gloriously this sacrifice was in due time rewarded.
Had Newton, instead of acting as he did, obsti-
nately persevered in the partially erroneous path
into which he had thus been misled, it is impossi-
ble to say into how many additional misconceptions
and misstatements he might have been seduced, in
order to cover the consequences of his first error ;
or how much the simplicity of the grand truth which
had revealed itself to him, as it were, for a moment
in the distance, might have been eventually com-
plicated and disfigured by the vain imaginations of
the very mind which had discovered it.        The pro-
gress of science would, no doubt, at last have swept
away all these useless and encumbering fictions ; but
that honour would, probably, have been reserved for
another than Newton.     Committed to the maintenance
of his adopted errors, and with his mental vision
even unfitted in some measure for the perception of
the truth, he might in that case have been Ihe last to
discern the full brightness of that day, the breaking
of which he had been the first to descry. But by
keeping his mind unbiassed, he was eventually en-
abled to verify all, and more than all, he had ori-
ginally suspected.     No other speculator had yet
 followed him in the same path of conjecture ; when,
a few years after, upon obtaining more correct data,
he repeated his calculation, and found it terminate
in the very result he had formerly anticipated.    The
triumph and delight of that moment can hardly be
conceived, when he saw at last that the mighty dis-

8             THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 covery was indeed all his own ! It is said that such
 was his agitation as he proceeded, and perceived
 every figure bringing him nearer to the object of his
 hopes, that he was at last actually unable to continue
 the operation, and was obliged to request a friend
 to conclude it for him.
    Another very beautiful example of the way in
 which some of the most valuable truths of philosophy
 have been suggested, for the first time, by the simplest
 incidents of common life, is afforded by GALILEO'S
 discovery of the regularity of oscillation in the pen-
 dulum.    It was while standing one day in the metro-
 politan church of Pisa, that his attention was first
 awakened to this most important fact, by observing
 the movements      of a lamp suspended from the ceil-
 ing, which some accident had disturbed and caused
 to vibrate.    Now this, or something exactly similar,
 was a phenomenon which, of course, every one had
 observed thousands of times before.      But yet nobody
 had ever viewed it with the philosophic attention with
which it was on this occasion examined by Galileo.
 Or if, as possibly was the case, any one had been half
unconsciously struck for a moment by that apparent
equability of motion which arrested so forcibly the
curiosity of Galileo, the idea had been allowed to
escape the instant  it  had been caught, as relating to
a   matter not worth    asecond thought.     The young
philosopher of Italy (for he had not then reached
his twentieth year) saw at once the important appli-
cations which might be made of the thought that
had suggested itselfto him.     He took care, therefore,
to ascertain immediately the truth of his conjecture by
careful and repeated experiment   ;   and the result was
the complete discovery of the principle of the most
perfect measure of time which we yet possess.       How
striking  a  lessonis this for us when we discover, or
think we discover, any fact in the economy of nature

                        GALILEO.                        9
which we have reason to believe has not previously
been observed !     Let it be at least verified and re-
corded. No truth is altogether barren ; and even
that which looks at first sight the very simplest and
most trivial, may turn out fruitful in precious results.
   It seems, after it is stated and described to us, to
have been an exceedingly obvious thought which
struck Galileo, when, after having ascertained the
regular oscillation of the pendulum, he proposed em-
ploying it as a measure of time.     Some, indeed, may
imagine that there was no such extraordinary merit
as is generally supposed even in the grand conjecture
of Newton, and that it amounted, after all, merely to
the application of a law to the movements of the hea-
venly bodies, which was already known to affect at
least every body in the immediate neighbourhood of
the earth.    But these things are only simple after
they are explained. Slight and transparent as we may
think the veil to have been which covered the truths
alluded to, and others of a similar nature, immedi-
ately before they were detected, it is yet an unques-
tionable fact that this veil had been sufficient to con-
ceal them, for thousands of years, from the observation
of all the world. The phenomenon of a heavy body
swinging to and fro from a point of suspension had
been familiar to every generation from the very earliest
times ; and yet, although men had long been very de-
sirous of possessing an accurate and convenient mea-
sure of time, and had resorted in different countries
to a great variety of contrivances to attain that object,
nobody before Galileo had thought of effecting it by
means of the pendulum.         And, in the same manner,
with regard to the law of gravitation : the fact of all
bodies having a tendency to fall to the earth must of
course have forced itself upon the attention of the
 very earliest inhabitants of our globe, every day and
hour of their existence.      Indeed, the law in nearly

10           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
all the generality in which Newton found             it, had
been promulgated even by the philosophy of ancient
Rome and Greece. But yet Newton's application and
extension of       had occurred to nobody, not even to
                  it
Galileo himself, who had not many years before been
engaged in investigating the exact amount of its in-
fluence, within the field in which alone   it   had hitherto
been supposed to operate.        Newton not only applied
the law of gravitation to the heavenly bodies    ;    but as
the principle, when affecting bodies in the neighbour-
hood of the earth, was that of       a     force apparently
constant, he had to discover and demonstrate the
law of its variation.
    But, perhaps, the most striking illustration we can
give of the strange manner in which important truths
will sometimes hide themselves for long while from
                                       a
observation, even after science has approached almost
so near as to touch them,    is   to be found in the history
of the different discoveries relating to the mechanical
properties of the air. The knowledge of its positive
 weight, or gravity,   is  as old as the days of Aristotle.
 Even its elasticity was well known to the ancients        ;
 one of whose philosophers, HERO of Alexandria, had,
about century before the birth of Christ, constructed
      a
 upon that principle the fountain, or jet d'eati, which
 still goes  by his name.      The common suction-pump
is  a still older invention, the effect of which, depend-
ing, as it   does, entirely on the pressure of the atmos-
 phere, might have suggested the true philosophy of
 that subject,    itmay be thought, to some one of its
 innumerable observers.         But, in reality, although
 all the while the air was known to be really     a    heavy
 body, nobody     for two    thousand  years found out the
 true   reason  why,  on   its removal from the barrel of
 the pump    by  the elevation of the piston, the water
 rose into the vacant space.         The unlearned multi-
 tude attributed the phenomenon to         a     suction, or

                        GALILEO.                      11
power of sucking, in the pump, and gave it the
name of the suction-pump accordingly.         They saw
a phenomenon which they did not understand, and
they called its cause, of which they were ignorant,
suction.    But the theory of the philosophers was
more irrational than that of the multitude ; only
that, professing to rest upon one of the great laws
of nature, it looked somewhat more solemn and
imposing.     The water rises in the pump, it was
said, upon the removal of the air, because Nature
abhors a vacuum; and thus the matter rested, as we
have said, for nearly twenty centuries,     the alleged
abhorrence of Nature for a vacuum never having been
established, either by experiment or reasoning, or in
any other way, but at the same time being always so
gravely propounded as a universal truth, that it never
was questioned by anybody.        Let us not, however,
deride with too much levity these errors and follies
of the old interpreters of Nature.      We ourselves are
only yet casting off the yoke of that ignorance, in the
guise of wisdom, under which the men of other times
were wont so submissively to bow ; and if not in
physics, at least in other departments of knowledge,
we are still too much given to accept mere words
and phrases, in the place of philosophy.     At least let
what we are now to relate restrain a little the expres-
sion of our contempt for the philosophy of the school-
men, as to the present matter, and our exultation in
a superiority over them which we do not owe to our-
selves.
   The illustrious Galileo himself, unquestionably one
of  the greatest men that ever lived, even after ad-
vancing to the very confines of all we now know,
stopped there, and could find nothing better to offer
than the old solution of the difficulty, in a case
attended with circumstances which to us would seem
to have    made    the  necessity   for  abandoning    it

12        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 obvious. A pump of more than thirty-two feet in
 height having chanced to be erected at Florence,
 while Galileo resided in that city, the philosopher,
 finding that the water would not rise as usual to its
 top, set himself immediately to endeavour to account
 for the unexpected phenomenon ; and, after examining
the case, came to the conclusion, that Nature cer-
tainly abhorred a vacuum, but for the first two-and-
 tkirty feet only ! It was his pupil TORRICELLI who
first demonstrated the true cause of the phenomenon,
by a most happily imagined experiment.      The water,
rising, as it does, only to a certain height, must, in
fact, he remarked, be, not drawn, but pushed up into
the barrel of the pump; and it can only be so
pushed by the pressure of the atmosphere on the
exposed portion of it.    The thirty-two feet of water
in the body of the pump are merely a counter-
balance to a column of air of equal basis, reaching
to the top of the atmosphere. But if so, it then oc-
curred to him, that another liquid, heavier or lighter
than water, will, in similar circumstances, ascend to
a correspondingly less or greater height, a less or
greater quantity of it being, of course, required to
balance the atmospheric column.       Mercury, for ex-
ample, is about thirteen times and a half as heavy as
water ; it ought to mount, therefore, only to the
height of about twenty-eight inches, instead of thirty-
two feet. So, taking a glass tube of about three
feet in length, and hermetically sealed (that is, made
air-tight) at one end, he first filled it completely
with mercury, and then closing it with his finger
reversed  it,  and plunged  it   intoa   basin of the
same liquid metal; when, withdrawing his finger,
he had the gratification of seeing the liquid in the
tube, now forming one body with that in the basin,
descend, until, exactly as he had anticipated, there
remained suspended a column of twenty-eight inches

       TORRICELLI.    PASCAL.    PRINCE RUPERT.       13
 only.   Now, by this experiment, in every way a
most ingenious and beautiful one, Torricelli had in
reality invented the instrument we now call the
Barometer; and yet, strange to say, it was left to
another to discover that he had clone so.     It was the
great PASCAL, a man of sublime and universal genius,
who, upon hearing of Torricelli's experiment, first
made the remark, that the inference which he had
deduced from it might, if true, be confirmed beyond
the possibility of dispute, by carrying the mercurial
tube to a considerable elevation above the earth, when,
the atmospheric column being diminished, that of
the mercury, which was supposed to be its balance,
ought to be shortened likewise in a corresponding
proportion. It followed that we had thus, therefore, a
measure of the weight of the atmosphere in all cir-
cumstances, and consequently of the height of any
place to which we could carry the instrument.       The
experiment was performed, and the result was as
Pascal had anticipated.     In this way, at length, was
completed a discovery, the first steps towards which
had been made two thousand years before ; during
the whole of which period the phenomena best fitted
to suggest it were matter of daily observation to
every one : but which, nevertheless, at last escaped
even several of the greatest philosophers who had
made the nearest approaches to its development.
   To return, however, for a moment to the topic
of the happy application of common facts to phi-
losophical purposes.    This subject is the more worth
our attention, as it opens a field of invention and
discovery to which all men have, in one sense, equal
access; although it is only that mind which has been
rightly prepared, by previous knowledge and reflec-
tion, which is in a condition to profit by the opportu-
nity.   Another example which may be given, is that
of the famousPRiNCE RUPERT'S supposed discovery of

14              THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
the mode of engraving called mezzotinto, which is said
to have been suggested to him by observing a soldier
one morning rubbing off from the barrel of his musket
the rust which it had contracted from being exposed
to the night dew.     The Prince perceived, on exami-
nation, that the dew had left on the surface of the
steel a collection of very minute holes, so as to form
the resemblance of a dark engraving, parts of which
had been here and there already rubbed away by the
soldier.   He immediately conceived the idea that it
would be practicable to find a way of covering a
plate of copper in the same manner with little holes,
which, being inked and laid upon paper, would un-
doubtedly produce a black impression ; while, by
scraping away, in different degrees, such parts cf the
surface as might be required, the paper would be left
white wherever there were no holes.       Pursuing this
 thought, he at last, after a variety of experiments,
invented a species of steel roller, covered with points,
or salient teeth, which, being pressed against the
 copper-plate, indented it in the manner he wished ;
 and then the roughness thus occasioned had only to
 be scraped down, where necessary, in order to pro-
 duce any gradation of shade that might be desired*.
    The celebrated modern invention of the balloon is
 said to have had an origin still more simple. Ac-
 cording to some authorities, the idea was first sug-
 gested to STEPHEN MONTGOLFIEK, one of the two
 brothers to whom we owe the contrivance, by the
 waving of a linen shirt, which was hanging before
     * \ertue, the
                   engraver,   and others,   assign   this   invention   to
 Prince Rupert, and describe the accidental discovery as above.
 But some writers state that mezzotinto scraping was the invention
 of Lieut.-Col. de Siegen ; that he thus engraved the portrait of
 the Landgravine of Hesse, in 1643; and that Prince Rupert learnt
 the art of him, and carried it into England, where he much im-
 proved   it.  See Heinecken, Idee des Estampes,p. 208.

                      SELF-EDUCATION.                      13
the fire, in the warm and ascending air.      Others
tell us, that it was his brother Joseph who first
thought of      it,
               on perceiving the smoke ascending his
chimney one day, during the memorable siege of
Gibraltar, as he was sitting alone, and musing on the
possibility of penetrating into the place, to which
his attention had been called at the moment by             a
picture of     it,
                on which he had accidentally cast his
eyes.   It is known,  however, that the two brothers
had, before this, studied and made themselves familiar
with Priestley's work on the different kinds of air;
and   it
      is   even said that Stephen had conceived the
idea of navigating the heavens, by the employment
ofa   gas lighter than common atmospheric air, on
his way home from Montpelier, where he had pur-
chased that book.     Newton, too,      well known to
                                            is
have been indebted for the first hint of certain of his
great optical discoveries to the child's amusement of
blowing bubbles out of soap and as Dr. Pemberton
                                   ;
has ingeniously observed, in his account of that great
man's philosophy, "      it   suitably to this mode of
                              is
thinking that he has, in his Observations on Daniel,'
                               '
made a very curious as well as useful remark, that
our Saviour's precepts were all occasioned by some
ordinary circumstance of things then especially before
him."
   Such   is   the way in which out    of
                                       very little matter
                                            a
has not    unfrequently grown a large produce of
philosophy.      Originally, all human knowledge was
nothing more than the knowledge of a comparatively
small number of such simple facts, as those from
which Galileo deduced the use of the pendulum for
the measurement of time, and Newton the explana-
tion of the system of the heavens.      All the rest of
our knowledge, and these first rudiments of         also,
                                                      it
a succession of individuals have gradually discovered
jiiseparate portions,    by
                          their own efforts, and without
                                                 c2

16         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
having any teacher to instruct them.              In other
words, every thing that is actually known has been
found out and learned by some person or other,
without the aid of an instructor.          This is the first
consideration for all those who aspire, in the present
day, to be their own instructors in any branch of
science or literature.    Furnished as society now       is,
in all its departments, with accommodations in aid
of intellectual exertion, such as, in some respects,
even the highest station arid the greatest wealth in
former times could not command,         it   may be safely
asserted, that hardly any unassisted student can have
at present difficulties to encounter, equal to those
which have been a thousand times already triumph-
antly overcome by others. Above all, books, and espe-
cially elementary books, have, in our day, been mul-
tiplied to an extent that puts them within the reach
almost of the poorest student and books, after all, are,
                               ;
at least to the more mature understanding, and in
regard to such subjects as they are fitted to explain,
the best teachers. He who can read, and       is  possessed
of   a good elementary      treatise   on  the  science he
wishes   to  learn, hardly,   in  truth,  needs a master.
With only   this assistance,  and   sometimes with hardly
this, some of the greatest scholars and philosophers
that ever appeared have formed themselves, as the
following pages will shew.            And let him who,
smitten by the love of knowledge, may yet conceive
himself to be on any account unfortunately cir-
cumstanced for the business of mental cultivation,
bethink him how often the eager student has tri-
umphed over a host of impediments, much more for-
midable in all probability than any by which he          is
surrounded.      Want of leisure, want of instructors,
want of books, poverty, ill health, imprisonment, un-
congenial or distracting occupations, the force of
opposing example, the discouragement of friends or

                     SELF-EDUCATION.                  17
relations, the depressing consideration that the better
part of life was already spent and gone, these have all,
separately or in various combinations, exerted their
influence either to check the pursuit of knowledge, or
to prevent the very desire of it from springing up.
But they exerted this influence in vain. Here then
is enough both of encouragement and of direction for
all. To the illustrious vanquishers of fortune, whose
triumphs we are about to record, we would point
as guides for all who, similarly circumstanced, may
aspire to follow in the same honourable path.      Their
lives are lessons that cannot be read without profit ;
nor are they lessons for the perusal of one class
of society only. All, even those who are seemingly
the most happily situated for the cultivation of their
minds, may derive a stimulus from such anecdotes.
No situation, in truth, is altogether without its unfa-
vourable influences. If there be not poverty to crush,
there may be wealth and ease to relax, the spirit.
He who is left to educate himself in every thing,
may have many difficulties to struggle with ; but he
who is saved every struggle is perhaps still more un-
fortunate.     If  one mind be in danger of starving for
want of books, another may be surfeited by too many.
If, again, a laborious occupation leave to some but
little time for study, there are temptations, it should
be remembered, attendant upon rank and affluence,
which are to the full as hard to escape from as any
occupation.       If, however, there be any one who
stands free, or comparatively free, from every kind of
impediment to the cultivation of his intellectual facul-
ties, surely he must peruse with peculiar interest the
account of what the love of knowledge has achieved
in circumstances so opposite to his own. Certain,
at least, it is, that such achievements produce a most
powerful call upon his exertions in the pursuit of
science and literature, that his acquisitions may be
                                           c3

18          THE PURSUIT OF~KNOWLEDGE.
in some degree commensurate to his advantages.
Finally, for all who love to read of bold and suc-
cessful adventure, and to follow daring ambition
in its career to greatness, it cannot but be interesting
to contemplate the exploits of some of the most en-
terprising spirits of our race,       the adventurers,
namely, of the world of intellect, whose ambition,
while it has soared as high, and performed feats as
brilliant as any other, never excites in us an interest
 dangerous to feel, nor holds up to us an example
 criminal to follow ; because its conquests have been
 a blessing and not a curse to humanity.

                         CHAPTER       II.
Strength of the Passion for  Knowledge.    Pythagoras ; Archimedes ;
                     Leibnitz; Galileo; Heyne.
THE ardour with which knowledge                   has frequently
been pursued amidst all sorts           of difficulties and dis-
couragements, is the best evidence we can offer of the
strength of the passion which has sprung up and lived
in circumstances so unfavourable to its growth, and
therefore of the exquisite pleasure which its gratifica-
tion is found to bring with it.          If the permanence of
any pleasure, indeed, is to be looked upon as one of
the proofs of its value, there are certainly none but
those of virtue and religion that can be compared
with the pleasures of intellectual exertion.                Nor is
successful study withoxit its moments, too, of as
keen and overpowering emotion, as any other species
of human enjoyment is capable of yielding.               We have
already seen how Newton was affected on approach-
ing the completion of his sublime discovery ; when
the truth shone full upon him, and not a shade
remained to create a doubt that it was indeed the
truth which he had found and upon which he was
gazing.      Every other discoverer, or inventor, or
creator of any of the great works of literature or art,
has had, doubtless, his moments of similar ecstacy.
The ancient Greek philosopher PVTHAGORAS is said to
have been the first who found out, or at least de-
monstrated, the great geometrical truth, that the
square described on the hypotheriuse, or side oppo-
site to the right angle of a right-angled triangle, is
exactly equal in area to the two squares described
on the other two sides ; and such was his joy, we

20             THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
are   told, on the occasion, that he offered up a
hecatomb, or sacrifice of a hundred oxen, to the gods,
in testimony of his gratitude and exultation.       When
ARCHIMEDES, the most celebrated geometer of anti-
quity, discovered the method of ascertaining the spe-
cific gravities of different substances, or the compara-
tive weights of equal bulks of each, he is said to have
rushed forth naked from the bath in which he chanced
to be when the idea suggested itself to him, and to
have run about in that state through the streets of
Syracuse, exclaiming,    I  have found it, I  have found
it   !   And
          no better example, by the way, can be given
than is afforded by this anecdote, of the manner in
which the most common and apparently insignificant
fact will sometimes yield to the contemplation of
genius the richest produce of philosophy.  We extract
an account of the circumstance from the Treatise on
Hydrostatics, in the Library of Useful Knowledge:
   " The proposition which forms the foundation of
this branch of Hydrostatics, that a solid plunged in a
fluid displaces a quantity of the fluid equal to its bulk,
was discovered by Archimedes, one of the greatest
mathematicians of ancient times, in consequence of
Hiero, king of Syracuse, his friend and patron, and
himself an eminent philosopher, and, it needs hardly
be added, a virtuous and patriotic prince, having set
him a problem to solve upon the adulteration of
metals.    Hiero had given a certain quantity of gold
to an artist to make into a crown, and suspecting,
from the lightness of the crown, that some silver had
been used in making      it,he begged Archimedes to
investigate the matter.     It  is  said that while this
great man was intent upon the question, he chanced
to observe, in bathing, the water which ran over the
sides of the bath   ;and immediately perceiving that,
as the water was equal to the bulk of his body, this
would furnish him with the means of detecting the

                           LEIBNITZ.                     21
 adulteration, by trying- how much water a certain
 weight of silver displaced, how much a certain weight
 of gold, and how much a certain mixture of the two,
 he rushed out of the chamber, exclaiming, 1 1 have
               I
found it ! have found it !'
                               "
    The illustrious LEIBNITZ, when only in his six-
 teenth year, conceived the brilliant idea of reducing
the   elements       of thought
                           to a species of alphabet,
which should consist of the representatives or cha-
racters, as it were, of all our simplest ideas, and
serve to express distinctly their different combina-
tions, just as the sounds of speech are expressed by
the common letters.      Without attempting to maintain
the practicability of this notion, it is impossible to
deny that it evidenced great subtilty and originality
of mind in the young metaphysician : and we can
well conceive the delight with which such a concep-
tion must have been contemplated by a spirit like his,
ardent in the pursuit both of knowledge and of
distinction ; and beholding, as it were, in this daz-
zling speculation a new and untraversed continent of
thought, wherein it might spend its first strength,
and raise for itself immortal trophies.       In a produc-
tion, written many years after           his paper on a
universal language       Leibnitz himself describes to us
what he calls the infantine joy which this idea brought
with  it,when     first suggested itself to him, filling his
                    it
mind, as     did, with the hope of the great discoveries
            it it
to which     promised to conduct him    ;   and although,
in the multiplicity of his subsequent pursuits, he had
never been able to accomplish the high enterprise
which he had so early planned, he declares that the
deeper he had carried his reflections and inquiries, he
had only become the more convinced of its practica-
bility.   Such allurement     isthere even in the veiled
countenance of a new truth         !But beyond all, per-
haps, that a discoverer ever felt, must have been the

22            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
surprise and delight of Galileo, when, having turned
for the first time to the heavens, the wonderful in-
strument which his own ingenuity had invented, he
beheld that crowd of splendours which had never
before revealed themselves to the eye, nor even been
dreamed of by the imagination of man.      While Ga-
lileo resided at Venice, a report was brought to that
city, that a Dutchman had presented to Count Maurice
of Nassau an instrument, by means of which distant
objects were made to appear as if they were near ;
 and this was all that the rumour stated.  But it was
enough for Galileo.     The philosopher immediately
 set himself to work to find out by what means the
 thing must have been effected ; and in the course of
 a few hours satisfied himself that, by a certain ar-
 rangement of spherical glasses, he could repeat the
 new miracle.    In the course of two or three days
he presented several telescopes to the Senate of Ve-
nice, accompanied with a memoir on the immense
importance of the instrument to science, and espe-
cially to astronomy.  He afterwards greatly improved
his invention ; and brought it to such a state of
perfection, that he was in a condition to com-
mence, by means of              the examination of the
                                        it,
heavens.     It was then that, to his unutterable as-
tonishment, he saw, as a celebrated French astro-
nomer has expressed          " what no mortal before that
                                  it,
moment had seen the surface of the moon, like
another earth, ridged by high mountains, and fur-
rowed by deep vallies       Venus, as well as it, present-
ing phases demonstrative of a spherical form            u-       J
                                                                 ;
piter surrounded             by
                           four satellites, which accom-
panied him in his orbit the milkyway
                                   ;          the nebula?
                                                      ;                  ;
finally, the  whole   heaven   sown  over with an infinite
multitude   of  stars, too small to be discerned       the       by
naked eye*."    Milton,  who had seen Galileo, described,
 *   "   Life of Galileo,   by   Biot," in the BiographieJJniverselle.

                            GALILEO.                         23
nearly half a century after the invention, some of the
wonders thus laid open by the telescope :
                         " The moon, whose orb,
        Through optic glass, the Tuscan artist views
        At evening from the top of Fesole,
        Or in Valdarno, to descry new lands,
        Rivers, or mountains, in her spotty globe."
A   few days were spent by Galileo in rapidly re-
viewing the successive wonders that presented them-
selves to him ; and then he proceeded to announce
his discoveries to the world by the publication of a
paper, which he entitled the Niincius Sidereus or
Herald of the Heavens, which he continued from
time to time, as he found new objects to describe.
From this period the examination of the heavens be-
came the sole object of Galileo's thoughts, and the
occupation of his life.         He wrote, he talked of no-
thing else.
    Every mind which is yet a stranger to science, is,
in some respects, in the same situation with that of
Galileo, before he turned his telescope to the heavens ;
and such a mind has a world of wonders to learn,
many of which are as extraordinary as those which then
revealed themselves to the philosopher. It has, in fact,
to behold all that he beheld ;         not certainly, like him,
for the first time that any one of the human race had
been admitted to that high privilege, but yet for the first
time, too, in so far as itself alone is concerned. The
consciousness of discovery was Galileo's alone ; the
 novelty and sublimity of the sight remain the same
for all by whom it has been yet unenjoyed.                 And
 so it is with every other sort of knowledge.         Although
it may have been in reality discovered for the first
 time a thousand years ago, it remains as new a plea-
 sure as if it had only been found out yesterday, for
 him who has not yet acquired it. Such pleasures, in

24        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
truth, are the only ones that admit of being indefi-
nitely multiplied.     The enjoyments of sense, to say
nothing of their comparatively short endurance, their
certainty to pall upon repetition, and the positively
injurious and destroying tendency of many of them,
are, from the nature of things, necessarily limited
in point of number ; for the senses themselves are
but few, and no one of them has many varieties
of enjoyment to communicate. What are even the
highest pleasures brought us by the eye, or the ear,
apart from that character which they derive from the
moral or intellectual associations they awaken ? Mo-
mentary excitements for the child, but hardly the gra-
tifications even of a moment to the man as is abun-
dantly evidenced by the case of many a one in whom
the mere corporeal organ is as perfect as usual, but
who, nevertheless, hardly receives from it any plea-
sure worth naming, owing to the uncultivated state
of those mental faculties, which are truly the great
creators and bestowers of human happiness.         But
when did we hear of any one who, having fairly
commenced the pursuit of literature or science, ever
became tired of it ; or would not have gladly devoted
his whole life toit,
                   if    he could? There may be other
passions to which men will deliver themselves up, in
the first instance, with greater precipitation and
impetuosity;     there is  none, assuredly, which will
engage them so long, or eventually absorb their
whole thoughts so thoroughly, as the passion for
knowledge.      We have numberless instances of per-
sons, in every rank of life, who, for the sake of
gratifying it,   have contended with, and overcome,
such difficulties and impediments of all sorts as cer-
tainly would have worn out the strength of almost
any other impulse with which we are acquainted.
But this  is   an impulse which, we may venture to

                        HEYNE.                       25
affirm, when once truly awakened, no discourage-
ments that the most unfavourable circumstances have
interposed have ever been able effectually to subdue.
   The late Professor HEYNE, of Gottingen, was one
of the greatest classical scholars of his own or of any
age, and during his latter days enjoyed a degree of
distinction, both in his own country and throughout
Europe, of which scarcely any contemporary name,
in the same department of literature, could boast.
Yet he had spent the first thirty-two or thirty-three
years of his life, not only in obscurity, but in an
almost incessant struggle with the most depressing
poverty.    He had been born, indeed, amidst the
miseries of the lowest indigence, his father being a
poor weaver, with a large family, for whom his best
exertions were often unable to provide bread.        In
the Memoirs of his own Life,' Heyne says, "Want
     '
 was the earliest companion of my childhood.     I  well
remember the painful impressions made on my
 mind by witnessing the distress of my mother when
 without food for her children.     How often have    I
 seen her, on a Saturday evening, weeping and
 wringing her hands, as she returned home from an
 unsuccessful effort to sell the goods which the daily
 and nightly toil of my father had manufactured!"
 His parents sent him to a child's school in the
 suburbs of the small town of Chemnitz, in Saxony,
 where they lived; and he soon exhibited an uncom-
 mon desire of acquiring information.      He made so
 rapid a progress in the humble branches of know-
 ledge taught in the school, that, before he had com-
 pleted his tenth year, he was paying a portion of his
 school fees by teaching a little girl, the daughter of
 a wealthy neighbour, to read and write.        Having
 learned every thing comprised in the usual course of
 the school, he felt a strong desire to learn Latin.

2fr         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
A    son of the schoolmaster, who had studied at
Leipsic, was willing to teach him at the rate of four
pence a week ; but the difficulty of paying so large a
fee seemed quite insurmountable.        One day he was
sent to his godfather, who was a baker in pretty
good circumstances, for a loaf.        As he went along,
he pondered sorrowfully on this great object of his
wishes, and entered the shop in tears.          The good-
tempered baker, on learning the cause of his grief,
 undertook to pay the required fee for him, at which,
 Heyrie tells us, he was perfectly intoxicated with joy;
 and as he ran, all ragged and barefoot, through the
 streets, tossing the loaf in the air, it slipped from his
 hands and rolled into the gutter. This accident, and
 a sharp reprimand from his parents, who could ill
 afford such a loss, brought him to his senses.        He
 continued his lessons for about two years, when his
 teacher acknowledged that he had taught him all he
 himself knew.     At this time, his father was anxious
 that he should adopt some trade, but Heyne felt an
 invincible desire to pursue his literary education ;
 and it was fortunate for the world that he was at
 this period of his life furnished with the means of
 following the course of his inclination.         He had
 another godfather, who was a clergyman in the
 neighbourhood ; and this person, upon receiving the
 most flattering accounts of Heyne from his last mas-
 ter, agreed to be at the expense of sending him to the
 principal seminary of his native town of Chemnitz.
  His new patron, however, although a well-endowed
 churchman, doled out his bounty with most scrupu-
  lous parsimony ; and Heyne, without the necessary
 books of his own, was often obliged to borrow those
  of his companions, and to copy them over for his
  own use.    At last he obtained the situation of tutor
  to the son of one of the citizens ; and this for a short
  time rendered his condition more comfortable. But

                           HEYNE.                     27
 the period was come when, if he was to proceed in
 the career he had chosen, it was necessary for him
 to enter the university ; and he resolved to go to
 Leipsic.    He arrived in that city accordingly with
 only two florins (about four shillings) in his pocket,
 and nothing more to depend upon except the small
 assistance he might receive from his godfather, who
 had promised to continue his bounty.        He had to
wait so long, however, for his expected supplies from
this source, which came accompanied with much
grudging and reproach when they did make their
appearance, that, destitute both of money and books,
he would even have been without bread too, had it
not been for the compassion of the maid-servant of
the house where he lodged.           What sustained his
courage in these circumstances (we here use his own
words) was neither ambition nor presumption, nor
even the hope of one day taking his place among the
learned. The stimulus that incessantly spurred him
on was the feeling of the humiliation of his condi-
tion    the shame with which he shrunk from the
thought of that degradation which the want of a
good education would impose upon him above all,
the determined resolution of battling- courageously
 with fortune.     He was resolved to try, he said,
 whether, although she had thrown him among the
 dust, he should not be able to rise up by his
 own efforts.    His ardour for study only grew the
 greater as his difficulties increased. For six months
 he only allowed himself two nights' sleep in the week ;
 and yet all the while his godfather scarcely ever wrote
 to him but to inveigh against his indolence,      often
 actually addressing his letters on the outside, " To
 Mr. Heyne, Idler, at Leipsic."
    In the mean time, while his distress was every
 day becoming more intolerable, he was offered, by
 one of the professors, the situation of tutor in a

28          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
family at Magdeburg.       Desirable as the appointment
would have been in every other respect, it would
have removed him from the scene of his studies        and
he declined it.     He resolved rather to remain in the
midst of all his miseries at Leipsic.      He was, how-
ever, in a few weeks after, recompensed for this
noble sacrifice, by procuring, through the recom-
mendation of the same professor, a situation similar
to the one he had refused, in the university town.
This, of course, relieved for a time his pecuniary
wants ; but still the ardour with which he pursued
his studies continued so great, that it at last brought
on a dangerous illness, which obliged him to resign
his situation, and very soon completely exhausted
his trifling resources, so that on his recovery he found
himself as poor and destitute as ever.         In this ex-
tremity, a copy of Latin verses which he had written
having attracted the attention of one of the Saxon
ministers, he was induced, by the advice of his friends,
to set out for the court at Dresden, where it was
expected this high patronage would make his for-
tune ; but he was doomed only to new disappoint-
ments.     After having borrowed money to pay the ex-
penses of his journey, all he obtained from the courtier
was a few vague promises, which ended in nothing.
He was obliged eventually, after having sold his
books, to accept the place of copyist in the library of
the Count de Bruhl, at the miserable annual salary of
one hundred crowns (about           17 sterling)   a sum
which, even in that cheap country, was scarcely
sufficient to keep him from perishing of hunger.
However, with his industrious habits, he found time,
beside performing the duties of his situation, to do
a little work for the booksellers.    He first translated
a French romance, for which he was paid twenty
crowns.      For a learned and excellent edition which
he prepared of the Latin poet Tibullus, he received,

                          HEYNE.                        29
in successive payments, one hundred          crowns, with
which he discharged the debts he had contracted at
Leipsic. In this way he contrived to exist for a few
years, all the while studying hard, and thinking him-
self amply compensated for the hardships of his lot,
by the opportunities he had of pursuing his favourite
researches, in a city so rich in collections of books and
antiquities as Dresden.      After he had held his situa-
tion in the library for above two years, his salary was
doubled ; but before he derived any benefit from the
augmentation, the Seven Years War had commenced.
Saxony was overrun by the forces of Frederick the
 Great, and Heyne's place, and the library itself to which
it was attached, were swept away at the same time.
 He was obliged to fly from Dresden, and wandered
 about for a long time without any employment.          At
last he was received into a family at Wittenberg; but
in a short time the progress of the war drove him from
this asylum also, and he returned to Dresden, where
he still had a few articles of furniture, which he had
 purchased with the little money he saved while he
 held his place in the Library.        He arrived just in
 time to witness the bombardment of that capital, in
 the conflagration of which his furniture perished, as
 well as some property which he had brought with
 him from Wittenberg, belonging to a lady, one of the
 family in whose house he lived, for whom he had
 formed an attachment during his residence there.
 Thus left, both of them, without a shilling, the young
 persons nevertheless determined to share each other's
  destiny, and they were accordingly united.        By the
  exertions of some common friends, a retreat was pro-
  cured for Heyne and his wife in the establishment of
  a M. de Leoben, where he spent some years, during
  which his time was chiefly occupied in the manage-
  ment of that gentleman's property.
     At last, at the general peace in 1763, he returned to
                                             D3

30          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Dresden ; and here ended his hard fortunes.          Some
time before his arrival in that city, the Professorship of
Eloquence in the University of Gottingen had become
vacant, by the death of the celebrated John Mathias
Gesner.     The chair had been offered, in the first in-
stance, to David Ruhnken, one of the first scholars of
the age, who declined, however, to leave the University
of Leyden, where he had lately succeeded the emi-
nent Hemsterhuys as Professor of Greek.             Fortu-
nately,   however,  for Heyne, Ruhnken was one of
the few to whom his edition of Tibullus, and another
of Epictetus, which he had published shortly after,
had made his obscure name and great merits known ;
and with a generous anxiexy to befriend one whom
he considered to be so deserving, he ventured, of his
own accord, to recommend him to the Hanoverian
minister, as the fittest person he could mention for
the vacant office.   Such a testimony from Ruhnken
was at once the most honourable and the most
efficient patronage Heyne could have had.         He was
immediately nominated to the Professorship ; although
so little known, that it was with considerable difficulty
he was found.      He held this appointment for nearly
fifty years ; in the course of which, as we have
already remarked, he may be said, by his successive
publications, and the attraction of his lectures, to
have placed himself nearly at the head of the classical
scholars of his age ; while he was at the same time
loved and venerated as a father, not only by his
numerous pupils, but by all ranks of his fellow-
citizens, who, on his death, in 1812, felt that their
University and city had lost what had been for half a
century its chief distinction.

                           CHAPTER        III.
 Humble Station no Obstacle.      Epictetus; Protagoras j Cleanthes ;
     Haiiy ; Winckelman ; Arnigio ; Duval. Affectation of high Birth.
    Bandinelli ; Scaliger. Men proud of their low Origin.   Protogones;
    Baudotiin ; Gelli.  Obscure   Origin.   Metastasio ; Haydn; Opie;
    Parini ; Prideaux ; Saunders ; Linnaeus; Lomonosoffj B. Jonson ;
    the Milners ; John Hunter.  Application of Examples.
THE difficulties which Heyne had to encounter in
his pursuit of knowledge commenced with his life
itself      his very birth throwing him out of the sphere
of those excitements by which even the desire of
knowledge is generally kindled.                Yet this is a disad-
vantage which, great as it is, aspiring minds have
often overcome.           Of the ancient authors, not to men-
tion the well-known case of JEsop, PUBLTUS SYRUS
and TERENCE were both originally slaves. EPICTETUS,
the celebrated Stoic philosopher, was born in the
same condition, and spent many years of his life in
servitude.        Having been at last fortunate enough to
obtain his freedom, he retired to a small hut ; and,
when he was barely able to procure the necessaries
of life, devoted himself to the study of philosophy.
A treatise of this writer was one of the works
edited by Heyne, while at Dresden ; and he used
to relate that his fortitude, amid the difficulties
that he had to struggle with at the time, was not a
little strengthened and upheld by the precepts of
severe virtue and determined endurance which he
found in the pages of the old philosopher.                      Epic-
tetus's own conduct was strikingly in comformity with
the lessons he taught, at least if we may believe one
of the stories which are told of him. It is said, that

32          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
before he had obtained his liberty, his master, who
was a very brutal man, chose one day to amuse
himself by twisting the leg of the slave.
                                              " You will
break it for me," remarked Epictetus; arid immediately
after it happened as he had said.
                                        '  " I  told you
so," added the philosopher, with all the indifference
in the world.     He lived at Rome in a house with-
out a door ; and with no furniture, except a table,
a small bedstead, and a wretched coverlet ; and
 this even at a time when he enjoyed the greatest
familiarity with the Emperor Adrian. One day he
was extravagant enough to purchase for himself a
 lamp made of iron ; but he was punished for this
 deviation from his usual habits, by a thief soon after
 finding his way into the house, and running off with
 it.   " He shall be cheated," said Epictetus, " if he
 come back to-morrow, for he shall find only an
 earthen one." PROTAGORAS, too, another of the Greek
 philosophers, had been a common porter before he
  applied to study. He lived at Abdera, in Thrace,
  the same town in which resided the famous Demo-
  critus, commonly called the Laughing Philosopher,
  who one day met him carrying into the city a very
  heavy load of wood on his back, and was a good
  deal surprised on perceiving that the pieces were piled
  on one another exactly in the way best adapted to
  make the burthen rest easily on the shoulders.       In
  order to discover whether this geometrical arrange-
  ment was the effect of skill or chance, he requested
  the young man to unbind the load, and make it up
  again in the same manner: this Protagoras imme-
  diately did with great dexterity ; upon which Demo-
  critus, convinced that his talents were of a superior
  order, admitted him forthwith among his disciples,
  and spared no pains in instructing him in the different
  branches both of natural and moral philosophy.     And,
  to mention no more instances, CLEAMHES, another

              CLEANTHES.      ZENO.    HAUY.           33
 of the Stoics, was brought up to the profession of a
 pugilist, and used to exhibit himself in that character
 at the public games ; till, longing to study philosophy,
he betook himself for that purpose to Athens, where
he arrived with only three drachms (about three
shillings and sixpence) in his pocket. In these cir-
cumstances he was obliged, for his support, to employ
himself in drawing'water, carrying burdens, and other
such humble and laborious occupations.           He con-
trived, however, to proceed with his studies at the same
time, bringing his fee of an obolus, or penny, every
day to his master, Zeno, with great punctuality.       On
the death of Zeno, he succeeded him in his school,
but still continued his menial labours as usual. "      I
draw water," he was wont to say, " and do any other
sort of work which presents itself, that I may give
myself up to philosophy without being a burthen to
any one."     He was so poor, indeed, that the wind
having blown aside his mantle one day when he hap-
pened to be present at one of the public shews, his
fellow-citizens perceived that he had no tunic, or
under garment, and gave him one.          He was always
treated, notwithstanding his poverty, with the greatest
respect at Athens.
    In modern times we have many examples, also, of
persons whom the love of knowledge has found in,
the lowest obscurity, and who have possessed them-
selves of the highest acquirements          in science or
literature, in spite of every disadvantage of birth.
Heyne, as we have mentioned, was the son of a
poor weaver.     So was the Abbe HAUY, who died
in Paris a few years ago, celebrated for his
writings and discoveries in Crystallography             a
 science, indeed, of which he may be almost con-
 sidered as the founder.        It is the science which
treats of those     curious regular figures which so
many solid bodies are found to possess in their

 34          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 natural state,   or which they may be made to as-
 sume artificially, by dissolving or fusing them, and
                                  1
 then allowing their particles to return to a state of
 solidity, which latter process is called their crystal-
 lization. Now it happens that the same substance
 is not found to have always the same figure externally
 when in a crystallized state, but is susceptible of
 several different forms, some of which do not ap-
pear at first to have any resemblance to each other.
All preceding inquirers had been very much per-
plexed by this circumstance, in their attempts to esta-
blish a theory of crystallized bodies ; and various
principles had been successively adopted and re-
jected as the foundations of a scientific arrange-
ment of them.      At length the attention of Haiiy was
directed to the subject, by having accidentally picked
up an uncommonly beautiful specimen of calcareous
spar, which presented the figure of a six-sided prism,
and had been detached from a group of similar crys-
tals.    By trying to split this specimen in various di-
 rections with the blade of a knife, and dividing it
 only where he found a natural joint, he at last re-
 duced it to the form of a rhomboid, or oblon gated
 cube, which it retained in spite of all subsequent
 sections.    Now this is exactly the form in which
 another calcareous spar, called Iceland Spar, is com-
 monly found ; whence Haiiy Avas led to suspect that,
by the application of the process he had employed,
 all crystallized substances of the same species might
be reduced to the same primitive form.        This idea
he pursued with exceeding ingenuity ; till, by means
not only of his unparalleled dexterity in the dissec-
 tion of crystals, but of a most masterly combination
of algebraical and geometrical reasoning, he rested
his theory upon grounds which would almost lead to
the conclusion, that the principle is of universal
application, and that it is only necessary to strip

         WINCKELMAN.        ARNIGIO.     DUVAL.      35
them of their external coatings to discover the same
radical figure in all crystals of the same species.
    But, to proceed ; the celebrated WINCKELMAN,
one of the most distinguished writers on classic
antiquities and the fine arts that modern times
have produced, was the son of a shoemaker.          His
father, after vainly endeavouring for some time, at the
expense of many sacrifices, to give him a learned
education, was at last obliged, from age and ill
health, to retire to an hospital, where he was, in his
turn, supported for several years in part by the hard
labours of his son, who, aided by the kindness of
his professors, contrived to keep himself at college,
chiefly by teaching some of his younger or less-ad-
vanced fellow-students. BARTHOLOMEW ARNIGIO, an
Italian poet of the sixteenth century, of considerable
genius and learning, followed his father's trade of a
blacksmith till he was eighteen years old, when he
began of his own accord to apply to his studies ; and
by availing himself of the aid sometimes of one
friend, and sometimes of another, prepared himself
at last for entering the University of Padua. VALEN-
TINE JAMERAY DUVAL, a very able antiquary of the
last century, and who at the time of his death held
the office of keeper of the imperial medals at Vienna,
as well as that of one of the preceptors to the prince,
afterwards the Emperor Joseph II., was the son of
a poor peasant of Champagne, and lost his father
when he was ten years of age.        He was then taken
into the service of a farmer in the village ; but being
soon after turned off for some petty fault, he resolved
to leave his native place altogether, that he might
not be a burthen to his mother.        So he set out on
his travels, without knowing in what direction he
was proceeding, in the beginning of a dreadful win-
ter ; and for some time begged in vain even for a
crust of bread and shelter against the inclemency of

36          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
 the elements, till, worn out with hunger, fatigue, and
 a tormenting head-ache, he was at last taken in by
 a poor shepherd, who permitted him to lie down in
the place where he shut up his sheep.       Here he was
attacked by small-pox, and lay ill nearly a month ;
but having at last recovered, chiefly through the kind
attentions of the village clergyman, he proceeded on
his wanderings a second time, thinking that by get-
ting farther to the east he should be nearer the sun,
and therefore suffer less from the cold.      Having ar-
rived in this way at the foot of the Vosges moun-
tains, nearly a hundred and fifty miles from his na-
tive village, he remained there for two years in the
service of a farmer, who gave him his flocks to
keep.     Chancing then to make his appearance at
the hut of a hermit, the recluse was so much struck
by the intelligence of his answers, that he proposed
he should take up his abode with him, and share
his labours, an offer which Duval gladly accepted.
Here he had an opportunity of reading a few books,
chiefly of a devotional description ; and, after some
time, was sent with a letter of recommendation from
his master to another hermitage, or religious house,
near Luneville, the inmates of which set him to take
charge of their little herd of cattle, consisting only of
five or six cows, while one of them took the trouble
of teaching him to write. He had a few books at
 command, which he perused with great eagerness.
 He sometimes, too, procured a little money by the pro-
 duce of his skill and activity in the chase, and this
 he always bestowed in the purchase of books. One
 day, while pursuing this occupation, he was lucky
 enough to find a gold seal, which had been dropt by
 an English traveller of the name of Forster.      Upon
 this gentleman coming to claim his property, Duval
 jestingly told him that he should not have the seal,
 unless he could describe the armorial bearings on it

                          DUVAL.                       37
  in correct heraldic phrase. Surprised at any appear-
  ance of an acquaintance with such subjects in the
 poor cow-herd, Forster, who was a lawyer, entered
 into conversation with him, and was so much struck
 by his information and intelligence, that he both sup-
 plied him with a number of books and maps, and in-
 structed him in the manner of studying them.      Some
 time after this, he was found by another stranger
 sitting at the foot of a tree, and apparently absorbed
 in the contemplation of a map which lay before him.
 Upon being asked what he was about, he replied that
 he was studying geography.        And " whereabouts in
 the study may you be at present," inquired the
 stranger.
               " I  am seeking the way to Quebec,"
 answered Duval.       " To Quebec ? What should you
 want there?"       I
                   " wish to go to continue my studies
 at the university of that city." The stranger belonged
 to the establishment of the princes of Lorraine, who,
 returning from the chase, came up with their suite at
the moment ; and the result was, that, after putting
a great many questions to Duval, they were so de-
lighted with the vivacity of his replies, that they pro-
posed to send him immediately to a Jesuit's college
in the neighbourhood.      Here he continued for some
time, until he was at last taken by his patron, the
Duke of Lorraine, afterwards the Emperor Francis I.,
to Paris, where he speedily distinguished himself, and
eventually acquired a high place among the literary
men of the day.      He never forgot, however, either his
early benefactors, or departed from that simplicity of
character and manners which the humble nature of his
origin and first fortunes had given him. It is grati-
fying indeed to have to tell, that even after he had
become a courtier, and was living in intimate fami-
liarity with the emperor, he took a journey to his
native village, purchased the cottage in which his
father had lived, and erected on its site at his own
                                            E

38         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
expense a commodious dwelling-house for the parish
schoolmaster.    He always kept up a correspondence,
too, with the good hermits at Luneville ; and, in par-
ticular, on paying a visit to Brother Marin, who had
taught him writing, and not finding his hut so com-
fortable as he could have wished, left with him a sum
of money to rebuild it.
    Men are proud, and it is very intelligible why they
should be so, of an illustrious ancestry ; but to those
who have achieved their own advancement in the
face of disadvantages such as the individuals we
have named, and many others, have had to struggle
with, the obscurity of their origin is their most
honourable distinction.    Nothing, therefore, can be
weaker, or more absurd, than the vanity which has
led even some distinguished men, of humble, or
at least not high birth, to attempt to conceal their
real extraction from the world, by the most un-
founded, and sometimes ridiculous fictions.     BANDI-
NELLI, the Italian sculptor, was the son of a gold-
smith, and the grandson of a common coalman ; but
having in the course of his life acquired great wealth,
and having been created by the Emperor Charles V.
a knight of the order of St. James, he is said to have
repeatedly changed his name, in order to hide his
parentage, and to have fixed at last upon that by
which he is generally known, in order that he might
appear to have sprung from the noble family of the
Bandinelli of Sienna. A similar anxiety to secure
for himself the reputation of noble descent is also
recorded to have been one of the foibles of the cele-
 brated Spanish dramatist, LOPE DE VEGA.           But,
 perhaps,  the  most extravagant pretensions of this
 kind that were ever brought forward were those ad-
 vanced by the famous JULIUS CAESAR SCAHGER, one
 of the greatest scholars and critics of the sixteenth
 century. This eminent person actually took the trouble

                       SCALIGER.                        39
of composing   an elaborate memoir of his own life, in
which he pretended to be the last surviving descendant
of the princely house of La Scala, of Verona, and con-
sequently the lineal heir of that sovereignty, which
having been some time before conquered by the
Venetians, had been incorporated by them with their
own territory. In order to support this story, he
went the length of inventing a series of adventures,
which he said had befallen him, giving out that having
been preserved by his mother from the general per-
secution of his race, he had, after being carefully
educated, been presented at the court of the Emperor
Maximilian, who made him one of his pages.               He
added that he subsequently distinguished             himself
greatly ; first in the wars of Italy, and then, in the
service of France, in Piedmont: till, after passing
through a succession of other fortunes, which we
cannot afford space to relate, he was induced, by the
solicitations of La Rovere, Bishop of Agen, to ac-
company that prelate to his episcopal seat, and thus
at last to terminate his vain endeavours to recover his
lost principality. Now the truth is, as has been since
abundantly proved, that Scaliger's real name was
Bordoni ; that he was in all probability the son of a
miniature painter who resided at Padua ; and that he
never even assumed the name of Scaliger till he was
pretty far advanced in life, having borne it only in
conjunction with his own in his forty-fourth year,
when he obtained letters of naturalization in France,
which are still extant.     Even at this time it would
appear that the fable of his descent from the house of
Verona, if it had entered his head at all, had certainly
 not been conceived in any thing like the form which
 he afterwards gave it.   It was, at least in all its wilder
 improbabilities, the romance of his old age.       He per-
 sisted init, however, as long as he lived, and left  it  as
a   legacy to his son, the learned Joseph Justus Sca-

 40          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 liger, who with an excess of filial observance, both
maintained its truth as obstinately as his father had
done, and augmented it by many additional fictions
of his own invention.
    It is a wiser and nobler spirit which, without de-
spising such distinctions where they really exist, con-
siders it more honourable to have achieved fame and
eminence without the advantages of high birth than
with their assistance ; and does not disdain, therefore,
where they have not been possessed, to find its best
triumph in their absence.       Such was the feeling in
which the old Greek painter PROTOOENES acted, who,
having passed the earlier years of his life in such
obscurity and poverty, that he was obliged to spend
the greater part of his time in merely painting the
coarse ornaments on the prows of ships, was so far
from shewing himself ashamed of his humble origin,
when he rose at last to fame and more honourable as
well as lucrative employment, that he was wont to
introduce representations     of the different parts of
ships round his ynctures, as symbols and memorials
of his old occupation. BENEDICT BAUDOuiN,one of
the learned men of the sixteenth century, went still
further than this.    His father had been a shoemaker,
and he had himself worked for some years of his life
at the same profession     circumstances which he was
so little anxious to have forgotten, that, many years
after, he wrote and published a very elaborate work
on the Shoemaking of the Ancients, in which we find
the history of that craft traced, with a profusion of
erudition, up to the time of Adam himself.         But,
perhaps, the most extraordinary example on record
of indifference to such matters, is that afforded by the
conduct of the celebrated Italian writer GELLI, who,
even after he had obtained so much distinction by
his writings as to have been elected to the high dig-
nity of consul of the Florentine Academy, and ap-

              METASTASIO.      HAYDN.    OPIE.         41
 pointed by the grand duke to deliver a course of
 lectures on Dante, still continued to work at his
 original profession of a tailor, which he had inherited
 from his father.     He alludes to the circumstance,
 with much modesty and even dignity, in the intro-
 ductory oration of his course, which he delivered
 before the Academy, and which has been published.
    It would be easy to continue to a much greater
length our enumeration of individuals who, smitten by
the love of knowledge, have nobly surmounted the im-
pediments thrown in the way of its acquisition by a
humble birth or early indigence.       Many of the most
remarkable of these cases we shall have an oppor-
tunity of introducing under other heads of the sub-
ject ; but, at present, we may merely mention a few
 of those which we may not afterwards find so con-
venient an occasion of noticing.        The celebrated
Italian poet METASTASIO was the son of a common
mechanic, and used when a little boy to sing his ex-
temporaneous verses about the streets.         The father
of HAYDN, the great musical composer, was a wheel-
wright, and filled also the humble occupation of sexton,
while his mother was at the same time a servant in
the establishment of a neighbouring nobleman.        The
father of our own painter, OPIE, was a working car-
penter in Cornwall. The following is the account
that Dr. Wolcot, better known by his assumed name
of Peter Pindar, gives us of the circumstances in
which he discovered the uneducated artist.       " Being
on a visit to a relation in Cornwall," he observes,
   I
 " saw either the
                    drawing or print of a farm-yard in
the parlour, and after looking at it slightly, remarked
that it was a busy scene, but ill executed.    This point
was immediately contested by a she cousin, who ob-
 served that it was greatly admired by many, and par-
ticularly by John Opie, a lad of great genius. Having
learned the place of the artist's abode,  I  immediately
                                           E 3

42           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
sallied forth, and found him at the bottom of a saw-
 pit, cutting wood by moving: the lower part of an
instrument which was regulated above by another
person.     Having inquired in the dialect of the country
if he could paint ? ' Can you paient ?' I was in-
stantly answered from below in a similar accent and
                               '
language, that he could paitnt Queen Charlotte
and Duke William' (William Duke of Cumberland,)
' and Mrs.
              Somebody's cot.'      A specimen was im-
mediately shewn me, which was rude, incorrect,
and incomplete.        But when  I  learned that he was
such an enthusiast in his art, that he got up by three
o'clock of a summer's morning to draw with chalk
and charcoal,      I  instantly conceived that he must
possess all that zeal necessary for obtaining emi-
nence.     A gleam of hope then darted through my
bosom ; and I felt it possible to raise the price of his
labours from eight-pence or a shilling to a guinea
a-day. Actuated by this motive,      I instantly presented
him with pencils,     colours, and canvass, to which     I
added a few instructions."         After some time, the
Doctor adds, his pupil became so celebrated in the
neighbourhood, that he obtained as much employment
as he could undertake, in painting heads at half a
guinea each, and at last resolved to raise his price
to a guinea.     He afterwards came to London, and
attained great eminence as a portrait painter ; upon
which he was admitted as an associate of the Royal
Academy, and was eventually elected Professor of
Painting in that institution.       "Born in a rank of
life in which the    road   to eminence is rendered in-
finitely difficult," says another Academician, speak-
               "
ing of Opie,      unassisted by partial patronage, scorn-
ing with virtuous pride all slavery and dependence,
he trusted alone for his reward to the force of his
natural powers, and to well-directed and unremitting
study. The toils and difficulties of his profession

       PARINI. PRIDEAUX.      SAUXDERS.     LINXJSUS.   43
  were by him considered as matter of honourable and
  delightful contest ; and it might be said of him, that
  he did not so much paint to live, as live to paint."
     The parents of SEBASTIAN CASTALIO, the elegant
  Latin translator of the Bible, were poor peasants, who
  lived among the mountains in Dauphiny. The Abbe
  HAUTEFEUILLE, who distinguished himself in the
 seventeenth century, by his inventions in clock and
 watchmaking, was the son of a baker.          PARINI, the
 modern satiric poet of Italy, was the son of a peasant,
 who died when he was in his boyhood, and left him
 to be the only support of his widowed mother; while,
 to add to his difficulties, he was attacked in his nine-
 teenth year by a paralysis, which rendered him a
 cripple for life.   The parents of Dr. JOHN PRIDEAUX,
 who afterwards rose to be Bishop of Worcester, were
 in such poor circumstances, that they were with dif-
 ficulty able to keep him at school till he had learned to
 read and write ; and he obtained the rest of his edu-
 cation by walking on foot to Oxford, and getting em-
ployed in the first instance as assistant in the kitchen
of Exeter College, in which society he remained till
he gradually made his way to a fellowship.            The
father of INIGO JONES, the great architect, who built
the Banqueting-House at Whitehall, and many other
well-known edifices, was a cloth-worker ; and he him-
self was also destined originally for a mechanical
employment.        Sir EDMUND SAUNDERS, Chief Jus-
tice of the Court of King's Bench in the reign of
Charles II., was in early life an errand-boy at the inns
of Court, and gradually acquired the elements of his
knowledge of the law by being employed to copy
precedents.      LINN.EUS, the founder of the science of
Botany, although the son of the clergyman of a small
village in Sweden, was for some time apprenticed to a
shoemaker ; and was only rescued from his humble em-
ployment by accidentally meeting one day a physician

44            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
named Rothman, who, having entered into conversa-
tion with him, was so much struck with his intelli-
gence, that he sent him to the university. The father
of MICHAEL LOMONOSOFF,       one  of the most celebrated
Russian poets of the last century, and who eventually
attained the highest literary dignities in his own
country, was only a simple fisherman.       Young Lo-
monosoff had great difficulty in acquiring as much
education as enabled him to read and write ; and it
was only by running away from his father's house,
 and taking refuge in a monastery at Moscow, that he
found means to obtain an acquaintance with the
 higher branches of literature.      The famous BEN
 JONSON worked for some time as a bricklayer or ma-
 son ; " and let not them blush," says Fuller, speak-
                                   '
 ing of this circumstance in his English Worthies,'
 with his usual amusing, but often expressive quaint-
 ness,
         " let not them blush that have, but those that
 have not, a lawful calling.   He helped in the build-
 ing of the new structure of Lincoln's Inn, when,
 having a trowel in his hand, he had a book in his
  pocket."
     PETER RAMUS, one of the most celebrated writers
  and intrepid thinkers of the sixteenth century, was
  employed in his childhood as a shepherd, and ob-
  tained his education by serving as a lackey in the
  college of Navarre.   The Danish astronomer, LON-
  GOMONTANUS, was the son of a labourer, and, while
  attending the academical lectures at Wyburg through
  the day, was obliged to work for his support during
  a part of the night.   The elder DAVID PAREUS, the
  eminent German Protestant divine, who was after-
  wards Professor of Theology at Heidelberg, was
  placed in his youth as an apprentice, first with an
  apothecary, and then with a shoemaker.           HANS
   SACHS, one of the most famous of the early German
   poets, and a scholar of considerable learning, was

                  THE MILNERS, ETC.                   45
 the  son  of  a tailor, and served an apprenticeship
 himself, first to a shoemaker, and afterwards to a
weaver, at which last trade, indeed, he continued to
 work during the rest of his life. JOHN FOLCZ, an-
 other old German poet, was a barber. LUCAS COR-
NELISZ, a Dutch painter of the sixteenth century, who
visited England during the reign of Henry VIII.,
and was patronised by that monarch, was obliged,
while in his own country, in order to support his
large family, to betake himself to the profession of
a cook.    Dr. ISAAC MADDOX, who, in the reign of
George II., became bishop, first of St. Asaph, and
then of Worcester, and who is well known by his
work in defence of the doctrine and discipline of
the Church of England, lost both his parents, who
belonged to a very humble rank of life, at an early
age, and was, in the first instance, placed by his
friends with a pastry-cook.       The late Dr. ISAAC
MILNER, Dean of Carlisle and Lucasian Professor of
the Mathematics at Cambridge, who had the repu-
tation of one of the first mathematicians of that
University, and who published some ingenious papers
on Chemistry and Natural Philosophy, in the ' Philo-
sophical Transactions,' was originally a weaver as
was also his brother JOSEPH, the well-known author
of a ' History of the Church.' Of the  same profession
was also, in his younger days, the late Dr. JOSEPH
WHITE, Professor of Arabic at Oxford.        CASSERIO, a
well-known Italian      anatomist, was initiated in the
elements of medical science by a surgeon of Padua,
with whom he had lived originally as a domestic ser-
vant. JOHN CHRISTIAN THEDEN, who rose to be
chief surgeon to the Prussian army under Frederick
II., had in his youth been apprenticed to a tailor.
   The celebrated JOHN HUNTER, one of the greatest
anatomists that ever lived, scarcely received any
education whatever until he was twenty years old.

46          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
He was born in       the year  1728, in  Lanarkshire;
and    being  the youngest of a family of ten, and
the child of his father's old age, would seem to
have been brought up with the most foolish and
unfortunate indulgence.      When he was only ten
years old his father died ; and under the charge of
his mother it is probable that he was left to act as
he chose, with still less restraint than ever.   Such
was his aversion at this time to anything like regular
application, that it was with no small difficulty, we
are told, he had been taught even the elements of
reading and writing; while an attempt that was
made to give him some knowledge of Latin, (accord-
ing to the plan of education then almost universally
followed in regard to the sons of even the smallest
landed proprietors in Scotland,) was, after a short
space, abandoned altogether.      Thus he grew up,
spending his time merely in country amusements,
and for many years without even thinking, as it would
appear, of any profession by which he might earn a
livelihood.   It was, however, found necessary at last
that something should be determined upon in regard
to this point ; for the family estate, such as it was,
had gone to his eldest brother, and the father had
made no provision for maintaining John any longer
in idleness. So, destitute as he was of all literary
acquirements, there was no other resource for him
except some business that would give employment to
his hands rather than his head j and one of his
sisters having married a cabinet-maker, or carpenter,
in Glasgow, it was resolved he should be bound ap-
prentice to his brother-in-law.     With this person,
accordingly, he continued for some time, learning to
make chairs and tables; and this probably might
have been, for life, the employment of the genius that
afterwards distinguished itself so greatly in one of
the most important walks of philosophic discovery,

                    JOHN HUNTER.                      47
but for circumstances which, at the time when they
occurred, were doubtless deemed unfortunate.         His
master failed, and John was left without any obvious
means of pursuing even the humble line of life on
which he had set out. He was at this time in the
twentieth year of his age.   His elder brother, William,
afterwards the celebrated Dr. Hunter, had very re-
cently settled as a medical practitioner in London ;
but had already begun to distinguish         himself as
a lecturer and anatomical demonstrator.         To him
John determined to address himself. The rumour of
the one brother's success and growing reputation had
probably, even before this time, awakened something
of ambition in the other, with a wish to escape from
the obscure fortune to which he seemed destined. John
now wrote to his brother, offering him his services as
an assistant in his dissecting room, and intimating,
that if this proposal should not be accepted, he
meant to enlist in the army. Fortunately for science,
his letter was answered in the way he wished.         On
his brother's invitation he set out for the metropolis.
He was now put to work in the manner in which
he had requested to be employed.           His brother,
we are informed by Sir Everard Home, his first
and best biographer, gave him an arm to dissect,
so as to display the muscles, with directions how it
should be done ; and the performance of the pupil,
even in this his commencing essay, greatly exceeded
the expectations of his instructor.    The doctor then
put into his hands another arm, in which all the
arteries were injected, and these, as well as the
muscles, were to be exposed and preserved.        So sa-
tisfied was Dr. Hunter with his brother's perform-
ance of this task, that he assured him he would in
 time become an excellent anatomist, and would not
 want employment.      Perhaps, although we do not
 find it so stated by any of his biographers, he may

48          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE,
have felt an advantage, in making these preparations,
in the habits of manual dexterity acquired during his
apprenticeship to his first business.
    So rapid, at all events, was the progress which he
made in the study of anatomy, that he had not been
a year in London when he was considered by his
brother as qualified to teach others, and was at-
tended accordingly by a class of his own.           His
talents, and the patronage of his brother together,
brought him now every day more and more into no-
tice.   It does not belong to our purpose to trace the
progress of his success after this point.     We may
merely remark, that long before his death he had
placed himself, by universal acknowledgment, at the
head of living anatomists ; and was regarded, indeed,
as having done more for surgery and physiology
than any other investigator of these branches of
science that had ever existed.
   The important discoveries, and peculiar and most
original views, by which John Hunter succeeded in
throwing so much new light upon the subject of
the functions of animal life, were derived, as is
well known, principally from the extraordinary zeal,
patience, and ingenuity, with which he pursued
the study of comparative anatomy, or the exami-
nation of the structure of the inferior animals as
compared with that of man.        To this study he de-
voted his time, his labour, and, it may be said,
his fortune ; for nearly every shilling that he could
save from his professional gains was expended in col-
lecting those foreign animals, and other rare speci-
mens, by means of which he prosecuted his inquiries.
When his income was yet far from being a large one,
he purchased a piece of ground at Earls' Court, in
the village of Brompton, and built a house on it to
serve as a place of deposit for his collections.   The
space around it was laid out as a zoological garden

                     JOHN HUNTER.                        49
 for   such  of his strange animals    as he  kept   alive.
 Even when most extensively engaged in practice, he
 used to spend every morning, from sun-rise till eight
 o'clock, in his museum.      Yet, in addition to his pri-
 vate   practice, and a very long course of lectures
 which he delivered every winter, he had for many
 years to perform the laborious duties of surgeon to
 St. George's Hospital, and deputy surgeon-general
 to the army,     superintending, at this time also, a
 school of practical anatomy at his own house. Still
 he found leisure, in the midst of all these avocations,
 not only for his experiments upon the animal econo-
 my, but for the composition of various works of im-
 portance, and for taking an active part both in the
 deliberations of the Royal Society, of which he had
 been early elected a Fellow, and in other schemes for
the promotion and diffusion of natural knowledge.
 He was the originator, in particular, of the Lyceum
Medicum Lo?idinense, a medical society comprising
many eminent individuals, which met at his lecture
rooms, and rose to great reputation.      That he might
have time for these multiplied objects of attention, he
used to allow himself to sleep only four hours at
night, and an hour after dinner.
    In order to procure subjects for his researches in
comparative anatomy, his practice was to apply to the
keeper of the wild beasts in the Tower, and the pro-
prietors of the other menageries in town, for the
bodies of such of their animals as died, in considera-
tion of which he used to give them other rare animals
to exhibit, on condition of also receiving their remains
at their death.    His friends and former pupils, too,
were wont to send him, from every part of the world,
subjects for his favourite investigations.
                                               " In this
retreat (at Brompton), he had collected," says Sir
Everard Home, " many kinds of animals and birds ;
and it was to him a favourite amusement in his walks

50         THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
to attend to their actions and their habits, and to
make them familiar with him.      The fiercer animals
were those to which he was most partial, and he had
several of the bull kind from different parts of the
world.     Among these was a beautiful small bull he
had received from the Queen, with which he used to
wrestle in play, and entertain himself with its exer-
tions in its own defence.    In one of these conflicts,
the bull overpowered him and got him down ; and
had not one of the servants accidentally come by, and
frightened the animal away, this frolic would pro-
bably have cost him his life."   On another occasion,
" two leopards," says the same biographer, " that
were kept chained in an out-house, had broken from
their confinement, and got into the yard among some
dogs, which they immediately attacked.       The howl-
ing this produced alarmed the whole neighbourhood.
Mr. Hunter ran into the yard to see what was the
matter, and found one of them getting up the wall to
make his escape, the other surrounded by the dogs.
 He immediately laid hold of them both, and carried
them back to their den ; but as soon as they were se-
cured, and he had time to reflect upon the risk of
his own situation, he was so much affected that he
was in danger of fainting."
    Mr. Hunter died in the sixty-sixth year of his age,
 in 1793.    After his death, his museum was pur-
 chased by Parliament for the sum of fifteen thousand
 pounds ; and it is now deposited in the hall belono-ino-
 to the Royal College of Surgeons, in Lincoln's Inn
 Fields.   It is understood to contain about twenty
 thousand anatomical preparations, which are arranged
 so as (in the language of Sir Everard              " to
                                           Home)
 expose to view the gradations of nature, from the
 most simple state in which life is found to exist,
  up to the most perfect and most complex of the ani-
  mal creation,  mau himself."    The extreme beauty

                      JOHN HUNTER.                     51
 of these preparations is striking even to an unlearned
eye ;  and their scientific   value is such as to render
the collection one of the most precious of its kind in
the world.     It is certainly one of the most splendid
monuments of labour, skill, and munificence, ever
raised by an individual.
   It is important to remark, that, with all his powers,
this wonderful man never entirely overcame the dis-
advantages entailed upon him by the neglect in which
he had been allowed to spend his early years.         He
used to dwell, we are told, on the advantage which
is gained in regard to clearness of conception by the
committing of one's ideas to writing,          comparing
the process to the taking of stock by a       tradesman,
without which he cannot know with certainty either
what he has or what he wants.       Yet he himself con-
tinued to the end of his life an awkward, though
by no means an unpractised writer.         After coming
to London, he entered himself of St. Mary's Hall,
Oxford, probably with the view of being able to
maintain at least some pretension to scholarship,
but in does not appear that he carried his assump-
tion of the academical character much farther.        He
attained little acquaintance with the literature even of
his own profession ; and it not unfrequently hap-
pened, indeed, we are told, that upon communicating
a supposed discovery of his own to some one of his
more erudite friends, he had to suffer the disappoint-
ment of learning that the same thing had been al-
ready found out by some other well known anatomist.
But he felt his literary deficiencies chiefly as a lec-
turer, the capacity in which his more regularly edu-
cated brother so greatly excelled.     It is asserted by
Dr. Adams, who has written a life of John Hunter,
that he always used to swallow thirty drops of lauda-
num before going to lecture.       If these were heavy
penalties, however, which he had to pay for what

52          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
was not so much his fault as that of others, the emi-
nence to which he attained in spite of them is only
the more demonstrative of his extraordinary natural
powers, and his determined perseverance.
   The portrait which we have given of this great man
is engraved from an original painting by Sir Joshua
Reynolds, the property of the College of Surgeons
 (by the permission of whose council our engraver has
 had access to          was also engraved by the late
                       it)
                         ;   it
 Mr. Sharp. Sharp's plate has now become of con-
 siderable rarity.* The picture       reputed to be
                                            is                  a
 very happy and characteristic likeness, and certainly
 bears on    it the impress of great vigour and ori-
 ginality of mind.    Every eye will acknowledge the
justice of the remark made upon          by Lavater,
                                                 it
 " This man thinks for himself."
    We do not quote these names as those of indi-
viduals, the single or chief peculiarity in whose
history is, that they commenced life in a low station,
and ended    itin a high, or a higher one.        wereIf   it
our object to exemplify either the freaks of fortune in
lifting humbly-born men to the upper places of
society, or that particular sort of talent or dexterity
in men themselves which fits them to battle with
fortune, and in either way to elevate themselves to
conspicuous stations, as      were in spite and mock-
                                      it
ery of all her endeavours to keep them down
it  would be easy to bring together an assemblage of
far more extraordinary and surprising instances than
any we have yet noticed, of such good luck or per-
severing and triumphant ambition.     But our business
       Sharp was himself     very extraordinary character.   He
     :
                                  a
raised himself from the lower walks of his profession as an en-
graver chiefly by his print of Hunter.    He worked for     year
                                                            a
or more on this plate.     In England,    found few purchasers,
                                           it
originally; but coming into great demand on the Continent as    a
specimen of art,  gradually became valued
                  it                            in
                                              this country. See
page 59.

Fainted by Sir Joshua Reynolds. E R.A.

             APPLICATION OP EXAMPLES.                        53
is not either with mere luck, or mere ambition,      at least
in the worldly acceptation of that term.           If
                                                   some of
 the individuals we have mentioned have risen to great
 wealth or high civil dignities, it is not for this that we
 have mentioned them.         We bring them forward to
 shew that neither knowledge, nor any of the advan-
 tages which naturally flow from        it, are the exclu-
 sive inheritance of those who have been enabled to
 devote themselves entirely to its acquisition from their
youth upwards.         We shall have occasion to shew
 this still more strikingly, when we come to trace the
 history of some of those powerful minds, whose very
education has been actually their own work,             who,
 without even the assistance of a master, any how
 obtained, are recorded to have made themselves
 learned scholars, or able philosophers, or accom-
 plished artists.    For all, or nearly all, of the indi-
 viduals we have hitherto enumerated, many as may
 have been the difficulties they have had to contend
 with in the endeavour to procure instruction, have
 nevertheless obtained and enjoyed at last the advan-
tages of a regular education.     Still the love of know-
ledge, at least, must have sprung up in many of
 them long before the opportunity of acquiring           had
                                                        it
been found  ;    and their merit, and the praise due to
 them, is  that, surrounded, as they were,    byall manner
 of difficulties and discouragements, they rested not
until they had fought their way to the instruction
for which they longed. Their example also shews
 that many of those impediments, which, in ordi-
 nary cases, altogether prevent the pursuit of know-
ledge, are impediments only to the indolent or
 unaspiring, who make, in truth, their poverty or their
 low station bear the blame which ought properly to
be laid upon their own irresolution or indifference.
 It was not wealth or ease which these noble en-
thusiasts sought  ;   it was the bondage and degrada-
                                              F3

54          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
tion of ignorance alone from which they panted to
emancipate themselves.      All they wanted was an
opportunity of acquiring that knowledge, which might
lift them to a higher station in society, but would
certainly elevate their moral and intellectual being,
and bring them an inexhaustible multitude of gratifi-
cations, such as no wealth, no station, no worldly
circumstances whatever, could confer.    Some of them,
as we have remarked, even continued to work at
their original employments long after they had ob-
tained that superior education which might have
entitled them to aspire to a higher place ; and we
shall have to quote numerous other instances, in the
sequel, of persons who, although possessed of the
highest mental cultivation, have not permitted that
circumstance to withdraw them even from occupa-
tions that are generally supposed to be very uncon-
genial to literary tastes and habits.
    Looking generally upon these examples, we may
safely affirm that no man was ever induced to engage
with any degree of eagerness in the pursuit of know-
ledge by the mere hope of thereby bettering his worldly
circumstances.      That may have sometimes been
temptation enough to allure an individual to procure
for himself a few lessons in arithmetic, or navigation,
or any of those kindred branches of education the
utility of which is equally obvious ; but it demands
a much stronger and more deep-seated excitement to
sustain the mind in that long and earnest pursuit of
knowledge, which alone can ever lead to intellectual
acquirements of any lofty order.       Such a pursuit
will never be entered upon, or at least very far pro-
ceeded in, by any one, except him who loves know-
ledge entirely or chiefly for her own sake.     It is to
such a person only that we hold up the examples of
Heyne, and Winckelman, and the other illustrious
conquerors of fortune whom we have named, as

           APPLICATION OF EXAMPLES.                 55
guides    and encouragements.     To none besides are
they fitted to be either the one or the other.     With
regard to the great     mass   of  the  population, any
counsel or exhortation which would attempt to raise
them above the rank in which they have been born
and reared, must, from the nature of things, be
totally inoperative.  But it is right, that the indivi-
dual who, although poor, and unknown, and un-
educated, longs for education as his chief earthly
good, and feels within himself the strength and reso-
lution to undergo all things for the sake of obtaining
it, should be shewn,   by  the example of those who,
under the same impulse, have surmounted difficulties
as formidable as his own, that no difficulties, how-
ever great, are any reason for despair.

                           CHAPTER       IV.
Artists rising from the  lower  to the higher branches. B. Cellini ; Q.
     Matsys; Ibbetson ; Kent ; Towne ; Kirby ; Schiavoni ; Hogarth;
     Sharp ; Thew ; Caslon. Late Learners. Cromwell ; Sir W. Jones ;
     Cato Censor ; Alfred ; Moliere ; Valerianus ; Vondel ; Pitot ; Pauc.
     ton ; Ogilby.
THERE is one mode in which ingenious and as-
piring workmen have sometimes raised themselves
above      the trade they were bred up to ; of which we
may give a few examples, as it does not imply any
violent abandonment of their original occupation, but
on the contrary arises in some degree naturally out
of pursuits into which it has led them. We allude
to cases of the mere working mechanic elevating him-
self into an artist, in a department kindred to that of his
first exertions ; and cases of the artist himself making
his way from a lower to a higher department of his art.
Thus, in Italy especially, it has not been uncommon for
working goldsmiths, or those of them at least who
have been employed in copying designs in the metal,
to carry the study of their profession so far as to at-
tain proficiency in the art of design itself; and some
individuals, thus educated, have become eminent
painters or sculptors.            BENVENUTO CELLINI is one
instance, who, while serving an apprenticeship to
 a goldsmith, acquired a knowledge                      not only of
 chasing, but also of drawing, engraving, and statuary,
 and afterwards became one of the greatest sculptors
 of his age; and several others might be mentioned.
 Workers in gold and silver, however, are not the
 only sort of smiths who have in this way attained to
 a proficiency        iu the fine ^arts.          The old Dutch

                       Q. MATSYS.                    57
Painter, QUINTIN MATSYS, was originally a black-
smith and farrier, on which account he is often
called, the Blacksmith of Antwerp, the town where
he pursued this humble vocation.         Having 1, when
a young man, been attacked by a disorder which
left him too much debilitated to return          to the
heavier work of his trade, which was his only means
of support for himself and a widowed mother, he was
forced to turn his attention to the fabrication of such
light and ornamental articles as it was then fashion-
able to construct of wrought iron ; and he obtained
considerable reputation, in particular, by an inclosure
and covering of this description, which he made for
a well in the neighbourhood of the great church of
Antwerp. He began, however, at length, to find
even such work as this too laborious ; and was in
great difficulties as to what he should do, when the
thought occurred to him, or rather to one of his
friends, that as he had shewn considerable talent for
 the art of design, in many of the ornamental articles
he had been in the habit of making, it might be
 worth his while to try what he could accomplish in
 a simple style of drawing : for example, in painting a
 few of those small pictures of saints which were
wont to be distributed by the religious orders of the
 city to the people, on occasion of certain of their
 solemn processions.      The idea was adopted, and
 Matsys succeeded in his new attempt to the ad-
 miration of every body.      From that time painting
 became his profession, and he devoted himself to it
 with so much zeal and success, as not only to ac-
 quire a great deal of reputation in his own day, but
 to leave several works which are still held in consi-
  derable estimation.   Among these is one at Windsor,
 " The Misers," which has been often engraved ; and
  certainly deserves all the popularity that has so
  long been attached to it. It consists of two figures

 58          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
eagerly employed in counting money.         The extreme
 satisfaction in the countenances of each of these
persons is most happily expressed ; and this expres-
 sion indicates a more genial feeling than belongs to
the character of the
                         " Miser." The probability is,
that the picture represents two bankers, or usurers,
 of the painter's city; who derive that satisfaction
from a contemplation of their riches     their gold, their
 bills, and their bonds       which the possession of
 wealth is supposed to communicate in every situa-
tion.    The accessaries of the picture the candlestick,
the rolls of paper, the parrot    are delineated with a
 fidelity rarely excelled.   At any rate the work has
excellence enough to be considered the chef-d'oeuvre
of the artist, and such as might fairly have won
 him the hand of his mistress       who is said to have
accepted the
                 " painter," after having rejected the
" blacksmith."
    The late JULIUS CAESAR IBBETSON was originally a
ship-painter ; but by the cultivation of his talents
became so eminent a painter of landscapes, that Mr.
West used to compare him to the Dutch Berghem,
one of the greatest artists his country has produced
in that department. WILLIAM KENT, another English
artist, who practised both history and portrait paint-
ing, in the earlier part of the last century, but is
better known for his architectural designs, and the
graceful and picturesque style of ornamental garden-
ing, which he was the first to introduce among us,
had acquired the rudiments of his art while serving
his apprenticeship to a coach-painter.          FRANCIS
TOWNE, a landscape painter of great taste and unri-
valled industry, who acquired a handsome fortune
in the exercise of that art, but principally as a teacher
of drawing, commenced his career under similar
auspices.    JOHN JOSHUA KIRBY, who, about the
middle of the last century, distinguished himself

       SCHIAVONI. HOGARTH. SHARP. CASLON.             59
 by a series of drawings of the monumental and
 other antiquities of the county of Suffolk, and
 was elected a member both of the Royal and
 Antiquarian Societies, was originally a house pain-
ter.   So was the celebrated Italian painter, SCHIA-
 VONI, whose parents were so poor, that although he
early showed a propensity for the art in which he
afterwards so eminently excelled, they were unable to
afford him any better initiation into it ; but who, even
in this humble situation, cultivated his talents with
so much success, that he recommended himself by
his performances to the notice of the great Titian,
and was employed by him to paint the ceilings of the
Library of St. Mark. The famous HOGARTH acquired
his knowledge of drawing while serving his appren-
ticeship to an engraving silversmith, and commenced
his professional career by engraving coats of arms
and shop-bills.    The late WILLIAM SHARP, whose
eccentricities are so well known, but who was cer-
tainly also one of the ablest engravers England ever
produced, was educated only to the subordinate
branch of the profession, called bright engraving, or
that which is occupied with such articles as dog-
collars and door-plates.*      ROBERT THEVV, another
English engraver of eminence, originally employed
himself merely on visiting-cards and shop-bills.
Finally, to omit other instances for the present,
WILLIAM CASLON, the celebrated type-founder, began
life only as an engraver of the ornaments on gun-
barrels ; from which he proceeded, in the first in-
stance, to attempt cutting letters for the bookbinders.
Some of his performances in this line having, we are
told, been accidentally seen by Mr. Bowyer, the
printer, that gentleman sought him out ; and after
forming an acquaintance with him, took him one day
to a foundery in Bartholomew Close, when, after
                      * See p. 52.

60          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
having shewn him something of the nature of the
business, he asked him if he thought he could now
undertake to cut types himself.      Caslon requested a
day to consider the matter ; and then answered that
he thought he could.         Upon this, Mr. Bowyer and
two of his friends advanced him a small capital ; and
with no other preparation he set up in his new busi-
ness.     In this he speedily acquired such reputation,
that instead of the English printers importing their
types any longer from Holland, as had before that
time been the custom to a very considerable extent,
those cast by him were frequently exported to the
Continent.
   The great disadvantage which had to be surmounted
by some of the individuals we have just mentioned,
and others similarly situated, was the time they had
lost before commencing the pursuit to which they
eventually dedicated themselves.      This circumstance
involved the necessity of acquiring an acquaintance
sometimes even with the most elementary principles
of their art, at a period of life when their habits were
already formed, and a certain degree of aversion con-
tracted for what we may call the discipline of appren-
ticeship in the rudiments of any art or profession.
    Considerable as this disadvantage must have been,
we see how completely it was overcome by their per-
 severance and honourable ambition.         Thus, in ano-
 ther field of enterprise, OLIVER CROMWELL, who never
 fought a battle that he did not win, was forty-two
 years old before he entered the army ; and his con-
 temporary (born, indeed, the same year with himself),
 the immortal BLAKE, who stands in the very front
 rank of our captains and patriots, and may be consi-
 dered as the founder of the system of naval tactics
 adopted after his time, and who was the first of our
 commanders who ventured to attack a battery with
 ships, was in his fiftieth year when he first went to sea.

                          JONES.                       61
In  the pursuit, too, of literature and science, we have
many instances of persons who, in the same manner,
have become schoolboys, as it were, in their manhood
or old age ; and, undismayed by the reflection that their
spring, and sometimes their summer likewise, of life
was already spent and gone, have given themselves
with as much alacrity of heart to the work of that
education, of which circumstances, or their own
heedlessness, had prevented the earlier commence-
ment, as if they had been yet as much children in
years as they were in learning.       Life is short, cer-
tainly ; and a youth lost in idleness makes a fear-
ful subtraction from its scanty sum : but this is the
true way to repair that loss, and to make our few
years many.      We do not comprehend, however,
among those who have distinguished themselves
by acquisitions made late in life, all such as may
have merely familiarized themselves          with a new
branch of knowledge after the regular period of
education was over.       The history of any devotee of
learning is the history of a series of acquisitions,
which terminates only with his life itself; and will
very often embrace much that may, in one sense, be
termed elementary study, even in its latest stages.
Thus, the student of languages, for example, if he
proposes to survey any considerable portion of his
mighty subject, must lay his account with being
obliged to learn vocabularies and grammar rules to
the end of his days.        That wonderful scholar, Sir
WILLIAM JONES, who, in addition to great acquire-
ments in various other departments of knowledge,
had made himself acquainted with no fewer than
twenty-eight different languages, was studying the
grammars of several of the oriental dialects up to
within a week of his lamented death.         At an earlier
period of his life, when he was in his thirty-third
year, he had resolved, as appears from a scheme of
                                              G

  62        THE PURSUIT       OF KNOWLEDGE.
  study found  among his papers, "to learn no more
 rudiments of any kind; but to perfect himself in,
 first, twelve languages, as the means of acquiring
 accurate knowledge of history, arts, and sciences."
 These were the Greek,          Latin, Italian, French,
 Spanish, Portuguese, Hebrew, Arabic, Persian, Turk-
 ish, German, and English.       When he was afterwards
 induced, however, from the situation he held in India,
 to devote himself more especially to oriental learning,
 he extended his researches a great way even beyond
 these ample limits. In addition to the tongues already
 enumerated, he made himself not only completely
 master of Sanscrit, as well as less completely of Hin-
 dostanee and Bengalee, but to a considerable extent
also of the other Indian dialects, called the Tibetian,
the Pali, the Phalavi, and the Deri ; to which are to
be added, among the languages which he describes
himself to have studied least perfectly, the Chinese,
 Russian, Runic, Syriac, Ethiopic, Coptic, Dutch,
Swedish, and Welsh*.
    It is only, however, when an individual com-
mences the study of foreign languages in his ma-
turer years, that we are entitled to quote him as an
example of the peculiar sort of perseverance         and
intrepidity we are at present considering.     Thus, the
old Roman, CATO the Censor, in all respects an ex-
traordinary man, shewed his force of character very
strikingly, by setting himself to learn Greek in his old
age.    At this time the study of this language was
very rare at Rome : and the circumstance renders
the determination of Cato, and his success, the more
remarkable.    In so far as his native literature was
concerned, Cato was before this one of the most
learned of his countrymen : but he certainly had
never experienced what it was to study a foreign
                       * See p. 107.

                        ALFRED.                        63
language till now. Our own ALFRED the Great one
of the most perfect characters in history    affords us a
still more illustrious example of what may be done
by those who are not only advanced in life before
they have an opportunity of acquiring what is com-
monly called learning, but even by those whose most
elementary education has been begun comparatively
late. Alfred had reached his twelfth year before he had
even learned his alphabet ; and an interesting anecdote
is told of the occasion on which he was first prompted
to apply himself to books. His mother, it seems, had
shewn him and his brothers a small volume, illumi-
nated, or adorned, in different places with coloured let-
ters, and other such embellishments, as was then the
fashion.    Seeing it excite the admiration of the chil-
dren, she promised she would give it to him who should
first learn to read it. Alfred, although the youngest,
was the only one of the four, perhaps, who had spirit
even to attempt getting possession of the prize on
such conditions    at least, it was he who actually won
it ; for he immediately, we are told, went and pro-
cured a teacher for himself, and in a very short time,
by his assistance, was able to perform the task set
him by his mother, and to claim the promised reward.
Yet it appears to have been a long while after this
before he was enabled to carry his acquirements
beyond the mere elements of literature. The miseries
to which his kingdom was for so many years ex-
posed from the invasion of the Danes, and the inces-
sant labours and privations to which he was in con-
sequence compelled to submit, left him no leisure,
till he had passed at least the twentieth year of his
age, to improve his acquaintance with books ; and
even after he had regained his throne, and re-esta-
blished his country in peace and independence, he
had nearly as many impediments to contend with,
from the extreme difficulty of procuring the necessary
                                           G'2

64           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 instructors.  Nearly all those possessed of any degree
of   learning-  had disappeared, or been destroyed,
during- the late confusions.    Alfred himself informs
us, that when he came to the throne, he knew but
few priests in the northern part of the kingdom, and
not one to the south of the Thames, who could
translate the Latin prayers of the church-service.
 By searching about, however, in all directions, and
sending to foreign countries for what his own could
not supply, he at last collected at his court some of
the ablest men whom that dark age afforded ; and
he set himself immediately to profit by their instruc-
tions, with a docility and zeal that never can be
enough admired.       In spite of all his public duties
and cares, and a tormenting disease, which scarcely
ever left him a moment of rest, it was his custom,
we are told, day and night, to employ his whole
leisure time, either in reading books himself or in
having them read to him by others.        Still, however,
although he used to have such Latin books as he
could procure interpreted to him by his learned
friends, his native language was for a long time after
this period the only one he knew.      It would appear,
indeed, by the account of Asser, one of his in-
structors, who has left us a very interesting biogra-
phy of his royal pupil, that he had reached his thirty-
ninth year before he began to attempt translating any-
thing from the Latin tongue himself. He and Asser,
we are informed, were one day conversing together
as usual, when the latter, taking occasion to introduce
a quotation from a particular author, the king was
so much struck with the passage, that he desired it
might be immediately inscribed on one of the blank
leaves of a small religious manual, which he was
wont to carry about with him in his bosom.          This
became the commencement of a collection of favourite
sentences from the Latin writers, which Alfred, ever

          MOLIERE.      ST. PALATE.    CARTER.        65
aspiring after excellence, soon became ambitious to
be able to peruse himself; and so proceeded at once
to the acquirement of the language in which they
were written.     In no long time he attained to a great
proficiency in his new study, as several translations
from Latin authors which he has left behind him
abundantly testify.     Among these are a version of
Boethius's 'Consolations of Philosophy,' which he has
rendered exceedingly interesting, by the introduction
into the original work of many new ideas and illus-
trations of his own ; and another of Orosius's ' Ancient
History and Geography,' in which he inserts a very
curious account of a voyage made in that age towards
the North Pole by a Norwegian, which he expressly
states he had heard from the lips of the navigator
himself.
   The celebrated French dramatist, MOLIERE, could
only read and write very indifferently when he was
fourteen years of age.       It had been intended that
he should follow the profession of his father, who
was an upholsterer ; but upon being taken on one
occasion, about the time we have mentioned, by his
uncle to the theatre, his passion for literature was so
much excited, that he would hear of nothing but
going to college, to which he was accordingly soon
after sent. Another well-known French writer, SAINTE
PALAYE, the author of the ' History of the Trouba-
dours,' had, from the delicacy of his health, been so
much indulged by his mother, that he had been allowed
to pass his fifteenth year before beginning either Greek
or Latin ; but his progress afterwards was so rapid,
that he abundantly made up for the time he had lost.
Dr. CARTER, the father of the celebrated Miss Carter,
had been originally intended for a grazier, and only
began his studies at the age of nineteen or twenty.
He eventually, however, became a distinguished
scholar ; and gave his daughters a learned education.
                                           o3

66           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Valeriano Bolzani,     who lived in the earlier part
of the sixteenth century, and is better known by the
Latinized name of JOANNES PIERIUS VALERIANUS,
(the epithet Pierius having been given him by one of
his masters, in allusion to the Greek term, Pierides,
one of the names of the Muses,) was fifteen years
old before he began to learn to read ; his parents,
indeed, having been so poor, that he was obliged to
commence life as a domestic servant. He afterwards
became one of the most learned and elegant scholars
of his time, and wrote many books, several of which
are still well-known and esteemed, particularly a
curious treatise on the misfortunes of literary men,
which has been often reprinted ; the last edition hav-
ing been brought out at Geneva, in 1821, under the
care of our countryman, Sir Egerton Brydges. Vale-
rianus merits particular commemoration in literary
history on another account     for his disinterestedness,
namely, in refusing the bishoprics of Capo d'Istria
and Avignon, when pressed upon his acceptance by
his patron, Pope Clement VII., in order that he might
devote himself entirely to literature. JOOST VAN DEN
VONDEL, one of the most distinguished names in
Dutch poetry, and the author of works which fill
nine quarto volumes, commenced learning Latin only
in his twenty-sixth year, and Greek not till some
years afterwards.     Vondel, like many of the other
literary men of Holland, had begun life as a com-
mercial man, and originally kept a hosier's shop
at Amsterdam ; but he gave up the management of
his business to his wife when he commenced his
 career as an author.    He died in extreme old age in
 1679, after having occupied, during a great part of
his life, the very highest place in the literature of his
country. The French mathematician, HENRY PITOT,
was the author of several ingenious works, and par-
ticularly of a treatise on the management of vessels

                         PITOT.                        67
at sea.    This book was long- adopted by the French
Government as the text-book for the instruction of
the navy; and, being- translated into English, pro-
cured the writer the honour of admission into the
Royal Society.      Yet he had reached his twentieth
year before he began to pay any attention to learning .
                                                        1
About this period of his life, when he used to spend
his time only in idleness and dissipation, he chanced
one day, upon going into a bookseller's shop, to open
a volume on geometry, the figures in which attracted
his attention, and excited his curiosity so much that
he determined to study the work.       This was the be-
ginning of his fondness both for mathematics and for
reading ; and he soon grew so much attached to his
new occupation, that he abandoned his old habits
entirely, and now spent every hour in study, or in
watching the stars, by means of instruments of his
own invention, from the top of an old tower in his
father's house.    This mode of employing his time
obtained for him at first, it is said, among his igno-
rant and astonished neighbours, the reputation of
being a magician.      He was afterwards sent by his
father to complete his studies at Paris, where he was
introduced to Reaumur, the celebrated naturalist,
(whose work on insects is still one of the most philo-
sophical guides to the student of entomology,) and the
inventor of the thermometer known by his name; and
he soon became, under Reaumur's guidance, an adept
in the different departments of his favourite science. It
is a curious circumstance, however, and shews at once
 his ardour in the pursuit of knowledge, and the
 penalty he was long afterwards obliged to pay for his
 early negligence, that he actually submitted, when
 more than fifty years old, to take his first lessons in
 Latin from his son's tutor, in order to be able to read
 some mathematical works written in that language,
which he wished to consult.

 68          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
    Another    French mathematician, the ingenious
 PAUCTON, whose ' Metrology,' or treatise on weights
 and measures, although first published nearly half a
 century ago, is still considered one of the most valu-
 able extant, had, owing to the poverty of his parents,
 scarcely received any education at all, till after he
 had reached his eighteenth year.      He was at last
 noticed by a charitable ecclesiastic, who gave him
 lessons for about two years ; after which he com-
pleted his studies at Nantz.     Paucton eventually ob-
tained the professorship of mathematics at Stras-
burg ; but his labours here must have been but in-
 differently recompensed, for when the city was threat-
 ened with a blockade by the Austrians, and the ma-
gistrates had issued orders that every inhabitant who
 could not supply himself beforehand with a sufficient
 store of provisions for the siege, should quit the
place, Paucton, being too poor to afford the neces-
 sary outlay, was obliged to take his departure with
his wife and three children.       He was afterwards,
however, patronized by the French Government ; and
had the prospect of passing his latter days in com-
 fortable circumstances, when he died in 1798, at the
age   of sixty-two.
    We shall at present mention only another example.
JOHN OGILBY, the well- known translator of Homer,
was originally a dancing-master. He had apprenticed
himself to that profession on finding himself reduced
to depend upon his own resources, by the imprisonment
of his father for debt in the King's Bench. Having
succeeded in this pursuit, he was very soon able to re-
lease his father, which he did, very much to his credit,
with the first money he procured.     An accident, how-
ever, put an end to his dancing, and he was left
again without any permanent means of subsistence.
In these circumstances, the first thing he did was to
open a small theatre in Dublin j but just when he

                             OGILBY.                 69
 had fairly established       it,
                              and had reason to hope
 that  it would succeed, the rebellion of 1641 broke
 out, and not only swept away all his little property,
 but repeatedly put even his life in jeopardy.     He at
 last found his way back to London, in     state of com-
                                           a
 plete destitution
                ;   but although he had never received
 any regular education, he had before this made  a   few
 attempts at verse-making, and in his extremity he be-
thought him of turning his talent in this way, which
 certainly was not great, to some account.    He imme-
diately commenced his studies, which he was enabled
to pursue chiefly,      it  said, through
                             is              the liberal
assistance of some members of the university of
Cambridge and although then considerably above
            ;
forty years of age, he made such progress in Latin
that he was soon considered in a condition to under-
take a poetical translation of Virgil. This work made
its appearance in the year 1650.       A second edition
of was printed
  it                a few years after, with great pomp
of typography and embellishments.         Such was its
success that the industrious and enterprising trans-
lator actually proceeded, although now in his fifty-
fourth year, to commence the study of Greek, in
order that he might match his version of the JEne\d
by others of the Iliad and the Odyssey.     In due time
both appeared   ;  and Ogilby, who had in the mean-
while established himself second time in Dublin, in
                              a
the management of a new theatre, was in the enjoy-
ment of greater prosperity than ever, when, having
unfortunately disposed of his Irish property, and re-
turned to take up his residence in London just before
the great fire of 1666, he was left by that dreadful
event once more entirely destitute.    With unconquer-
able courage and perseverance, however, he set to
work afresh with his translations and other literary
enterprises ;   and was again so successful as to be
eventually enabled to re-build his house, which had

70          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
been burned down, and to established a printing-press ;
in the employment of which he took every oppor-
tunity of indulging that taste for splendid typography
to which his first works had owed so much of their
success.    He was now also appointed cosmographer
and geographic printer to Charles II. ; and at last,
at the age of seventy-six, terminated a life remarkable
for its vicissitudes, and not uninstructive as an evi-
dence both of the respectable proficiency in litera-
ture which may be acquired by those who begin
their education late in life, and also of what may
be done by a stout heart and indefatigable activity
in repairing the worst injuries of fortune. Ogilby
was no great poet, although his translations were
very popular when they first appeared ; but his
Homer, we ought to mention, had the honour of
being one of the first books that kindled the young
imagination of Pope, who, however, in the preface to
his own translation of the Iliad, describes the poetry
of his predecessor and early favourite as " too mean
for criticism."

                         CHAPTER V.
Early Age of Great Men. Short Term of their Lives. Newton ; Gre-
    gory; Torricelli ; Pascal; Covrper ; Burns; Byron; Sydney; Ot-
    way; Collins; Mozart; Raphael; Correggio; Politian ; Mirandola.
 CONSIDERABLE as are the disadvantages which those
 persons have to contend with who begin their ac-
 quaintance with books only late in life, it ought not
to be forgotten, on the other hand, that all the chances
of the race are not against them. The time they have
lost, and are anxious to redeem, of itself gives a sti-
mulus that will make up for many disadvantages.
Then, although they have not yet learned much from
books, they have nevertheless learned of necessity a
great deal from other sources ; and they come to their
studies, too, with faculties, which, if not quite so
pliant as those of childhood, have much more vigour
and comprehension.        And as for the comparative
shortness of the space which they may reasonably
count upon as being still left to them for their new
pursuit, after the years they have already spent, as it
were, in sleep, we would remark that in a right view
of the subject, this is truly a little matter.
   Between the ultimate point of discovery, and the
place we now occupy on the ascent towards            the   it,
steps are so inconceivably many, that, with regard to
us, they may be most truly described as inter-
minable.    So far as we have experience, or can con-
ceive,   of knowledge,   it
                         is     an expanse ever widening
before us and around us.        Its horizon seems not only
always as distant as ever, but always becoming more
distant the more we strive to approach it. For every

 72           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
one discovery is merely the opening of a road to other
discoveries ; and the lifting of us at the same time to
a new eminence, from which we see a broader do-
main than before, both of the known and of the
unknown.        It is the attainment of a comparatively
small portion of knowledge only, that even the
longest life can compass ; and the shortest is sufficient
for the attainment of some portion.        In other words,
the pleasure belonging to the acquisition of know-
ledge is one which all may enjoy who choose, let the
time of life at which they commence the pursuit of it
be what it may.       In so far, therefore, as we are to be
allured by this temptation, it matters not, as we have
said, whether we find ourselves in the morning or in
the evening of our days, when we would yield our-
selves up to its influence.      If we were even certain
that we had but a few years longer to live, it would
still offer, for what leisure we could spare from other
duties, the most delightful as well as the most en-
nobling of all occupations.
    Such considerations we would address to the gene-
rality of those whose attention may not have been
 attracted to literature till late in life.    But even to
 him who feels within himself the ambition, and some-
 thing of the power, of high intellectual achievement,
 and only regrets that so many of his years have
 been lost in other pursuits before he has had any
 opportunity of turning to this, we would say that the
 field in which he longs to distinguish himself is
 still open for his admission, and its best prizes wait-
 ing to be won by him, if only his ardour and cou-
 rage do not fail.     When there is a real superiority of
 faculties, it is wonderful how much has often been
 accomplished even in a very few years devotedly
 given to the pursuit of eminence.           Some of the
 greatest men that ever lived have either died early,
 or might have done so for their fame. NEWTON

          GREGORY.     TORRICELLI.     PASCAL.          73
himself had completed many of his grand disco-
veries, and laid the foundation of all of them, before
he had reached his twenty-fifth year ; and, although
he lived to a great age, may be said to have finished
all that was brilliant in his career at the early pe-
riod of forty-five.  After this, it has been remarked,
that he wrote nothing, except some further explana-
tions and developments of what he had previously
published.     But to go to other great names : JAMES
GREGORY, the celebrated inventor of the reflecting
telescope,  was suddenly struck blind in his thirty-
seventh year, while observing         the  satellites of
Jupiter, and died a few days after. TORRICELLI,
whose famous discovery of the barometer we have
already mentioned, and who had deservedly acquired
the reputation of being in every respect one of the
greatest natural philosophers of his time, after the
world had lost the illustrious Galileo, died at the
age of thirty-nine.    PASCAL, who first showed the
true use and value of Torricelli's discovery*, and
who has ever been accounted, for his eminence both
in science and in literature, one of the chief glories of
France, as he would have been of any country in
which he had appeared, was cut off at the same early
age.    Nay, in his case, the wonder is greater still ;
for he passed the last eight years of his lite, as is
well known, in almost uninterrupted abstinence from
his wonted intellectual pursviits.     Under the influ-
ence of certain religious views, operating upon a
delicate and excitable temperament, and a frame ex-
hausted by long ill-health and hard study, he, most
mistakenly, conceived these pursuits to be little bet-
 ter than an abuse of his time and faculties       as if it
 were criminal in man to employ those powers which
 his Creator has given him, in a way so well fitted
                       * See
                             p. 13,

  74         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  to purify and elevate his nature, and to fill him with
  sublimer conceptions, both of the wonderful universe
  around him, and of the Infinite Mind that formed it.
  It ought not to be forgotten, however, that it was
  during this period of depression and seclusion that
                                              '
 he wrote and published his celebrated          Provincial
 Letters,' an attack upon the casuistry of the Jesuits,
 which, strange to say, is a work not only distin-
 guished by all that is admirable in style and reasoning,
 but abounding in the most exquisite wit and humour,
 which the splendid enthusiast intermingles with his
 dexterous and often eloquent argumentation, appa-
rently with as much light-heartedness, and as natural
 an ease, as if he had been one the flow of whose
spirits had scarcely yet known what it was to be
disturbed either by fear or sorrow.      So false a thing,
often, is the show of gaiety      or rather so mighty is
the power of intellectual occupation        to make the
heart forget for the time its most prevailing griefs,
and to change its deepest gloom to sunshine.        Thus,
too, it was that our own COWPER owed to his literary
efforts almost the only moments of exemption he en-
joyed from a depression of spirits extremely similar,
both in its origin and effects, to that under which
Pascal laboured ; and, while the composition of his
               '
great poem, The Task/ and his translations of the
Iliad and Odyssey, suspended even for months
and years the attacks of the disease, his inimitable
'
   John Gilpin,' for a shorter interval, absolutely
transformed his melancholy into riotous merriment.
Cowper affords us also another example of how
much may be done in literature, and in the ac-
quirement of a high name in one of its highest de-
partments, even by the dedication to it of only
a comparatively small portion of a life-time.          He
had received a regular education ; but, after leaving
school, threw away the next twenty or thirty years

              SYDNEY.    OTWAY.     MOZART.           75
 of his life almost in doing nothing.          When the
 first volume of his poems        appeared, the   author
 was above fifty years old ; and it was after this that
 all his more celebrated pieces were written and
 that, too, although the eighteen years that intervened
 before his death were, in regard to both his body
 and mind, little better than "a long disease." Many
 of our other poets likewise, whose names are im-
 perishable, have had but a brief term of life allowed
 them in which to achieve their fame.       Sir THOMAS
 WYATT and Lord SURREY, the great refiners of our
language in the reign of Henry VIII., and the first
 English poets after Chaucer whose works can be
 said still to survive, died, the former at the age of
thirty-eight, and the latter on the scaffold, the last
 victim of Henry's despotism, at that of thirty-one.
The gallant Sir PHILIP SYDNEY, the author of vari-
ous works in prose and verse, but best known by his
celebrated pastoral romance, ' The Arcadia,' fell at
the battle of Zutphen, in the Netherlands, in his
thirty-second year.    FRANCIS BEAUMONT, the dra-
matic poet, whose works, written in conjunction with
Fletcher, form, indeed, the second glory of the Eng-
lish drama, died in the thirtieth year of his age.
OTWAY had written his ' Orphan' and his ' Venice
Preserved,' as well as nearly all his other pieces, be-
fore he had reached the age of thirty-one ; and he
died in extreme penury, the consequence, in a great
measure, of his irregular and dissolute habits, at
thirty-four.   COLLINS first published his odes, many
of which are among the most exquisite in the lan-
guage, when only twenty-six, and was but ten years
older when he died.     Finally, BURNS died at the age
of thirty-seven, and BYRON at that of thirty-six. Yet
these are all names that will never die.
    We will mention only a very few more, distin-
guished in other departments of art or literature,
                                           H 2

76        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE,
who died very young 1, when compared with the im-
pression they have produced on the world.          The
great musical composer, MOZART, was a wonderful
instance of precocity, as well as of surpassing genius.
He died at the early age of thirty-five, after a career
of unrivalled splendour, and the production of a
succession of works which have left him almost,
if not altogether, without an equal among either his
predecessors   or those who have come after him.
Mozart's devotion to his art, and the indefatigable
industry with which, notwithstanding his extra-
ordinary powers, he gave himself to its cultiva-
tion, may read an instructive lesson, even to far
inferior minds, in illustration of the true and only
method for the attainment of excellence.       From his
childhood, to the last moment of his life, Mozart was
wholly a musician.      Even in his earliest years no
pastime had ever any interest for him in which music
was not introduced.       His voluminous productions,
 to enumerate even the titles of which would occupy
 no little space, are the best attestation of the un-
 ceasing diligence of his maturer years.   He used, in-
 deed, to compose with surprising rapidity: but he had
 none of the carelessness of a rapid composer ; for so
delicate was his sense of the beautiful, that he was
 never satisfied with any one of his productions until
 it had received all the perfection he could give          it,   by
the most minute       and elaborate correction.    Ever
 striving after higher and higher degrees of excel-
 lence, and existing only for his art, he scarcely suf-
 fered even the visible approach of death to withdraw
him for a moment from his beloved studies. "During
 the last months of his life," says an anonymous
 writer*, " though weak in body, he was             full   '
  of the God;' and his application, though indefati-
           * In Gorton's   '
                               Biographical Dictionary.'

                 RAPHAEL.    CORREGGIO.                77
  liable, could not keep pace with his invention.    *
                                                       II
                     '
  Flauto Magico,' La Clemenza di Tito,' and a re-
  quiem, which he had scarcely time to finish, were
  among his last efforts.    The composition of the re-
  quiem, in the decline of his bodily powers, and under
  great mental excitement, hastened his dissolution ;
 he was seized with repeated fainting fits, brought on
 by his extreme assiduity in writing, in one of which
 he expired.    A few hours before his death took place,
 he is reported to have said, ' Now
                                  "
                                         I  begin to see
 what might be done in music.'
     In the sister art of painting, the great RAPHAEL,
 whose works astonish not more by their excellence
 than their number, lived only till he was thirty-
 seven, dying, like our own Shakspeare, on the anni-
 versary of his birth. His distinguished contemporary,
 CORREGGIO, was only two or three years older,
 when, having completed his great work, the Assump-
 tion of the Virgin Mary, which is painted on the
 ceiling of the dome of the Cathedral at Parma, he
 suddenly met with his death, under circumstances
 never to be remembered without sorrow.        So igno-
rantly, we are told, was his masterly performance
appreciated by the canons his employers, that they
not only refused the unfortunate artist the price
that had been agreed upon, but paid him five
hundred crowns, which was all they would allow, in
copper.    Correggio was carrying home this money to
his family, who were living in great poverty in a
neighbouring village, when, overcome by the heat of
the weather and the weight of his load, he was un-
fortunately tempted to slake his thirst at a spring-
by the way-side, and the consequence was an in-
flammatory attack, which soon proved fatal.         The
destiny of the picture itself had nearly been the same
with that of the artist.    It is said that the canons
were just about to efface it, when the illustrious
                                           H 3

78           THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
Titian, happening; to pass through Parma, expressed
himself with regard to it in terms of such high admi-
ration, as to induce them to forego their intention.
Titian, in this case, imitated Alexander's speech to
 Diogenes : "     If I were not Titian," said that great
 painter,
            " I  should wish to be Correggio."       It is
 Correggio of whom it is told, that, upon seeing one of
 the works of Raphael, he could only express his
 feelings by exclaiming, with a noble pride in their
 common art,
                  " And I also am a painter !"
       In the same country, and nearly at the same
 period with Raphael and Correggio, lived Angelo
  Politian, and Giovanni Pico, Prince of Mirandola,
  two of the most learned men of an age abound-
  ing in great scholars ; the former of whom died at
  forty, and the latter at thirty-two.      POLITIAN, in
  particular, has scarcely been excelled, by any scho-
  lar of later times, in that combination of profound
  erudition and elegant taste in which he so conspi-
   cuously surpassed all his contemporaries.      We may
   imagine how actively his short life must have been
   spent, when we reflect on his extensive literary la-
   bours, and the variety and amazing exactness of his
    acquirements.     The works he has left us are not so
   voluminous as those of some other writers ; but it
    would be unfair and absurd to measure the industry
    of such a mind as his by the mere bulk of its produc-
    tions. The works, however, which he w-rote and pub-
    lished constitute but a small part of the services he
    rendered to literature. In that age, the recovery of
    the lost works of the ancients was, in reality, by far
    the most important occupation to which a scholar
     could devote himself; and, fortunately, it was also
     looked upon as the most honourable        It occupied,
     accordingly, a large portion of the time of Politian
     and all his distinguished contemporaries. The cele-
     brated Lorenzo de' Medici, the wealthy and munifi-

                        POLITIAN.                      79
cent patron of all the liberal arts, and himself a
scholar and writer of no mean order, was one of the
most ardent among- the collectors of ancient manu-
scripts ; and Politian was often despatched by him
to different parts of Italy, to search for those fast-
perishing treasures, and to purchase them for his
library.      I
            " wish," said Lorenzo to his friend, as he
was proceeding on one of his expeditions for this
purpose,
            " that the diligence of Picus and yourself
would afford me such opportunities of purchasing
books, that I should be obliged even to pledge my
furniture to possess them."      It was in the collating
and correcting of these manuscripts that the literary
labours of Politian principally consisted. His studies
were extended to all the various departments of
ancient literature.    As a clergyman (for he held
the office of a canon in the Metropolitan Church
of Florence), he had made himself conversant
with Divinity, Hebrew, and the Canon Law; and
Civil Jurisprudence is known to have occupied a
large share of his attention.       He had acquired so
perfect a familiarity with the two classic languages,
that he wrote both in Latin and Greek almost with
 the facility of one using his native tongue; and with
 a purity and elegance that would have done no dis-
 honor, it has been thought, to the most learned of
 the ancients themselves. The few compositions he
 has left us, too, in his native Italian, still rank with
 the most exquisite in that beautiful language.         It
 was, long after the revival of letters, the reproach of
 some of the greatest scholars of Europe, that they
 neglected their mother tongue to such a degree as
 to be incapable of expressing themselves in it with
 ordinary gracefulness, or even perspicuity.     This was
  certainly less the case with the learned of Italy than
 of other countries, owing principally to the mighty
 influence which had been exerted some time before the

80          TIJE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  era we are speaking 1 of, in refining 1, fixing 1, and giving
  celebrity to the Italian language by the great Dante,
  and his successors, Petrarch and Boccaccio ; and
  partly, perhaps, to that resemblance to its parent,
  Latin, which would naturally give to this language
  a peculiarly classic character in the estimation of the
  students of ancient learning, and incline them to favour
  and cherish it accordingly.       But in France, more
  than a century after this, the greatest ignorance of
 their native language was often exhibited, even by
 those scholars who wrote most elegantly in that of
 the Greeks or Romans. Thus, the celebrated Sebas-
 tian Castalio, whose Latin version of the Bible has
 been already mentioned as remarkable for its purity,
 and whose other works in the same language are all
 eminently deserving of the same praise, in afterwards
 translating the Scriptures into French, expressed
 himself in so vulgar and barbarous a manner, that
 his style has been described as no better than the
jargon of the beggars. In Germany, so late as
 even a century after the time of Castalio, the illus-
 trious Leibnitz composed almost all his works either
in Latin or French, the little which he composed in
  German being very ill written ; and although, in
 the variety of his schemes, he proposes one for
 the improvement of that language, he only shows,
by the remarks he makes on            it,   his ignorance of
 its true character and resources.           Our own noble
tongue was, even up to a very recent period, scarcely
recognised, by many of our most learned scholars, as
a   suitable vehicle either for elegant literature or phi-
losophy; and that, too, strangely enough, long after        it
had been adorned by some of the greatest works,
both in verse and prose, that any nation has yet had
to boast of. The English tongue was both refined   a
and copious one so early as the time of Chaucer,
who lived in the fourteenth century, and was the

                           POLITIAN.                         81
contemporary of Petrarch and Boccaccio.                 In the
earlier part of the sixteenth century, as may be seen
from the poems of Surrey and Wyatt, it had attained,
in regard to both its words and its idioms, very nearly
the form it still has ; and the latter part of that cen-
tury, and the beginning of the following, was the time
of its greatest richness and glory, being that in which
flourished     Spenser, and Hooker, and Bacon, and
Shakspeare, and many others whom even their great-
ness has not obscured, and in which Jeremy Taylor
and Milton were born and educated.                Yet, after all
these writers had produced their immortal works, we
find not only some of our most distinguished scho-
lars continuing to write their native tongue with an
awkwardness and inaccuracy that, in a Latin com-
position, would have been considered disgraceful,
but trace our most polite and popular authors them-
selves affecting almost universally to despise their
mother English as an unformed and barbarous dia-
lect, scarcely to be used except in works of the most
ephemeral description, or in addressing the vulgar
who understood no other. Thus, to omit many similar
evidences of the general state of feeling, Waller, the
poet, who died the year before the Revolution, tells
us that
               Poets, that lasting marble seek,
               Must carve in Latin or in Greek.
    It is delightful to contrast with this most discredit-
able insensibility the enthusiastic admiration which
some of our older writers express for this golden
growth of our island            the best representative and
picture of our national manners, intellect, heart, and
history. The works of Chaucer, who, Waller in-
forms us,
               His sense can only boast,
               The glory of his numbers lost,
 are, in Spenser's estimation, the       " well of English un

82           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
defiled ;" and Spenser was one of the most learned
men, as well as greatest poets, that ever adorned the
literature of any country. So, George Chapman, one of
the poets of the age of Elizabeth and James, who pro-
duced, in the beginning of the seventeenth century,
a translation of the Iliad and Odyssey, abounding in
passages of great splendour and beauty (and which
Pope acknowledges to be animated by
                                       " a daring fiery
spirit, something," he is pleased to add,
                                           " like what
one might imagine Homer himself would have writ
before he arrived at years of discretion"), exclaims,
with great fervour and sweetness of expression, in a
copy of original verses which he has prefixed to that
work,
        And for our tongue, that still is so impaired*
          By travelling linguists. 1 can prove it clear
        That no tongue hath the Muse's utterance heired
           For verse, and that sweet music to the ear
        Struck out of rhyme, so naturally as this.
And then       he goeson to contrast its variety and
sinewy strength, with what he deems the compara-
tively feeble and inexpressive monotony of both the
French and Italian. Thus, too, Milton, although
accomplished in all the learning of Greece and Rome,
and, as a writer of Latin, scarcely inferior to any
other of his time, had very early the wisdom to dis-
cern that, whatever of lasting glory he might achieve
must be derived from the works he should produce,
in what he calls
                  " the mother dialect" to the culti-
vation of which his thoughts appear to have been first
turned by the example of the success that had at-
tended the like enterprise as pursued by the writers
of Italy. In a prose tract, which he entitles ' Rea-
sons against Prelaty,' written many years before he
had begun the composition of his Paradise Lost, he
                       * That   is,   depreciated.

                      MIR AND OLA.                        83
announces to us that he had formed with himself
" that resolution which Ariosto followed, against the
persuasions of Bembo, to fix all the industry and art
he could unite to the adorning of his native tongue;"
" that what the
                  greatest and choicest wits," he adds,
" of Athens, Rome, or modern
                                        Italy, and those
Hebrews of old, did for their country, I, in my .pro-
portion, with this over and above of being a Chris-
tian, might do for mine ; not caring to be once named
abroad, though perhaps        I  could attain to that, but
content with these British islands as my world."
It must, however, be admitted, that the preference
given upon the revival of literature to the Latin
language, was a natural consequence of the paucity
of readers in any particular country, and of the exten-
sive diffusion of a language rendered general amongst
the reading classes in Western Europe, in conse-
quence of its application to the services of the church.
   We have little written in his native tongue by the
Prince of MIRANDOLA ; nor, indeed, is it from his
published works that we must judge of the extent of
those literary labours which he found means to under-
take in the course of his short life.     Yet, if ever there
was a heart given up to the love of literature, it was
that of Mirandola.     He was born in the year 1463;
and, if we may trust to the accounts handed down
to us by some of his contemporaries, was even in
early youth such a prodigy of learning as the world
has not often seen.     It has been affirmed that, by the
time he had reached his eighteenth year, he had made
himself familiar with no fewer than twenty-two dif-
ferent languages      a story in which, as well as the
 similar one which certain ancient authors tell us of
the famous Mithridates, King of Pontus, who is said
to have spoken twenty-four languages fluently, there
must be, we can hardly doubt, a very liberal allow-
 ance of the fabulous.     At   the university of Bologna,

84          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
of which   he was entered at the early age   of fourteen,
Mirandola     greatly distinguished himself not only
by his uncommon powers of intellect and memory,
but by ?n industry and application almost equally
rare.   His future ardour and success in the pur-
suit of literature, up to the period of his death, was
altogether in accordance with this early promise:
"  I  have, by assiduous and intense application," he
writes to one of his friends in his twenty-third year,
" attained to the knowledge of the Hebrew and Chal-
daic languages, and am at present struggling with
the difficulties of the Arabic.    Such are the achieve-
ments which       I  have ever thought, and still think,
worthy the ambition of a nobleman." In a subse-
quent letter to another of his correspondents, he says,
in reference to the same subject, " After having
studied the Hebrew language day and night for a
month, I have directed my whole attention to the
Arabic and Chaldee, not doubting that in these          I
shall make as much progress as        I have done in the
Hebrew, in which I am already able to compose an
epistle, not certainly so as to merit praise, but yet
without committing any decided fault.       See what can
be done by determination of mind         by mere labour
and diligence, even when the strength is but incon-
siderable."     Mirandola's letters, which unfortunately
form but a very small collection, are the most inte-
resting productions of his pen we now possess.
They breathe in every page both a literary enthusi-
asm that is quite inspiring, and a serenity and cheer-
 fulness of heart, than which, adorned, as it is, by all
 the graces of a fervent devotion, and a very high-
 toned moralitv,/ *       O can be more delightful.
                    nothing                            So
 precious were they wont to be esteemed, that in some
 of the earlier editions we find them entitled, ' The
 Golden Epistles of the most learned, most noble, and
 most eloquent of Mortals,'       an inscription which,

                       MIRANDOLA.                    85
seeming as it does to a modern taste to partake some-
what of the pompous and extravagant, speaks at
least the reverence and affection with which his own
contemporaries regarded their admirable author.
    In the remaining part of the letter we have last
quoted, Mirandola goes on to inform his friend that
the circumstance which had excited in him all this
zeal to acquire an acquaintance with the Oriental
tongues, was the having obtained the loan for a short
time of certain Chaldee or Hebrew books, " if," says
he, " they are not rather treasures than books," which
he had every reason to believe were the genuine
productions of the Jew Ezra. The following is
another letter relating to this matter, addressed about
the same time to his nephew, which forcibly illus-
trates the literary enthusiasm and devotedness of the
writer.    " This was the reason," he begins, " why I
have not yet answered your letter.     Certain Hebrew
books have fallen into my hands, on which I have
spent the whole week, day and night, with such dili-
gence, that they have almost made me blind.         For
the person who brought them to me, a Jew, from
 Sicily, is to leave this in twenty days. Wherefore,
until I shall have extricated myself from these manu-
 scripts, do not expect a line from me ; for   I cannot
 leave them for a moment, lest they leave me before
 I shall have thoroughly perused them. When I shall
 have made my escape from this engagement, I will
  overwhelm you with letters, although you know that
  my mind is exceedingly occupied.      But if ever you
  are to do anything for my sake, endeavour as far as
  you can to prevent the Prince of Bar from desiring
  my coming to him ; for      I should in that case be
  obliged to interrupt all my studies, to which yon
  know how much      I  am devoted, although I care for
  nothing beside.   But I do not know whether it would
  vex me most to displease him or myself. Farewell.
                                             i

86         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
Fear God, and think of yourself every day as destined
to die."   We need scarcely add that Mirandola had
been, in this instance, deceived by his Hebrew friend,
or by    his  own sanguine temperament ; and that
the writings in question were, in reality, the produc-
tion of a much later age than that of their pretended
author.    The many laborious hours he spent in de-
ciphering them, however, were not probably alto-
gether thrown away ; nor was his ardour the less
honourable to him, that it met with somewhat less
than its expected reward.
   It was by such zeal and industry as this, that, cut
off as he was in his early days, Mirandola nevertheless
had obtained for himself the universal reputation
of being (to borrow the words of one of his contem-
poraries) not only a most able linguist, but master
of all the liberal arts, an admirable poet, and the
most learned philosopher and skilful disputant of his
age.    Even Politian describes him as the Phoenix
among all the great geniuses of his time.       Most of
his printed works (but he left many others in manu-
script) relate to theological subjects, and are strongly
marked by what would now be called a spirit of mysti-
cism; but are extolled by those who have studied
them as abounding in erudition and genius. Among
them is a Treatise, in twelve books, in refutation of
astrology, which ranks its author as one of the ear-
liest assailants in modern times of the pretensions
 of that visionary science, which may be said to have
 remained, for many ages after, nearly the universal
faith of Europe.

                       CHAPTER    VI.
               Self-educated Men. T. Simpson.
MANY of the persons who have most remarkably dis-
tinguished themselves by their ardour and success
in the pursuit of knowledge under adverse circum-
stances, have had no master to instruct them in any-
thing beyond perhaps the mere elements of reading ;
and have taught themselves, therefore, whatever else
they had acquired, by their own unaided efforts.       To
have done this indicates, undoubtedly, a decidedly
superior mind ; but it is more honourable, perhaps,
to an individual's force of character, and zeal for in-
tellectual improvement, than even to his strength of
native talent.  For a teacher is really not so indis-
pensable to the work of education as is often sup-
posed. Every branch of human knowledge has in
fact been acquired, as we have already remarked,
without the assistance of an instructor, if by no one
else, at least by him who first found it out.         But
this sort of self-instruction, demanding, as it does,
the application of original and inventive genius, in-
dicates a much more extraordinary degree of mental
capacity than is required merely to gain an acquaint-
ance by solitary study with any department of
science, or other species of learning, which is to
be found already expounded in books.           A good ele-
mentary book upon any subject is itself a teacher
which, to a person of ordinary intelligence, ought
almost to render any other unnecessary.            In the
 present age, especially, when such works abound,
 persons so circumstanced as not to be able easily to
 obtain the lessons of a living master, will find com-
                                              l2

83         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
paratively but little difficulty in teaching themselves
any of the common branches of education ; if they will
but make the attempt with a true desire and deter-
mination to succeed in       and are not devoid of those
                               it,
powers of attention and perseverance without which
there can be no success in anything.           The truth is,
 that even those who enjoy to the greatest extent
the advantages of what        called a regular education,
                                is
must be their own instructors as to the greater
portion of what they acquire,             they are ever to
                                           if
advance beyond the elements of learning.                 What
they learn at schools and colleges        comparatively of
                                               is
small value, unless their own after-reading and study
improve those advantages. Still, however,                 may
                                                          it
be said, that    it  a great matter for the young stu-
                      is
dent to have the first steps of his progress encou-
raged and facilitated, by thus advancing, as             were,
                                                         it
while another holds him by the hand.              Compared
with him who educates himself from           the  beginning,
such a student may be regarded as entering upon a
new country under the conduct of              guide, instead
                                                    a
of endeavouring to find his way through                by the
                                                        it
aid simply of the road-book.       Or rather, he        in the
                                                         is
situation of the man who begins the world with a
fortune, which, though small,          yet sufficient to set
                                          is
him up in business while others have to earn even
                           ;
their first shilling by their own ingenuity and in-
dustry.   Undoubtedly the person thus circumstanced
has a somewhat gentler ascent to climb, in the first
instance, than his competitors.         Still all must owe
what they eventually arrive at principally to their own
efforts.  And    ifthis be, generally speaking, true of
commercial prosperity,          itstill more strictly so of
                                     is
the acquisition of intellectual riches     for, in this latter
                                               ;
case, what  iscalled good-fortune can be of no avail to
anyone.     But the examples which we are going to
mention will show how much every man has                in his
                                                         it

                          SIMPSON.                       89
own power to do for himself, when placed in the
situation* referred to.
   The first case we shall detail is that of the well-
known mathematician, THOMAS SIMPSON.               He was
born in the town of      Market-Bosworth,     in Leicester-
shire, in the year 1710.        His father was a working
stuff-weaver, and was either so poor, or so insensible
to the importance of education, that, after keeping his
son at school only so long as to enable him to make
a very slight progress in reading, he took him home
with the view of bringing him up to his own trade.
Thomas, however, had already acquired a passionate
love of books, and was resolved at all hazards to
make himself a scholar. So, beside contriving to teach
himself writing, he read with the greatest eagerness
every volume that came in his way, or that he could
by any means procure ; and spent in this manner not
only all his leisure, but even occasionally a portion of
the time which his father thought he ought to have
employed at his work.         Instead of giving any en-
couragement, indeed, to his son's fondness for study,
his father did all in his power to cure him of what he
deemed so idle and pernicious a propensity ; and at
last, it is said, after many reprimands, forbade him
even to open a book, and insisted upon his confining
himself to his loom the whole day. This injudicious
severity, however, defeated its own object. The
young man's repeated attempts to evade the harsh
injunction that had been laid upon him, led to per-
petual quarrels between himself and his father, till he
was one day ordered by the latter to leave the house
altogether, and to go and seek his fortune where and
iu \\hatever way he chose.       In this extremity he took
refuge    in   the  house of a tailor's widow, who let
lodgings     in  the neighbouring village of Nuneaton,
 and with whose son, two years older than himself,
 he had       been previously     acquainted.     Here he
                                             i3

90          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
contrived to maintain himself for a while by working
at his business ; and had at least a little time to spare
besides for his favourite enjoyment of reading, when
he could anywhere borrow a book.        It chanced, how-
ever, that, among- other humble travellers who some-
times took up their abode with the widow, was a
pedlar, who followed the profession of an astrologer
and fortune-teller, as well as that of an itinerant
merchant, and was accordingly accounted a man
of no little learning by the rustics of those parts.
Young Simpson's curiosity had been, some time be-
fore this, greatly excited by a remarkable eclipse of
the sun, which happened on the llth of May, 1724 ;
but, if this was the incident that gave his mind its
first bias towards the studies in which he afterwards
attained so high a distinction, it was to his casual
connexion with the astrologer that he owed the rudi-
ments of his scientific knowledge.       This personage,
with whom he had become very intimate, had, it ap-
pears, a few books relating to the mystery he pro-
fessed, and to the branches of real learning held to be
connected with it. Among these were Cocker's
' Arithmetic,' which had,
                               fortunately, a treatise on
Algebra bound up with it as well as the less useful
addition of a work written by Partridge, the famous
Almanac-maker, on the calculation of nativities. Both
these volumes, the pedlar, on setting out upon a tour
to Bristol, left in the hands of his young friend.
These were the first scientific works Simpson had ever
had an opportunity of perusing, and they interested
him exceedingly     even the book on nativities, not-
withstanding the absurdities it was filled with, pro-
bably not a little exciting his wonder and curiosity,
both by its mysterious speculations on the prophetic
language of the stars, and such scattered intimations
as it afforded in regard to the sublime realities of
astronomy.     He studied his manuals with such

                        SIMPSON.                         91
ardour and assiduity, that the pedlar, upon returning
from his excursion, was quite confounded at his pro-
gress ; and looked upon him as so marvellous a ge-
nius, that he proceeded forthwith to draw his horo-
scope (to speak in the jargon of the art), or, in other
words, to calculate the position of the planets on the
day he was born, in order that he might ascertain the
splendid destiny in store for him.          He predicted,
that in two years more this miraculous pupil would
actually turn out a greater philosopher than himself.
After this, it cannot surprise us that our young aspirant
should give himself to his occult studies with greater
devotion than ever ; and we find him, in fact, ere
long, commencing business as fortune-teller on his
own account, and rapidly rising in reputation in that
capacity until he became the oracle of the whole
 neighbourhood.       He now gave up working as a
weaver; but, to occupy his leisure, he added to his
 principal profession that of a schoolmaster: so that,
 his gains being now considerable, he looked upon
 himself as in the secure high road to prosperity, and
 accordingly took to himself a wife in the person of
his landlady, the tailor's widow, whom we have
 already mentioned.     This was a somewhat singular
 match ; for, if the account commonly given of the
 lady be correct (which account makes her die in the
 year 17S2, at the age of one hundred and two), she
 must have been, at the time of this her second mar-
 riage, about three times as old as her husband.        In-
 deed, as we have already observed, she had (be-
 side a daughter) a son by her former husband two
 years older than her new one.          Nevertheless it is
 recorded, that she presented the latter with two suc-
 cessive additions to the family      the juvenile portion
 of which (excluding the father) now consisted, there-
fore, of four individuals.
    It is necessary to mention these circumstances, in

92          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
order to give a true picture of Simpson's situation at
this period of his life, and of the multiplied difficulties
through which he must have fought his way to the
eminence     he eventually attained.   No starting-place
for a literary career, one should think, could well be
more awkward and hopeless than that of a man who,
beside many other disadvantages, had already a
family to maintain before he had almost commenced
his education, and no other means of doing so ex-
cept a profession which necessarily excluded him from
any association with the literary world in general,
much more effectually than if he had eaten the bread
of the humblest or most menial industry.            It was
quite necessary, indeed, that, if he was ever to give
himself a chance either of advancement or respecta-
bility, he should exchange his trade of a fortune-teller
and conjurer for some more reputable vocation, even
although it should be, at the same time, a more labo-
rious and less lucrative one.      This desirable result,
in fact, was at last brought about by one of those
accidents which so often in human life bring with
them a temporary inconvenience only to turn a man
into some path of permanent prosperity, which, but
for this compulsion, he would have overlooked or
never entered.     Among the credulous persons who
applied to Simpson to resolve, by his art, their doubts
and misgivings touching the distant or the future, was
a young girl, whose sweetheart, a sailor, was at the
time at sea, and who wished to learn what he was
about, either by having him presented to her in vision,
or by a conference with a spirit who might be able to
give her the requisite information.      It was resolved,
therefore, to use the jargon of imposture, to raise a
 spirit; and, for this purpose, a confederate of the
 conjurer was attired in certain terrific habiliments,
 and concealed among a quantity of straw in the
 corner of a hay-loft, that he might step forth oil due

                         SIMPSON.                        93
invocation.      The sublime, however, had been carried
 a little too far in the decoration of this figure ; for so
 passing; hideous was the apparition, that it actually
 drove the poor girl almost out of her senses, and
 sent her off" in such a state of illness and distraction
 that for some time her life was despaired of. The
popular feeling was so strongly           excited against
 Simpson by this misadventure, that he was obliged
to leave that part of the country altogether; upon
which he fled to the town of Derby, about thirty
miles distant, determined to have nothing more to
do with conjuring.        Here he wisely returned to his
original occupation of a weaver ; and joining to his
labours at the loom during the day, the teaching of
a school at night, contrived for some time, though
with much difficulty, to earn in this way a scanty
subsistence for himself and his family.
    It was during his residence at Derby, amid the
fatigues of hard and unceasing labour, and the cares
and vexations of poverty, that this extraordinary man
made his most important advances in scientific
knowledge.        His principal source of information
             '
was the        Ladies' Diary,' of which he was a regu-
lar and attentive reader. It was in this publication
that he first read of that branch of mathematical
learning called Fluxions, or the Differential Calculus,
the recent discovery of Sir Isaac Newton and Leib-
nitz ; but the places in which it was noticed scarcely
informed him of more than its name, and its immense
 importance in all the higher investigations of mathe-
 matics.    But this was enough for such a mind as his.
 He determined to make himself master of the subject,
 and could not rest until he had possessed himself of
 the means of commencing the study of it         The only
 treatise on fluxions which had at that time appeared
 in English, was a work by an author of the name
  of Hayes; but it was a dear and somewhat scarce

94         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
book, so that he found it impossible to procure a
copy of it. Fortunately, however, in the year 1730
appeared Edmund Stone's translation of the Mar-
quis de I'Hopital's French work on the subject.
This Simpson borrowed from a friend ; and, immedi-
ately setting about the study of it with his characteristic
ardour, prosecuted it with so much success that he not
only made himself in a short time familiar with the
new science, but qualified himself to compose a work
of his own upon      it,which, when published       a  few
years after, turned out to be much more complete
and valuable than either that of Hayes or that of
Stone.    When he had finished this performance, he
set out for London, leaving his wife and family in
the mean time at Derby.         He reached the capital
without even a letter of introduction, and with
scarcely anything except       his manuscript in his
pocket.    He was at this time in his twenty-filth or
twenty-sixth year.     Having established himself in
humble lodgings in the neighbourhood of Spital-
fields, he maintained himself in the first instance, as
he had been wont to do in the country, by working
at his trade during the day, while he occupied his
evenings in teaching mathematics to such pupils as
he could procure.      In this latter employment, his
engaging method of instruction, and admirable talent
for explaining and simplifying the difficulties of his
subject, in a short time procured him notice and
friends;    and his success was so considerable, that
he was enabled to bring his family to town.             He
now also ventured to announce the publication of his
  Treatise on Fluxions,' by subscription        and     ac-
'
                                             ;      it
cordingly appeared in quarto, in the year 1737. From
this era, his fortunes and his celebrity went on
 steadily advancing.    But the most remarkable and
 honourable part of his history    is that which recounts
 his unwearied exertions as    a  writer on his favourite

                         SIMPSON.                     9$
subjects, after he had acquired a station and a regular
income, as well as a degree of distinction, which would
have satisfied the ambition and relaxed the industry
of many others whose early struggles had been so
severe as his.      We will just note the dates of his
different publications.    In 1737, as we have already
                           '
observed, appeared his       New Treatise of Fluxions.'
In 1740 he produced two other works, also in quarto :
the first entitled 'A Treatise on the Nature and Laws
of Chance ;' the second, ' Essays on several curious
and interesting Subjects in Speculative and Mixed
Mathematics.'      In 1742 appeared his ' Doctrine of
Annuities and Reversion.'      In 1743, he was, princi-
pally through the interest of Mr. Jones, father of the
celebrated Sir William Jones, and himself an able
mathematician, appointed Professor of Mathematics
at Woolwich ; and the same year he gave to the
world a large volume, entitled 'Mathematical Dis-
sertations.'     In 1745 he was admitted a Fellow of
the Royal Society, on a recommendation signed by
four of the most eminent mathematicians in England;
                                               '
and about the same time he published his Treatise
on Algebra,' one of the most valuable and best known
of his productions.      His ' Elements of Geometry,'
another very able work, and which has gone through
                                         '
many editions, appeared in 1747 ; his Trigonometry,
Plane and Spherical,' in 1748; a new work on the
differential calculus, called ' The Doctrine and Ap-
plication of Fluxions,' in 1750; in 1752, his 'Select
Exercises for Young Proficients in Mathematics,'
another excellent and most useful performance ; and
                       '
finally, in 1757, his Miscellaneous Tracts.'      To all
these labours are to be added the papers he pub-
lished in the Philosophical Transactions,        and his
contributions to the Ladies' Diary, of which he was
for several years the editor.   He died in 1761, in his
fifty-first year.

96          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
    Here, then, is an inspiring 1 example, shewing how
a man may triumph over almost any outward circum-
stances.    Nor let it be said that such victories are
reserved only for persons of extraordinary intellectual
powers.     We repeat that it is not genius, but resolu-
tion and perseverance, that are wanted.        Simpson
was not a man of much original or inventive talent ;
nor did he possess any quality of mind which would
have made him one of the wonders of his time, if he
had set out in life with the ordinary advantages.
His writings are all able, generally useful, and some-
times ingenious ; but he is not to be enumerated
among those who have carried science forward, or
materially assisted in any of its great conquests. Not
that he was, in point even of mental capacity, by any
means an ordinary man ; but there is an immeasur-
able interval between such men as Simpson, and those
whose writings and discoveries are destined to influ-
ence and mould their own and all succeeding ages.
His chief talent was great clearness and quickness of
apprehension ; and very much of this he owed to the
eagerness and devotion with which he gave himself
 up to the study of whatever he wished to make him-
 self master of, and the unrelaxed attention which he
was consequently enabled to apply to it. This, indeed,
is rather a habit of mind which maybe acquired, than
 a talent that one must be born with ; or at least it
 depends much more than many other sorts of talent
 on those moral qualities which may be excited and
 strengthened by proper discipline in every man. It
 was here that Simpson's superiority principally lay
 in that passionate love of knowledge which prompted
 him to seek it in defiance of all impediments, and in
 that courage and perseverance with which he en-
 countered and overcame, in this pursuit, a succes-
 sion of difficulties which many would scarcely have
 had nerve enough to look in the face.     Among those

                        SIMPSON.                       9?
born in the same rank of life to which he originally
belonged, there are, undoubtedly, at all times, num-
bers who occasionally feel something of the ambi-
tion that animated him ; and would at least be very
glad  if, without much trouble, they could secure for
themselves the profit, and power, and enjoyment,
attendant upon intellectual cultivation.     But the de-
sire dies away in them, and ends in nothing, because
they have not fortitude enough to set earnestly and
resolvedly about combating the obstacles which op-
pose its gratification.  These obstacles appear, to their
indolence and timidity, far more formidable than they
really are. There are few cases in which they can be
actually combined in greater force than they were in
that of him whose history we have just sketched.        It
may be hoped, that    it does not often happen, in the
present day, that   a   parent shall obstinately oppose
his child's innocent and most praiseworthy efforts
in the work of self-improvement.       Instruction in the
elements of learning, in reading, writing, and the
rudiments of arithmetic,   is  already, or we trust soon
will be, in our own country, within the reach of
all
  ;    so that even the son of the poorest artisan or
labourer has scarcely now, in any case, to begin life
unprovided with what we may call the great pass-
keys to all literary and scientific knowledge.      Thus
 furnished, his future progress depends upon him-
 self; and any degree of proficiency       is within his
 reach.   Let those who doubt this reflect on what
 Thomas Simpson accomplished, in circumstances as
 unfavourable as can well be imagined.       His first ac-
 quaintance with books was formed during moments
 stolen from almost incessant labour, and cost him his
 domestic peace, the favour of his friends, and, finally,
 the shelter of his father's roof.   He never had after-
 wards either any master to instruct him, or any friend
 to assist him in providing for the necessities of the
                                                K

98         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
passing day ; but, on the contrary, when he wished to
 make himself acquainted with any new subject, he
could with difficulty find a book out of which to study
it, and had a family to support at an age when many
have scarcely begun even to maintain themselves.
Yet, with both his days and his evenings employed in
toiling for a subsistence, he found time for intellectual
acquisitions, such as to a less industrious and ardent
student would have sufficed for the occupation of a
whole life.    This is a striking proof how independent
we really are, if we choose, of those external circum-
stances which seem to make so vast a difference be-
tween the situation of man and man ; and how pos-
sible it is for us in any situation at least to enrich
our minds, if fortune refuse us all other riches.
It is the general ignorance of this great truth, or in-
difference to it, that prevents it from being oftener
exemplified; and it would be rendering a high ser-
vice to the human species, if we could awaken men's
minds to a sufficiently lively trust in it,and a   steady
sense of its importance.

                           CHAPTER      VII.
Self-educated Men continued.   E. Stone; J. Stone. Pursuits of Know-
     ledge and Business united. Cicero; Jones; Caesar; Scipio; Poly-
     bius; Frederick II.; Sully; De Thou; More; Selden ; Hale;
     Grotius.
WE have remarked that the book from which Simpson
acquired his first knowledge of fluxions was a work by
EDMUND STONE.              Stone affords us another instance
of a self-educated mathematician. Neither the place
nor the time of his birth is exactly known ; but
he was probably a native of Argyleshire, and born
a few years before the close of the seventeenth
century.        He is spoken of as having reached an ad-
vanced age in 1760, and he died in 1768.                        The
only account we have of his early life is contained in
a letter, which is to be found prefixed to a French
translation of one of his works, from his contempo-
rary, the Chevalier Ramsay, who knew him.                        His
father, Ramsay tells us, was gardener to the Duke
of Argyle, who, walking one day in his garden, ob-
                                                '
served a Latin copy of Newton's                   Principia' lying
on the grass, and thinking it had been brought
from his own library, called some one to carry it
back to its place.         " Upon this,"
                                               (the narrative pro-
           " Stone, who was then in his           eighteenth year,
ceeds)
                                           '          '
claimed       the   book as his own.         Yours ? replied the
Duke. ' Do you understand Geometry, Latin, and
Newton?'
                  '
                    I know a little of them,' replied the young
man.       The Duke was surprised ; and, having a taste
for the sciences, he entered into conversation with the

 100        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 young mathematician.        He asked him several ques-
 tions ; and was astonished at the force, the accuracy,
                                         ' But how,' said
 and the candour of his answers.
 the Duke, ' came you by the knowledge of all these
 things ?' Stone replied,
                               '
                                 A servant taught me, ten
 years since, to read.     Does one need to know any-
 thing more than the twenty-four letters in order to
learn everything else that one wishes?' The Duke's
curiosity redoubled : he sat down on a bank, and
requested a detail of the whole process by which he
had become so learned.
       I
    " ' first learned to read,' said Stone ; ' the masons
were then at work upon your house.          I  approached
them one day, and observed that the architect used a
rule and compasses, and that he made calculations.
I  inquired what might be the meaning and use of
these things, and     I  was informed that there was a
science called arithmetic.        I purchased a book of
arithmetic, and I learned it. I was told there was
another science called geometry ;      I bought the neces-
sary books, and I learned geometry.         By reading,  I
found that there were good books in these two
sciences in Latin ; I bought a dictionary, and           I
learned Latin.      I   understood, also, that there were
good books of the same kind in French ; I bought a
dictionary, and I learned French.          And this, my
lord, is what    I have done : it seems to me that vre
may learn everything when we know the twenty-
four letters of the alphabet.'
                                 "
    Under the patronage of the Duke of Argyle, Stone,
some years after this, made his appearance in London,
where, in 1723, he published his first work a Trea-
tise on Mathematical Instruments, principally trans-
lated from the French.         In 1725 he was chosen a
Fellow of the Royal Society. Next year appeared
his Mathematical Dictionary, which was followed by
other occasional productions down to the year of his

                         E. STONE.                     101
 death.    Of his private history, however, after he took
 up his residence in the metropolis, little or nothing is
 known. It is to be feared that he spent his latter
 days in neglect and poverty.        He had contributed
 several papers to the Transactions        of the Royal
 Society ; but we find his name omitted in the list of
 members, after the year 1742, probably in conse-
 quence of his inability to pay the small annual con-
 tribution which, we may remark by-the-bye, was a
few years after remitted to Simpson, and which Sir
Isaac Newton had, on his own petition, been excused
from paying.     He is spoken of, by a writer in the
 Critical Review for 1760, as of unblemished reputa-
tion ; and yet, notwithstanding his universally ac-
knowledged abilities, and his uncontested services to
the public, " living, at an advanced age, unrewarded,
except by a mean employment that reflects dishonour
on the donors."    Ramsay, in the letter already quoted,
speaks in the strongest terms of Stone's simple, inge-
nuous, and upright character, and of his ardent and
disinterested attachment to science.      He was, how-
ever, by no means a man of the same powers of mind
with Simpson.     Even in those departments of learning
in which he chiefly excelled, his knowledge appears to
have been somewhat superficial ; and his principal
works have been characterized as abounding in errors.
 He seems, upon the whole, to have had rather a quick
and active, than either a very profound or a very acute
understanding; and some of his speculations are sin-
 gularly unphilosophical, especially that contained in
the last work he gave to the world, in which he attempts
to expose the insufficiency of the proofs on which
the spherical form of the earth has been assumed,
arguing, with incredible absurdity, that it is just
 as likely to be an angular figure,    as if the waters of
the sea, for example, could anywhere maintain them-
selves in a position like that of the rafters of a house.
                                          K3

 102         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 We may, perhaps, trace something of all this to the
  entirely unassisted and solitary efforts to which he
  owed his first acquaintance with science and lite-
  rature.    A want of depth and solidity is by no means
  the necessary or uniform characteristic of the attain-
  ments of the self-educated scholar ; who, on the con-
  trary, is apt to be distinguished for a more than
  usually perfect acquaintance with the subjects which
  he has studied with more than usual effort and ap-
  plication.   But a mind gifted in a remarkable degree
 with the capacity of rapid apprehension, is just that
 which is likely to suffer most from being left to be
 altogether its own instructor ; and especially when
 placed in circumstances which shut it out from that
 most salutary and strengthening         of all intellectual
 exercises, communication and encounter with other
 intellects.    This was Stone's case. He had not only
 no master, but no companions in his studies no one
 even to put his knowledge to the proof, or with whom,
 by trying   it, asit were, in conflict, he might discover
 either its strength or its weakness.   Then, his facility in
 possessing himself of the outlines of a subject deceived
 and betrayed him: he skimmed its surface with so
 much ease and expedition, that he had no time to
 think of what was beneath, or that anything was
 beneath ;    and thus he acquired a habit of precipitate
 procedure, and vague and unphilosophic thinking, in
 all his speculations.      Ifhe had had     few associates
                                              a
in his early pursuits, he probably would have escaped
all this, as well as some other deficiencies under which
he laboured during his life.
     Our readers will be amused      bya   specimen of the
ambitious rhetoric of his English style. He        talking,
                                                  is
in the second edition of his book on Mathematical
Instruments, published in 1760, of newly-invented
                                          a
mariner's compass       ;and the following are the terms
in which, at the close of his description, he expresses

                       J. STONE.                     103
what must be understood, we presume, to be his
unfavourable opinion of the contrivance.          " The
plants and trees," says he, "of the gardens of the
arts and sciences, cultivated by the dung of ambition,
and nourished with the waters of interest, are very
subject to be blasted by the winds of error, and some-
times stunted by the weeds of imposition." The
metaphors of genuine eloquence start forth finished
and glowing from the imagination ; but this is to
construct them, as a mason does the wall of a house,
with a plummet and a trowel.
    Edmund Stone must not be confounded with his
countryman and contemporary, JEROME STONE, who
was also, in great part, a self-educated man. The
only notice we have of his life is in Sir John Sinclair's
Statistical Account of Scotland, where we are told
that he was born in 1727, in the parish of Scoonie,
in Fife, and that his father was a seaman, who died
abroad when Jerome was only three years old, leav-
ing his widow to maintain herself and her young
family in the best way she could by her own exer-
tions.    Elementary education in Scotland, however,
has long been so cheap as to be within the reach of
the poorest; and Jerome was accordingly taught
reading, writing, and a little arithmetic, at the parish
school.    But in his mother's narrow circumstances it
 was necessary that he should, as soon as possible, do
 something for his own support ; and therefore, while
 yet a boy, he commenced travelling the country as a
 chapman or pedlar, with a miscellaneous assortment
 of trinkets, tapes, and other portable wares. Jerome,
 however, soon found this occupation too unintellectual;
 and converted his stock into books, with which he used
 to attend at fairs, in those days the great marts of
 all kinds of popular commerce in Scotland. Profiting
 by the opportunities of his new vocation, he now pro-
 ceeded to make himself a scholar ; and either from

 104        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
 a predilection for theological learning, natural to the
  Scottish peasantry in general, or from an idea that he
 was in this way beginning at the beginning, he com-
 menced his studies with the Hebrew language.         In
 this, unassisted by any instructor, he eventually
 attained such proficiency, as to be able to read any
 passage in the Old Testament at first sight.       En-
 couraged by this success, he next applied himself to
 Greek ; and in a short time made himself as familiar
 with the original of the New Testament as he was
 with that of the Old. All this time he knew nothing
 of Latin ; but finding that all the best books even
 on the Greek and Hebrew were written in this
language, he determined to acquire it also.         We
think it probable, though it is not so stated,
that he had obtained much of his knowledge of
the two sacred tongues through the medium of
the common translation of the Bible, there being at
that time, we believe, no grammar or dictionary of
either, written in English. It is likely that, when he
proposed to make himself master of Latin, he might
not be aware that the same resource was still open to
him ; nor, indeed, was it open in the same degree,
as the English Bible does not correspond so ex-
actly to any Latin version of the Scriptures as it does
to the Greek and Hebrew originals. At all events he
thought it necessary, we are told, to apply on this
occasion to the parish schoolmaster.        Under this
master's guidance his Latin studies proceeded so pros-
perously, that he soon became known in the neigh-
bourhood as a prodigy of learning.         Fortunately,
among the heritors, or landed proprietors, of the
parish was the Rev. Dr. Tullidelph, principal of
the United College in the University of St. An-
drews, and a gentleman of distinguished erudition
and talent.     Struck with the remarkable abilities
and acquirements of young Stone, he proposed

                         J, STONE.                    105
 his removal to the university, where he under-
 took that such provision should be made, in order
 to enable him to pursue his studies, as his cir-
 cumstances rendered necessary.       Stone accordingly
 proceeded to St. Andrews, where he soon more than
 fulfilled the expectations his early attainments had
 excited, both by his rapid progress in every branch of
 study, and by a display of talent out of the class-room
which still more contributed to make him the pride
of the university and the idol of his fellow-students.
Unhappily, the remainder of his history is too soon
told.     When he had been about three years at col-
lege, he was appointed, on the recommendation of
the professors, assistant in the grammar-school of
Dunkeld, of which he was two or three years after
elected head master.      It does not appear how long
he held this situation ; but he was in the midst of
his literary pursuits, and giving every promise of a
distinguished career, when he was suddenly cut off
by fever, in 1757, in the thirtieth year of his age.
At this time, none of his productions had been given
to the world, except some humourous pieces in verse,
which had appeared in the Scots Magazine, when he
was at college.     Since his death, an allegory, which
he left in manuscript, entitled ' The Immortality of
Authors,' has been frequently printed. The work,
however, which had principally engaged the last years
of his short life, was 'An Inquiry into the Origin of
the Nation and Language of the ancient Scots, with
Conjectures about the Primitive State of the Celtic and
other European Nations.' This, although unfinished,
is said to have displayed extraordinary ingenuity arid
learning.     It has never, we believe, been printed ;
although, if the manuscript be still in existence, its
publication might possibly not be unacceptable to the
students of history and philology, among whom the
subject to which it relates has in recent times excited

106        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
considerable interest.      Stone's views, in so far as
they are stated, seem to have been in conformity
with those supported by the most learned and en-
lightened of later inquirers.
    The cultivation     of   science  and literature    has
 often been united     with the most active and        suc-
cessful pursuit of business, and with the duties
of the most laborious professions. It has been said
of CICERO, that " no man whose life had been wholly
 spent in study, ever left more numerous or more
valuable fruits of his learning: in every branch
of science and the polite arts in oratory, poetry,
philosophy, law, history, criticism, politics, ethics :
in each of which he equalled the greatest masters of
his time ; in some of them excelled all men of all
times. His remaining works, as voluminous as they
 appear, are but a small part of what he really pub-
lished.   His industry was incredible, beyond the
 example or even conception of our days : this was
the secret by which he performed such wonders, and
reconciled perpetual study with perpetual affairs. He
 suffered no part of his leisure to be idle, or the least
interval of it to be lost." These are the words of his
learned and eloquent biographer, Dr. Middleton. He
says himself, in one of his orations        "What others
give to their own atfairs, to the public shows and other
entertainments, to festivity, to amusement, nay even
to mental and bodily rest,         I give to study and
philosophy."     He tells us, too, in his Letters, that on
days of business, when he had anything particular
to compose, he had no other time for meditating
but when he was taking a few turns in his walks,
where he used to dictate his thoughts to his ama-
nuenses, or scribes, who attended him.        His Letters
afford us, indeed, in every way, the most remarkable
evidence of the active habits of his life.     Those that

                    CICERO.   JONES.                107
 have come down to us are all written after he was
forty years old ; and, although many of course are
lost, they amount in number to about a thousand.
 "We find many of them," says Middleton, "dated
before daylight; some from the senate; others from
his meals, and the crowd of his morning levee."
" For me," he himself exclaims, addressing one of
his friends, " ne otium quidem unquam otiosum
even my leisure hours have their occupation."
   In modern times the celebrated Sir WILLIAM JONES
afforded the world, in this respect, a like example.
We have already mentioned his wonderful attainments
in languages. All his philosophical and literary stu-
dies were carried on among the duties of a toilsome
profession, which he was, nevertheless, so far from
neglecting, that his attention to all its demands upon
 his time and faculties constitute one of the most
 remarkable of his claims to our admiration.     But he
 was from his boyhood a miracle of industry, and
 showed, even in earliest years, how intensely his soul
glowed with the love of knowledge.          He used to
relate that, when he was only three or four years of
 age, if he applied to his mother, a woman of un-
 common intelligence and acquirements, for informa-
tion upon any subject, her constant answer to him
 was, " Read, and you will know."      He thus acquired
 a passion for books, which only grew in strength
 with increasing years.    Even at school his voluntary
 exertions exceeded in amount his prescribed tasks ;
 and Dr. Thackeray, one of his masters, was wont to
 say of him, that he was a boy of so active a mind,
 that if he were left naked and friendless on Salisbury
 Plain, he would, nevertheless, find the road to
 fame and riches. At this time he was frequently
 in the habit of devoting whole nights to study,
 when he would generally take coffee or tea, to

  108       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  keep off sleep.  He had,    even   already, merely to
 divert his leisure, commenced his study of the law ;
 and it is related that he would often amuse and
 surprise his mother's legal acquaintances, by putting
 cases to them from an abridgment              of Coke's
 Institutes, which he had read and mastered.           In
 after-life his maxim was never to neglect any
 opportunity of improvement which presented itself.
In conformity with this rule, while making the
most wonderful exertions in the study of Greek,
Latin, and the Oriental languages, at Oxford,
he took advantage of the vacations to learn riding
and fencing, and to read all the best authors in
Italian, Spanish, Portuguese,        and French ; thus,
to transcribe an observation of his own, " with the
fortune of a peasant, giving himself the education of
a prince."    In the same spirit, while tutor, some time
after this, in the family of Lord Spencer, he em-
braced an opportunity of accomplishing himself in
dancing and the use of the broadsword, and of
learning the German language, music, and the art of
playing on the Welsh harp, the instrument of his
country.    It was while residing in the Temple, and
busily engaged in the study of the law, that, beside
continuing his oriental studies with great zeal, he
found time to compose, and prepare for the press, a
translation of the speeches of the Greek orator Isaeus,
and a volume of poems. Yet he was, at this very time
both reading and writing elaborately on subjects of
law and jurisprudence     an evidence of his proficiency
in which he gave to the world, a few years after, in
 his learned Treatise on the Law of Bailments.        He
found leisure, too, in the midst of all these pro-
 fessional and literary occupations, to attend Dr.
 William Hunter's Lectures on Anatomy, and to pro-
 secute the study of mathematics so far as to be able
 to read Xewton's Principia.

                        JOXES.                          109
   In India,  where   he filled the office of Judge in
the Supreme Court of Bengal, and where his pro-
fessional duties were of the most laborious nature,
he contrived to do more than ever in the study of
general literature and philosophy.       He had scarcely
arrived in the country when he exerted himself to
establish a society in Calcutta, on the model of the
Royal Society of .London, of which he officiated as
president as long as he lived, enriching its Transac-
tions every year with the most elaborate and valuable
disquisitions on every department of oriental philology
and antiquities.   Almost his only time for study now
was during the vacation of the courts ; and here is
the account, as found among his papers, of how he
was accustomed to spend his day during the long
vacation in 1785.      In the morning, after writing
one letter, he read ten chapters of the Bible, and
then studied Sanscrit grammar, and Hindoo law ;
the afternoon was given to the geography of India,
and the evening to Roman history ; when the day
was closed by a few games at chess, and the read-
                                '
ing of a portion of Ariosto. Already, however, his
health was beginning to break down under the cli-
mate; and his eyes had become so weak, that he had
been obliged to discontinue writing by candle-light.
But nothing could prevent him from pursuing the
studies he loved, while any strength remained to
him. Even while confined by illness to his couch,
he taught himself botany; and it was during a tour
he was advised to take for the recovery of his health,
that he wrote his learned ' Treatise on the Gods of
 Greece, Italy and India'         as if he had actually
so disciplined his mind, that it adopted labour like
this almost for a relaxation.     His health, after a time,
was partially restored ; and we find him again de-
 voting himself both to his professional duties and
 his private studies, with more zeal and assiduity

 110          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 than ever.     When business required his attendance
daily in Calcutta, he resided at a country-house on
the banks of the Ganges, about five miles from
the city.     " To this spot," says his amiable and in-
telligent biographer, Lord Teignmouth,
                                             " he returned
every evening after sunset, and in the morning rose
so early as to reach his apartments in town, by
walking, at the first appearance of dawn. The in-
tervening period of each morning, until the opening
of court, was regularly allotted and applied to dis-
tinct studies."    At this time, his hour of rising used
to be between three and four.        During the vacation
of the court he was equally occupied. Writing from
Crishna, his vacation residence, in 1787, he says,
" We are in love with this pastoral cottage ; but
though these three months are called a vacation, yet
I   have no vacant hours.         It rarely happens that
favourite studies are closely connected with the strict
discharge of our duty, as mine happily are : even in
this cottage    I  am assisting the court by studying
Arabic and Sanscrit, and have now rendered it an
impossibility for the Mahometan or Hindoo law-
yers to impose upon us with erroneous opinions."
It was these constant exertions, in truth, that gave
its chief enjoyment to his life. " I never was happy,"
he says in this very letter,
                                    " till was settled in
                                          I
India."
    This eminent and admirable man, however, at last
fell a sacrifice to his zeal in the discharge of his duty;
and   if it has been accounted a befitting fate for a
great captain to die in the field of battle, surely his
is to be deemed an equally appropriate and a far more
enviable lot who, after a life, whether of many or of
few years, in which he has done enough for his fame,
sinks to his rest in the full brightness of a career
made glorious by many peaceful triumphs.              The
greatest literary achievement of Sir William Jones

                           JONES.                    Ill
was his last      the digest he undertook to superintend
of a complete body of Hindoo and Mahometan juris-
prudence.    To this work, considered by him as of
the very highest importance to the right administra-
tion of law in India, but encompassed, from a variety
of causes, with difficulties of the most formidable
description, he resolved, after long consideration, to
devote himself, even under increasing weakness of
sight, and probably general decay of constitution,
which a fervid and unwearied spirit did not permit
him to perceive.    In the midst of his labours, it was
found necessary that Lady Jones should proceed to
England for the sake of her health ; and this sepa-
ration he felt severely: but he determined, notwith-
standing, to remain in the country himself until he
should have finished at least a certain portion of his
task, on the accomplishment of which he had set his
heart.    He had been divided, however, but a few
months from the companion of his life, and even
of many of his studies, when he was suddenly
attacked by an inflammation of the liver, which car-
ried him off, after seven days' illness, at the early age
of forty-seven.
     It
     was by a persevering observance of a few simple
maxims, that Sir William Jones was principally
enabled to accomplish what he did.       One of these,
as we have already mentioned, was never to neglect
an opportunity of improvement : another was, that
whatever had been attained was attainable by him,
and that, therefore, the real or supposed difficulties
of any pursuit formed no reason why he should not
engage in  it,and with perfect confidence of success.
" It was also," Lord Teignmouth tells us, " a fixed
principle with him, from which he never voluntarily
deviated, not to be deterred,    any difficulties which
                                 by
were surmountable, from prosecuting to      a successful
termination what he had once deliberately under-
                                           L   2

 112          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
            '"
taken."         But what  appears to me," adds his Lord-
ship,
       "  more particularly to have enabled him to
employ his talents so much to his own and the
public advantage, was the regular allotment of his
time to particular occupations, and a scrupulous
adherence      to the distribution which he had fixed :
hence all his studies were pursued without interrup-
tion or confusion.     Nor can    I  omit remarking the
candour and complacency with which he gave his
attention to all persons, of whatever quality, talents,
or education : he justly concluded that curious or
important information might be gained even from
the illiterate; and, wherever it was to be obtained,
he sought and seized it."        By these methods it was
that he accumulated that vast mass of knowledge,
and enabled himself to accomplish those profound
and extended labours which remain, even now that
he is dead, for the benefit of us who yet live, and of
those who are to come after us.           This is truly to
make a short life long to exist, in spite of death,
for unnumbered generations.
   Biography abounds, in truth, with examples of the
union of the pursuits of literature and science \\ith
those of every department of active life.        The most
elegant of the writers of ancient Rome was also the
most renowned of her warriors.           It was amid the
hurry and toils of his campaigns that JULIUS CESAR
is said to have written those Commentaries, or Me-
moirs of his military 7 exploits, which have immor-
talized his name more than all his victories, and thus
amply justified the anxiety he is recorded to have
shewn to preserve the work, when, being obliged to
throw himself from his ship in the bay of Alexandria,
and swim for his life, he made his way to the shore
with his arms in one hand, holding his Commenta-
ries with his teeth.        Ca?sar distinguished himself
also as a writer on grammar, astronomy, history, and

                          'CJESAR.                     113
 a variety   of other subjects ; he was universally ac-
 counted one of the most learned scholars, as well as
 greatest orators, of his age ; and the time may come
 when mankind shall be ashamed of ever having
 admired in any other capacity so great a scourge of
 the species.     Yet this man's life was spent either in
 the field, or among political convulsions at home,
 almost from his boyhood. If he found time and
 tranquillity for the cultivation of letters, who is there
 that might not? Like our own Alfred, too         another
 but a far more illustrious instance of the hero, states-
 man, and scholar, combined        Caesar had to struggle
 all his life with the weakness and depression of bodily
 disease.
             " But though he was a spare man," says
 Plutarch, " and had a white and soft skin, somewhat
 distempered in his head, and subject to the falling
 sickness, (which, they say, first seized him at Cor-
duba, in Spain,) yet he did not make his indispo-
sition of body a pretext for effeminacy, but made his
way-faring a medicine for his infirmity, whilst, by
indefatigable journeying, thin diet, and lying out in
the fields, he struggled and waged war, as it were,
even with his disease, and kept his body so guarded
by this means, that it was very hard for any ill to
attack him.      He slept most commonly in his chariot
or his litter, but employed the very hours of rest in
the designs of action. In the day-time he was carried
about to castles, cities, or fortifications, with one
servant along with him in the chariot, who, among
other things, used to write down what he dictated,
and a soldier behind the vehicle to carry his sword.
Thus would he travel so swiftly, that, having set
out from Rome, he would arrive at the river Rhone
in eight days. Now, he rode well from his child-
hood, for he had accustomed himself to sit with his
hands behind him, and to put the horse to the full
speed.      But, during his wars in Gaul, he improved
                                             L 3

 114      THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
himself so   as to  dictate letters from on horseback as
fast as two amanuenses, or, as Oppius affirms, more
than two, could take down his words."          The elder
and younger Scipio Africanus, and Polybius, the
friend of the latter, of whose universal history, written
in Greek in forty books, only five have come down to
 us, are other names that might be quoted from an-
cient times in illustration of how possible it is to com-
bine the habits of a military life with the love and the
pursuit of literature.
    One of the most remarkable examples of this com-
bination which modern history supplies, is to be
found in FREDERICK II., of Prussia, called Frederick
the Great, on account of the worst parts of his
 character and conduct.       The principal part of the
life of this monarch was spent in the camp, in a
constant struggle with a host of enemies.       Yet, even
then, when the busy day scarcely afforded a vacant
 moment, that moment, if it came, was sure to be
 given to study. Frederick had very early formed an
attachment to reading, which neither the opposition
of his father, who thought that the scholar would
spoil the soldier, nor the schemes of ambition and
conquest, which occupied him so much in after life,
were able to destroy or weaken. When at last, there-
fore, he felt himself at liberty, or compelled to sheathe
his sword, he gave himself up to the cultivation and
patronage of literature, and the arts of peace, as
eagerly as he had ever done to the pursuit of military
renown. His life, from his earliest years, had been one
of great and regular activity. Even before his acces-
sion to the throne, and while yet but a young man, he
had established in his residence, at Rheimsberg, nearly
the same system of studious application, and economy
in the management of his time, to which he ever
afterwards continued to adhere.          His relaxations,
even then, were almost entirely of an intellectual cha-

                      FREDERICK      II.                115
 racter ; and he had collected around him a circle of
literary associates, with whom it was his highest en-
joyment to spend his hours in philosophic conversa-
tion, or in amusements not unfitted to adorn a life of
philosophy.      In a letter written at this time to one of
 those friends, he says;
                              " I become
                                           every day more
 covetous of my time ;     I render an account of it to
 myself; and I lose none of it but with great regret.
My mind is entirely turned toward philosophy ; it
has rendered me admirable services, and I am greatly
indebted to it. I find myself happy, abundantly more
tranquil than formerly ; my soul is less subject to
violent agitations ; and I do nothing till     I have fully
considered what course of action I ought to adopt." In
another letter to the same correspondent, speaking of
the employments of himself and the literary friends
residing with him, he says:
                                   " We have divided our
 occupations into two classes, of which the one compre-
 hends those that are useful, and the other those that
 are agreeable.     I reckon, in the number of those that
 are useful, the study of philosophy, of history, and of
 languages; the agreeable are music, and the trage-
 dies and comedies that we exhibit here.        Our serious
 occupations have, however, always the privilege of
 preceding the others ; and I dare venture to affirm to
 you, that we make only a reasonable use of those
 pleasures ; engaging in them for no other purpose
 but to relax our minds, and to temper that morose-
 ness and extreme philosophic gravity, which does not
 easily suffer its countenance to be enlivened by the
 Graces."    A more complete notion, however, will be
 obtained of the management by which he contrived
 to make so much use of his time, from the fol-
 lowing interesting account of his daily occupations,
 which Dr. Towers, who has written a history of his
  reign, has collected from a variety of authorities :
     " It was his general custom to rise at five o'clock

 116          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 in the morning, and sometimes earlier.          He com-
 monly dressed his hair himself, and seldom employed
 more than two minutes for that purpose.         His boots
 were put on at his bedside, for he scarcely ever wore
 shoes.     After he was dressed, the adjutant of the
 first battalion of his guards brought him a list of all
the persons that were arrived at Potsdam, or de-
 parted from thence, and an account of whatever had
 occurred in the garrison.       When he had delivered
 his orders to this officer, he retired into an inner
 cabinet, where he employed himself in private till
seven o'clock. He then went into another apartment,
where he drank coffee or chocolate ; and here he
found upon the table all the letters addressed to him
from Potsdam, Berlin, or any other parts of his do-
minions. Foreign letters were placed upon a separate
table.     After reading all these letters, he wrote hints
or notes in the margin of those which his secretaries
were to answer ; and then returning into the inner
cabinet, carried with him such as he meant to write
or dictate an answer to himself.       Here he employed
himself till nine o'clock with one of his private se-
cretaries.     He then returned back again into his
former apartment, where he was attended by three
secretaries, each of whom gave him an account of
what he had done ; after which the king delivered
his orders to them, with the letters they were to
answer.      None of these answers, however, were sent
off" till they had been read, and many of them signed
by the king.      At ten o'clock the generals who were
about his person, whom he was accustomed to send
for in their turn, attended him to his closet, where he
conversed with them on the news of the day, politics,
tactics, and other subjects ; and at this time he also
gave audience to such persons as had received pre-
vious notice to attend. At eleven o'clock he mounted
his horse, and rode to the parade, where he reviewed

                     FREDERICK        II.                117
and exercised his regiment of guards ; and ' at the
                                '
same hour,' says Voltaire,         all the colonels did the
saine throughout the provinces.'             He afterwards
walked for some time in the garden, with his generals
and the rest of the company whom he had invited to
dine with him. At one o'clock he sat down to dinner,
and his company generally consisted of the princes
his brothers, some of his general officers, some of
the officers of his regiment of guards, and one or
two of his chamberlains.          He had no carver, but
did the honours of the table himself, like a private
gentleman.     His table generally consisted of twenty-
four covers ; and his dinner-time did not much ex-
ceed an hour.     After dinner he generally conversed
with some of his guests for about a quarter of an
hour, walking about the room.              He then retired
into his private apartment, making low bows to his
company.      He remained in private till five o'clock,
when his reader waited on him.            His reading lasted
about two hours, and this was succeeded by a con-
cert, in which he himself was a performer upon the
flute, and which lasted till nine. When the concert
was over, he was attended by Voltaire, Algarotti,
Maupertuis, or some other wits or favourites whom
he had invited.     With these he supped at half an
hour after nine, and his company seldom consisted of
more than eight persons, the king himself included.
At twelve the king went to bed."
    The literary works of Frederick will be at least
allowed to shew some industry, when it is stated that
 they extend, in the most complete edition, to no fewer
 than twenty-five octavo volumes quite a wonderful
 amount of authorship, certainly, for one who led so
 busy a life, and strikingly illustrative of what may be
 done by the economical employment even of the
 merest odds and ends of time ; for, compared to the
 the leisure which many a student enjoys, such must

118           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
be considered the very few hours every day whicrv
were the utmost that Frederick could, by possibility,
have given to study.  But these works by no means
require any apology for their quality on the score of
their quantity.   They consist of historical, poetical,
and philosophical compositions     generally of respect-
able ability, and several of considerable merit.    His
poem entitled The Art of War,' his History of his
                '                      '
own Times,' that of ' The Seven Years' War,' and
      '
his       Memoirs of the House of Brandenburgh,' may
be especially mentioned as works received into Euro-
pean literature.
   It would be easy to select from the catalogue of
those who have made the greatest stir in the world,
either as conquerors or legislators, or borne the most
active  and conspicuous parts in any other way in the
conduct of human affairs, many other names equally
famous in the annals of literature, as in those of war
or politics. In former times, indeed, a taste for science
or general literature, and a familiarity with      it,was
somewhat more common among European states-
men, and professional men of all descriptions, than      it
now is. There       isno greater name among those of
the statesmen of France than that of the celebrated
Duke of SULLY, the writer of the well-known Me-
 moirs, as well as of    variety of other works
                         a                        ;   and
equally distinguished as    soldier,
                             a       a financier, and an
author.    This great man used to find time for the
multiplied avocations of every day    by the most unde-
viating econony in the distribution of his hours.      He
rose all the year round at four o'clock in the morn-
ing, and was always ready to appear at the council
 by seven.   His hour of dining was at noon, after
which he gave audience to all, without distinction,
who sought to be admitted to him. The business of
the day was always finished in this way before supper,
 and at ten he regularly retired to bed.    Sully's illus-

             DR THOU.     SELDEN.     HALE.            119
 trious countryman and contemporary, the President
 DE THOU, affords us another instance of the same
 sort. During 1 the greater part of his life, De Thou
 was actively employed, in one capacity or another,
 in the management of affairs of state ; and yet he
 found time to write one of the greatest and most
 elaborate historical works in existence, his celebrated
 '
   History of his own Times,' extending to one hun-
 dred and thirty-eight books, in .Latin, besides various
poetical pieces in the same language.         In our own
 country, none were ever more mixed up with the
political transactions of their times, or led busier lives
from their earliest years, than Sir THOMAS MORE, the
great BACON, and Lord CLARENDON. And yet
these are three of the most eminent writers in our
language ; and the works of the two latter, par-
ticularly, are of considerable extent.      We may add
to the list the names of JOHN SELDEN and Sir MAT-
THEW HALE. Both were public men, and necessarily
involved in the ceaseless political convulsions of one
of the stormiest periods of English history ; yet
they were two of the most distinguished luminaries
both of the law and the literature of their day.
Selden's works, embracing many subjects of his-
tory, political controversy, and sacred, classical,
and English antiquities, have been collected in three
large volumes folio. Those of Sir Matthew Hale
are also very numerous ; and relate to history, divi-
nity, mathematics, and natural philosophy, as well
as to several of the most important departments of
the learning of his profession. He is said, during
many years of his lite, to have studied sixteen hours
every day.     Selden is called the Glory of England
by his contemporary, the celebrated Dutch scholar
GROTIUS (or Groot), who was himself one of the
most remarkable instances on record, of the suc-
cess with which the cultivation of general literature

120          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
may be carried on, together with legal and political
studies, and even amid the toils and distractions of
a public life of unusual bustle and vicissitude. From
his sixteenth year, when he first appeared at the bar,
till that of his death, at the age of sixty-two, Grotius
was scarcely ever released from the burthen of poli-
tical employment, except while he lay in prison, or,
altogether exiled from his country, wandered about
from one foreign land to another, in search of a tem-
porary home.       Yet, even in these seemingly most
unpropitious circumstances, he produced a succes-
sion of works, the very titles of which it would re-
quire several pages to enumerate, all displaying pro-
found erudition, and not a few of them ranking to
this day with the very best, or as the very best, that
have been written on the subjects to which they relate.
He occupies a respectable place in the poetry of his
native language, and a high one among modern
Greek and Latin poets. His critical labours in refer-
ence to the classical authors of antiquity are im-
mense.      In history, besides several other works, he
                             '
has written one entitled       The Annals of Belgium,'
in eighteen books.      Of a variety of theological pro-
                                                  '
ductions we may mention only his celebrated Trea-
tise on the Truth of Christianity,' one of the most
popular books ever written, and which has been
translated, not only into almost every language of
 modern Europe, but even into Greek, Arabic, Per-
 sian, and several of the tongues of India. Finally,
not to mention his other works in the same depart-
 ment, by his famous treatise on international law,
 entitled ' On the Law of War and of Peace,' he
 has established for himself an immortal reputation in
jurisprudence, not in his own country merely, but
 over all Europe, in every part of which the work
 was received, on its first appearance, with universal
 admiration, translated, commented upon, and em-

                       GROTIUS.                    121
 ployed as a text-book by all lecturers on the subject
 of which it treats.    This work was written while
 Grotius resided in  France, after making his escape
 from the castle of Louvenstein by a memorable stra-
 tagem.    Having, in the religious disputes which
 then agitated Holland, taken the side of the Armi-
 nians in opposition to the Calvinists, when the latter
 obtained the ascendancy, he was put on his trial,
convicted of treason, and sentenced to the confisca-
tion of all his property, and imprisonment for life.
As some mitigation, however, of so hard a doom, it
was permitted that his wife should share his fate ;
and that excellent and heroic woman accordingly
took up her abode with her husband in the fortress
we have named, where they remained together nearly
two years.    At last, however, Grotius resolved to
brave the hazards of a plan of escape, which had
been some time before suggested by his wife.       He
had been in the habit of borrowing books from some
of his friends in the neighbouring town of Gorcum,
and these were always brought to him in a large
chest, which was in like manner employed to con-
vey them back when he had read or consulted them.
This chest had at first been regularly searched, as it
was carried into and brought back from the apart-
ment of the prisoner ; but, after some time, its ap-
pearance on its customary service became so familiar
to the guards, that their suspicions were lulled, and
it was allowed to pass without notice.   A day, there-
fore, having been chosen when it was known that the
commandant was to be absent, Madame Grotius in-
formed the commandant's wife, who was left in
charge of the place, that she meant to send away all
her husband's books, to prevent him from injuring
his health by study, and requested that two soldiers
might be allowed her to remove the load.        In the
mean time Grotius had taken his place in the chest,
                                          M

 122         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 in the top of which small holes had been made for
 the admission of air.       Upon lifting it from the
 ground, one of the     soldiers,  struck with its weight,
jestingly remarked, that there must be an Arminian
 in it.   " There are Arminian books in it," replied
 the wife of Grotius, with great presence of mind ;
 and, without saying anything' more, they took it on
 their shoulders, and carried it down a ladder, which
led from the apartment.       It would appear, however,
that their suspicions had been again awakened ; for
it is said, that, before they had proceeded much fur-
ther, the men resolved to mention the circumstance
of its uncommon weight to the commandant's wife ;
but she, misled by what had been told her, ordered
them to carry it away. It had been contrived to have
a trusty female servant in waiting to accompany the
chest to its place of destination, and under her care
it was safely deposited in the house of a friend at
Gorcum, when the illustrious prisoner was, of course,
speedily released from durance. A good deal of ma-
nagement was still necessary to enable him to effect
his escape from the town.         It is gratifying to have
to add, that his wife, who, as soon as she under-
stood that her husband was safe, confessed what she
had done, although at first detained in close custody,
was liberated, on petitioning         the States General,
about a fortnight after.        It was on the 21st of
March, 1621, that Grotius obtained his liberty; and
he arrived in Paris on the 13th of April.         His wife
rejoined him about the end of December.

                         CHAPTER       VIII.
Literary pursuits of Soldiers.   Des Cartes; Ben Jonson;  Buchanan;
    Cervantes.   Of Sailors.    Dampier ; Davis; Drury;    Falconer;
    Giordani ; Fransham ; Oswald;      Columbus; Cook;   Vancouver;
    Collingwood.
IF    the distractions of business or of professional
duty are to be deemed an insurmountable bar to the
cultivation of science or literature, what annoyances
or interruptions of this description shall seem more
unfavourable for such an attempt than those which
beset the rude and unsettled life of a seaman or a
soldier ! Yet it has been in the midst of these that
some of the persons whose names are most distin-
guished in the annals of literature and philosophy have
begun their career.            The great DES CARTES entered
the army, in obedience to the wishes of his family,
at the age of twenty, and served first with the troops
of the Prince of Orange, and afterwards with those
of Maximilian of Bavaria. With the latter prince he
was present at the battle of Prague, in 1620, when
Maximilian, acting in concert with the Emperor,
Ferdinand II., obtained a signal victory over the
Elector Palatine, Frederick. During his military
life, however, Des Cartes never neglected his philo-
sophical studies, of which he gave a striking proof
on one occasion while he was in the service of the
Prince of Orange.             He happened to be in garrison
with his regiment at the town of Breda, in the
Netherlands, when, walking out one morning, he
 observed a crowd of people assembled around a pla-
card or advertisement which was stuck up on the
wall.      Finding that it was written in the Dutch tan-
                                                    si 2

124        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 guage, which he did not understand, (for he was a
native of Touraine, in France,) he inquired of a
person whom he saw reading     it,what it  meant.    The
individual to whom he addressed his inquiries hap-
pened to be the Principal of the university of Dort,
a man of distinguished mathematical attainments       ;
and   it was with something of a sneer that he in-
formed the young officer, in reply to his question,
that the paper contained the announcement of a dim-
cult geometrical problem, of which the proposer
challenged the most able men of the city to attempt
the solution.    Not repulsed, however,     by  the tone
and manner of the learned professor, Des Cartes re-
quested to be favoured with a translation of the pla-
card, which he had no sooner received than he
calmly remarked that he thought he should be able
to answer the challenge.     Accordingly, next day he
presented himself again before Beckman (that was
the name of the professor) with a complete solution
of the problem, greatly to the astonishment of that
distinguished person, who had probably never before
dreamed of the possibility of so much learning being
found beyond the walls of a university.
    It was at this period of his life, indeed, that this
illustrious person laid the foundation of most of those
mathematical discoveries which subsequently obtained
for him so much celebrity.         He wrote a Latin
treatise on music, and projected several of his other
works, during the time he was stationed at Breda.
    Our celebrated countryman, BEN JONSON, some
of whose early difficulties we have already men-
tioned, could find no way of escaping from the
humble employment of a working mason or brick-
layer, to which he had been doomed on his mother's
second marriage, except by enlisting as      a   private
soldier. Accordingly he served in that capacity for
some time against the Spaniards in the Netherlands,

                      BUCHANAN.                         125
 and gained a high reputation for personal prowess,
 of which he was in after life not a little vain. This
 was also the fate of the famous GEORGE BUCHANAN,
 one of the most elegant scholars and writers that
 modern times have produced        another illustrious evi-
dence of how little it is in the power of the most un-
quiet and disjointed times, or the most adverse
fortunes, to interrupt the intellectual pursuits of a
mind really in love with knowledge.          Scarcely any
part   of  Buchanan's    long   life was   passed either
in leisure or tranquillity.     He was born of poor
parents, and was sent to the university of Paris
to be educated at the expense of an uncle, whose
death, however, after some time, left him in such
a state of destitution, that, in order to get back
to his native country, he was obliged to enter him-
self as a private in a corps which was leaving France
to serve in Scotland, as auxiliaries to the Duke of
Albany. It would detain us too long to attempt any
sketch of the remainder of a life of whose many
troubles this was only the first commencement. Al-
though, in point of learning and genius, confessedly
without a rival among his countrymen, and even
acknowledged by all Europe as the chief of the
poets and eloquent writers of his day, it is melan-
choly to think, that, amid the civil discords of those
unhappy times, his portion was little else than
poverty, persecution, imprisonment, and exile.         But
his own mind was to him a kingdom, of which the
world's unkindness could not deprive him, and in
which he found, doubtless, under all he had to
suffer, his sufficient consolation.     He took refuge
in literary labour from the cruel fortunes that pur-
sued him.     We know that it was in a Portuguese
dungeon that he composed his celebrated Latin ver-
sion of the Psalms.    He had just carried through the
press his great work, the History of Scotland, when
                                          M 3

126         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
he died at the age of seventy-six, being at the time
in such a state of indigence, that, when he felt his
end approaching,      having inquired of his servant
how much money he had remaining, and finding that
there was not enough for the expenses of his funeral,
he ordered the whole     to be given to the poor.   He
was accordingly     buried at the cost of the city of
 Edinburgh.
     Even still more crowded with disasters is the
history of the renowned CERVANTES, whose admirable
 Don Quixote ranks so high among the glories of
 modern literature.    Cervantes, too, commenced life
 as a soldier, lost his left hand in battle, and was
 afterwards detained for five years in captivity at
 Algiers.    Even after he had recovered his liberty,
 and had returned to his native country, he was
 again in a short time thrown into confinement by an
 unjust decision of the courts, in a cause in which
 he was implicated; and it was while he lay in prison
 that he wrote the first part of Don Quixote.       He
 was, soon after the publication of this work, once
 more restored to freedom ; but, although he after-
 wards produced various other literary performances,
 he never succeeded      in raising himself above the
 necessitous circumstances in which his early mis-
 fortunes had involved him.       The dedication of the
 last work he gave to the world is dated only four
 days before his death, and in it he mentions, with
 great calmness, his approaching dissolution.      Cer-
 vantes died at the age of sixty-nine, on the 23rd of
 April, 1617, exactly a year after our own Shakspeare.
     There are many cases on record of individuals
  who, even with scarcely any other education than
  what they contrived to give themselves while serving
  in subordinate and laborious situations in the camp
  or on shipboard, have attained to great fami-
  liarity with books, and sometimes risen to consider-

                DAMPIER.     DAVIS.     DRU11Y.         12?
  able literary or scientific distinction.   The celebrated
  English     navigator,   DAMPIER,      although  he had
  been some time at school before he left his native
  country, yet went to sea at so early an age that,
  considering he for a long time led a vagabond and
  lawless life, he must have very soon forgotten every
  thing he had been taught, if he had not, in the
 midst of all his wild adventures, taken great pains
 both to retain and to extend his knowledge.          That
 he must have done so is evident from the accounts
 of his different voyages which he afterwards pub-
 lished.    We have few works of the kind more vigor-
 ously or graphically written than these volumes ; and
 they contain abundant evidences of a scientific and
 philosophical knowledge of no ordinary extent and
exactness. Alongwith Dampier's, we may mention an
 older name, that of JOHN DAVIS, the discoverer of the
well known Strait leading into Baffin's Bay. Davis
also went to sea when quite a boy, and must have
acquired all his knowledge both of science and of the
art of composition, while engaged among the duties
of his profession. Yet we not only have from his
pen accounts of several of his voyages, but also a
treatise on the general hydrography of the earth.
He was the inventor, besides, of a quadrant for
taking the sun's altitude at sea.     ROBERT DRURY, too,
whose account of the Island of Madagascar, and of
his strange adventures there, is now (from having
been lately re-published)       a well-known book, de-
serves to be remembered when we are making men-
tion of authors bred at sea.        Drury was only four-
teen when he set out on his first voyage in a vessel
proceeding to India, and he was shipwrecked in re-
turning home on the island we have mentioned, where
he remained in a species of captivity for fifteen years ;
so that when he at last contrived to make his escape,
he had almost forgotten his native language.           He

128         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
afterwards, however, set about writing an account
of his life a task which he accomplished while act-
ing in the humble capacity of a porter at the India
House. The work is composed in a plain but sen-
sible style, and contains many interesting details
respecting the manners of the natives of Madagascar.
It is perhaps somewhat better for having been com-
pressed by one of the friends of the author, whose
original manuscript is said to have extended to eight
hundred large folio pages.
     FALCONER, the author of ' The Shipwreck,' as is
 generally known, spent his life, from childhood, at
 sea.    He was probably born in one of the small
 towns in the county of Fife, which border the Frith
 of Forth ; but nothing is very certainly ascertained
 either as to his native place or his parentage.      Nor
 has -any account been given of how he acquired the
 elements of education, with the exception of a report
 that he found an instructor in a person of the name
 of Campbell, a man of some literary taste and ac-
 quirements, who happened to be purser in one of the
 vessels in which young Falconer sailed.        However
 this may be, Falconer appeared as an author at a very
  early age, having been only, it is said, in his twenty-
 first year when he gave to the world his first produc-
  tion, a poem on the death of Frederick, Prince of
  Wales, the father of his late Majesty, George  III.  He
  was ten or twelve years older when he published his
  '
    Shipwreck,' which is said to be founded in a great
  measure on the personal adventures of the author.
  Falconer did not permit the success of his poetical
  efforts to withdraw him from his profession, in which,
  having now transferred himself from the merchant
  service to the navy, he continued to rise steadily till
  he was appointed purser of a man-of-war.           Some
  time after attaining this promotion, he published the
  other work by which he is chiefly known, his ' Uni-

         FALCONER.      GIORDANI.    FRANSHAM.       129
versal Marine Dictionary,' which was very favourably
received, and is still a standard work.     He had pre-
viously to this written several other poetical pieces on
temporary subjects, which have long been forgotten.
Shortly after the publication of his dictionary, he
sailed for Bengal as purser of the frigate Aurora.
This vessel, however, was never heard of after she
passed the Cape of Good Hope, having in all pro-
bability foundered at sea.
    GIORDANI, an Italian engineer and mathema-
tician of the seventeenth century, was originally a
common soldier on board one of the Pope's gallies.
In this situation his capacity and good conduct at-
tracted the attention of his admiral ; and as a reward
he was promoted to the post of purser of one of the
vessels.   It was his appointment to this situation
which first formed his mind to study.        Having ac-
counts to keep, he soon found how necessary it was
that he should know something of arithmetic, of
which he was till then quite ignorant; and he deter-
mined therefore to teach himself the science, which
it is said he did without assistance.      By pursuing
his studies from this     commencement,    he eventually
acquired considerable reputation as a mathematician ;
and, having published several able works, was ap-
pointed at last to a professorship in the Sapienza
College at Rome.       Giordani died in the year 1711.
    The late Mr. JOHN FRANSHAM, who died at
 Norwich in 1810, was altogether one of the most
eccentric characters to be found in the list of self-
 educated persons.      His name suggests itself to us
 here from the circumstance of his having passed part
 of his early life as a common soldier. He had been
 originally apprenticed to a cooper, with whom he
 remained for about two years, and it was in this
 situation that he taught himself mathematics.       But
 althoua-h he obtained the situation of clerk to an

130           THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
attorney, his restless disposition would not allow
him to remain at his desk; and after wandering for
some time about the country, he enlisted in the army,
where, however, they did not keep him long 1, finding
him quite unfit tor service.       Indeed, it was by this
time become pretty evident that his mind was not a
little deranged,     a matter which he shortly after put
beyond doubt by renouncing Christianity, and making
 a formal profession of paganism.       Although he pub-
lished several works, however, in support of his pe-
culiar theology, and in other respects conducted him-
self with great eccentricity; he contrived to maintain
himself by teaching mathematics, in which occupa-
tion he is said to have displayed very considerable
ability.    He resided and took pupils for some years
 in London. Somewhat similar to Fransham's history
is that of Mr. JOHN OSWALD, who is said to have
taught himself Greek, Latin, and Arabic, while hold-
ing a lieutenant's commission in a regiment of in-
fantry in India. He afterwards returned to England,
 where he published a succession of poetical and po-
 litical pamphlets, making himself remarkable at the
 same time by various singularities of behaviour and
 opinions, and especially by a rigid abstinence from
 animal food, and a professed predilection for the re-
 ligious doctrines of the Brahmins. When the revo-
 lution broke out in France, Oswald went over to that
 country, and entered the service of the republic, in
 which he obtained the rank of colonel. He was at
 length killed in battle.
     COLUMBUS himself, one of the greatest men that
 ever lived, if it be grand ideas grandly realized that
 constitute greatness, while leading the life of a sea-
  man, not only pursued assiduously the studies more
  particularly relating to his profession, rendering him-
  self the most accomplished geographer and astro-
  nomer of his time, but kept up that acquaintance

                   COLUMBUS.    COOK.                131
which he had begun at school with the different
branches of elegant literature. We are told that he
was even wont to amuse himself by the composition
of Latin verses. It was at sea, too, that our own
COOK acquired for himself those high scientific, and
we may even add literary accomplishments, of which
he shewed himself to be possessed.       The parents of
this celebrated navigator were poor peasants, and all
the school education he ever had was a little reading,
writing, and arithmetic, for which he was indebted
to the liberality of a gentleman in the neighbour-
hood.    He was apprenticed, at the age of thirteen,
to a shopkeeper in the small tow n of Snaith, near
Newcastle ; and it was while in this situation that
he was first seized with a passion for the sea.
After some time, he prevailed upon his master to
give up his indentures, and entered as one of the
crew of a coasting vessel engaged in the coal trade.
He continued in this service till he had reached his
twenty-seventh year, when he exchanged it for that
of the navy, in which he soon distinguished himself
so greatly that he was three or four years after ap-
pointed master of the Mercury, which belonged to a
squadron then proceeding to attack Quebec. Here
he first shewed the proficiency he had already made
in the scientific part of his profession, by an admi-
rable chart which he constructed and published of
the River St. Lawrence.      He felt, however, the dis-
advantages of his ignorance of mathematics ; and,
while still assisting in the hostile operations carrying
on against the French on the coast of North Ame-
rica, he applied himself to the study of Euclid's
Elements, which he soon mastered, and then began
that of astronomy.      A year or two after this, while
again stationed in the same quarter, he communicated
to the Royal Society an account of a solar eclipse
 which took place on the 5th of August, 1766; de-

132       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ducing from   it,with great exactness and skill, the
longitude of the place of observation and his paper
                                        ;
was printed in the Philosophical Transactions.   He
had now completely established his reputation as an
able and scientific seaman   ;    and   ithaving been
determined by Government, at the request of the
Royal Society, to send out qualified persons to the
South Sea to observe the approaching transit of the
planet Venus over the sun's disc a phenomenon
which promised several interesting results to astro-
nomy,      Cook was appointed to the command of the
Endeavour, the vessel fitted out for that purpose.
He conducted this expedition, which, in addition to
the accomplishment of its principal purpose, was
productive of a large accession of important geogra-
phical discoveries, with the most consummate skill and
ability; and was, the year after he returned home,
appointed to the command of a second vessel destined
for the same regions, but having in view more par-
ticularly the determination of the question as to the
existence of a southern polar continent.       He was
nearly three years absent upon this voyage but so
                                             ;
admirable were the methods he adopted for pre-
serving the health of his seamen, that he reached
home with the loss of only one man from his whole
crew.      Having addressed a paper to the Royal
 Society upon this subject, he was not only chosen
a   member of that learned body, but was farther
rewarded by having the Copley gold medal voted to
him for his experiments.      Of this second voyage he
 drew up the account himself, and  it  has been univer-
 sally esteemed a model in that species of writing.
    All our readers know the termination of Cook's
 distinguished career.    His third voyage, undertaken
 for the discovery of a passage from the Atlantic
 to the Pacific along the north coast of America,
 although unsuccessful iu reference to this object,


                                ^dby T Wright
CAP T.JAMES CO <0) K, ,'F. R S.

                          COOK.                       133
was fertile in geographical discoveries, and equally
honourable, with those by which it had been pre-
ceded, to the sagacity, good management, and
scientific skill of its unfortunate commander.       The
death of Captain Cook took place at Ovvhyhee, in a
sudden tumult of the natives of that island, on the
 14th of February, 1779.        The news of the event
was received with general lamentation, not only in
our own country, but throughout Europe.         Pensions
were bestowed upon his widow and three sons by
the Government ;        the Royal Society ordered a
medal to be struck in commemoration of him ; his
eulogy was pronounced in the Florentine Academy ;
and various other honours were paid to his memory,
both by public bodies and individuals.       Thus, by his
own persevering efforts, did this great man raise
himself from the lowest obscurity to a reputation
wide as the world itself, and certain to last as long
as the age in which he flourished shall be remem-
bered by history.      But better still than even all this
fame     than either the honours which he received
while living, or those which, when he was no more,
his country and mankind bestowed upon his memory,
    he had exalted himself in the scale of moral and
intellectual being; had won for himself, by his un-
wearied striving, a new and nobler nature, and taken
a high place among the instructors and best bene-
factors of mankind.      This alone is true happiness
the one worthy end of human exertion or ambition
    the only satisfying reward of all labour, and study,
and virtuous activity or endurance.          Among the
 shipmates with whom Cook mixed when he first
 went to sea, there was, perhaps, no one who ever
 either raised himself above the condition to which
 he then belonged in point of outward circumstances,
or enlarged in any considerable degree the know-
 ledge or mental resources he then possessed.        And
                                              N

134         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
some   will perhaps   say that this was little to be re-
gretted, at least on their own account ; that the
many who spent their lives in their original sphere
were probably as happy as the one who succeeded in
rising above it : but this is, indeed, to cast a hasty
glance on human life and human nature.          That man
was never truly happy        happy upon reflection, and
while looking to the past or the future        who could
not say to himself that he had made something of
the faculties God gave him, and had not lived alto-
gether without progression, like one of the inferior
animals.     We do not speak of mere wealth or
station ; these are comparatively nothing ; are as
often missed as attained, even by those who best
merit them ; and do not of themselves constitute
happiness when they are possessed.       But there must
be some consciousness of an intellectual or moral
progress, or there can be no satisfaction         no self-
congratulation    on reviewing what of life may be
already gone no hope in the prospect of what is
yet to come.    All men feel this, and feel it strongly ;
and if they could secure for themselves the source of
happiness in question by a wish, would avail them-
selves of the privilege with sufficient alacrity. Nobody
would pass his life in ignorance, if knowledge might
be had by merely looking up to the clouds for it : it
is the labour necessary for its acquirement that
 scares them ; and this labour they have not resolution
 to encounter.    Yet it is, in truth, from the exertion
 by which it must be obtained, that knowledge derives
 at least half its value ; for to this entirely we owe
 the sense of merit in ourselves which the acquisition
 brings along with it ; and hence no little of the hap-
 piness of which we have just described its possession
 to be the source : besides that, the labour itself soon
 becomes an enjoyment.
    To the example of Cook, if it were necessary, we

   VANCOUVER.           FLINDERS.        COLLINGWOOD.         135
might add those of others of his countrymen, who,
since his time, have shewn, in like manner, the possi-
bility of uniting the cultivation of literature and
science to the most zealous performance of the duties
of the same laborious profession. For instance,
VANCOUVER was a sailor formed under Cook ; and to
him we owe an interesting and ably written account
of the voyage which he made round the world, in
1790 and the four following years. Lieutenant FLIN-
DERS commanded the expedition sent out in 1801 to
survey the coast of New Holland, and afterwards
published an account of his voyage, accompanied by
a volume of charts, which are considered as placing
the author in the highest rank of modern hydrogra-
phers.      Nor ought we here to forget the late Lord
COLLINGWOOD, second in command to Nelson at
Trafalgar, and in all respects a man of first-rate
merit, who, although he never sent any production
to the press, has been proved by his correspondence,
published since his death, to have been in reality
one of the best of writers.          Yet he was only thirteen
when he first entered the navy, and during the re-
mainder of his life he was scarcely ever ashore               cir-
cumstances which used to make his acquaintances
wonder not a little where he got his style.               He had
always, however, been fond of reading and the study
of elegant literature ; and he found that even a life
at sea afforded him many opportunities of indulging
his taste for these enjoyments.
    Lord Collingwood may be said to have been, in all
respects, a perfect illustration of Wordsworth's fine
lines on the character of ' the Happy Warrior,'
    '' Whose
               powers shed round him in the common    strife,
       Or mild concerns of ordinary life,
       A constant influence    a peculiar grace:
       But who, if  he be called upon to face
       Some awful moment, to which Heaven has joined
       Great issues, good or bad, for human kind,
                                                  N 2

136           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
     Ts happy as a lover, and attired
     With sudden brightness, like a man inspired ;
     And through the heat of conflict keeps the law
     In calmness made, and sees what he foresaw :
     Or if  an unexpected call succeed,
     Come when it will, is equal to the need.
        He who, though thus endued as with a sense
     And faculty for storm and turbulence,
     Is yet a soul whose master-bias leans
     To homefelt pleasures and to gentle scenes ;
     Sweet images ! which, wheresoe'er he be,
     Are at his heart; and such fidelity
     It is his darling passion to approve ;
     More brave for this, that he hath much to love."
   It   does not belong to the plan of this work to
notice any living examples ; but the names of a crowd
of naval officers of our own times, who have distin-
guished themselves as men of science and learning
as well as skilful commanders, will present them-
selves at once to the memory.

                          CHAPTER      IX.
  Literary pursuits of Merchants. Solon ; Guys; D. North ; Ricardo.
But we must now return to civil life, from the
higher walks of which we have already quoted
several examples of an attachment to literary and
scientific pursuits, in the midst of much occupation ;
and the attainment of eminence at the same time in
the world of letters and in that of politics.              We shall
find that the cares of ordinary business have also left
time to many to earn distinction by their learning and
their writings, as well as the toils and anxieties of
state -affairs.     Perhaps the earliest literary merchant
we have on record is the celebrated Athenian lawgiver,
SOLON.       Although descended from one of the most
distinguished families in Athens, Solon found himself
obliged, on setting out in life, to attempt the re-esta-
blishment of the decayed fortunes of his house by
engaging in foreign commerce. After the manner
customary in those days, he proceeded in person to
distant countries along with the goods which he had
to dispose of. To a mind such as his, however, the
opportunities of an occupation of this kind were in-
valuable.       He returned to his native country not
only enriched by the success of his speculations, but
fraught with all the learning and philosophy of the
countries in which civilization had then made the
greatest progress ; and fitted to inform and control
his fellow-citizens by the lessons of a new wisdom,
made attractive by the charms of eloquence and
poetry.      He had sought, in the course of his travels,
still more anxiously for knowledge than for wealth,
                                                    N 3

 138          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 and he had found both in abundance.         When he re-
 appeared in his native country, his fame had pre-
 ceded him, and he was welcomed by all ranks as the
 fittest person to assume the government and regula-
 tion of the state.   He accepted the call, and distin-
 guished himself, as all our readers know, by the wise
 laws which he established, and the admirable ability
and rectitude of his administration.      But his love of
 literature and philosophic speculation still clung to
 him ; and after the usurpation of Pisistratus had
overturned the system of good government which
he had reared, and the folly and ingratitude of his
fellow-citizens     compelled him to withdraw from
Athens, we are told that he employed his old age in
finishing some of his poetical compositions, espe-
cially his great work, entitled Atlantis, which unfor-
tunately has not come down to us.          Solon's fame,
however, both as a poet and an orator, long survived
among his countrymen, and some fragments of his
poetry are still extant. The reader will find an ac-
count of the political institutions of Solon in the third
                 '
chapter of the History of Greece,' published in the
Library of Useful Knowledge.
    A French merchant, M. GUYS,         has,  in modern
times, distinguished himself by his learned researches
touching the geography and history of the coun-
try of Solon.      Guys had spent the early part of his
commercial life in Turkey, and it was while residing
there that he conceived the idea of availing himself of
the many opportunities his situation afforded him, to
compare the existing condition of Greece, and the
manners of its inhabitants, with the accounts handed
down to us, by the classic authors, of its ancient state.
His object was to ascertain what traces of the old
times were still to be found, either in the character
and habits of the people themselves, or in the natural
aspect and architectural monuments of the country.

                   GUYS.   D.   NORTH.                  139
 For   this purpose, we are told, he repeatedly travelled
 over both the Morea and the islands of the Archipe-
 lago, with Homer and Pausanias in his hand, every-
 where comparing what he observed with their descrip-
 tions, and those of other ancient authorities.         Not
 satisfied with this anxious investigation of his subject,
 he did not venture to commence the preparation of
 his projected work until he had, by long practice,
 obtained so much skill in the art of composition as
 gave him reason to hope that he should be able to
make   it,  in all respects, worthy of the acceptance of
the public.     Keeping his materials by him for some
years, he embraced several opportunities of exercising
his pen upon lighter topics, producing, among other
pieces, a discourse on the
                                '
                                    Utility of Literary and
Scientific Accomplishments to a Commercial Man,'
which he read before the Academy of Marseilles,
where he now carried on business. At last he pub-
lished, in 1772, his great work, under the title of
  Literary Travels in Greece,' which immediately pro-
'
cured for him  a    distinguished reputation as  a   man of
letters.   The Greeks themselves, in particular, were
so much flattered    by   the learning and talent which he
had brought to the illustration of their usages and
antiquities, that they sent him diploma, creating him
                                 a
a citizen of Athens. After this Guys produced various
other performances, both in prose and verse, all of
respectable merit, and left, at his death, a   considerable
number of manuscripts ready for publication      ;    but he
is  principally remembered for his Literary Travels, of
which he was preparing for the press a third and
greatly enlarged edition, when he died in 1799, in his
seventy-ninth year.        He was an associate of the In-
stitute of France, as well as member of various other
literary institutions.
    Our countryman, Sir DUDLEY NORTH, also began
the orld as   a    Turkey merchant.       In an interesting

140        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE,
memoir of his life, which has been left us by his
brother Roger, we are told that, having been placed
at Bury to learn Latin, " he made but an indifferent
scholar," which is imputed partly to the brutal se-
                                     " correct him at all
verity of his master, who used to
turns, with or without a fault, till he was driven
within an ace of despair, and making away with him-
self," and partly to the circumstance of his having
" too much spirit, which would not be suppressed
by conning his book, but must be rather employed in
perpetual action."     It was " this backwardness at
school," the author thinks, that probably determined
his destination.   " But the young man himself," he
adds, " had a strange bent to traffic, and, while he
was at school, drove a subtle trade among the boys
by buying and selling.      In short, it was considered
that he had learning enough for a merchant, but not
phlegm enough for any sedentary profession."
   Accordingly, after having been sent for some time
to a writing and arithmetic school, he was bound by
his father, Lord North, to a Turkey merchant, upon
the agreement which was then usual, that, after
having been initiated in the business at home, he
should be sent out to the Levant. " This merchant's
business," however, adds his brother, " was not
enough to keep a man employed, and, having left off
rambling, much of his time lay upon his hands. He
could not endure to be out of action or idle ; there-
fore, to fill up his intervals, he fell to work at the
packing press, (the person with whom he boarded
was a packer,) and other business of that trade, by
wnich he made himself a complete master of the
mystery of that trade. This was not any loss of
time ; for that is one of the chief trades which the
Levant merchants are concerned with, for the skilful
packing their cloths sent into Turkey. The young
gentleman took also a fancy to the binding of books,

                       D. NORTH.                    141
and, having procured a stitching board, press, and
cutter, fell to work, and bound up books of account
for himself, and divers for his friends, in a very de-
cent manner.     He had a distinguishing genius to-
wards all sorts of mechanic exercises."
   After some time, he was sent out by his master as
supercargo, with an adventure to Archangel, where
he was to ship another cargo for Smyrna, and then
to take up his residence in the latter place as factor.
" It was a hard case," says his biographer, " for a
raw youth to embark in such a voyage, without com-
pany, or so much as a face in the ship that he ever
saw before, and bound almost as far northward as
Zembla, and to reside amongst, and traffic with bar-
barous people, and then to return through all the bad
weather the skies can afford.     But he went not only
willingly but ambitiously, and formalized upon nothing
that led towards the end he most earnestly desired,
which was to be settled as a factor in Turkey.      His
resolution was inexpugnable ; and, not only in this
but in many other instances of his life, he considered
well what was best for him to do ; and after that
point once determined, he had no thought of difficul-
ties ; he was not master of his fortunes, and resolved,
at all adventures, to advance them ; and therein to
use the utmost of his industry and understanding,
leaving the rest to Providence."
    These extracts shew us the character of the young
adventurer ; and we find the same determination, ac-
tivity, and alacrity to seize and make use of every
opportunity of improvement, in all his subsequent
 proceedings.   Even in the course of this trading
 voyage, he has an eye for every thing worth ob-
 serving that comes in his way ; and keeps a regular
journal of all that he saw and that befell him, which
 he transmits to London, in the form of letters, to his
 elder brother, Francis, afterwards the Lord Keeper

142         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Guildford.     He  even attempted, it would appear from
what he states in one of these letters, to acquire
some acquaintance, while in the ship, with practical
seamanship.       I
                " had thought," he writes, " to
                                                   employ
myself aboard by keeping an account of the ship's way,
but am disappointed ; for the master and mates, on
whom that charge lies, are a sort of people who do all
by mechanic rule, and understand nothing, or very
little, of the nature and reason of the instruments they
use. And where that little happens, they are very shy
of it; and, if at any time one speaks to them, they
think they have a blockhead to deal with, who under-
stands nothing ; and they will hear no objection to their
dictates. As for reasons and causes, they lie beyond
their capacity ; all that is not set down at large in
their books, they account no better than damnable
doctrine and heresy ; their quotations are irrefra-
gable, and not to be disputed."          What he princi-
pally complains of, indeed, throughout the voyage,
is the idleness in which he was obliged to pass his
time.     Having, on his return from Archangel, been
 detained for some time at Leghorn, he determined
to visit Florence, about fifty-five miles off; upon which
 occasion he remarks,
                        " Perhaps my friends may think
this visiting of places no sign of good husbandry ; but
let it be considered that an idle person is subject to
 expense, wherever he lieth ; and the well-employ-
 ment of time, and experience to be gained this way,
may countervail some increase of charge."             The
 long and minute detail he gives us of what he saw
on this visit is highly curious, and shews satis-
 factorily enough, that his
                               " increase of
                                              charge" was
 not thrown away.       He made use, too, he tells us,
 of the time he spent here and at Leghorn to acquire
 some knowledge of Italian.
                                    " The language," he
remarks, " is not difficult ; and I find the little Latin
I  have to be an extraordinary help in attaining it."

                      D.  NORTH.                     143
    He began business    at Smyrna with a capital     of
not quite four hundred pounds, on the profits of
which he lived thriftily, and
                               " passed his time,'' says
his brother, " for divers years, with a meagre in-
come, and not promising much increase."         Having
afterwards, however, transferred his residence to
Constantinople, he succeeded at last in reaping the
fruits of his industry and perseverance, and found
himself gradually becoming a wealthy man.           Here
he shewed, on every occasion, the same inquisitive-
ness and love of knowledge, the same activity and
capacity of overcoming difficulties, which had cha-
racterized him from his boyhood.     He not only made
himself completely master of the political constitu-
tion and statistics of the country, but even acquired
such a skill in the Turkish law, that, in common
cases, he could both
                        " advise himself," we are told,
"and assist his friends."     "I have heard our mer-
chant say," writes his biographer, " that he had
tried, in the Turkish courts, above five hundred
causes ; and, for the most part, used no dragomen,
or interpreters, as foreigners commonly do, but, in
the language of the country, spoke for himself."
" For these,'' he continues, " and other purposes of
his negotiation, he had laboured to gain, and had
thereby acquired, a ready use of the Turkish lan-
guage, and could speak it fluently.       I have heard
him say, that for scolding and railing it was more
apt than any other language ; arid he had used
it so much in that way, that afterwards, when
he was in England, and much provoked, his tongue
would run into Turkish of itself: as if to such
purposes it were his mother speech.            He told
us, he once composed a Turkish Dictionary, and
shewed the ordinary idioms and analogies of that
language.    He not only spoke, but wrote, Turkish

144        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
very well."   The Italian language, too, we are told,
in another place,
                   " the merchant had acquired to a
perfection, and expressed himself as naturally and
fluently in     it,
               as     ifhad been his mother tongue
                           it                          ;
and   ithath been observed, that no Frank ever spoke
the vulgar Italian idiom so correct and perfect as he
did." We have a proof, indeed, of his familiarity
with this language, in a long and amusing letter,
written by him to an Italian friend, which his brother
has printed.
  A    passage, which occurs afterwards, presents us
with another evidence of the zeal with which every
opportunity of obtaining useful information was
taken advantage of by this intelligent and enter-
prising person.
                    " Our merchant had then residing
with him    a  virtuoso, who was a good mathemati-
cian and draughtsman        and they together concerted
                                ;
a design of making an exact plan of the city of Con-
 stantinople, and carried       on till
                                     it  came very near
                                              it
being completed. They took the liberty of mea-
suring in the street a distance between two stations,
 which were two of their mosque towers, from which
 their priests cry to prayers     and with;   theodolite
                                                   a
 they took certain angles at the corners of streets.
 And in order to find the position and distances of
 all the towers and remarkable places, they went up
 the two towers which they had chose, and made
 their stations and there, with the same instrument,
                  ;
 marked the angles of each view by the bearings of
  every one of those places, and set off the same,
  upon a large paper,           by
                            lines and then the proper
                                          ;
  intersections gave the true position of them all, in
 just proportion, according as the practice of such
  method   is commonly directed. And then they fell to
  mapping the streets, partly by the guidance of those
  views, and partly    by
                        other observations."

                       D. NORTH.                     145
     So much (although more might be added) for what
 he contrived to learn while in Turkey, by means of
what his brother calls his " furious curiosity, not
without some penetration and aptitude to 'discern
and apply what fell in his way, losing nothing that
might be instructive to him."     In returning to Eng-
land, the vessel in which he sailed having touched at
Alicant, on the east coast of Spain, he and some of
his friends resolved to travel over land to Cadiz,
rather than sail round by Gibraltar.        " Our mer-
chant," says his biographer, " was not ill qualified
to travel in this country, and to converse in the great
trading towns ; for he spoke Giffoot very fluently,
which is a corrupt Spanish.     But, because the Jews
write it in Hebrew characters (which he also could
do), it is called Giffoot, or the language which the
Jews speak ; so, having this dialect at command, he
was his own interpreter."     During the remainder of
the voyage, with his characteristic activity, he amused
himself by letting down bottles tightly corked into
the sea, to try at what depth the cork would be
driven in or the bottle broken, by the increased pres-
sure of the water.
    Shortly after coming home he settled as a mer-
chant in London, and was, in course of time, ap-
pointed, first a Commissioner of the Customs, and
then a Lord of the Treasury.       Having become also
a member of Parliament, " although he was bred,"
says    his brother, " in business abroad, and had
little experience in the affairs of England, and in
parliament none at all, yet he took the place of ma-
nager for the crown in all matters          of revenue
stirring in the House of Commons ; and what he
undertook he carried through, against all opposition,
with as much assurance and dexterity as if he had
been an old battered parliament-man."       Before this,
we are told, he had set about learning Algebra,
                                              o

146            THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
under the direction of a Mr. Dickenson, one of his
brother Commissioners of the Customs.           As his
quaint biographer expresses
                                     "
                                     it,When they had
leisure, they too were busy at plus and minus, con-
volution and evolution   ;   and Sir Dudley was ex-
tremely pleased with this new kind of arithmetic,
which he had never heard of before."
    He had committed his thoughts to writing at con-
siderable length upon different subjects, both during
his residence in Turkey and since his return to Eng-
land  ; but    was in 1691 that he first appeared before
               it
the world as an author, by the publication of a work
entitled Discourses upon Trade, principal!) directed
          '
to the cases of Interest, Coinage, Clipping, and en-
crease of Money.'     These discourses have been con-
sidered as placing Sir Dudley North at the head of
the economical writers of the seventeenth century.
They contain, according to Mr. Macculloch, a much
more able statement of the true principles of com-
merce than any that had then appeared, and main-
tain all the great principles of commercial freedom
with an intelligence and consistency that have not
been surpassed in any work of succeeding: times.
" Unluckily," Mr. Macculloch adds, " this admirable
tract never obtained any considerable circulation.
There      good reason, indeed, for supposing that
          is                                          it
was designedly suppressed.      At all events, speedily
                                             it
became excessively scarce    ; and    am not aware that
                                      I
it has ever been referred to by any subsequent writer
on commerce."
    This eminent person lost both his seat in parlia-
ment and his place under the crown at the Revolu-
tion " in consequence of which," says his brother,
 " hating idleness, he fell again to buying of cloth,"
      ;
which he had discontinued while he held his high
employments. After     a  short time, however, he once
 more retired from business but continued to em-
                                 ;

                       D. NORTH.                     I J7
ploy   himself in another way as actively as ever.
He had always, we are told, " delighted much in
natural observations, and what tended to explain
mechanic powers ; and particularly that wherein his
own concern lay, beams and scales the place of the
centres, the form of the centre-pins, what share the
fulcrum, and what the force, or the weight, bore with
respect to each other ; and that he might not be de-
ceived, had made proofs by himself of all the forms
of scales that he could imagine could be put in prac-
tice for deceiving."
                        " He was so great a lover of
building, too," it is afterwards stated,
                                               " that St.
Paul's, then well advanced, was his ordinary walk ;
there was scarce a course of stones laid, while we
lived together, over which we did not walk. And he
would always climb to the uppermost heights.        Much
time have we spent there     in talking of the engines,
tackle, &c. He showed me the power of friction in
engines ; for when a capstan was at work, he did
but gripe the ropes between the weight and the ful-
 crum in his hand, and all was fast ; and double the
number of men at the capstan could not have pre-
vailed against that impediment to have raised the
 stone till he let go. We usually went there on Satur-
 days, which were Sir Christopher Wren's days, who
 was the surveyor ; and we commonly got a snatch
 of discourse with him ; who, like a true philosopher,
 was always obliging and communicative, and in
 every matter we inquired about gave short but satis-
 factory answers."    To this subject, indeed, Sir Dudley
 seems to have applied himself for some time with a
                                          1
 zeal that hardly allowed him to thin : of any thing
 else.  "We had conversed so much with new houses,"
 says Roger, on concluding a long detail of his bro-
 ther's architectural investigations, " that we were
  almost turned rope dancers, and walked as familiarly
  upon joists in garrets, having a view through all the
                                            o 2

148        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
floors down to the cellar, as if it had been plain
ground." When in the country, they, in like manner,
used to occupy themselves in trigonometrical sur-
veys, on which we are told that the country people
thought them conjurors,
                              " pretending to survey a
ground by views at two stations, without measuring
a side or any part, but from one station to another."
   All this while, although he had retired from com-
mercial life, he still retained the punctual habits of a
man of business, and even gave a considerable part
of his time to occupations connected with his former
calling.   He had several laborious trusts, in parti-
cular, to superintend as executor, in the manage-
ment of which he was as scrupulously exact and
pains-taking as ever he had been in keeping his own
mercantile books.      For these purposes he had one
apartment in his house fitted up as a counting-room,
where he reckoned with his tradesmen, paid and
received money, and kept a servant or clerk, who
was constantly employed, chiefly in copying, while
he used another above    it,                         it,
                              as his brother expresses
" to wilder in his accounts and his wife used to
                               ;
wonder how   it   could be that he had so much to do
there."   At one time, we are told, when the Custom-
house books having got into disorder were brought
there for him to arrange, " he wallowed so much in
them, and with so much application, that his wife was
afraid he would have run mad." "There also," adds
his gossipping but lively and graphic biographer,
  he read such books as pleased him         and (though
'
                                       ;
he was a kind of a dunce at school) in his manhood
he recovered so much Latin as to make him take
pleasure in the best classics; especially in Tully's
Philosophies, whichI      recommended to him."
   We cannot afford, however, to accompany this
active merchant through the long catalogue of
his employments and amusements; his vinegar-

                        D. NORTH.                     149
  making , and his other
          1                 " operations and natural ex-
 periments ;" his travelling through the country on a
  "grave pad" of his brother's, with his predilection for
 the " very sure and easy, but slow
                                          "
                                            pace of that
 " sage animal;" his "hewing and framing of wood
 works ;" his ingenious construction of a pair of bel-
 lows, for a smithy, out of a leather skin and a few
 pieces of elder ; and his toils at the anvil, which he
 " followed so constantly and close," that when his
wife " came to call him to dinner, she found him as
 black as a tinker," and " he," says his brother,
 "
   coming out sometimes with a red short waistcoat,
 red cap, and black face, the country people began
 to talk as if we used some unlawful trades there,
 clipping at least ; and, it might be, coining of money
    upon which we were forced to call in the black-
smith and some of the neighbours, that it might
be known there was neither damage nor danger to
the state by our operations."       For a full account of
all these matters, as well as of the " turning and
planning," which formed the more refined afternoon's
employment of the two brothers, and for which
they
       " sequestered a low closet," and a description
of the "way-wiser," or road-measurer, which Roger
invented, we must refer the reader to the latter's
own faithful and amusing pages.          We must find
room, however, for the concluding sentences of
the narrative, conveying as they do a forcible lesson
to vulgar ambition, and an illustration of how
easily happiness may be found even in the narrowest
sphere, and at the humblest employment, if it be
but sought for in a right spirit.     " In our laborato-
ries," Roger remarks, " it was not a little strange
to see with what earnestness and pains we worked,
sweating most immoderately, and scarce allowing our-
selves time to eat.     At the lighter works in the afr
ternoon, he hath sat, perhaps, scraping a stick or
                                             o3

130          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
turning a piece of wood, and this for many after-
noons together, all the while singing like a cobbler,
incomparably better pleased than he had been in all
the stages   of his life before.   And it is a mortifying
speculation, that of     the different characters of this
man's enjoyments, separated one from the other, and
exposed to an indifferent choice, there is scarce any
one     but this  I  have here described, really worth
taking up. And yet the slavery of our nature is
such, that this must be despised, and all the rest,
with the attendant evils of vexation, disappoint-
ments, dangers, loss of health, disgraces, envy, and
 what not of torment, be admired.             It was well
                                           '
 said of the philosopher to Pyrrhus :        What follows
 after all your victories?       To sit down and make
 merry. And cannot you do so now?'"               This is a
 little rhetorically, perhaps, and somewhat too strongly
 spoken to be taken literally; and, certainly, to spend
 life in nothing but trivial employments would not be
 to spend it either happily or worthily ; but if it be
 understood as merely expressing and inculcating the
 real superiority of an active and healthy exercise of
 mind and body, in individual or domestic industry,
 the pursuit of knowledge, and such simple and ge-
  nerally accessible enjoyments as we have been con-
 templating, over the hot and exhausting chase after
  wealth or power, in which it is usual for men to
 waste their strength, it will not be far from a correct
  appreciation of the constituents of human happiness.
      We have dwelt the longer on the life and character
  of Sir Dudley North, both because he affords us one
  of the very best examples to which we can refer, of
  the successful pursuit of business and of philosophy
  by the same individual, and because, fortunately, his
 history and habits have been transmitted to us with
  unusual fidelity and fulness. To his name might be
  added those of many others of his countrymen, emi-

                        RICARDO.                     151
nent like him at once iu the walks both of commerce
and of literature ; but we will only mention that of the
late Mr. RICARDO. This gentleman, in the course of
not a long 1 life, for he died at the age of fifty-one,
amassed a large fortune by his mercantile skill, ac-
tivity, and attention to business, after having begun
the world with little except a character for integrity
and talent, and secured for himself, not merely a
respectable reputation as a writer, but, in the impor-
tant science to which he devoted himself, a place
among the very first of his age. As we cannot
here enter upon any examination of his peculiar doc-
trines, we express no opinion respecting the ex-
tent to which they may be well founded or may
require limitation.    But, whatever difference of senti-
ment may exist as to this point, there can be none
as to the ability and ingenuity which their author al-
ways displays in unfolding and supporting them, and
that originality of view which marks all his works,
and has placed him at the head of a new and distinct
school of enquirers in this department of philosophy.
It has been said that Mr. Ricardo's attention was not
 directed to political economy till somewhat late in
life ; and a story has been told about his accidentally
                        '                   '
finding a copy of the Wealth of Nations one day at
the country house of a friend, and immediately pur-
chasing the book, reading it through with great ea-
 gerness, and resolving to dedicate himself thence-
 forth exclusively to the study of the subject with
 which he had thus for the first time become ac-
 quainted.    But this anecdote has been contradicted
 on better authority, and is not in itself very proba-
 ble ; for it is not likely that a mind, such as that of
 Ricardo, occupied as it was every day among the very
 matters to which the science in question especially
 refers, would be long in having its attention drawn
 to the principles of that science.   Be this, however,

  152       THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
as it may, he did not appear as an author till 1B09,
 when he published his pamphlet entitled ' The High
 Price of Bullion, a proof of the depreciation of Bank
Notes,' which immediately excited general attention
and went eventually through four editions.      He was
at this time in the thirty-seventh year of his age,
and, we believe, actively engaged in the pursuits of
business. He continued to write, and give to the
world a succession of productions on his favourite
subject, till his death in 1823.      His great work,
'
   The Principles of Political Economy and Taxation,'
appeared in     1817, two years after which time
he was returned to Parliament,       where he greatly
distinguished himself, especially in all , discussions
relating to finance and commerce.        He is under-
stood to have left several manuscripts ready, or
nearly ready, for the press.

                            CHAPTER       X.
Literary Pursuits of Booksellers and Printers. Gesner; Aldus Manutius,
    Paul, and Aldus the Younger; R. Stephens; H. Stephens     ; Scapula;
     Colinaeus ; Badius ;  Froben;   Oporinus ; Ruddiman    ;   Bowyer;
    Kichols; Richardson.
MANY of our readers are probably familiar with the
English translation of the popular German work, the
Death of Abel.            SOLOMON GESNER, the celebrated
author of this production, and of many others written
in a similar style that rank high in the literature of
his native country, carried on the business of a book-
seller, at Zurich, in Switzerland.             In his case, how-
ever, as in that of the Dutch poet, Vondel, whom we
have already mentioned, the cares and interruptions
of business were, during the latter part of his life,
rendered less annoying by the attention of his wife,
who is said to have charged herself with the prin-
cipal management of his commercial concerns, that
he might have more leisure for literature.               But it was
amid the drudgery of the shop that almost all his
earliest studies were carried on, and his literary taste
nourished.        We are told that Gesner was accounted
a dunce by his first schoolmaster, who predicted
that he never would get beyond reading and writing ;
and yet the person who was thus unsuccessful in de-
veloping, or even discerning, the talents of the future
poet, was no other than the celebrated Bodmer, one
of the distinguished names of German literature, and
who afterwards became a great poet himself. This
anecdote shows that even genius will not always dis-
cover genius in another ; although possibly some may
think that Bodmer must have been but an indifferent

154          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
teacher, whatever he was in another capacity. Young
Gesner was afterwards sent by his father, who,
like himself, was a bookseller in Zurich, to the
house   of   a clergyman in the neighbourhood, who,
having probably no poetical powers of his own, had
more leisure to attend to the intellectual character
of his pupil, and soon drew forth from the con-
demned dunce no doubtful indications of the light
that was hidden within.       But the young poet was
after some time removed from the care of this con-
genial, or judicious, instructor, and despatched to
Berlin, to take up his abode with a bookseller of that
city, in quality of his apprentice or shop-boy.    Here
he was of course surrounded with books ; but, either
disliking the business, or not finding that it left him
sufficient leisure to derive much advantage from the
treasures of knowledge that were within his reach,
he soon abandoned    it,  and took lodgings, under the
idea of supporting himself by poetry and painting
for he had already, without having any one to give
him lessons, begun to apply himself also to the latter
art.   In this scheme he encountered at the outset
the difficulties which naturally beset       one in his
situation.   There was no deficiency of talent, but  a
sad lack of experience, and ignorance of many things
that a person more regularly instructed could not have
failed to know.     Having shown his verses to some of
his literary acquaintances, he was told that they were
so awkwardly constructed that he certainly never
would be a poet, and advised to turn his attention
forthwith to some less difficult species of composition.
His paintings were still more literally the efforts of
his own unaided genius than even his poetry.       Here
he had neither any model to imitate, nor was even
acquainted with the elementary rules and most com-
mon methods and processes of the art.           He had
covered the walls of his humble lodging with land-

                       GESNF.R.                     153
 scapes, and he one day prevailed upon a painter of
 some reputation and talent, who resided in the city,
 to come to see what he had done.       His visitor had
taste enough to discern the genius that animated
many parts of his strange and lawless performances ;
but was not at all surprised, when, upon asking him
after what models he worked, he was told that he
had no models, and that the whole was merely the
inspiration of his own invention.    He was somewhat
amused, however, when Gesner, in his ignorance of
the way of managing his oil-colours, complained to
him that his pictures never dried. The end of all
this was, as might have been anticipated, that the
runaway was soon forced to throw himself once more
upon the protection of his friends, when he was again
placed by his father at his own business.       He did
not, however, relinquish literature; and although his
first productions were not very flatteringly received,
he persevered in writing and publishing until he had
established for himself a distinguished reputation.
He began, too, after some years to add to his other
employments that of an engraver, having already
matured his taste and skill in painting by the study
of the great masters of the Flemish school.        The
father of his wife possessed a valuable collection,
the inspection of which had the effect of strongly
exciting his early ardour. The remainder of Ges-
ner's life was divided between his business, his
duties as a public man (for he had now become a
member of the legislative council of his native city),
and those different intellectual occupations and ele-
gant arts in each of which he had attained so honour-
able a celebrity.  His works were not only in general
published by himself, but often embellished with en-
gravings by his own hand from his own designs.
Many of them were still more popular in other parts
of Europe, especially in France, than even in Uer-

156         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
many ; and among the testimonies of affection and
respect which he received from his foreign admirers,
he was presented with a gold medal by the Empress
Catherine of Russia.       He died of an attack of
apoplexy, in 1788, in the fifty-eighth year of his
age.
    A pretty long catalogue, indeed, might be given of
literary booksellers and printers, among whom, in
former times especially, even profound learning was
not uncommon.      At the head of this list would stand
the celebrated ALDUS MANUTIUS, one of the earliest
of the Italian printers, whose services to literature,
and we may add to civilization, it is scarcely possible
to enumerate. Manutius received a learned education,
and passed the early part of his life in literary pur-
suits, and in the society of some of the most distin-
guished scholars of his time.      He was forty years
old before he set about the establishment of his
printing office at Venice ; and it was six years later
before the first production of his press made its
appearance.    The period, therefore, of his labours as
a printer, as he died at the age of sixty-six, only ex-
tended over twenty years; and even this space was
broken in upon by various difficulties and interrup-
tions, arising from his limited resources and the dis-
tracted condition of the country.     The latter cause,
on one occasion, obliged him to retire altogether from
Venice for above a twelvemonth ; when not only was
his property pillaged during his absence, but he him-
self, on quitting the city of Milan, in which he had
taken refuge, was seized as a spy, and consigned to
a prison, from which he only obtained his deliverance
through the good offices of one of his friends, who
happened to be vice-chancellor of the Milanese senate.
All this being kept in mind, it is impossible not to be
astonished at the immense professional labours of
this father of the typographical art.      During these

                    ALDUS MANUTIUS.                     157
 twenty years, partially disturbed as they were, and in
 spite of the scanty means by which his spirit of enter-
 prise was frequently cramped and restrained, he gave
 to the world editions of nearly all the Greek and
 Roman authors whose works where then known to be
 in existence    transcribing the text, in almost every
 instance, from manuscripts which it required the
 utmost learning, sagacity, and patience to decypher ;
 and, with great critical acumen, selecting from the
 various readings which presented themselves those
 which appeared best entitled to be considered genuine.
 He was, in fact, the editor of nearly every work which
 he published ; and, in the performance of his duties
 in that character, had difficulties to struggle with and
 surmount, with which those that have fallen to the
 share of the generality of his successors are riot for a
 moment to be compared.       And yet it was in these cir-
 cumstances, as we have said, that he produced, in the
 course of a few years, the first printed editions of many
 of the Greek and Roman classics; thus entitling
 himself, in common with other editors of editiones
principe (original editions), to the gratitude of all
 succeeding times, as not only the author of the
earliest general diffusion of this most precious litera-
 ture, but not improbably the preserver of much of it
from irretrievable destruction.        Had Manutius not
 exerted himself as he did to rescue the writings
in question from their insecure existence in a few
half-defaced and rapidly-perishing manuscripts, and
to bestow on them a sure immortality through the
printing press, we know not how many of those
of them we now possess it might never have been
our fate to look upon, nor how much slower that
march of civilization might have proceeded which
owed to their wide-spread influence so much both of
its excitement and of its conquests.       For, whatever
opinion may be entertained as to the present and future

153         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
value of the productions of Greek and Roman litera-
ture, or their importance in guiding 1 and sustaining
the intellectual progress of the world at the point
which it has now reached, it can hardly be disputed
that Europe never would have made the advance-
ment it did in the course of the fifteenth and sixteenth
centuries but for them, and that it is to their inspi-
ration that we owe, in a great measure at least, the
beginning's
   O      O
              of our existingC7 refinement. But if this
be so, it is to Manutius that a part of our grati-
tude is due ; since, had it not been for him, some,
very probably, of these ancient poets, orators, his-
torians, and philosophers, would have written, both
for us and for our fathers, in vain.
    But his admirable labours, in restoring and pre-
serving the works of others, did not by any means
form the only occupation of this great printer during
those twenty years.      Beside carrying through the
press the productions of several of his contemporaries,
he found time for the composition of many works of
his own, all of them full of erudition, and some
of considerable magnitude. Among these may be
mentioned grammars of the Greek and Latin lan-
guages, and a Greek and Latin dictionary in folio,
being the earliest work of the kind that had been
given to the world. He also founded at his own
house a literary association, known by the name of
the Aldine Academy, which obtained great celebrity,
and reckoned among its members the celebrated
Erasmus, Cardinal Bembo, and several others of the
most distinguished persons of that age.      During the
first years, too, of his residence at Venice, and while
he was making preparations for commencing business
as a printer, he delivered several courses of lectures
on Greek and Roman literature.
    Aldus Manutius died in 1515 ; but he left a son
 named Paul, who afterwards distinguished himself as

            PAUL MANUTIUS. R. STEPHENS.              159
mticli as his father had done, both as a printer and a
 man of letters.     Many of the works which proceeded
 from his press were enriched by learned commen-
 taries from his own pen.      When the Venetian Aca-
 demy was founded, in 1558, PAUL MANUTIUS was
appointed Professor of Eloquence, and director of
the printing establishment ; but that association con-
tinued in existence only for three years.       He was
afterwards induced to settle as a printer in Rome, at
the invitation of the Pope ; and, although he still
kept his press at work in Venice also, the last years
of his life were spent in that city. He died there in
1 574, leaving a son, commonly called the younger
Aldus (to distinguish him from his grandfather),
who, although a person of some learning and talent,
did not quite sustain the reputation of his family in
either of the two departments in which its preceding
members had acquired so much and such well-
merited distinction.     Under him, the printing-office
fell into discredit and decay ; and he at last gave up
the business to one of his workmen.        He died, it is
said, from the effects of a surfeit, in 1597 ; and the
valuable library, collected by his father and his grand-
father, was soon afterwards seized upon by his cre-
ditors, and sold to pay his debts.
    Contemporary with the Manutii in Italy were the
Estiennes or STEPHENSES in France. Of this family,
celebrated as printers for nearly a hundred and fifty
years, about a dozen members are enumerated as
distinguished for their literary attainments ; but we
can only afford to notice the two most eminent names
in the list, the first Robert and his son Henry.    The
former was born at Paris in 1503 and commenced
business in that city as a printer on his own account
about the year 1526.      He had before this time acted
as chief manager of the establishment of his father-
in-law, Simon de Colines, and had, in that situation,
                                           p-2

 160        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
superintended an edition of the New Testament, the
publication of which gave great umbrage to the
Doctors of the Sorbonne, or Theological College,
 and first drew upon him that suspicion of an incli-
 nation towards Protestantism which he afterwards
justified by his formal abandonment of the Catholic
faith.    He was not only the most distinguished
printer, but one of the most learned scholars of his
time, as his works, and especially his great The-
saurus of the Latin language, amply testify.     All the
works which proceeded from his press are remarkable
both for their extreme beauty of execution and their
almost immaculate correctness.       In order to secure
for them this latter quality, he was wont, we are told,
in many cases to exhibit the proofs for public inspec-
tion, and to offer a reward for every error any one
should detect in them.      One of his editions of the
Greek New Testament is known by the strange name
of the " Pulres " edition, which was given to it in
consequence of the word
                           " Plures " in the Latin pre-
face being so printed,       an error which was long
supposed to be the only one in the work, till a more
diligent examination in recent times discovered four
others in the Greek text.
   The supposed religious opinions of Robert Ste-
phens exposed him, during a great part of his life-
time, to incessant annoyance and menace from zealots
of the Catholic church, from whose hostility he was
with difficulty protected even by the patronage of
the king, Francis I.     When Francis died, Stephens
felt that the security he had hitherto enjoyed in Paris
was gone with his royal patron ; and after a short
time he retired to Geneva.      He resided in that city
for several years, carrying on his business as a printer,
and died there in the year 1559, at the age of fifty-
six.   From many honourable testimonies that have
been borne to the learning of this great printer, it is

                     H. StEPHENS.                   161
sufficient to quote the eulogium of the celebrated De
Thou, who affirms that France and Christendom owe
a deeper debt of gratitude to him than to their great-
est captains ; and that he has done more to immor-
talize the reign of Francis I., than all that monarch's
own most famous exploits.
    HENRY STEPHENS, the eldest son of Robert, was one
of the most learned men that ever lived, and so volu-
minous an author, that if he had spent' his life in
writing books, he would have left us enough to
admire in the evidence of his industry and fertility.
But instead of this being the case, his days were
passed partly amidst the toils of a laborious occupa-
tion, and partly under the pressure of misfortune and
penury, and in wandering about in quest even of mere
subsistence.    He was born in 1528 ; and after hav-
ing been carefully educated, and having travelled
in Italy, England, and the Netherlands, appears to
have accompanied his father when he left Paris for
Geneva.      He soon, however, returned to the former
city ; and although known to be attached, like his
father, to the reformed faith, contrived to obtain per-
mission to settle there as a printer, about the year
 1557. From this time there continued to issue from
his press a succession of editions of the classic
writers, and other works, not only printed with the
greatest care and correctness, but abounding in new
and improved readings, which the labours and inge-
nuity of the editor had discovered, and almost always
accompanied by learned prefaces and commentaries
from his own pen, which are read by scholars to
this day with profit and admiration.     But the great
 work, to the compilation of which he devoted himself
 with especial ardour and assiduity, was his celebrated
 Thesaurus, or Dictionary of the Greek Language.
 This extraordinary performance was the fruit of
 twelve years of laborious application, aided by an
                                           p3

162         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
acquaintance with his subject unrivalled among his
contemporaries, and more extensive, perhaps, than
has been possessed by any scholar since his time.
The undertaking, however, had completely exhausted
the pecuniary resources of the unfortunate author ;
and nothing could have saved him from ruin, except
a much more rapid sale of the work than its magni-
tude, and necessarily high price, in almost any cir-
cumstances admitted.        He struggled with his diffi-
culties for some years, and might, perhaps, have
eventually succeeded in surmounting them ; when
his hopes were on a sudden extinguished by the
appearance of a rival publication, professing to be
the work of JOHN SCAPULA. This person had, it
appears, been employed as a clerk, or corrector of the
press, in Stephens's office, during the printing of the
Thesaurus ; and the story commonly told is, that
while acting in this capacity he had secretly applied
himself, with a base industry, to the compilation of
 an abridgment of that great work, which he was
 thus enabled to bring into the market in sufficient
 time to ruin the sale of the larger and dearer publi-
 cation. As it seems unquestionable, however, that
 the first edition of Scapula's Dictionary did not make
 its appearance till seven years after the publication of
 that of Stephens, it is unnecessary to suppose the
 former to have acted quite so treacherously as is
 generally alleged, seeing that seven years were
  surely sufficient to finish an abridgment of a
 work which the original author had taken only
 twelve years to compile ; and that, therefore, Sca-
 pula's performance may be very easily conceived
  to have been begun, not while he was superintending
  the printing of his master's Thesaurus, but some
  time after its publication.   In making this remark,
  we do not mean to dispute either the justice of the
  charge of plagiarism which has been brought against

                        SCAPULA.                    163
Scapula, or the fact, that the appearance of his book,
notwithstanding the time which elapsed between its
publication and that of the work from which it was
stolen, considerably injured the sale of the latter.
The truth is, that this abridgment, looked upon even
as such, was a performance of very considerable
ability, and much more commodious for consultation
in ordinary cases than the larger work. It has ever
since its appearance ranked as one of the most valu-
able auxiliaries to which recourse can be had in the
study of Greek ; and has, without doubt, contributed
essentially to the diffusion of a knowledge of that
language      a circumstance which makes one learned
writer observe, that Scapula has done at least as
much service to scholars in general as he did injury
to his master ; while another goes the length of
maintaining, with more sensibility, it will be thought,
to the interests of Greek learning than to the prin-
ciples of morality and honourable conduct, that the
glory of the author of so excellent a work ought in
nowise to suffer diminution from any incorrectness
of conduct he may have been guilty of in the prepa-
ration of it.    It is not at all improbable that many
copies of the large Thesaurus still remained unsold
when the abridgment came out ; while that event
would completely put an end to the idea of a se-
cond edition, however necessary, to meet the great
expenditure that had been incurred.
   Stephens continued, for some years after this
misfortune, to labour with umvearied diligence both as
a printer and as an author, sustained partly by the pa-
tronage and promises of the king, Henry III., whom
he soon found, however, to be more liberal of profes-
sion than performance. As a last resource, therefore,
he left Paris, where the loss of his wife, to whom he
was tenderly attached, had recently added to his cala-
mities, and spent several years in wandering from one

 164        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
city to another, in the constantly disappointed hope
of finding some means of re-establishing his mined
fortunes.    We find him at one time at Orleans, then
again at Paris, and then successively in Germany^
 Switzerland, and Hungary.       At last, having fallen
sick at Lyons, he died there in an almshouse, in the
year 1598, at the age of seventy.
    The history of this great scholar has been often
quoted as a signal illustration of the ill fortune not
nnfrequently attendant upon a life devoted to litera-
ture.    Undoubtedly, learning and genius are not
exempted from the disappointments and sorrows of
this world, any more than ignorance ; and sometimes
the stroke of misfortune is more keenly felt from the
sensibility which high intellectual cultivation has con-
ferred upon the sufferer. In the mere pursuit of wealth,
too, it may be that the disinterestedness and com-
parative forgetfulness of self, which an attachment to
letters has a tendency to beget in him who is under
its influence, shall sometimes leave him a little way
behind a more eager competitor, by allowing him to
overlook opportunities of which a more unscrupulous
man would take advantage, or seducing him to turn
aside after speculations promising him more of glory
than of profit.   This, we believe, is the most and
the worst that can be said as to the natural ten-
dency of learning to bring misfortunes upon the
head of its possessor which is all that is meant, we
suppose, by the "unhappy fate of the learned,"
and other phrases of like import.         Now, even if
nothing could be advanced from the same view of
the subject to counterbalance all this, there would not
be much in it ; for it is no great disparagement of
mental cultivation, which is prodigal of so many far
higher and better rewards, to say, that it has no
particular tendency to put money in a man's pocket,
or even that it may sometimes chance to impede in a

                      H. STEPHENS.                   165
slight degree the mere accumulation of treasure,
by the affection which it creates for richer sources
of enjoyment.      If  it should not bring overflowing
wealth, which, at best, is but one of the means
of happiness, it will bring happiness itself wealth
for the mind, if not for the purse.          And as for
the other accusation, that the more a man's nature
is refined by education and a taste for knowledge, the
more sensibly will he feel such calamities as may
befal him, it amounts merely to this,           that the
more intense the life, the more delicate and shrinking
the sensibility ; the higher the elevation, the more
dangerous the fall. If it be held that our nature ap-
proaches nearest to its perfection, when it most re-
sembles that of a tortoise or a vegetable, then, for
this reason, we might argue, on the same grounds,
 that intellectual cultivation is pernicious and unwise.
 But it is forgotten, throughout the whole of this dis-
 pute, that even in the world's ordinary pursuits and
 business, science and literature must give their culti-
 vators, upon the whole at least, as many and as impor-
 tant advantages as they can possibly deprive them of.
 There is no probability at all in the supposition, that
 the possession of superior learning has generally had
 the effect of preventing its owners from succeeding
 in the world. On the contrary, it has most likely, in
 ninety-nine instances out of every hundred, mate-
 rially contributed to their success, and procured for
 them a degree of advancement to which the gene-
 rality of their less accomplished associates never
 ventured even to aspire.      We might refer for proof
 to many of the names we have already had occasion
 to mention in these pages, as well as to many others
  we have yet to notice.      The misfortunes of a man
 whose life has been principally devoted to literary
 pursuits, make a more touching narrative than those

 16ft        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 of him who    has been thrown out in the more vulgar
 scramble for the good things of this life ; and such
 stories are therefore fondly repeated and remembered.
 But, although good enough as stories, they are worth
 little as arguments ; seeing that there is not one of
 them that might not be easily matched by another
 that would tell, if not as pathetically, yet just as for-
 cibly, on the opposite side of the question. Upon this
 view of the matter, however we have no inclination
 to dwell ; for it is not chiefly on the strength of such
 considerations that we would recommend the pur-
 suit of knowledge.      It is profitable to a far higher
 end than the mere advancement of its votaries in
 worldly wealth ; although in that, too, it is an
 ally and not an adversary. And as for the great
 scholar, the calamities of whose latter days we have
just recorded, the generally unfortunate destiny of
 the learned is not the lesson to be drawn from his
 history.   His family had risen by their learning, had
 through that acquired both wealth and distinction,
 and owed to nothing else the station they long held
 at the very head of their profession in Europe and in
 the world.     Even he himself had flourished by the
 same means, in affluence and in honour, for many
 years ; and if one of his undertakings at last turned
 out unsuccessful, partly through the unfair conduct
 of another, and partly, let it be allowed, from the
 nature of the speculation itself, into which a mere
 printer, who cared for nothing but his money, would
 not perhaps have so rashly adventured, it was, after
 all, but one instance of the evils of learning among
 many illustrations of its advantages.         And in this
 reasoning,    we    throw   out   of  view  the glory of
 the otherwise unprofitable enterprise, the feelino- of
 triumph in its achievement, which all it had cost
  could not take away, and the anticipation of that

     COL1N.EUS. BADIUS.      FROBEN. RUDDIMAN.        167
award of posterity on the finished work, which the
knowledge of the ruin it had brought on its illus
trious projector would only make more generous.
    To the Manutii and the Stephenses we might add
the names of many other learned printers of those
early times ; for example, that of Simon de Colines,
(in Latin, COLIN.EUS,) who after having been in
partnership with the first Henry Stephens, the grand-
father of the author of the Thesaurus, married his
widow, and carried on the business, and who was
profoundly versed in ancient literature that of BA-
DIUS, (often called Ascentius, from Asche, near Brus-
sels, the place of his nativity,) also a Parisian printer,
who was the author of several learned works, and
whose daughter, Petronilla, the wile of Robert, and
the mother of the great Henry Stephens, was so eru-
dite a lady that she is said to have taught both her
children and her servants Latin, and to have per-
mitted no other language to be spoken in the family
that of FROBEN, who established his press at Basil in
Switzerland, and was so highly esteemed by Erasmus
for his great learning, that this celebrated person was
induced to take up his residence there in order
to have his works printed by so able a scholar and
that of OPORINUS, the successor of Froben in the
same city, many of the works published by whom,
beside being remarkable for their correctness, are il-
lustrated by his own prefaces and notes.
    Of names belonging to later times and to our own
country, one of the most distinguished is that of the
 very learned THOMAS RUDDIMAN, who carried on a
considerable business in Edinburgh, during the early
 part of last century.    The editions of the classical
 authors that issued from his press were in general
 printed with very great accuracy, and often exhibited
 new readings and amendments of punctuation, in the
liighest degree creditable to the ingenuity and era-

168           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
dition of the editor ; who found leisure for the prepara-
tion of several works of his own, among which may
be particularly mentioned a Latin grammar in two
volumes, one of the most learned and elaborate per-
formances in the whole range of philology.              A
new edition of this grammar has within these few
years been published in Germany, under the super-
intendence of one of the most eminent scholars of
that countiy.       Ruddiman held at the same time the
office of librarian to the Faculty of Advocates in Edin-
burgh O   (in
          V
               which he was succeeded bv the celebrated
David Hume) and was also the publisher of a news-
paper, which he had established himself, and which
 still exists. Among recent English printers, the well-
 known WILLIAM BOWYER long presented a conspicu-
 ous example of that accomplished scholarship, united
 to the most diligent habits of business, which used
 to be so common in the good old times of the art
 Nor ought we to forget his partner and successor, the
 late Mr. JOHN NICHOLS, whose antiquarian know-
 ledge, and extensive labours in different departments
 of literature, justly entitle him to a high place among
 the modern ornaments of his profession.
     The father of RICHARDSON, the great novelist, was
 a joiner ; and he himself, after having been taught
 reading and writing at a country school, was bound
 apprentice to a London printer, named Wilde, with
 whom he served for the usual period.        Soon after his
  apprenticeship had expired, he found employment as
  foreman in a printing-office ; but in this situation he
  remained for five or six years with scarcely a hope of
  any higher advancement        By the assistance of seve-
  ral friends, however, whom his industry, intelligence,
  and amiable manners had secured for him, he was at
  last enabled to enter into business on his own ac-
  count ; when, having established himself in a court in
  Fleet Street, his success speedily began to justify the

                        RICHARDSON.                      ]69
expectations that had been entertained of him. Mean-
while his literary tastes, and even some indications he
had given of his talents as a writer, had become
known among his acquaintance, and he was em-
ployed on various occasions by the booksellers in the
composition of prefaces and dedications for works
which they were bringing out. At last they proposed
to him the writing of a volume of Familiar Letters ;
and it was this circumstance, we are told, which sug-
gested the idea of his Pamela, the first production by
which he obtained any distinction as an author. He
was already in his fifty-second year when he com-
menced the composition of this work. And yet such
was the eagerness with which he applied himself to
it, that he finished the first part of     consisting of
                                         it,
two volumes, in as many months.        Itmet, as     well
                                                    is
known, with the most extraordinary success, having
gone through five editions in the course of a year.
The author, however, was not left to enjoy his popu-
larity undisturbed  ;  for, not to mention   good deal
                                               a
of severe criticism to which the conduct and moral
tendency of the novel were subjected, the manner
of the author was attacked with powerful ridicule
 by   the celebrated Fielding in his Joseph Andrews.'
                                   '
 The effect of this satire was so keenly felt by
 Richardson, that he determined to show the world
 that he could write as well in another style, in proof
 of which he produced a continuation of the work
 under the title of '
                         Pamela in High Life,' which
 did not meet with much success.           He was not
 discouraged, however, by this failure, but only
 instructed by it   in the true path in which he was
 fitted to excel.     He returned to his studies, and
 after some years appeared again as an author by
 the publication of the two first volumes of his
 greatest work, his
                        '
                         Clarissa Harlowe.' The suc-
cess   of this production was immense.         Appearing as
                                                Q

170         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
it did in parts, it excited the public curiosity in the
highest degree.     During the progress of its publica-
tion, and when it was translated into French, it raised
its author in the estimation of continental critics
to the first rank among the writers of the age.
Richardson was in his sixtieth year when he gave
this work to the world ; but he had not yet con-
cluded his literary career.     Four years afterwards
he appeared again before the public with another per-
formance, his ' Sir Charles Grandison.'       This novel
(like its immediate predecessor) extends to the un-
usual length of seven volumes ; and it has been
asserted that the author's original manuscript, had
it not been subsequently curtailed, would have made
a book of three times the size. We do not men-
tion this as a proof of the industry of the writer.
Prolixity was the besetting fault of Richardson;
 his works would have cost him more time and labour
 had he made them shorter.          With -his fulness of
 matter, and facility of invention, it was comparatively
 easy for him to spread his story over any number of
 pages. What he most wanted was the art of rejection.
 Richardson is undoubtedly one of the very greatest
 of our writers in the department to which his works
 belong ; but on the continent he is very generally
 considered as standing at the head of his whole
 class, without a rival.    It may be that he has some
 qualities which give him a claim to this pre-emi-
 nence ; but his works, in their original language,
 are too defective to permit us to rate him quite so
 high.    Perhaps some of their faults do not appear
 so strongly under the disguise of translation ; and
 among those most likely to be thus softened, we
 should especially reckon the general inelegance and
 extreme slovenliness of the style.       This is a fault
 which the author, in all probability, could have mate-
 rially corrected, had he taken the requisite pains.

                     RICHARDSON.                      171
   Richardson published nothing, we believe, after
his ' Sir Charles Grandison;' but it is important to
notice, that his literary labours did not interfere with
his attention to business or impede his commercial
success.     In 1754 we find him chosen Master of the
Stationers' Company ; and some years after he pur-
chased half of the patent of king's printer.      He had
by this time, indeed, amassed a respectable fortune,
which enabled him to indulge himself with the luxury
of a country residence, where he spent the latter part
of his life in the society of his friends, and the enjoy-
ment of the public admiration which his writings had
procured for him.     He died in the year 1761, at the
age  of seventy-two.

                           CHAPTER      XI.
Booksellers and Printers continued.  W. Button; R. Dodsley ; Almou ;
    Craden ; the Panckouckes ; Rothscholtz ; Bagford ; Ames;    Her-
    bert ; Patterson. Literary Pursuits in other Trades.    Walton ;
    Defoe  ; Lillo.
WILLIAM HUTTON was born in 1723, in                  the town     of
Derby, where his father was a working woolcomber,
burthened with a large family, for whom his utmost
exertions scarcely sufficed to procure subsistence.
" My poor         mother," says his son in the interesting
account he has left of his life, " more than once, one
infant on her knee, and a few more hanging about
her, have all fasted a whole day ; and when food
arrived, she has suffered them with a tear to take
her share."         Of his mother, Hutton always retained
the tenderest recollection.           After a long endurance
of this struggle, she died when he was only in his
tenth year, and he and his brothers and sisters were
left to the charge of their father, who, now become
almost reckless from continued misfortune, and
loosened as it were from his chief stay, soon made
matters worse than ever by taking to the alehouse,
and often literally leaving his children to the mere
mercies of chance. "At one time," says Hutton, "                  I
fasted from breakfast one day till noon the next, and
even then dined upon only flour and water boiled
into a hasty-pudding."              His father appears to have
been a man of a strong understanding, but of violent
passions, over which he had little command.                   Not-
withstanding his own dissoluteness, he was a despotic
disciplinarian in regard to his children, and was wont
to correct their slightest faults with terrible severity.

                          BUTTON.                      1   73
    In   the    midst of all this misery their education
  could scarcely fail to be but indifferently attended to.
  In fact, even if they had been kept at school, the
  instructions they received there could have availed
  little against such utter domestic neglect.          The
  schoolmaster can seldom do much if he has not an
  auxiliary at home.    William tells us that he was sent,
  when five years old, to a " Mr. Thomas Meat, of
  harsh memory, who often," he adds, " took occa-
  sion to beat my head against the wall, holding- it by
 the hair, but never could beat any learning into it ;
I    hated all books but those of pictures."        He con-
 tinued his attendance, however, for about two years,
 when he was taken away, and, although only a child
 of seven years old, sent to work at a silk mill.
      Tender as was the age of many of his compa-
 nions here, he was the youngest and least of them
 all ; being indeed too short to reach the engine, in
 consequence of which a pair of high pattens was
 fixed on his feet by the superintendents, which he
 dragged about with him for a year.       He gives a me-
lancholy account of his sufferings in this situation.
 " I had now," says he,
                             (and the reader will remem-
 ber what a mere child he still was,) " to rise at five
 every morning during seven years ! submit to the
 cane whenever convenient to the master ; be the con-
 stant companion of the most rude and vulgar of the
 human race, never taught by nature, nor ever wish-
ing to be taught."      His master at last, he tells us,
having on one occasion made a wound on his back
while beating him, struck    it,  in administering a suc-
ceeding punishment, with the point of his cane, which
brought   it  into such
                      a   state, that a mortification was
apprehended.
     He arrived at the close of this weary bondage
in his fourteenth year, when he was bound appren-
tice again for seven years more to a brother of his
                                           Q3

174          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
father,    a  stocking- weaver at Nottingham.       This
person, though a man of regular habits of life, and
kept pretty much in awe by a wife, who, on pretence
of enforcing the duty of temperate living, half-
starved both him and his apprentices, seems to have
had naturally not a little of the violent and tyrannical
disposition of his family, which would occasionally
break out in an unaccountable storm.       His nephew,
now a youth of seventeen, and beginning to be con-
scious of approaching manhood, had been about
three years in his house, when having one day
failed in finishing a piece of work he had been set to,
he was first scolded by his uncle for his neglect, and
then beaten by the enraged man with merciless seve-
rity. The disgrace was too much for him to forget.
He watched his opportunity and fled from the house,
taking with him his clothes in a bundle, and two shil-
lings from a larger sum which he found in his uncle's
desk, being without another penny in the world.
    His own tale of this forlorn adventure is interest-
ing and pathetic in the extreme.      The first night he
slept in the fields.     The whole of the next day he
continued his wanderings, scarcely knowing in what
direction, and almost utterly without object or hope.
" Arriving the same evening," the narrative then
proceeds,
             " within the precincts of Lichfield,  I  ap-
 proached a barn, where       I intended to lodge ; but
 finding the door shut,    I opened my parcels in the
 fields, dressed, hid my bags near a hedge, and took
 a view of the city for about two hours, though very
 sore-footed. Returning to the spot about nine,         I
 undressed, bagged up my things in decent order,
 and prepared for rest ; but, alas !    I had a bed to
 seek.    About a stone's cast from the place stood an-
 other barn, which perhaps might furnish me with a
 lodging. I thought it needless to take the bags
 while   I  examined the place, as my stay would be

                         BUTTON.                        175
very short. The second barn yielding no relief,           I
returned in about ten minutes.         But what was my
surprise when      I  perceived the bags were gone !
Terror seized me.       I roared after the rascal, but
might as well have been silent, for thieves seldom
come at a call.      Running, raving, and lamenting,
about the fields and roads, employed some time.           I
was too much immersed in distress to find relief in
tears.    They refused to flow.   I   described the bags,
and told the affair to all I met.        I   found pity, or
seeming pity, from all, but redress from none.            I
saw my hearers dwindle with the twilight ; and, by
eleven o'clock,   I  found myself in the open street,
left to tell my mournful tale to the silent night.
    " It is not
                  easy to place a human being in a
more distressed situation.       My finances were no-
thing ; a stranger to the world, and the world to
me; no employ, nor likely to procure any; no food
to eat, or place of rest ; all the little property   I  had
upon earth taken from me; nay, even hope, that last
and constant friend of the unfortunate, forsook me.
I   was in a more wretched condition than he who
has nothing to lose.       An eye may roll over these
lines when the heart that writes them shall be still.
 May that eye move without a tear !        I  sought repose
in the street upon a butcher's block."
    Next day he resumed his wanderings, and appeas-
 ing his hunger chiefly from the turnip-fields by the
 way-side, at length reached Birmingham.           But we
 need not pursue the story further.        The catastrophe
 was what might have been expected.             He resolved
 at last, in his utter desolation, to throw himself
 upon the protection of his father : and the affair
 ended, within less than a week after his flight, in his
 return to his uncle's house, and the ratification of a
 treaty of mutual forgiveness and forgetfulness by all
 parties.

175       THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
  He  seems now to have first begun to show that
ingenuity and taste for intellectual occupation which
we find afterwards so strongly marking; his character.
His earliest predilection was in favour of music. To
this amusement he for some time devoted all his lei-
sure hours. Having 1 bought what he calls a bell- harp
for half-a-crown, he laboured, he tells us, in endeavoxir-
ing to tune it for six months. He then borrowed a
dulcimer, and even before learning to play on it, set
about making another after it for himself.       " But in
the fabrication of this instrument.," says he,     I
                                                  " had
neither timber to work upon, tools to work with, nor
money to purchase either.        It is said, necessity is
the mother of invention.        Ipulled a large trunk to
pieces, one of the relics of my family, but formerly
the property of Thomas Parker, the first Earl of
Macclesfield : and as to tools,       I
                                     considered that the
hammer-key and the plyers belonging to the stock-
ing-frame would supply the place of hammer and
pincers.    My pocket-knife was all the edge-tools      I
could raise ; and a fork with one limb was made to
act in the double capacity of sprig-awl and gimlet."
 In this way he at last completed the dulcimer, which,
after learning to play upon     it,he sold to one of his
 wealthier companions for sixteen shillings, bought a
 coat with the money, and constructed a better in-
 strument.
    The term of his apprenticeship was over at Christ-
 mas 1744 ;   but he still continued to work with his
 uncle as journeyman. It was in 1746, he tells us,
         a
 that he first began to be fond of books, his earliest
 purchase being three volumes of the Gentleman's
                                          '
 Magazine.'     His passion for books gave rise to a
 new application of his manual ingenuity.        Those he
 bought being mostly in very tattered condition, he
                          a
 felt anxious to be able to restore them to a somewhat
 more seemly appearance     ;   and accordingly by ob-

                       HUTTON.                       177
  serving a binder, with whom he had got acquainted,
 tit his work, soon contrived to make himself a toler-
 able proficient in that craft.    Having bought from
 this man several of his cast-off tools, among others
 " he offered me," says Hutton, " a worn-down press
 for two shillings, which no man could use, and which
 was laid by for the fire.      I
                                considered the nature of
 its construction, bought it, and paid the two shillings.
I   then asked him to favour me with a hammer and a
 pin, which he brought with half a conquering smile
and half a     sneer.
                   I     drove out the garter-pin, which
being galled prevented the press from working, and
turned another square, which perfectly cured the
press.    He said in anger,         if
                                    '
                                       had known you
                                        I
should not have had it.'      This proved for forty-two
years my best binding-press."       Soon after this, too,
he began to write verse, which was a favourite
amusement with him to the end of his life.
    At last, seeing noprospect of anything but drudgery
and poverty in the trade to which he had been brought
up, he left his uncle, and took up his residence with
a sister, who lived in the same town       an admirable
woman, whose affection and unwearied cares for his
comfort and welfare did much to compensate the
loss and desertion of his other relatives.     His great
ambition now was to be settled in business as a book-
seller, and he at last determined to set up in that
character in the town of Southwell, about fourteen
miles from Nottingham.       Here he accordingly opened
a   shop, with, as he expresses      about twenty shil-
                                        it,
lings' worth of trash for all his stock. "    I    was,"
says he,
            " my own joiner, put up my shelves and
furniture, and in one day became the most emiment
bookseller in the place."     Being employed, however,
during the other days of the week in working at
Nottingham as a bookbinder, he could only give his
attendance at Southwell on the Saturdays, that being

   17&        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
   besides quite enough for the literary wants of the
   place. Throughout a very rainy summer,
                                            " I set out,"
  says he,
             " at five every Saturday morning;, carried
  a burden of from three pounds weight to thirty,
  opened shop at ten, starved in it all day upon bread,
  cheese, and half a pint of ale, took from one to six
  shillings, shut up at four, and by trudging through
  the solitary night and the deep roads five hours
  more,   I arrived at Nottingham by nine ; where       I
  always found a mess of milk porridge by the fire,
  prepared by my valuable sister."
     This humble attempt, however, was the beginning
 of his prosperity. Next year he was ottered about
 two hundred pounds weight of old books, on his note
 of hand, for twenty-seven shillings, by a dissenting
 minister to whom he was known ; and upon this he
 immediately determined to break up his establishment
 at Southwell, and to transfer himself to Birmingham.
 He did so, and succeeded so well, that by never suf-
 fering his expenses to exceed five shillings a-week,
 he found that by the end of the first year he had
 saved about twenty pounds.
     This, of course, enabled him to extend his busi-
 ness, which he soon made a very valuable one.      Bir-
 mingham was to Hutton what Philadelphia was to
 Franklin.    The first time he had ever seen it was
 when he entered it after running away from his
uncle's, a wearied and homeless wanderer, with
 scarcely a penny in his pocket, and not a hope in the
world to trust to. Yet in this place he was destined
to acquire, some years after, an ample fortune, and
to take his place among the most honoured of its
citizens.
    His future success in life was merely the result of
integrity, and regular and persevering industry. After
having been four or five years in business, during
which time he had saved a good deal of money, ha

                        BUTTON.                      179
married the lady to whom he continued united for
 more than forty years, and in whom he always con-
 sidered that he had found the chief blessing of his
life.   Some of the speculations in which he involved
himself, now that he had become a monied man,
were not very considerate, and he was once or twice,
in this way, reduced to rather alarming difficulties ;
but he had a resource, in his renewed industry and
attention to business, which never failed to retrieve
him.     Even in following those fancies which led him
away from his proper business, he often gave the
most striking evidence of his characteristic activity
and perseverance.     While superintending the build-
ing of a house for himself,
                               " up," says he, "at four
every morning,     I set the people to work, watched
over them, arid laboured with them all day, and fre-
quently charged myself with the meanest and most
laborious parts of the employment."       This was after
he had been twenty-five years in business.        Again,
having engaged about the same time in farming, by
which he lost a good deal of money, he tells us that
he paid his visits to his farm three or four times a
week, though it was distant four or five miles, always
on foot ; and having arrived there by five in the
morning, was back to Birmingham by breakfast. He
had long before this time, too, shown his desire for
public employment; and having been appointed a
commissioner of the Court of Requests, had distin-
guished himself greatly by his zealous and able exer-
tions in the discharge of the duties of that office.
    It was in the midst of all these diversified occupa-
tions that Mr. Hutton conceived the idea of com-
mencing author, and actually found time for a suc-
cession of literary performances, such as would have
been accounted creditable to the application of a per-
son leading a life of uninterrupted leisure. It shows
what may be accomplished in any circumstances, if a

180         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
man's heart be in his work.    In such a case, the most
incessant calls of business, or the most arduous pro-
fessional duties, are scarcely any interruption to the
prosecution of the fondly cherished enterprise.     The
moments that other avocations leave for             it,
                                              the fewer
they are, are only the more precious      and being so
                                            ;
highly valued are, in a corresponding degree, econo-
mically and profitably used.     For        it,
                                         too, are care-
fully gathered and saved all those little fragments of
time, and opportunities of repose and meditation, of
which the busiest life has many, and which, without
some such object ready to take them up, are so apt
to be trifled away and lost.   As one of our old poets
expresses   it,
      "A    good wit, that on the immortal shrine
        Of memory engraves    awork divine,
        Abroad, abed, at board, for ever uses
        To mind his theme, and on his book still muses."
  Mr. Hutton had      been in the habit     of sending verses
occasionally to the magazines, almost from the com-
mencement of his residence at Birmingham           but    ;   it
was in the year 1780 that he undertook, for the first
time, to write a book.     This was his celebrated His-
tory of Birmingham.       Upon the composition of this
work, he tells us, he spent nine months.       " Fearing
                          " wrote with dread." The
my ability," says he,      I
mere money he received on this occasion was but a
scanty remuneration for his labour, all his publisher
allowed him being forty pounds, together with se-
venty-five copies of the work.      But he was abun-
dantly rewarded in another way the enjoyment he
                                        :
took in his task itself was exquisite.       " Pleased,"
            " as a fond parent with this
says he,                                  history, as my
first literary offspring,I  may be said, while in ma-
nuscript, to have had the whole        by
                                      heart. Had a line
been quoted,  I   could have followed    up through the
                                            it

                         HUTTON.                      181
chapter.     Frequently, while awake in the night,      I
have repeated it in silence for two or three hours
together, without adding or missing a word."           In
referring to another of his works, he tells us, in like
manner, that "the pen itself has rewarded its own
labour, for the pleasure of writing is inconceivable."
   The History of Birmingham was published in
1782, and Hutton was immediately elected a Fellow
of the Antiquarian Society of Edinburgh. A second
edition of the work was called for the following year,
and it has ever since maintained a high reputation
among the class of productions to which it belongs.
Its author, although nearly sixty years of age when
this his first publication appeared, lived to add to it
a long list of other works.     Having now fairly made
his appearance before the world as a literary man, he
took advantage, with his characteristic activity and
eagerness, of every opportunity of supporting his new
character. For instance, having been called to the
metropolis in 1785, to give his evidence on a trial, he
converted the incident into the matter of a book,
which he published soon after his return home, under
the title of A Journey to London.'
               '
                                             In the same
manner, a few years after, having gone with his
family on a trip to Blackpool, a watering-place in
Lancashire, he wrote and published its history. Of
his other works, the principal are his Histories of the
Court of Requests, and of the Hundred Court of
Birmingham, his History of the Battle of Bosworth
Field, his History of Derby, and his Description of
the Roman Wall.         In order the better to prepare,
himself for the composition of this last work, by a
personal inspection of the celebrated remnant of
antiquity to which it relates, he performed a jour-
ney of above six hundred miles, entirely on foot,
at the age of seventy-eight.      Of this journey, which
occupied thirty-five    days, his daughter, who accom-
                                              R

 182        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
panied him on horseback, has published a very inte-
resting account.
    Another of the works of his old age was a volume
of poems. Indeed, verse-making seems to have been
the favourite amusement of his leisure, especially
after he retired from business, on reaching his seven-
tieth year.    In 1793, we find him recording twenty-
six poetical effusions among the results of his literary
industry ; and, for a long while, every succeeding
year added its contribution of the same species of in-
tellectual produce.    He used to tag his rhymes while
taking his daily walks between his country house
and his shop in town, which, although now given up
to the charge of his son, he continued to visit with
nearly as much regularity as ever.      Under date of
 1795 he writes,     " Walking and assisting my son
employed the body; studying and writing, the mind."
 Soon after this, his wife's health, which had long
been in a declining state, became alarmingly infirm;
and much of his time was occupied in bestowing the
 most affectionate attentions upon the beloved com-
 panion of his life.
                       " My practice," says the kind-
 hearted old man, " had been to rise about five, re-
 lieve the nurse of the night by holding the head of
 my dear love in my hand, with the elbow resting on
 the knee.    At eight,  I walked to business at Bir-
 mingham, where I stayed till four, when I returned.
 I  nursed her till eight, amused myself with literary
 pursuits till ten, and then went to rest." Mrs. Hut-
 ton had suffered severely from the alarm into which
 she was thrown by the brutal conduct of the rioters,
  who, in the year 1791, were so unaccountably
  allowed to commit, for several days, every species
  of outrage and devastation in the town of Bir-
  mingham, and by whom her husband's house was
  burned to the ground, and his property destroyed, to
 the amount of many thousands of pounds.       Of these

                       BUTTON.                        183
dreadful proceedings, so deeply disgraceful both to
the mad perpetrators and to the unresisting lookers-
on, Mr. Hutton has left us a narrative, eloquent with
indignation, and most interesting, from its graphic
detail of atrocities now happily so foreign to the im-
proved habits and character of the people.           His
wife never recovered from the shock she received on
this occasion, driven as she and her family were from
their home, and literally obliged to fly for their lives,
and to implore a shelter from strangers, while yet
doubtful if a shilling remained to them in the world
to pay for the accommodation they craved.
   This singular man died in 1815, at the great
age of ninety-two.     The history of his life, written
by himself in the short space of little more than two
months, while in his seventy-fifth year, has been
given to the world since his death by his daughter,
and is altogether one of the most interesting pieces
of autobiography extant. The literary performances
of Hutton, like those of Franklin (which we shall
dwell upon in a succeeding chapter), claim our ad-
miration both as having been produced amidst the in-
terruptions of a very busy life, and as being almost
entirely the result of self-education and a self-
acquired taste for intellectual enjoyments.           He
affords us, also, another instructive example, in
addition to several we have already quoted, in proof
of how possible it is for a man, even after being
somewhat advanced in life, to overcome, to a certain
extent at least, the disadvantages of the most
neglected youth.      Hutton had, according to his
own account, reached his twenty-third year before
he began to take a liking to books.            Yet we
have seen     both how strongly attached he after-
wards became to reading, and what a respectable
figure he succeeded in making as an author ; al-
though he may almost be said not to have taken

184          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
up his pen till the period of life at which most
other writers have laid theirs down.        We thus see
that even the circumstances usually accounted most
adverse     to the attainment of eminence, are all
surmountable by zeal and perseverance ; that ex-
cellence is, in any position, almost the infallible
result of the determination to excel ; and that upon
a man himself chiefly, and not upon his outward
fortunes, does it depend whether he make the delights
of knowledge and philosophy his own, or spend his
life in mental torpor, and go to his grave without
having known what it is to enjoy the highest and
most distinguishing capacities of his nature.
     The name of William Hutton naturally calls to our
recollection that of ROBERT DODSLFY.         Dodsley was
born in 1703, at Mansfield, in the county of Not-
tingham, only about twenty miles distant from
Derby, the native place of Hutton.           His parents
were very poor, and his education, consequently, of
the scantiest description.      He was in the first in-
stance bound apprentice to a stocking-weaver ; but
 after some time he abandoned this employment, and,
having gone into service, became eventually footman
to the Honourable Mrs. Lowther.         In this situation,
 having addressed a copy of verses to Pope, he ob-
 tained the notice of that celebrated writer ; and, under
 his encouragement, was induced to publish by sub-
 scription a volume of poems, to which he gave the
 title of 'The Muse in Livery.'      It attracted a good
deal of the public attention, and was followed soon
after by a satirical comedy, called ' The Toyshop,'
which Pope was kind enough to read in manuscript,
 and to employ his influence in getting represented.
 Its success was so great that the profits enabled the
author to emerge from his humble situation, and to
 set up as a bookseller in Pall Mall.      His difficulties
were now over, and the way to independence was be-

                  DODSLEY.     ALMON.              185
fore him. By his prudence and steadiness he made
his business, in course of time, an extremely valuable
one, and became, at last, one of the most eminent
London publishers of his day.         But he neither
forgot in his prosperity the humble station from
which he had risen, nor neglected the cultiva-
tion of those powers to which he owed his elevation.
One day, when his friend Pope happened, in con-
versing with him, to mention a certain individual
celebrated for the good table he kept, "  I  knew him
well," said Dodsley,    " I was his servant/' With
all his attention to business, he found time for lite-
rature and authorship ; and continued till nearly the
close of his life to give to the world a succession of
works, almost all of which enjoyed considerable
popularity, and some of which may be said to have
secured for him a durable name among the writers
of his country. His collection of maxims, in parti-
cular, entitled 'The Economy of Human Life,' is well
known, and was so highly esteemed on its first
appearance as to be suspected to have proceeded
from the pen of the celebrated Lord Chesterfield.
This was long a popular work, not only in England
but in other countries ; so much so, that there are
enumerated about a dozen different translations of
it into the French language alone.       Dodsley died
in 1764.
   The names of many other literary booksellers might
be added, some of them nearly as much self-educated
men as Huttori and Dodsley.     Mr. JOHN ALMON, who
died at an advanced age in 1805, and was well known
as a political and miscellaneous writer during the
latter half of the last century, made a considerable
fortune as a bookseller in London, the greater part
of which, however, he lost by an unlucky speculation
in which he was induced to engage after he had
retired from business.     He was originally a book-

18Q        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
seller's apprentice at Liverpool, and had also spent
part of his early life at sea.
    ALEXANDER CRUDEN, the author of the well-known
and valuable Concordance of the Old and New Tes-
tament, was a bookseller in London, as much dis-
tinguished for eccentricity as for learning.          He
opened his shop under the Royal Exchange in 1732,
and it was here that he composed his Concordance.
The work appeared in 1737, and was dedicated to
Queen Caroline, who died, however, only a few days
after receiving the presentation copy.      Poor Cruden
had formed very extravagant expectations from the
patronage of his royal mistress, and this disappoint-
ment was too much for him.         He had shewn symp-
toms of insanity on a former occasion, and he was
now reduced to such a state that his friends found
it necessary to send him to a lunatic asylum.
This interruption did not, however, terminate his
literary career.   Having made his escape from his
place of confinement, he published a vehement re-
 monstrance on the manner in which he had been
treated ; and at the same time brought an action
 against Dr. Monro and the other persons who had
 been concerned in the affair, in which, however, he
 was nonsuited.     This new injustice, as he conceived
 it to be, gave occasion to several more pamphlets.
 After this, he found employment for some years as a
 corrector of the press    the character in which he had
 first appeared in London, and for which he was well
 fitted by his education and acquirements.       Very ac-
  curate editions of several of the Greek and Latin
 classics appeared at this time, printed under his
 superintendence.      But, in the course of a few years,
 his malady returned, and he was again placed in
 confinement, on his liberation from which he once
 more tried his old expedient of prosecuting the
persons who had presumed to offer him such an

                        CRUDEN.                      187
indignity, laying his damages, on this occasion,
at ten thousand pounds.        Being again unsuccess-
ful, he determined, as before, to publish his case
to the world ; and accordingly forth came the state-
ment, in four successive parts, under the title of
      '
the     Adventures    of Alexander the Corrector' a
name which he now assumed, not, as the reader
might suppose, in reference to his occupation of in-
spector of proof-sheets, but as expressive of his
higher character of censor-general of the public
morals.    His favourite instrument and chief auxi-
liary in executing the duties of this office was a large
sponge, which he carried constantly about with him
in his walks through town, for the purpose of obli-
terating all offensive inscriptions which he observed
on the walls, especially the famous ' No. 45,' the
mark of the partisans of Wilkes, to whose excesses
he strenuously opposed himself, both in this way and
by various admonitory pamphlets.         On the publica-
tion of the second part of his adventures he went
to present it at court, in the expectation of being
knighted ; and soon after offered himself as a can-
didate to represent the city of London in parliament.
Giving out, too, that he had a commission from
heaven to preach a general reformation of manners,
he made the attempt first amongst the gownsmen at
Oxford, and then among the prisoners in Newgate ;
but in both cases with very little effect. In the midst
of these and many other extravagances, he both
brought out a second and greatly enlarged edition
of his Concordance, and pursued his labours as a
corrector of the press and a fabricator of indexes with
as much steadiness as if his intellect had been per-
fectly sound ; and doubtless it was so when properly
exercised.     He even managed his worldly affairs
 with great prudence ; and at his death, which took

188        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
place suddenly in 1770, he left behind him consi-
derable property in bequests to his relations.
    Among booksellers who have been likewise men
of letters, we ought not to omit the names of the
two PANCKOUCKES, father and son, who were both
natives of Lille, where the elder carried on business
during the early part of last century. He was a
person of very considerable learning and talent, and
the author of a number of works on subjects of
philosophy, history, and belles lettres.      His son,
Charles Joseph, settled at Paris in the same line with
his father, when he was twenty-eight years of age,
and eventually became one of the most eminent
publishers of that capital.    Beside having projected
and given to the world the first collected edition of
the works of Voltaire, and having borne the chief
part in most of the other great literary enterprises
undertaken at Paris in his time, he has made his
name particularly memorable by the establishment of
the Moniteur, the idea of which is said to have sug-
gested itself to him from what he saw during a
visit to England of the influence of the newspaper
press, even at that time.    With him also originated
 the 'Encyclopedic Methodique,' still in course of pub-
 lication after the appearance of above 150 volumes.
Panckoucke lived in habits of intimacy with all the
 most distinguished French writers and men of
genius of his time.    We find, in the published works
both of Voltaire and Rousseau, many letters ad-
 dressed to him by those celebrated men.        He was
 also the author of a considerable number of works,
 among which maybe mentioned translations of Tasso,
 Ariosto, and Lucretius ; philosophical discourses on
 beauty, pleasure, and pain ; treatises on certain sub-
jects connected with finance ; and an esteemed disser-
 tation, intended to serve as an introduction to the

   ROTHSCHOLTZ. PALMER. AMES. HERBERT.                 189
Natural History of Buffon, of which he was the pub-
lisher. FREDERICK ROTHSCHOLTZ of Nuremberg-,
 who flourished in the beginning; of last century, was
 another bookseller who acquired a distinguished
 name in the world of literature.     The list of his pro-
ductions is very extended, and many of them display
 great learning.  Among them is one in two volumes
quarto, entitled, ' A Short Essay towards an Ancient
and Modern History of Booksellers.'
    The history of the art of printing has, in our own
country at least, been chiefly illustrated by the labours
of writers to whom authorship was only a relaxation
from the toils of business and an active life. The
volumes of tracts on the subject of typography, which
originally formed part of the Harleian Library, and
are now in the British Museum, were purchased by
Lord Oxford from a London Bookseller, named JOHN
BAGFORD, who had spent a great part of his life in
collecting them, and had intended to use them as
materials for a History of Printing, for which, in 1709,
he published proposals in the Philosophical Transac-
tions.   Bagford was in early life a shoemaker, but
contrived afterwards to establish himself in business
both as a vender and printer of books.           SAMUEL,
PALMER, the author of a General History of Printing,
published in 1733, was also himself a printer. JOSEPH
AMES, the author of the well-known Typographical
Antiquities, as well as of various other antiquarian
works, had been originally a plane-maker, and carried
on business as a ship chandler, in Wapping, till his
death.    Mr. WILLIAM HERBERT, who published an
augmented edition of Ames's work, in three volumes
quarto, was a map and printseller in London, having
formerly carried on business as a hosier.       To these
names we may add that of Mr. SAMUEL PATERSON,
who, having been first a bookseller, became after-
wards an auctioneer, and, besides several works in

190    .    THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
light literature, is known as the author of a learned
and valuable catalogue of the best books in all the
different departments of study, which appeared in
1786, entitled Bibliotkeca Universalis Selecta.      But
we even owe the art of printing itself, in its different
forms, chiefly to persons with whom literature was
not a profession, but whose attention was merely
attracted to it from the midst of other, and, as is
sometimes supposed, uncongenial pursuits.          Of the
two individuals to whom the invention of the art is
generally ascribed, the one, JOHN GUTTENBERG, was a
merchant of Strasburg, and the other, JOHN FAUST,
was a goldsmith of Mentz. Stereotype printing was
the invention of WILLIAM GED, a goldsmith of Edin-
burgh ; and we are indebted for the more recent
process, now so well known by the name of Litho-
graphy, to M. SENEFELDER, who had spent the earlier
part of his life as a strolling actor.
   Most of our readers are probably familiar with IZAAK
WALTON'S delightful little work, ' The Complete
Angler,' since its simple and natural style, and the
unaffected benevolence and love of its author for his
subject, together with its fresh and touching pictures
of rural landscapes and rural enjoyments, give it many
charms, even for those who do not care at all for the
sport of which it more particularly professes to treat.
Walton was during the greater part of his life a linen-
draper in London, and kept a shop in Fleet-street.
He appears to have received only a very ordinary
education ; but his love of reading enabled him, even
while actually engaged in carrying on his business, to
store his mind with a great variety of information,
and so to fit himself for becoming an able and highly
interesting writer.    The occasion of his first attempt-
ing authorship was this : On the death of his friend,
the celebrated Doctor Donne, it was proposed that
the life of that distinguished poet aiid divine should

                   WALTON.      DEFOE.              191
be written by Sir Henry Wotton ; and he employed
Walton, as an acquaintance and ardent admirer of
the deceased, to collect the necessary materials for
that purpose.      Sir Henry, however, died before
finishing the work, and there was no one to under-
take the completion of it but Walton ; who having,
in these circumstances, been induced to apply him-
self to the task, produced a very interesting piece
of biography, which was placed at the head of the
first edition of Donne's Sermons, and has since
been frequently reprinted.     At this time he was still
in business ; but a few years after, having attained a
competent fortune, he retired, and spent the evening
of his life chiefly among his friends in the country,
and in those literary occupations for which the suc-
cess of his first attempt had shewn him he was
fitted. His next production was a Life of Sir Henry
Wotton ; and it was followed by those of Hooker,
George Herbert, and Bishop Sanderson, all of
which were well received by the public, and still
rank among the most esteemed pieces of biography
in the language.      His ' Complete Angler' appeared
for the first time in 1653, and went through many
 editions, even during the lifetime of the author, who
 died in 1683, at the age of ninety. In his latter days
 he published also a poetical work of considerable
 merit, entitled 'Thealma and Clearchus,' purporting
 to be written by John Chalkhill, but which has been
 recently suspected, upon reasons of some plausibility,
 to have been the production of his own pen.
    There is another celebrated name which we may
  mention here, although it would be out of place for
 us to attempt even the most rapid sketch of the varied
  and eventful history of the person to whom it belongs.
 It is that of DANIEL DEFOE, the immortal author of
 Robinson Crusoe. Defoe was only twenty-one years
 of age when he commenced that career of author-

192         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ship in which he subsequently shewed such extraor-
dinary fertility ; and was then, and for some time
afterwards, engaged in trade, having been at first a
horse-factor, and next a maker of bricks at Tilbury
Fort.    He soon, however, relinquished every thing
else for literature and politics ; for which, indeed, his
temper and talents adapted him much more than for
business. In the new profession which he had chosen,
his industry was almost altogether unparalleled, as the
mere list of his productions may suffice to shew ; nor
does either misfortune, disease, or old age appear to
have abated his exertions. For a long time it was the
fashion to regard Defoe as merely the unprincipled
hireling and vulgar libel-monger of a party ;- a re-
putation for which he was probably not a little in-
debted to a heartless line of Pope's, whose connec-
tions happened to unite him most closely with the
faction in the state to which Defoe was chiefly op-
posed. It is gratifying to think that public opinion
is at last beginning to do justice to one whose writ-
ings testify him to have been uniformly the honest
and intrepid advocate of what he deemed to be right,
without regard to the views or interests of any party,
and whom his whole history demonstrates to have
never shrunk from any danger or any sacrifice in the
defence or avowal of his principles.      As a man of
genius, nobody entitled to express an opinion upon
such matters can fail to think highly of the au-
thor of Robinson Crusoe, which, however, is by no
 means the only one of his productions that evinces
extraordinary powers, both of invention and of
 writing.
    We may here also notice the name of another man
 of genius, GEORGE' LILLO, the author of ' Fatal
 Curiosity,' 'George Barnwell,' and other well-known
 dramatic pieces.    Lallowas born in London in 1693,
and spent his life in business as a jeweller in the

                          LILLO.                     193
 city.   Few particulars of his history, however, have
 corne down to us ; nor do we know any thins; of
 the education he received, although there is reason
 to believe that he owed his literary acquirements
 chiefly to his own application and love of reading 1.
 He is recorded to have been attentive to business,
and to have acquired, as a tradesman, a high cha-
racter for probity, and a competent, if not an abun-
dant fortune. Yet, although he died at the early age
of forty-six, he had already produced eight or nine
dramas, several of them of great power.          A few
months after his death, his character was sketched in
the following terms by his friend Fielding: " He
had a perfect knowledge of human nature, though
his contempt of all base means of application, which
are the necessary steps to great acquaintance, re-
strained his conversation within very narrow bounds.
He had the spirit of an old Roman, joined to the
innocence of a primitive Christian ; he was content
with his little state of life, in which his excellent
temper of mind gave him an happiness beyond the
power of riches, and it was necessary for his .friends
to have a sharp insight into his want of their ser-
vices, as well as good inclination or abilities to serve
him.     In short, he was one of the best of men, and
those who knew him best will most regret his loss."
    Men circumstanced like Walton, Defoe, and Lillo,
are well fitted, it may be remarked, to give new
vigour to the literature of a country, by infusing into
it something of what we may call the spirit of the
living world, when it is waxing feeble under the
regimen of recluse students and dealers in mere
 erudition.   Their works are almost sure to bear the
 stamp of originality in conception and manner,
 which is in literature the very principle of life and
 strength.    The point from which they look to their
 subject is different from that which the mere scholar
                                              s

194         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
would naturally select; their subject itself is proba-
bly not one which he would have chosen ; and, at all
events, the conceptions it suggests will amalgamate
with different associations, and take altogether a dif-
ferent shape and character.        Erudition, that should
be but the furniture, is too often made the food, of
the mind ; which, under such unfit sustenance, is apt
to languish and dry away. A man who mixes much
with the world is little liable to have his powers of
thinking thus destroyed by being crushed under the
the worn and cast-off thoughts of his predecessors ;
for his mind cannot fail to be kept awake by the stir
of the living world about him, which will act upon it
like a healthy breeze blowing away all dust and
rubbish, and keeping its faculties in their proper tone.
But   if,in addition to this salutary intercourse, a  man
of true genius shall have been further exposed to the
necessity of acquiring his knowledge of literature
principally by his own efforts, and of working out his
 own way to that mastery over his thoughts and ex-
pressions which constitutes the power of writing,       it
is  probable that, whatever may be his deficiencies in
 other respects, (which    if they were ever so many,
 the possession of true genius will go far to cover,)
 his productions will have the advantage, in respect
 of originality, over those of an equally gifted but
 more regularly educated mind.           In the very style
 of the writers we have mentioned, especially of
 the two first, there     is   charm of nature, which
                               a
 we generally look for in vain among the com-
 positions of more learned wits.       In Defoe's political
 works, too, there   is  often all the vigour and dex-
 terity of  a   most consummate rhetoric, rendered
 only more effective by many       a    racy idiom which
 would probably have been rejected by a mere rhe-
 torician of the schools.       Lillo's tragedies, again,
 full of power and pathos, are unlike any thing else in

                         LTLLO.                      195
the dramatic literature, either of our own or any other
country.    It seems as if we could tell almost by the
perusal of them that their author must have been in
business    that he was a regularly bred tradesman, as
well as a self-taught poet.    The humblest and the
highest walks of life are both favourite regions of
poetry ; Lillo is the only poet of middle life.      His
personages are merely the ordinary men and women
we meet with every day,        neither heroes and em-
perors, nor beggars and banditti ; and his scenes are
mostly in streets or on country roads by daylight, and
at evening in domestic parlours.      Yet even to com-
mon life he has communicated not a little of the ex-
citement of poetry.    This is true originality ; one of
the feats of genius, to which nothing is impossible.
                                          s2

                           CHAPTER        XII.
Self-educated men continued.        Ferguson. Influence of accident in
     directing pursuits.   Rennie ;    Linnaeus;  Vernet;  Caravaggio ;
     Tassie; Chatterton; Harrison; Edwards; Villars; Joly; Jourdan ;
     Bandinelli ; Palissy.
AMONG self-educated men there are few who claim
more of our admiration than the celebrated JAMES
FERGUSON.           If   ever any one was literally his own
instructor in the very elements of knowledge, it
was he. Acquisitions that have scarcely in any other
case, and probably never by one so young, been made
without the assistance either of books or a living
teacher, were the discoveries of his solitary and
almost illiterate boyhood.              There are few more inte-
resting narratives in any language than the account
which Ferguson himself has given of his early
history.       He was born in the year 1710, a few miles
from the village of Keith in Banffshire ; his parents,
as he tells us, being in the humblest condition of
life (for his father was merely a day-labourer), but
religious and honest.           It was his father's practice to
teach his children himself to read and write, as they
successively reached what he deemed the proper age ;
but James was too impatient to wait till his regular
turn came.         While his father was teaching one of
his elder brothers, James was secretly occupied in
listening to what was going on ; and, as soon as he
was left alone, used to get hold of the book, and work
hard in endeavouring to master the lesson which he
had thus heard gone over.                 Being ashamed, as he
says, to let his father know what he was about, he
was wont to apply to an old woman who lived in a
neiffhbouring cottage to solve his difficulties.                   In

                      FERGUSON.                     197
this way he actually learned to read tolerably well
before his father had any suspicion that he knew his
letters. His father at last, very much to his surprise,
detected him one day reading by himself, and thus
found out his secret.
    When he was about seven or eight years of age,
a simple incident occurred which seems to have
given his mind its first bias to what became after-
wards its favourite kind of pursuit.    The roof of the
cottage having partly fallen in, his father, in order to
raise it again, applied to it a beam, resting on a prop
in the manner of a lever, and was thus enabled, with
comparative ease, to produce what seemed to his son
quite a stupendous effect        The circumstance set
our young philosopher thinking ; and, after a while,
it struck him that his father, in using the beam,
had applied his strength to its extremity, and this,
he immediately concluded, was probably an impor-
tant circumstance in the matter.       He proceeded to
verify his notion by experiment ; and having made
several levers, which he called bars, soon not only
found that he was right in his conjecture as to the
importance of applying the moving force at the point
most distant from the fulcrum, but discovered the rule
or law of the machine, namely, that the effect of any
form or weight made to bear upon it is always ex-
actly proportioned to the distance of the point on
which it rests from the fulcrum.    " I then," says he,
" thought that it was a great pity that, by means of
this bar, a weight could be raised but a very little
way.     On this, I soon imagined that, by pulling
round a wheel, the weight might be raised to any
height, by tying a rope to the weight, and winding
the rope round the axle of the wheel ; and that the
power gained must be just as great as the wheel was
 broader than the axle was thick ; and found it to be
 exactly so, by hanging one weight to a rope put
                                          s3

198         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
round the wheel, and another to the rope that coiled
round the axle."     The child had thus, it will be ob-
served, actually discovered two of the most important
elementary truths in mechanics the lever, and the
wheel and axle ; he afterwards hit upon others ; and,
all the while, he had not only possessed neither book
nor teacher to assist him, but was without any other
tools than a simple turning lathe of his father's, and
a little knife wherewith to fashion his blocks and
wheels, and the other contrivances he needed for his
experiments.     After having made his discoveries,
however, he next, he tells us, proceeded to write an
account of them ; thinking his little work, which con-
tained sketches of the different machines drawn with
a pen, to be the first treatise ever composed of the
sort. When, some time after, a gentleman shewed
him the whole in a printed book, although he found
that he had been anticipated in his inventions, he
was much pleased, as he was well entitled to be, on
thus perceiving that his unaided genius had already
carried him so far into what was acknowledged to
be the region of true philosophy.
    It is a ludicrous blunder that the French astro-
nomer, Lalande, makes, in speaking of Ferguson,
when he designates him as
                                " Berger au Roi (TAn-
 gleterre en Ecosse," the King of England's Shep-
herd for Scotland.      He had no claim to this pomp-
 ous title ; but it is true that he spent some of his
 early years as a keeper of sheep, though in the
 employment, not of the state, but of a small farmer
 in the neighbourhood of his native place. He was
 sent to this occupation, he tells us, as being of weak
 body ; and while his flock was feeding around him,
 he used to busy himself in making models of mills,
 spinning-wheels, &c. during the day, and in studying
 the stars at night, like his predecessors of Chaldaea.
 When a little older he went into the service of another

                      FERGUSON*.                      199
farmer, a respectable man called James Glashan,
whose name well deserves to be remembered.           After
 the labours of the day, young; Ferguson used to go
 at night to the fields, with a blanket about him and a
lighted candle, and there, laying himself down on his
back, pursued for long hours his observations on the
heavenly bodies.
                       " used to stretch," says he, "a
                       I
thread with small beads on           it,
                                     at arms-length, be-
tween my eye and the stars       ;sliding the beads upon
it, till they hid such and such stars from my eye, in
order to take their apparent distances from one
another ;    and then laying the thread down on a
paper,I      marked the stars thereon by the beads."
" My master," he adds, " at first laughed at me         ;
but whenI      explained my meaning to him, he encou-
raged me to go on and, that              might make fair
                                      I I
                     ;
copies in the day time of what          had done in the
night, he often worked for me himself.         I     shall
always have a respect for the memory of that man."
Having been employed by his master to carry       a  mes-
sage to Mr. Gilchrist, the minister of Keith, he took
with him the drawings he had been making, and
shewed them to that gentleman.         Mr. Gilchrist upon
this put a map into his hands, and having supplied
him with compasses, ruler, pens, ink, and paper,
desired him to take    it   home with him, and bring
back a copy of it.     " For this pleasant employment,"
says he,
             " my master gave me more time than       I
could reasonably expect     ; and often took the thresh-
ing flail out of my hands, and worked himself, while
I  sat by him  in   the barn, busy with my compasses,
ruler, and pen." This       is a beautiful, we may well
say, and even  a    touching picture    the good man so
generously appreciating the worth of knowledge and
genius, that, although the master, he voluntarily
exchanges situations with his servant, and insists
upon doiug the work that must be done, himself, iu

200        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
order that the latter may give his more precious
talents to the more appropriate vocation.     We know
not that there is on record an act of homage to
science and learning more honourable to the author.
    Having finished his map, Ferguson carried it
to Mr. Gilchrist's, and there he met Mr. Grant of
Achoynamey, who offered to take him into his house,
and make his butler give him lessons. " I told
                            "     I
Squire Grant," says he, that should rejoice to be
at his house, as soon as the time was expired for
which    I was engaged with my present master.      He
very politely offered to put one in my place, but this
I   declined,"    When the period in question arrived,
accordingly, he went to Mr. Grant's, being now in
his twentieth year.     Here he found both a good
friend and a very extraordinary man, in Cantley the
butler, who had first fixed his attention by a sun-dial
which he happened to be engaged in painting on the
village schoolhouse, as Ferguson was passing along
the road on his second visit to Mr. Gilchrist.     Dial-
ling, however, was only one of the many accomplish-
ments of this learned butler, who, Ferguson assures
us, was profoundly conversant both with arithmetic
and mathematics, played on every known musical in-
 strument except the harp, understood Latin, French,
 arid Greek, and could let blood and prescribe for
 diseases.     These multifarious attainments he owed,
we are told, entirely to himself and to nature ; on
which account, Ferguson designates him " God
Almighty's scholar."
    From this person Ferguson received instructions
 in Decimal Fractions and Algebra, having already
 made himself master of Vulgar Arithmetic by the
 assistance of books.   Just as he was about, however,
 to begin Geometry, Cantley left his place for another
 in the establishment of the Earl of Fife, and his pupil
 thereupon determined to return home to his father.

                       FERGUSON.                      201
    Cantley, on parting with him, had made him a
present of a copy of Gordon's Geographical Grammar.
The book contains a description of an artificial globe,
which is not, however, illustrated by any figure.
Nevertheless, " from this description," says Fer-
guson, " I made a globe in three weeks at my
father's, having turned the ball thereof out of a
piece of wood ; which ball I covered with paper,
and delineated a map of the world upon it ; made
the meridian ring and horizon of wood, covered them
with paper, and graduated them ; and was happy to
find that by my globe (which was the first        I  ever
saw) I could solve the problems."
    For some time after this, he was very unfortunate.
Finding that it would not do to remain idle at home,
he engaged in the service of a miller in the neigh-
bourhood, who, feeling probably that he could trust
to the honesty and capacity of his servant, soon
began to spend all his own time in the alehouse, and
to leave poor Ferguson at home, not only with every
 thing to do, but with very frequently nothing to eat.
A little oatmeal, mixed with cold water, was often,
 he tells us, all he was allowed.   Yet in this situation
 he remained a year, and then returned to his father's,
 very much the weaker for his fasting.          His next
 master was a Dr. Young, who having induced him
 to enter his service by a promise to instruct him in
 medicine, not only broke his engagement as to this
 point, but used him in other respects so tyrannically,
 that, although engaged for half a year, he found he
 could not remain beyond the first quarter, at the ex-
 piration of which, accordingly, he came away without
  receiving any wages, having
                                  " wrought for the last
  fortnight," says he, " as much as possible with one
 hand and arm, when      I  could not lift the other from
  my side."    This was in consequence of a severe hurt
  he had received, which the Doctor was too busy to

202        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
look to, and by which he was confined to his bed for
two months after his return home.
   Reduced as he was, however, by exhaustion and
actual pain, he could not be idle.
                                    " In order," says
he, " to amuse myself in this low state, I made a
wooden clock, the frame of which was also of wood,
and it kept time pretty well.   The bell on which the
hammer struck the hours was the neck of a broken
bottle."  A short time after this, when he had reco-
vered his health, he gave a still more extraordinary
proof of his ingenuity, and the fertility of his re-
sources for mechanical invention, by actually con-
structing a time-piece, or watch, moved by a spring.
But we must allow him to give the history of this
matter in his own words :
   " Having then," he says, " no idea how any time-
piece could go but by a weight and line,      I  won-
dered how a watch could go in all positions ; and
was sorry that   I had never thought of asking Mr.
Cantley, who could very easily have informed me.
But happening one day to see a gentleman ride by
my father's house (which was close by a public road),
I  asked him what o'clock it then was?     He looked
at his watch, and told me.     As he did that with so
much good-nature, I begged of him to shew me the
inside of his watch ; and though he was an entire
stranger, he immediately opened the watch, and put
it into my hands. I saw the spring box, with part
of the chain round it ; and asked him what it was
that made the box turn round ?     He told me that it
was turned round by a steel spring within it. Having
then never seen any other spring than that of my
father's gun-lock, I asked how a spring within a box
could turn the box so often round as to wind all the
chain upon it ? He answered, that the spring was
long and thin ; that one end of it was fastened to
the axis of the box, and the other end to the inside

                        FERGUSON.                        203
of the box     ;that the axis was fixed, and the box was
 loose upon it. I told him that I did not yet thoroughly
 understand the matter. ' Well, my lad,' says he,
 '
   take a long, thin piece of whalebone ; hold one end
 of it fast between your finger and thumb, and wind
 it round your finger ; it will then endeavour to un-
wind itself; and if you fix the other end of it to the
 inside of a small hoop, and leave it to itself, it will
turn the hoop round and round, and wind up a thread
tied to the outside of the hoop.'        I thanked the gen-
tleman, and told him that I understood the thing
very well.         I
                  then tried to make a watch with wooden
wheels, and made the spring of whalebone ; but found
that I could not make the wheel go when the balance
was put on, because the teeth of the wheels were
rather too weak to bear the force of a spring sufficient
to move the balance ; although the wheels would run
fast enough when the balance was taken oft!             I in-
closed the whole in a wooden case, very little bigger
than a breakfast tea-cup ; but a clumsy neighbour
one day looking at my watch, happened to let it fall,
and turning hastily about to pick it up, set his foot
upon     it,and crushed  it   all to pieces
                                         ;    which so pro-
voked my father, that he was almost ready to beat
the man, and discouraged me so much, that          I   never
attempted to make such another machine again, espe-
cially as I    was thoroughly convinced      I  could never
make one that would be of any real use."
    \V hat a  vivid pictureis   this of an ingenuous mind
thirsting for knowledge    !    and who is   there, too, that
does not envy the pleasure that must have been felt by
the courteous and intelligent stranger        by  whom the
young mechanician was carried over his first -reat dif-
ficulty, if he ever chanced to learn how greatly his un-
known questioner had profited from their brief inter-
view !     That stranger might probably have read the
above narrative, as given to the world        by  Ferguson,

204         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
after the talents which this little incident probably con-
tributed to develope had raised him from his obscurity
to a distinguished place among the philosophers of
his age; and if he did know this, he must have felt that
encouragement in well-doing which a benevolent man
may always gather, either from the positive effects of
acts of kindness upon others, or their influence upon
his own heart. Civility, charity, generosity, may
sometimes meet an ill return, but one person must
be benefited by their exercise ; the kind heart has its
own abundant reward, whatever be the gratitude of
others.    The case of Ferguson shews that the seed
does not always fall on stony ground.           It may appear
somewhat absurd to dwell upon the benefit of a
slight civility which cost, at most, but a few minutes
of attention ; but it is really important that those who
are easy in the world       who have all the advantages of
wealth and knowledge at their command              should feel
of how much value is the slightest encouragement and
assistance to those wr ho are toiling up the steep of emu-
lation.    Too often " the scoff of pride" is superadded
         " bar of
to the             poverty;*' and thus it is that many a
 one of the best talents and the most generous feelings
        " Has sunk into the grave unpitied and unknown,"
 because the wealthy and powerful have never under-
 stood the value of a helping hand to him who is
 struggling with fortune.
     Ferguson's attention having thus been turned to
 the mechanism of time- pieces, he now began to do a
 little business in the neighbourhood as a cleaner of
 clocks, by which he made some money.              He was in-
 vited also to take up his residence in the house of
 Sir James Dunbar, of Durn, to whom he seems to
 have made himself useful by various little services
 for which his ingenuity fitted him. Among other
 things he converted two round stones upon the gate-
 way, into a pair of stationary globes, by painting a

                        FERGUSON.                     205
 map of the earth upon one, and a map of the heavens
 upon the other.
                     " The poles of the painted globes,"
 he informs us, " stood towards the poles of the hea-
 vens ; on each the twenty-four hours were placed
 around the equinoctial, so as to shew the time of the
day when the sun shone out, by the boundary where
the half of the globe at any time enlightened by the
sun was parted from the other half in the shade ; the
enlightened parts of the terrestrial globe answering
to the like enlightened parts of the earth at all times.
So that, whenever the sun shone on the globe, one
might see to what places the sun was then rising, to
what places it was setting, and all the places where
it was then day or night throughout the earth."
Having been introduced to Sir James's sister, Lady
Dipple, he was induced at her suggestion to attempt
the drawing of patterns for ladies' dresses, in which
he soon became quite an adept.       " On this," says he,
   I
" was sent for by other ladies in the country, and
began to think myself growing very rich by the
money    I  got by such drawings ; out of which         I
had the pleasure of occasionally supplying the wants
of my poor father." He still continued, however, his
astronomical studies, making observations on the
stars, as usual, with his beaded threads, and delineat-
ing on paper the apparent paths of the planets as thus
ascertained. So excited would he become while thus
engaged, that he often conceived, he says, that he
saw the ecliptic lying like a broad highway across the
firmament, and the planets making their way in
" paths like the narrow ruts made by cart wheels,
sometimes on one side of a plane road, and some-
times on the other, crossing the road at small angles,
but never going far from either side of it."
    He now began also to copy pictures and prints
with pen and ink; and having gone to reside with
Mr. Baird, of Auchmeddan, Lady Dipple's son-in-

206          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
law, where he enjoyed access to a tolerably well-
stocked library, he made his first attempt at taking
likenesses from the life, in a portrait which he drew
of that gentleman ; " and I found," says he, " it was
much easier to draw from the life than from any pic-
ture whatever, as nature was more striking than any
imitation of it." His success in this new profession
struck his country patrons as so remarkable, that they
determined upon carrying him to Edinburgh, in order
that he might be regularly instructed in those parts
of the art of which he was still ignorant, Lady Dipple
liberally agreeing to allow him to live in her house
for two years.     But when he came to that city he
could find no painter who would consent to take him
as an apprentice without a premium        a circumstance
which his sanguine friends had not counted upon.
In this extremity, not knowing what to do, he was
advised, by the Reverend Dr. Keith, to trust to his own
genius, and to commence the practice of his intended
profession without waiting for any other instruction
than what he had already received from nature.         It
was certainly a bold counsel ; but Ferguson, having
in truth no other resource, followed it, and succeeded
beyond his most sanguine expectations, in a very
short time making so much money as to enable him
not only to defray his own expenses, but to gratify
his kind heart by contributing largely to the support
of his now aged parents. He followed this business
for twenty-six years.
   Yet   he does not appear to have ever given his heart
to painting, and notwithstanding his success, he even
made various attempts to escape from it as a pro-
fession altogether.    When he had been only about
two years in Edinburgh, he was seized with so vio-
lent a passion for the study, or at least the practice,
of medicine, that he actually returned to his father's,
carrying with him a quantity of pills, plasters, and

                       FERGUSON.                            207
other preparations, with the intention of setting1 up
as the jEsculapius of the village.      But it would not
do.    Of those who took his medicines very few paid
him for them, and still fewer, he acknowledges, were
benefited by them.       So he applied again to his
pencil ; but, instead of returning immediately to
Edinburgh, fixed his residence for a few months at
Inverness.     Here he employed his leisure in pursuing
his old and favourite study of astronomy; and having
discovered by himself the cause of eclipses, drew up
a scheme for shewing the motions and places of the
sun and moon in the ecliptic, on each day of the year,
perpetually.     This he transmitted to the celebrated
Maclaurin, who found it to be very nearly correct,
and was so much pleased with        it,that he had      en-it
graved.     It sold very well, and Ferguson was
induced once more to return to Edinburgh.               He
had now    a  zealous patron in Maclaurin, and one ex-
tremely disposed to assist him in his philosophical
studies.    One day Ferguson having asked the Pro-
fessor to shew him his Orrery, the latter immediately
complied with his request, in so far as to exhibit to
him the outward movements of the machine, but would
not venture to open     it  in order to get at the wheel-
work, which he had never himself inspected, being
afraid that he should not be able to put          to rights
                                                  it
again if    he should chance to displace any part of it.
Ferguson, however, had seen enough to set his inge-
nious and contriving mind to work and in  ;           short
                                                       a
 time he succeeded in finishing an Orrery of his own,
 and had the honour of reading a lecture on              toit
 Maclaurin' pupils.
           s            He some time after made another
of ivory (his first had been of wood) and in the
                                              ;
 course of his life he constructed, he tells us, six more,
 all unlike each other.
    His mind was now becoming every day more
attached to philosophical pursuits       and quite tired,
                                          ;
                                              T
                                              2

208        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
as he says, of drawing pictures, in which he never
strove to excel, he resolved to go to London, in the
hope of finding employment as a teacher of mechanics
and astronomy.     Having written out a proof of a new
astronomical truth which had occurred to him, namely,
that the moon must move always in a path concave
to the sun, he shewed his proposition and its demon-
stration to Mr. Folkes, the President of the Royal
Society, who thereupon took him the same evening
to the meeting of that learned body.      This had the
effect of bringing him immediately into notice.     He
                                       '
soon after published his first work, A Dissertation
on the Phenomena of the Harvest Moon,' with the
description of a new Orrery, having only four
wheels.    Of this work he says, with his character-
istic modesty, " Having never had a grammatical
education, nor time to study the rules of just
composition, I acknowledge that       I  was afraid to
put it to the press ; and for the same cause, I ought
to have the same fears still."   It was, however, well
received by the public ; and its ingenious author
afterwards followed it up by various other produc-
tions, most of which became very popular.      In 1748
he began to give public lectures on his favourite
subjects, which were numerously and fashionably
attended, his late Majesty George III., who was
then a boy, being occasionally among his auditors.
He had till now continued to work at his old profession
of a portrait painter ; but about this time he at last
bade it a final farewell, having secured another, and,
in his estimation, a much more agreeable means of
providing a subsistence for himself and his family.
Soon after the accession of George III., a pension of
fifty pounds per annum was bestowed upon him from
the privy purse.     In 1763 he was elected a Fellow
of the Royal Society; the usual fees being remitted,
as had been done in the cases of Newton and Thomas



                       FERGUSON.                      209
Simpson.      He died in 1776, having for many years
enjoyed a distinguished reputation both at home and
abroad ; for several of his works had been translated
into foreign languages, and were admired throughout
Europe for the simplicity and ingenuity of their elu-
cidations.    Of his Dialogues on Astronomy, Madame
de Genlis says, "This book is written with so much
clearness, that a child of ten years old may under-
stand it perfectly from one end to the other."
    The faculties of distinct apprehension and lumi-
nous exposition belonged,         indeed, to Ferguson
in a pre-eminent        degree.     He doubtless owed
his superiority here in a great measure to the
peculiar manner in which he had been obliged
to acquire his knowledge.        Nothing that he had
learned had been set him as a task.               He had
applied himself to whatever subject of study en-
 gaged his attention, simply from the desire and
 with the view of understanding it. All that he knew,
 therefore, he knew thoroughly, and not by rote
merely, as many things are learned by those who
have no higher object than to master the task of the
day.     On the other hand, as has often happened in
 the case of self-educated men, the want of a regular
 director of his studies had left him ignorant of many
 departments of knowledge in which, had he been
 introduced    to them, he was probably admirably
 adapted to distinguish himself, and from which he
 might have drawn, at all events, the most valuable
 assistance in the prosecution of his favourite investiga-
 tions. Thus, familiar as he was with the phenomena of
 astronomy and the practical parts of mechanics, and
 admirable as was his ingenuity in mechanical inven-
 tion, he knew nothing, or next to nothing, either of
 abstract mathematics or of the higher parts of algebra.
 He remained, in this way, to the end of his life,
 rather a clever empiric, to use the term in its original
                                            T3

210         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
and more honourable signification, as meaning 1 a
practical and experimenting philosopher, than a man
 of science. This was more peculiarly the sort of
peril to which self-educated men were exposed in
Ferguson's day, when books of any kind were
comparatively scarce, and good elementary works
scarcely existed on any subject.       Much has since
been done, and is now doing, to supply that great
desideratum ; and even already, in many depart-
ments, the man who can merely read is provided with
the means of instructing himself both at little ex-
pense, and with a facility and completeness such as
a century, or even half a century ago, were altogether
out of the question. Not a little, however, still remains
to be accomplished before the good work can be con-
sidered as finished ; nor, indeed, is it the nature of it
ever to be finished, seeing that, even if we should have
perfectly arranged and systematized all our present
knowledge, time must be constantly adding to our
possessions here, and opening new worlds for philo-
sophy to explore and conquer.
   It was, as has been stated, the accident of the roof
of his father's cottage coming down, while he was a
child, that first turned Ferguson's attention to me-
chanical contrivance.     Such are the chances which
often develope genius, and probably even give
it in part its direction and peculiar character. The
late eminent engineer, JOHN RENNIE, used to trace
his first notions, in regard to the powers of ma-
chinery, to his having been obliged, when a boy,
in consequence of the breaking down of a bridge, to
go one winter every morning to school by a circuitous
road, which carried him past a place where a thrash-
ing machine was generally at work.         Perhaps, had
it not been for this casualty, he might have adopted
another profession than the one in which he so much
distinguished himself.     It was the appearance of

     LIXXJEUS.     HARRISON.    CARAVAGGIO, ETC.     211
 the celebrated comet of 1744 which first attracted
 the imagination of LALANDE, then a boy of twelve
 years of age, to astronomy. The great LINN.EUS
 was probably made a botanist, by the circumstance
 of his father having a few rather uncommon plants
 in his garden.       HARRISON is said to have been
 originally inspired with the idea of devoting him-
 self to the constructing of marine time-pieces, by
 his residence in view of the sea.    It was a voyage in
the Mediterranean which first gave to VERNET his
enthusiasm for marine painting.       Other great paint-
ers have probably been indebted to still slighter
circumstances      for their first introduction to the
art.    CLAUDE LORRAINE derived his taste for de-
sign from frequenting the workshop of his brother,
who was a wood engraver.        The elder CARAVAGGIO,
Polidoro     Caldara,  was born of poor parents, at the
town in the north of Italy from which he takes his
common designation ; and having, when a young
man, wandered as far as Rome in search of work,
was at last engaged to carry mortar for the fresco
painters, who were then employed in decorating the
Vatican, which humble occupation giving him the
opportunity of observing the operations of these
artists, first inspired him with the ambition of becom-
ing himself a painter. The commencement of the
history of MICHAEL ANGEI.O CARAVAGGIO is not very
different.    He, as his name denotes, was a native
of the same place as Polidoro, though he flourished
more than half a century later, and he is recorded
to have had his love of the art first awakened by
being, when a boy, employed by his father, who
was a mason, to mix plaster for some fresco-
painters at Milan.      Another Italian painter, CAVE-
DONE, owed his introduction to his profession to the
accident of having been received, after he had been
turned out of doors by his father, into the service of

212        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
a gentleman who happened to possess a good collec-
tion of pictures, which he began by copying in ink
with a pen. JAMES TASSIE, the celebrated modeller
and maker of paste gems, commenced life as a stone-
mason in Glasgow, and was first prompted to aspire
to something beyond this humble occupation by
having gone by chance on a holyday to see the paint-
ings in the academy for instruction in the fine arts,
established in that city by Messrs. Robert and An-
drew Foulis, the printers.      Having obtained admis-
sion to the academy as a pupil, he wrought at his
original trade to maintain himself, until he had ac-
quired a knowledge of drawing.            Tassie became
eventually   the most   distinguished artist in his line
in Europe ; and    carried,  indeed, the art itself, which
he practised, to a degree of perfection that before his
time had not been approached.          A descriptive cata-
logue of his pastes, which, at the time of his death, in
 1799, amounted to twenty thousand, has been pub-
lished in two quarto volumes, and among them are
enumerated imitations, or rather fac-similes, of all
the more celebrated       gems, ancient and modern,
known to be in existence.
    The youthful CHATTERTON'S taste for the study of
English antiquities is said to have been first excited
by the accidental circumstance of a quantity of ancient
parchment manuscripts having fallen into his hands,
which had been taken by his father, who kept a
school, from an old chest in the church of St. Mary
Redcliffe, at Bristol, to make covers for the writing-
books used by his scholars.       If  he had never seen
these parchments, how different might have been
the history of that gifted but ill-fated boy!    GEORGE
EDWARDS, the naturalist, and author of the splendid
book entitled the ' History of Birds,' was in the
first instance apprenticed to a London merchant ;
but the accident of a bed-room being assigned to him

             EDWARDS.     VILLARS.    JOLY.           213
which contained a collection of books that had been
left by a former lodger of his master's, gradually
formed in him so strong an attachment to study, and
especially to natural history, to which many of the
volumes related (their original possessor having been
a medical gentleman), that he resolved to give up
commerce, and to dedicate his life to literature and
science.    The late eminent French botanist, VILLARS,
in like manner, after having set out in life as a farmer,
suddenly became enamoured of natural science, from
looking into an old work on medicine which he
chanced to find at a house where he was staying.
    The French dramatist, JOLY, was the son of a
keeper of a coffee-house in Paris, where a sort of
literary club was wont to meet.     One evening a tale
of Madame de Murat's was the subject of their con-
versation ; and the warm encomiums they united in
bestowing upon it arrested in an extraordinary degree
the attention of Joly.     As soon as the club broke
up he retired to his bedroom, spent the night in
writing, and, before morning, had contrived the plan
of a drama in verse, and advanced a considerable
 way in its composition.    A few days more enabled
 him to complete his work ; which, to the astonish-
ment of his father's literary guests, he put into their
 hands at their next meeting, requesting their opinion
of it. The proposal of having the performance read
 excited at first only the merriment of the assembled
 critics ; but its merits were soon felt and acknow-
 ledged ; and, when it had been heard to the end,
 there was only one opinion as to the certainty of its
 success if it should be represented on the stage.
                                   '
 Accordingly, the piece, entitled a School for Lovers,'
 in three acts, was brought out, and received with
 great applause.    Joly now gave himself up to lite-
 rature ; but, although he afterwards produced seve-
 ral other dramatic compositions, it is remarked that

214        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
scarcely any of them equalled his first performance.
 The late French orientalist, JOCRDAIX, was origi-
nally intended for the law, and had been placed with
a notary, when, in the year 1805, the admiration he
heard bestowed upon Anquetil Du Perron, then
newly dead, who had in his youth enlisted as a
private soldier in a corps going to India, in order that
he miffht enjoy an opportunity of studying the east-
ern languages, kindled in him an irresistible passion
to devote himself to similar pursuits.    Jourdain was
at this time only seventeen years of age, and died
when just thirty.    Yet in that short interval he had
acquired a distinguished name as an oriental scholar,
and had given to the world a variety of able works ;
among which may be especially mentioned a very
learned statistical account of Persia, in five volumes,
which appeared when the author was only in his
twenty-sixth year.
    We will mention only a very few other instances
of the manner in which accidental, and apparently
trivial, occurrences have sometimes operated in ex-
citing latent genius. The Italian sculptor BANDI-
NELLI, whose name has been mentioned in a former
chapter, is said to have been first led to turn his
thoughts to the art of statuary by a great fall of
snow which happened when he was a boy at his
native city of Florence.    He fashioned a statue of
the snow, which was conceived to give a striking in-
dication of his talent for modelling.    The late emi-
nent English engraver, RICHARD EARLOM, is re-
ported to have been originally inspired with a taste
for the art of design, by seeing the ornaments on the
Lord Mayor's state coach, which happened to have
been painted by the elegant pencil of Cipriani.     An-
other of our countrymen, highly distinguished as an
engraver of scientific subjects, the late Mr. LOWRY,
was induced to embrace the profession in which he

            LOWRY.    BREITKOPF.    PALISSY.       215
 afterwards acquired so much celebrity, by the acci-
 dental inspection, when he was about fifteen years
of age, of a portfolio of prints by Woollet, another
 of our eminent engravers. Thus, too, the famous
 German printer, BREITKOPF, the inventor of move-
 able types for printing music, and of many other
 improvements in typography and letter-founding,
 was first inspired with a liking for his profession,
which he had originally embraced on compulsion, by
falling in with a work of Albert Durer, in which the
 shapes of the letters are deduced from mathematical
principles.
    The celebrated BERNARD PALISSY, towhomFrance
was indebted, in the sixteenth century, for the intro-
duction of the manufacture of enamelled pottery, had
his attention first attracted to the art, his improve-
ments in which form to this time the glory of his
name among his countrymen, by having one day
seen by chance a beautiful enamelled cup, which had.
been brought from Italy.      He was then struggling
to support his family by his attempts in the art of
painting, in which he was self-taught ; and it im-
mediately occurred to him that, if he could discover
the secret of making these cups, his toils and diffi-
culties would be at an end.    From that moment his
whole thoughts were directed to this object ; and in
one of his works he has himself given us such an
account of the unconquerable zeal with which he
prosecuted his experiments, as it is impossible to
read without the deepest interest. For some time he
had little or nothing to expend upon the pursuit
which he had so much at heart ; but at last he hap-
pened to receive a considerable sum of money for a
work which he had finished, and this enabled him
to commence his researches.     He spent the whole of
his money, however, without meeting with any suc-
cess, and he was now poorer than ever.     Yet it was

216         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
in vain that his wife and his friends besought him to
relinquish what they deemed his chimerical and ruin-
ous project.     He borrowed more money, with which
he repeated his experiments ; and, when he had no
more fuel wherewith to feed his furnaces, he cut
down his chairs and tables for that purpose.         Still
his success was inconsiderable.      He was now actu-
ally obliged to give a person, who had assisted him,
part of his clothes by way of remuneration, having
nothing else left; and, with his wife and children
starving before his eyes, and by their appearance
silently reproaching him as the cause of their suffer-
ings, he was at heart miserable enough.          But he
neither despaired, nor suffered his friends to know
what he felt ; preserving, in the midst of all his mi-
sery, a gay demeanour, and losing no opportunity of
renewing his pursuit of the object which he all the
while felt confident he should one day accomplish.
And at last, after sixteen years of persevering exer-
tion, his efforts were crowned with complete success,
and his fortune was made. Palissy was, in all re-
spects, one of the most extraordinary men of his time;
in his moral character displaying a high-mindedness
and commanding energy altogether in harmony with
the reach and originality of conception by which his
understanding was distinguished.        Although a Pro-
testant, he had escaped, through the royal favour,
from the massacre of St. Bartholomew ; but, having
been soon after shut up in the Bastile, he was visited
in his prison by the king, who told him, that if he
did not comply with the established religion, he
 should be forced, however unwillingly, to leave him
in the hands of his enemies.         " Forced !"
                                                  replied
Palissy.
            " This is not to speak like a king; but
                                                     they
 who force you cannot force me ;       I can die !"   He
 never regained his liberty, but ended his life in the
 Bastile, in the ninetieth year of his age.

                      CHAPTER       XIII.
                     Early Life of Franklin.
THE name we are now to mention is perhaps the
most distinguished to be found in the annals of
self-education.     Of all those, at least, who, by their
own efforts, and without any usurpation of the
rights of others, have raised themselves to a high
place in society, there is no one, as has been re-
marked, the close of whose history presents so
great a contrast to its commencement as that of
BENJAMIN FRANKLIN. It fortunately happens, too,
in his case, that we are in possession of abundant in-
formation as to the methods by which he contrived
to surmount the many disadvantages of his original
condition ; to raise himself from the lowest poverty
and obscurity to affluence and distinction ; and,
above all, in the absence of instructors, and of the
ordinary helps to the acquisition of knowledge, to
enrich himself so plentifully with the treasures of
literature and science, as not only to be enabled to
derive from that source the chief happiness of his
life, but to succeed in placing himself high among
the most famous writers and philosophers of his
time.    It is in this latter point of view, chiefly, that
at present we purpose to consider him ; and we
shall avail ourselves, as liberally as our limits will
permit, of the ample details, respecting the early
part of his life especially, that have been given to
the public, in order to present to the reader as full
and distinct an account as possible of the successive
steps of a progress so eminently worthy of being
recorded, both from the interesting nature of the

218          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
story, and from its value as an example and lesson,
perhaps the most instructive to be anywhere found,
for all who have to be either the architects of their
own fortunes, or their own guides in the pursuit of
knowledge.
    Franklin has himself told us the story of his early
life inimitably well.    The narrative is given in the
form of a letter to his son    ; and does not appear to
have been written originally with any view to publi-
cation.    " From the poverty and obscurity," he says,
" in which I was born, and in which         I  passed my
earliest years,   I  have raised myself to a state of
affluence, and some degree of celebrity in the world.
As constant good fortune has accompanied me, even
to an advanced period of life, my posterity will per-
haps be desirous of learning the means which             I
employed, and which, thanks to Providence, so well
succeeded with me.         They may also deem them fit
to be imitated, should any of them find themselves
in similar circumstances." It is not many years since
 this letter was, for the first time, given to the world
 by the grandson of the illustrious writer, only a small
 portion of it having previously appeared, and that
 merely a re-translation into English from a French
 version of the original manuscript which had been
 published at Paris.
     Franklin was born at Boston, in North America,
 on the 17th of January, 1706; the youngest, with
 the exception of two daughters, of a family of seven-
  teen children.    His father, who had emigrated from
  England about twenty-four years before, followed
  the occupation of a soapboiler and tallow-chandler, a
  business to which he had not been bred, and by
  which he seems with difficulty to have been able to
  support his numerous family.        At first it was pro-
  posed to make Benjamin a clergyman ; and he was
  accordingly, having before learned to read, put to

                      FRANKLIN.                     219
the grammar-school at eight years of age;     an uncle,
whose namesake he was, and who appears to have
been an ingenious man, encouraging the project, by
offering to give him several volumes of sermons to
set up with, which he had taken down, in a short-hand
of his own invention, from the different preachers he
had been in the habit of hearing.     This person, who
was now advanced in life, had been only a common
silk-dyer, but had been both a great reader and
writer in his day, having filled two quarto volumes
with his own manuscript poetry. What he was most
proud of, however, was his short-hand, which he
was very anxious that his nephew should learn. But
young Franklin had not been quite a year at the
grammar-school, when his father began to reflect
that the expense of a college education for him was
what he could not very well afford; and that, be-
sides, the church in America was a poor profession
after all.  He was accordingly removed, and placed
for another year under a teacher of writing and
arithmetic ; after which his father took him home,
when he was no more than ten years old, to assist
him in his own business. Accordingly, he was em-
ployed, he tells us, in cutting wicks for the candles,
filling the moulds for cast candles, attending the
shop, going errands, and other drudgery of the same
kind.    He shewed so much dislike, however, to this
business, that his father, afraid he would break loose
and go to sea, as one of his elder brothers had done,
found it advisable, after a trial of two years, to look
about for another occupation for him ; and taking
him round to see a great many different sorts of
 tradesmen at their work, it was at last agreed upon
 that he should be bound apprentice to a cousin
 of his own, who was a cutler. But he had been
 only for some days on trial at this business, when,
 his father thinking the apprentice-fee, which his
                                         u 2

220         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
cousin asked, too high, he was again taken home.
In this state of things it was finally resolved to place
him with his brother James, who had been bred a
printer, and had just returned from England and set
up on his own account at Boston. To him, there-
fore, Benjamin was bound apprentice, when he was
yet only in his twelfth year, on an agreement that
he should remain with him in that capacity till he
reached the age of twenty-one.
   One of the principal reasons which induced his
father to determine upon this profession for him was
the fondness he had from his infancy shewn for read-
ing.   All the money he could get hold of used to be
eagerly laid out in the purchase of books.            His
father's small collection consisted principally of
works in controversial divinity, a subject of little
interest to a reader of his age ; but, such as they
were, he went through most of them.          Fortunately
there was also a copy of Plutarch's Lives, which
he says he read abundantly.        This, and a book by
Daniel Defoe, called An Essay on Projects, he seems
to think were the two works from which he derived
the most advantage. His new profession of a printer,
by procuring him the acquaintance of some book-
sellers' apprentices, enabled him considerably to
extend his acquaintance with books, by frequently
borrowing a volume in the evening, which he sat up
reading the greater part of the night, in order that
he might return it in the morning, lest it should be
missed.    But these solitary studies did not prevent
him from soon acquiring a great proficiency in his
business, in which he was every day becoming more
useful to his brother.      After some time, too, his
access to books was greatly facilitated by the kindness
of a liberal-minded merchant, who was in the habit
of frequenting the printing-office, and, being possessed
of a tolerable library, invited young Franklin, whose

                        FRANKLIN.                     221
industry and intelligence had attracted his attention,
to come to see it ; after which he allowed him to
borrow from it such volumes as he wished to read.
    Our young student was now to distinguish him-
self in a new character. The perusal of the works
of others suggested to him the idea of trying his own
talent at composition ; and his first attempts in this
way were a few pieces of poetry.       Verse, it may be
observed, is generally the earliest sort of composition
attempted either by nations or individuals, and for
the same reasons in both cases         namely, first, be-
cause poetry has peculiar charms for the unripe
understanding ; and, secondly, because people at first
find it difficult to conceive what composition is at all,
independently of such measured cadences and other
regularities as constitute verse.    Franklin's poetical
fit, however, did not last long. Having been induced
by his brother to write two ballads, he was sent to
sell them through the streets ; and one of them, at
least, being on a subject which had just made a good
deal of noise in the place, sold, as he tells us, pro-
digiously.     But his father, who, without much lite-
rary knowledge, was a man of a remarkably sound
and vigorous understanding, soon brought down the
rising vanity of the young poet, by pointing out to
him the many faults of his performances, and con-
vincing him what wretched stuff they really were.
Having been told, too, that verse-makers were gene-
rally beggars, with his characteristic prudence he
determined to write no more ballads.
    He had an intimate acquaintance of the name of
Collins, who was, like himself, passionately fond of
^ooks, and with whom he was in the habit of arguing
upon such subjects as they met with in the course of
their reading.      Among other questions which they
discussed in this way, one accidentally arose on the
abilities of women, and the propriety of giving them
                                          u 3

222           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
a learned education. Collins maintained their natural
unfitness for any of the severer studies, while Franklin
took the contrary side of the question      " perhaps,"
he    says,
              "
            a little for dispute sake."    His anta-
gonist had always the greater plenty of words ; but
Franklin thought that, on this occasion in particular,
his own arguments were rather the stronger ; and
on their parting without settling the point, he sat
down, and put a summary of what he advanced in
writing, which he copied out and sent to Collins.
This gave a new form to the discussion, which was
now carried on for some time by letters, of which
three or four had been written on both sides, when
the correspondence fell into the hands of Franklin's
father. His natural acuteness and good sense enabled
him here again to render an essential service to his
son, by pointing out to him how far he fell short of
his antagonist in elegance of expression, in method,
and in perspicuity, though he had the advantage of him
in correct spelling and punctuation, which he evidently
owed to his experience in the printing-office.      From
that moment, Franklin determined to spare no pains
in endeavouring to improve his style ; and we shall
give, in his own words, the method he pursued for
that end.
    " About this time," says he, " met with an odd
                                       I
volume of the Spectator : I had never before seen
 any of them- I bought    it,read it over and over, and
 was much delighted with it.    I   thought the writing
 excellent; and wished,  ifpossible, to imitate it. \Vith
 that view,   Itook some of the papers, and making
 short hints of the sentiments in each sentence, laid
 them by     few days and then, without looking at
              a      ;
 the book, tried to complete the papers again, by ex-
 pressing each hinted sentiment at length, and as fully
 as  ithad been expressed before, in any suitable words
 that should occur to me.      Then    I  compared my

                       FRANKLIN.                    223
Spectator with the original, discovered some of my
faults, and corrected them.     But I found I wanted
a stock of words, or a readiness in recollecting and
using them, which I thought I should have acquired
before that time if I had gone on making verses ;
since the continual search for words of the same
import, but of different length, to suit the measure,
or of different sound for the rhyme, would have laid
me under a constant necessity of searching for variety,
and also have tended to fix that variety in my mind,
and make me master of it. Therefore, I took some
of the tales in the Spectator, and turned them into
verse ; and after a time, when I had pretty well for-
gotten the prose, turned them back again.         I also
 sometimes jumbled my collection of hints into con-
fusion ; and, after some weeks, endeavoured to reduce
them into the best order, before I began to form the
full sentences and complete the subject.       This was
to teach me method in the arrangement of the
 thoughts. By comparing my work with the original,
 I discovered many faults, and corrected them ; but    I
 sometimes had the pleasure to fancy that in certain
 particulars of small consequence I had been fortunate
 enough to improve the method or the language ; and
 this encouraged me to think that I might, in time,
 come to be a tolerable English writer, of which       I
 was extremely ambitious."
    Even at this early age nothing could exceed the
 perseverance and self-denial which he displayed, in
 pursuing his favourite object of cultivating his mental
 faculties to the utmost of his power. When only six-
 teen, he chanced to meet with a book in recommen-
 dation of a vegetable diet, one of the arguments at
 least in favour of which made an immediate impres-
 sion upon him      namely, its greater cheapness ; and
 from this and other considerations, he determined to
  adopt that way of living for the future.       Having

224          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
taken this resolution, he proposed to his brother, if
he would give him weekly only half what his board
had hitherto cost, to board himself, an offer which
was immediately accepted.      He presently found that
by adhering to his new system of diet he could still
save half what his brother allowed him.       " This,"
says he,
           " was an additional fund for buying of
books : but    I  had another advantage in it.      My
brother and the rest going from the printing-house to
their meals,   Iremained there alone, and dispatching
presently my light repast, (which was often no more
than a biscuit, or a slice of bread, an handful of
raisins, or a tart from the pastrycook's, and a glass
of water,) had the rest of the time, till their return,
for study ; in which I made the greater progress,
from that greater clearness of head and quicker
apprehension which generally attend temperance in
eating and drinking."     It was about this time that,
by means of Cocker's Arithmetic, he made himself
master of that science, which he had twice attempted
in vain to learn while at school ; and that he also
obtained some acquaintance with the elements of
geometry, by the perusal of a Treatise on Naviga-
tion. He mentions, likewise, among the works which
he now read, Locke on the Human Understanding,
and the Port-Royal Art of Thinking, together with
two little sketches on the arts of Logic and Rhetoric,
which he found at the end of an English Grammar,
and which initiated him in the Socratic mode of dis-
putation, or that way of arguing by which an anta-
 gonist, by being questioned, is imperceptibly drawn
 into admissions which are afterwards dexterously
 turned against him.    Of this method of reasoning he
 became, he tells us, excessively fond, finding it very
 safe for himself and very embarrassing for those
 against whom he used it ; but he afterwards aban-
 doned it,  apparently from a feeling that it gave ad-

                      FRANKLIN.                      225
vantages rather to cunning than to truth, and was
better adapted to gain victories in conversation, than
either to convince or to inform.
   A few years before this his brother had begun to
publish a newspaper, the second that had appeared
in America. This brought most of the literary people
of Boston occasionally to the printing-office; and
young Franklin often heard them conversing about
the articles that appeared in the newspaper, and the
approbation which particular ones received.      At last,
inflamed with the ambition of sharing in this sort of
fame, he resolved to try how a communication of his
own would succeed.         Having written his paper,
therefore, in a disguised hand, he put it at night
under the door of the printing-office, where it was
found in the morning, and submitted to the conside-
ration of the critics, when they met as usual. " They
read it," says he ; " commented on it in my hearing ;
and  I   had the exquisite pleasure of finding it met
with their approbation ; and that in their different
guesses at the author, none were named but men of
some character among us for learning and ingenuity."
" I suppose," he adds, " that I was rather lucky in
my judges, and that they were not really so very
good as I then believed them to be." Encouraged,
however, by the success of this attempt, he sent
several other pieces to the press in the same way,
keeping his secret, till, as he expresses     it, all his
fund of sense for such performances was exhausted.
He then discovered himself, and immediately found
that he began to be looked upon as a person of some
consequence   by  his brother's literary acquaintances.
   This newspaper soon after afforded him, very
unexpectedly, an opportunity of extricating himself
from his indenture to his brother, who had all along
treated him with great harshness, and to whom his
rising literary reputation only made him more an

226         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
object of envy and dislike.       An article which they
had admitted having offended the local government,
his brother, as proprietor of the paper, was not only
sentenced to a month's imprisonment, but prohibited
from any longer continuing to print the offensive
journal. In these circumstances, it was determined
that it should appear for the future in the name of
Benjamin, who had managed it during his brother's
 confinement ; and in order to prevent it being alleged
 that the former proprietor was only screening himself
 behind one of his apprentices, the indenture by which
 the latter was bound was given up to him ; he at the
 same time, in order to secure to his brother the
 benefit of his services, signing new indentures for the
 remainder of his time, which were to be kept private.
 " A very flimsy scheme it was," says Franklin ;
 " however, it was immediately executed ; and the
 paper was printed accordingly under my name for
 several months.     At length a fresh difference arising
 between my brother and me, I took upon me to assert
 my freedom, presuming that he would not venture
 to produce the new indentures.        It was not fair in
 me to take this advantage ; #nd this         I  therefore
 reckon one of the first errata of my life ; but the
 unfairness of it weighed little with me, when under
 the impressions of resentment for the blows his pas-
 sion too often urged him to bestow upon me, though
 he was otherwise not an ill-natured man : perhaps       I
 was too saucy and provoking."
    Finding, however, that his brother, in consequence
 of this exploit, had taken care to give him such a
 character to all those of his own profession in Boston,
 that nobody would employ him there, he now resolved
 to make his way to New York, the nearest place
 where there was a printer; and accordingly, after
 selling his books to raise a little money, he embarked
 on board a vessel for that city, without communicating

                        FRANKLIN.                    227
his   intention to his friends, who he knew would
oppose it. In three days he found himself at the end
of his voyage, near three hundred miles from his
home, at the age of seventeen, without the least
recommendation, as he tells us, or knowledge of any
person in the place, and with very little money in his
pocket. Worst of all, upon applying to the only
printer likely to give him any employment, he
found that this person had nothing for him to do,
and that the only way in which he could serve him
was by recommending him to proceed to Philadel-
phia, a hundred miles farther, where he had a son,
who, he believed, might employ him.         We cannot
follow our runaway through the disastrous incidents
of this second journey ; but, for the reason which
he states himself, we shall allow him to give his
own most graphic description of his first appearance
in Philadelphia.
   After concluding the account of his voyage, " I
have been the more particular," says he, " in this
description of my journey, and shall be so of my first
entry into that city, that you may, in your mind,
compare such unlikely beginnings with the figure       I
have since made there.     I was in my working dress,
my best clothes coming round by sea.       I  was dirty,
from my being so long in the boat ; my pockets were
stuffed out with shirts and stockings ; and I knew
no one, nor where to look for lodging. Fatigued
with walking, rowing, and the want of sleep,     I  was
very hungry ; and my whole stock of cash consisted
in a single dollar, and about a shilling in copper coin,
which I gave to the boatmen for my passage.           At
first they refusedit, on account of my having rowed    ;
but insisted on their taking it. Man
  I                                       is  sometimes
more generous when he has little money than when
 he has plenty perhaps to prevent his being thought
              ;

228             THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
to have but little.      I
                         walked towards the top of the
 street, gazing about till near Market-street, where         I
 met a boy with bread.        I
                             had often made a meal of
dry bread, and inquiring where he had bought           it,
                                                       I
went immediately to the baker's he directed me to.
I   asked for biscuits, meaning such as we had at
Boston that sort,
            ;           seems, was not made in Phila-
                         it
delphia.    I then asked for      threepenny loaf, and
                                  a
was told they had none.      Not knowing the different
prices, nor the names of the different sorts of bread,
I  told him to give me three penny-worth of any sort.
He gave me, accordingly, three great puff)' rolls.     I
was surprised at the quantity, but took    it ;  and hav-
ing no room in my pockets, walked off with         a  roll
under each arm, and eating the other. Thus        I  went
up Market-street, as far as Fourth-street, passing by
the door of Mr. Read, my future wife's father, when
she, standing at the door, saw me, and thought         I
made, as    Icertainly did,   most awkward, ridiculous
                              a
appearance.    Then turned and went down Chesnut-
                     I
street and part of Walnut-street, eating my roll all
the way, and coming round found myself again at
Market-street Wharf, near the boat        I  came in, to
which   I went for   adraught of the river water  ;   and
being filled with one of my rolls, gave the other two
to  a woman and her child that came down the river
in the boat with us, and were waiting to go farther.
Thus refreshed,   I walked again up the street, which
by this time had many clean dressed people in            it,
who were all walking the same way.        I joined them,
and thereby was led into the great meeting-house of
the Quakers, near the market.         sat down among
                                      I
them and after looking round a while, and hearing
        ;
nothing said, being very drowsy, through labour and
want of rest the preceding night,     I fell fast asleep,
and continued so till the meeting broke up, when

                       FRANKLIN.                      229
 some one was kind enough to rouse me. This, there-
                           I
 fore, was the first house was in, or slept in, in Phil-
 adelphia."
     Refreshed by his brief sojourn in this cheap place
 of repose, he then set out in quest of a lodging for
 the night.   Next morning he found the person to
 whom he had been directed, who was not, however,
 able to give him any employment ; but upon apply-
 ing- to another printer in the place, of the name of
 Keimer, he was a little more fortunate, being set by
 him, in the first instance, to put an old press to
rights, and afterwards taken into regular work. He
had been some months at Philadelphia, his relations
in Boston knowing nothing of what had become of
him, when a brother-in-law, who was the master of
a trading sloop, happening to hear of him in one of
his voyages, wrote to him in very earnest terms to
entreat him to return home.       The letter which he
sent in reply to this application reaching his brother-
in-law when he chanced to be in company with Sir
William Keith, the Governor of the Province, it was
shewn to that gentleman, who expressed considerable
surprise on being told the age of the writer; and
immediately said that he appeared to be a young
man of promising parts, and that if he would set
up on his own account in Philadelphia, where the
printers were wretched ones, he had no doubt he
would succeed : for his part, he would procure him
the public business, and do him every service in his
power.     Some time after this, Franklin, who knew
nothing of what had taken place, was one day at
work along with his master near the window, when
" we saw," says he, '' the Governor and another
gentleman (who proved to be Colonel French, of
Newcastle, in the province of Delaware),          finely
dressed, come directly across the street to our house,
and heard them at the door.         Keimer ran down

230         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
immediately, thinking it a visit to him ; but the
Governor inquired for me, came up, and with a con-
descension and politeness I had been quite unused
to, made me many compliments, desired to be ac-
quainted with me, blamed me kindly for not having
made myself known to him when I first came to the
place, and would have me away with him to the
tavern, where he was going with Colonel French, to
taste, as he said, some excellent Madeira.    I was not
a little surprised, and Keimer stared with astonish-
ment."
    The reader already perceives that Sir William must
have been rather an odd sort of person ; and this
becomes still more apparent in the sequel of the
story.   Having got his young protege to the tavern,
he proposed to him, over their wine, that he should
as soon as possible set up in Philadelphia as a master
printer, only continuing to work with Keimer till an
opportunity should offer of a passage to Boston,
when he would return home, to arrange the matter
with his father, who, the Governor had no doubt,
would, upon a letter from him, at once advance his
 son the necessary funds for commencing business.
Accordingly, Franklin set out for Boston by the first
 vessel that sailed ; and, upon his arrival, was very
 kindly received by all his family, except his brother,
 and surprised his father not a little by presenting
 him with the Governor's letter. For some time his
 father said little or nothing on the subject, merely
 remarking, that Sir William must be a person of
 small discretion, to think of setting a youth up in
 business who wanted three years to arrive at man's
 estate.   But at last he decidedly refused to have
 anything to do with the arrangement ; and Franklin
 returned to his patron to tell him of his bad suc-
 cess, going this time, however, with the consent
  and blessing of his parents, who, finding how indus-

                       FRANKLIN.                   231
trious he had been while in Philadelphia, were willing
that he should continue there.     When Franklin pre-
sented himself to Sir William with his father's answer
to the letter he had been honoured with from that
functionary, the Governor observed that he was too
            " but since he will not set
prudent :                               you up," added
he,   " I will do it myself." It was finally agreed
that Franklin should proceed in person to England,
to purchase types and other necessary articles, for
which the Governor was to give him letters of credit
 to the extent of one hundred pounds.
                                          x 2

                       CHAPTER         XIV.
                    Life of Franklin   continued.
AFTER repeated applications to the Governor for the
promised letters of credit, Franklin was at last sent
on board the vessel for England, which was just on
the point of sailing, with an assurance that Colonel
French should be sent to him with the letters imme-
diately. That gentleman soon after made his appear-
ance, bearing a packet of dispatches from the Go-
vernor : in this packet Franklin was informed his
letters were.    Accordingly, when they got into the
British Channel, the Captain having allowed him to
search for them among the others, he found several
addressed to his care, which he concluded of course
to be those he had been promised. Upon presenting
one of them, however, to a stationer, to whom it was
directed, the man, having opened           merely said,
                                                    it,
" Oh, this is  from Riddlesdon (an attorney in Phila-
delphia, whom Franklin knew to be             thorough    a
knave);I     have lately found him to be a complete
rascal;"   and giving back the letter, turned on his
heel, and proceeded to serve his customers.      Upon
this, Franklin's confidence in his patron began to be
a little shaken ; and, after reviewing the whole affair
in his own mind, he resolved to lay      before it very       a
intelligent mercantile gentleman, who had come over
from America with them, and with whom he had
contracted an intimacy on the passage.       His friend
very soon put an end to his doubts.
                                         " He let me,"
                  "
says Franklin,      into Keith's character; told me
there was not the least probability that he had written
any letters for me that no one who knew him had
                       ;

                       FRANKLIN.                    233
the smallest dependence on him ; and he laughed at
the idea of the Governor's giving me a letter of
credit, having, as he said, no credit to give."
    Thus thrown once more on his own means, our
young adventurer found there was no resource for
him but to endeavour to procure some employment
at his trade in London. Accordingly, having applied
to a Mr. Palmer, a printer of eminence in Bartholo-
mew-close, his services were accepted, arid he remained
there for nearly a year.   During this time, although
he was led into a good deal of idleness by the ex-
ample of a friend, somewhat older than himself,
he by no means forgot his old habits of reading
and study.      Having been employed in printing a
Second edition of Wollaston's Religion of Nature,
his perusal of the work induced him to compose and
publish a small pamphlet in refutation of some of
the author's positions, which, he tells us, he did not
afterwards look back upon as altogether a wise pro-
ceeding. He employed the greater part of his leisure
more profitably in reading a great many works, which
(circulating libraries, he remarks, not being then in
use) he borrowed, on certain terms that were agreed
upon between them, from a bookseller, whose shop
was next door to his lodgings in Little Britain, and
who had an immense collection of second-hand
books.    His pamphlet, however, was the means of
making him known to a few of the literary cha-
racters then in London, among the rest to the
noted Dr. Mandeville, author of the Fable of the
Bees; and to Dr. Pemberton, Sir Isaac Newton's
 friend, who promised to give him an opportunity,
 some time or other, of seeing that great man : but
 this, he says, never happened.    He also became ac-
 quainted about the same time with the famous collector
 and naturalist, Sir Hans Sloane, the founder of the
 British Museum, who had heard of some curiosities
                                          x 3

234        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE..
which Franklin     had brought over from America;
among these was a purse made of asbestos, which he
purchased from him.
   While with Mr. Palmer, and afterwards with Mr.
Watts, near Lincoln's Inn Fields, he gave very
striking evidence of those habits of temperance, self-
command, industry, and frugality, which distin-
guished him through after-life, and were undoubt-
edly the source of much of the success that attended
his persevering efforts to raise himself from the
humble condition in which he passed his earlier
years.   While Mr. Watts's other workmen spent a
great part of every week's wages on beer, he drank
only water, and found himself a good deal stronger,
as well as much more clear-headed, on his light
beverage,    than they on their strong potations.
" From my example," says he, " a great many of
them left off their muddling breakfast of beer, bread,
and cheese, finding they could with me be supplied
from a neighbouring house with a large porringer of
hot water-gruel, sprinkled with pepper, crumbled
with bread, and a bit of butter in    it,for the price of
a  pint of beer, viz.,  three half-pence.    This was   a
more comfortable, as well as      a  cheaper breakfast,
and kept their heads clearer.      Those who continued
sotting with their beer all day, were often, by not
paying, out of credit at the alehouse, and used to
make interest with me to get beer,        their light, as
they phrased   it,being out.  I   watched the pay-table
on Saturday night, and collected what       t   stood en-
gaged for them, having to pay sometimes near
thirty shillings     aweek on their accounts.       This,
and my being esteemed     a  pretty good riggite, that is,
a jocular verbal satirist, supported my consequence
in the society.     My constant attendance      (I  never
making a St. Monday) recommended me to the
master; and my uncommon quickness at composing

                       FRANKLIN.                   235
occasioned my being put upon works of dispatch,
which are generally better paid : so I went on now
very agreeably."
    He spent about eighteen months altogether in
London, during most part of which time he worked
hard, he says, at his business, and spent but little
upon himself except in seeing plays, and in books.
At last his friend Mr. Denham, the gentleman with
whom, as we mentioned before, he had got ac-
quainted on his voyage to England, informed him
he was going to return to Philadelphia to open a
store, or mercantile establishment, there, and offered
him the situation of his clerk at a salary of fifty
pounds.     The money was less than he was now
making as a compositor; but he longed to see his
native country again, and he accepted the proposal.
Accordingly they set sail together ; and, after a
long voyage, arrived in Philadelphia on the llth
of October, 1726. Franklin was at this time only
in his twenty-first year ; and he mentions having
formed, and committed to writing, while at sea, a
plan for regulating the future conduct of his life.
This unfortunately has been lost; but he tells us
himself, that although conceived and determined
                                          " been pretty
upon when he was so young, it had yet
faithfully adhered to quite through to old age."
    Mr. Denham had only begun business for a few
 months when he died ; and Franklin was once more
 left upon the world.    He now engaged again with
 his old master, Keimer, the printer, who had got a
 better house, and plenty of new types, though he
 was still as ignorant of his business as he was at the
 time of Franklin's former connexion with him.
 While in this situation Franklin got acquainted with
  several persons, like himself, fond of literary pur-
  suits ; and as the men never worked on Saturday, that
 being Keimer's self-appointed Sabbath, he had the

236         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
whole day for reading *. He also shewed his inge-
nuity, and the fertility of his resources, on various
occasions.     They wanted some new types, which,
there being no letter-foundery in America, were
only to be procured from England ; but Franklin,
having seen types cast in London, though he
had paid no particular attention to the process,
contrived a mould, made use of the letters they
had as puncheons, struck the matrices in lead, and
thus supplied, as he tells us, in a pretty tolerable
way, all deficiencies.
                               " also," he adds, " en-
                                 I
graved several things on occasion ; made the ink ;             I
was warehouseman ; and, in short, quite a factotum.'''
    He did not, however, remain long with Keimer,
who had engaged him only that he might have his
other workmen taught through his means ; and,
accordingly, when this object was in some sort at-
tained, contrived to pick a quarrel with him, which
produced an immediate separation. He then entered
into an agreement with one of his fellow-workmen,
of the name of Meredith, whose friends were pos-
sessed of money, to begin business in Philadelphia
in company with him, the understanding being that
Franklin's skill should be placed against the capital
to be supplied by Meredith.              While he and his
friend, however, were secretly preparing to put their
plan in execution, he was induced to return for a
few months to Keimer, on his earnest invitation, to
enable him to perform a contract for the printing of
some paper-money for the State of New Jersey,
which required a variety of cuts and types that no-
body else in the place could supply ; and the two
having gone together to Burlington to superintend
this business, Franklin was fortunate enough, during
   * Keimer had peculiar notions upon religious observances, and
amongst other things fancied it a Christian duty to observe the
Sabbath on the last day of the week.

                        FRANKLIN.                    237
 the three   months he remained in that city, to ac-
 quire, by his agreeable manners and intelligent con-
 versation, the friendship of several of the principal
 inhabitants, with whom his employment brought
him into connexion.         Among these he mentions
particularly   Isaac    Decow, the. surveyor-general.
" He was,"                       " a shrewd,
               says Franklin,                 sagacious,
old man, who told me that he began for himself,
when young, by wheeling clay for the brickmakers,
learned to write after he was of age, carried the
chain for surveyors, who taught him surveying, and
he had now by his industry acquired a good estate ;
and, said he,    I foresee that you will soon work this
man (Keimer) out of his business, and make a for-
tune in it at Philadelphia.       He had then not the
least intimation of my intention to set up there or
any where."
    Soon after he returned to Philadelphia, the types
that had been sent for from London arrived ; and,
settling with Keimer, he and his partner took a
house, and commenced business.          " We had scarce
opened our letters," says he,
                                  " and put our press in
order, before George House, an acquaintance of
mine, brought a countryman to us, whom he had
met in the street, inquiring for a printer.      All our
cash was now expended in the variety of particulars
we had been obliged to procure, and this country-
man's five shillings, being our first fruits, and
coming so seasonably, gave me more pleasure than
 any crown I have since earned ; and, from the grati-
 tude I felt towards House, has made me often more
 ready than perhaps     I otherwise should have been, to
 assist young beginners."      He had, in the autumn of
 the preceding year, suggested to a number of his
 acquaintances a scheme for forming themselves into
 a club for mutual improvement ; and they had ac-
 cordingly been in the habit of meeting every Friday

238         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
evening under the name of the Junto.             All the
members of this association exerted themselves in
procuring1 business for him ; and one of them,
named Breinthal, obtained from the Quakers the
printing of forty sheets of a history of that sect
of religionists, then preparing at the expense of the
body.
          " Upon these,"
                           says Franklin,
                                           " we worked
exceeding hard, for the price was low.         It was a
folio.    I  composed a sheet a day, and Meredith
worked it off at press.   It was often eleven at night,
and sometimes later, before     I had finished my dis-
tribution for the next day's work: for the little jobs
sent in by our other friends, now and then, put us
back.     But so determined was    I  to continue doing
a sheet a day of the folio, that one night, when,
having imposed my forms,          I  thought my day's
work over, one of them by accident was broken, and
two pages (the half of the day's work) reduced to
pie,   I immediately distributed and composed it over
again before I went to bed ; and this industry, visible
to our neighbours, began to give us character and
credit." The consequence was that business, and
even offers of credit, came to them from all hands.
   They soon found themselves in a condition to think
of establishing a newspaper ; but Franklin having
inadvertently mentioned this scheme to a person who
came to him wanting employment, that individual
carried the secret to their old master, Keimer, with
whom he, as well as themselves, had formerly
worked ; and he immediately determined to antici-
pate them by issuing proposals for a paper of his
own.     The manner in which Franklin met and de-
feated this treachery is exceedingly characteristic.
There was another paper published in the place,
which had been in existence for some years ; but it
was altogether a wretched affair, and owed what
success it had merely to the absence of all com-

                     FRANKLIN.                       239
 petition.  For this print, however, Franklin, not
being able to commence his own paper immediately,
 in conjunction with a friend, set about writing a
 series of amusing communications under the title of
the Busy Body, which the publisher printed, of
course, very gladly.       " By this means,"
                                                 says he,
 " the attention of the public was fixed on that paper ;
 and Keimer's proposals, which we burlesqued and
ridiculed, were disregarded.      He began his paper,
however ; and before carrying it on three-quarters of
a year, with at most only ninety subscribers, he
offered it me for a trifle ; and I, having been ready
some time to go on with     it,took    in hand directly,
                                      it
and it  proved in a few years extremely profitable to
me."     The paper, indeed, had no sooner got into
Franklin's hands than its success equalled his most
sanguine expectations.      Some observations which he
wrote and printed in   it   on   colonial subject, then
                                  a
much talked of, excited so much attention among the
leading people of the place, that      obtained the pro-
                                      it
prietors many friends in the House of Assembly, and
they were, on the first opportunity, appointed printers
to the house. Fortunately, too, certain events oc-
curred about this time which ended in the dissolu-
tion of Franklin's connexion with Meredith, who
was an idle, drunken fellow, and had all along been
a  mere incumbrance upon the concern.         His father
failing to advance the capital which had been agreed
upon, when payment was demanded at the usual
time by their paper-merchant and other creditors, he
proposed to Franklin to relinquish the partnership
and leave the whole in his hands,     ifthe latter would
take upon him the debts of the company, return
to his father what he had advanced on their com-
mencing business, pay his little personal debts, and
give him thirty pounds and a new saddle.          By the
kindness of two friends, who, unknown to each

240         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
other, came    forward unasked to tender their as-
sistance,  Franklin was enabled to accept of this
proposal: and thus, about the year 1729, when he
was yet only in the twenty-fourth year of his age, he
found himself, after all his disappointments and vicis
situdes, with nothing, indeed, to depend upon but
his own skill and industry for gaining a livelihood,
and for extricating himself from debt, but yet in one
sense fairly established in life, and with at least a
prospect of well-doing before him.
    Having followed his course thus far with so
minute an observance of the several steps by which
he arrived at the point to which we have now
brought him, we shall not attempt to pursue the re-
mainder of his career with the same particularity.
His subsequent efforts in the pursuit of fortune and
independence were, as is \vell known, eminently suc-
cessful ; and we find in his whole history, even to its
close, a display of the same spirit of intelligence and
love of knowledge, and the same active, self-denying,
and intrepid virtues, which so greatly distinguished
its commencement.      The publication of a pamphlet,
soon after Meredith had left him, in recommenda-
tion of a paper currency, a subject then much de-
bated in the province, obtained him such popu-
larity, that he was employed by the government in
printing the notes after they had resolved upon issu-
ing them. Other profitable business of the same
kind succeeded. He then opened a stationer's shop,
began gradually to pay off his debts, and soon after
married.     By this time his old rival, Keimer, had
gone to ruin ; and he was (with the exception of
an old man, who was rich, and did not care
about business) the only printer in the place.      We
now find him taking a leading part as a citizen.
He established a circulating library, the first ever
known in America, which, although it commenced

                      FRANKLIN.                     241
with only fifty subscribers, became in course of time
a large and valuable collection, the proprietors of
which were eventually incorporated by royal charter.
While yet in its infancy, however, it afforded its
founder facilities of improvement of which he did
not fail to avail himself, setting apart, as he tells
us, an hour or two every day for study, which was
the only amusement he allowed himself.         In 1732
he first published his celebrated Almanack, under the
name of Richard Saunders, but which was com-
monly known by the name of Poor Richard's Alma-
nack.    He continued this publication annually for
twenty-five years.   The proverbs and pithy sentences
scattered up and down in the different numbers of     it,
were afterwards thrown together into      a  connected
discourse under the title of The Way to Wealth, a
production which has become so extensively popular,
that every one of our readers     is probably familiar
with it
   We shall quote, in his own words, the account he
gives us of the manner in which he pursued one
branch of his studies
   "    had begun," says he, " in 1733, to study
                     :
  I
languages.  I    soon made myself so much      amaster
of the French, as to be able to read the books in
that language with ease.     I     then undertook the
Italian. An acquaintance, who was also learning       it,
used often to tempt me to play chess with him.
Finding this took up too much of the time had to
                                              I
spare for study, I     at length refused to play any
more, unless on this condition, that the victor in
every game should have a right to impose a task,
either of parts of the grammar to be got by heart, or
in translations, &c., which tasks the vanquished was
to perform upon honour before our next meeting.
As we played pretty equally, we thus beat one ano-
ther into that language.  I    afterwards, with a little
                                           y

242         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
pains-taking, acquired as much of the Spanish as to
read   their books also.     I  have already mentioned
that I had had only one year's instruction in a Latin
school, and that when very young, after which I
neglected that language entirely.       But when  I had
attained an acquaintance with the French, Italian,
and Spanish,     I was surprised to find, on looking
over a Latin Testament, that         I understood more
of that language than      I   had imagined, which en-
couraged me to apply myself again to the study of
it ; and  I met with the more success, as those pre-
ceding languages had greatly smoothed my way."
    In 1736 he was chosen clerk of the General
Assembly, and being soon after appointed deputy-
postmaster for the State, he turned his thoughts
to public affairs, beginning, however, as he says,
with small matters.        He first occupied himself
in improving the city watch < then suggested and
promoted the establishment of a fire-insurance com-
pany ; and afterwards exerted himself in organizing
a philosophical society, an academy for the educa-
tion of youth, and a militia for the defence of the
province.     In short, every part of the civil govern-
ment, as he tells us, and almost at the same time,
imposed some duty upon him.
                                       " The governor,"
 he says,
           " put me into the commission of the
                                                 peace ;
 the corporation of the city chose me one of the com-
 mon council, and soon after alderman ; and the
 citizens at large elected me a burgess to represent
 them in assembly.     This latter station was the more
 agreeable to me, as     I   grew at length tired with
 sitting there to hear the debates, in which, as clerk,
 I  could take no part, and which were often so un-
 interesting that  I was induced to amuse myself with
 making magic squares or circles, or any thing to
 avoid weariness ; and    I   conceived my becoming a
 member would enlarge my power of doing good.

                     FRANKLIN.                 243
I  would not, however, insinuate that my ambition
was not flattered by all these promotions, it cer-
tainly was : for, considering my low beginning,
they were great things to me ; and they were still
more pleasing as being so many spontaneous testi-
monies of the public good opinion, and by me en-
tirely unsolicited."
                                       Y 2

                      CHAPTER       XV.
         Account of Franklin's Electrical Discoveries.
IT  is time, however, that we should introduce this
extraordinary man to our readers in a new character.
A much more important part in civil affairs than
any he had yet acted was in reserve for him. He
lived to attract to himself on the theatre of politics,
the eyes, not of his own countrymen only, but of the
whole civilized world ; and to be a principal agent
in the production of events as mighty in themselves,
and as pregnant with mighty consequences, as any
belonging to modern history.       But our immediate
object is to exhibit a portrait of the diligent student,
and of the acute and patient philosopher.            We
 have now to speak of Franklin's famous electrical
discoveries.   Of these discoveries we cannot, of
course, here attempt to give any thing more than
a very general account.      But we shall endeavour to
make our statement as intelligible as possible, even
to those to whom the subject is new ; referring them,
for more particular information in regard to          to it,
the treatise on Electricity in the Library of Useful
 Knowledge, and the other works in which the prin-
 ciples of the science are formally expounded.
    The term electricity    derived from electron, the
                            is
 Greek name for amber, which was known, even in
 ancient times, to be capable of acquiring, by being
 rubbed, the curious property of attracting very light
 bodies, such as small bits of paper, when brought
 near to them.    This virtue was thought to be pecu-
 liar to the substance in question, and one or two
 others, down to the close of the sixteenth century,

                        FRANKLIN.                     245
when our ingenious and philosophic countryman,
William Gilbert, a physician of London, announced
for the first time, in his Latin treatise on the mag-
net, that it belonged equally to the diamond and
many other precious stones ; to glass, sulphur, seal-
ing wax, rosin, and a variety of other substances.
It is from this period that we are to date the birth of
the science of Electricity, which, however, continued
in its infancy for above a century, and could hardly,
indeed, be said to consist of any thing more than a
collection of unsystematized and ill understood facts,
until it attracted the. attention of Franklin.
   Among the facts, however, that had been dis-
covered in this interval, the following were the most
important.     In the first place, the list of the sub-
stances capable of being excited by friction to a
manifestation of electric virtue, was considerably ex-
tended.     It was also found that the bodies which
had been attracted by the excited substance were
immediately after as forcibly repelled by    it, and could
not be again attracted until they had touched a third
body.     Other phenomena, too, besides those of at-
traction and repulsion, were found to take place
when the body excited was one of sufficient magni-
tude.   If  any other body, not capable of being ex-
cited, such as the human hand or a rod of metal,
was presented to      it,  slight sound would be pro-
                            a
duced, which,   if  the experiment was performed in      a
dark room, would be accompanied with       a   momentary
light.   Lastly, it  was discovered     that   the electric
virtue might be imparted to bodies not capable of
being themselves excited        by making such a body,
                                 ;
 when insulated, that       isto say separated from all
 other bodies of the same class by the intervention of
 one capable of excitation, act either as the rubber of
 the excited body, or as the drawer of   a   succession of
 sparks from   it, in the manner that has just been
                                           Y 3

246         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 described.   It  was said, in either of these cases, to be
electrified ; and it was found that if it was touched,
or even closely approached, when in this state, by
any other body, in like manner incapable of being
excited by friction, a pretty loud report would take
place, accompanied, if either body was susceptible of
feeling, with a slight sensation of pain at the point
of contact, and which would instantly restore the
electrified body to its usual and natural condition.
    In consequence of its thus appearing that all those
bodies, and only those, which could not be them-
selves excited, might in this manner have electricity,
as it were, transferred to them, they were designated
conductors, as well as non-electrics; while all elec-
trics, on the other hand, were also called non-con-
ductors.     It is proper, however, that the reader
should be aware, that of the various substances in
nature, none, strictly speaking, belong exclusively to
either of these classes ; the truth being merely, that
different bodies admit the passage of the electric
influence with extremely different degrees of facility,
and that those which transmit it readily are called
conductors,      the metals, and fluids, and living ani-
mals particularly belonging to this class ; while such
as resist its passage, or permit it only with extreme
reluctance,    among which are amber, sulphur, wax,
glass, and silk, are described by the opposite deno-
mination.
   The beginning of the year 1746 is memorable in
the annals of electricity for the accidental discovery
of the possibility of accumulating large quantities of
the electric fluid, by means of what was called the
Leyden jar, or phial. M. Cuneus, of that city, hap-
pened one day, while repeating some experiments
which had been originally suggested by M. Von
Kleist, Dean of the Cathedral in Camin, to hold in
one hand a glass vessel, nearly full of water, into

                                FRANKLIN.                                    247
 which he had been sending a charge from an elec-
  trical machine, by means of a wire dipped into it,
 and communicating with the prime conductor, or
 insulated non-electric, exposed in the manner we have
 already mentioned to the action of the excited cylin-
 der.    He was greatly surprised, upon applying his
 other hand to disengage the wire from the conductor,
 when he thought that the water had acquired as
 much electricity as the machine could give            by              it,
 receiving a sudden shock in his arms and breast,
 much more severe than anything of the kind he had
 previously encountered in the course of his experi-
 ments.    The same thing,       was found, took place
                                        it
 when the glass was covered, both within and without,
 with any other conductors than the water and the
 human hand, which had been used in this instance                             ;
 as, for example, when       was coated on both sides
                                   it
 with tinfoil, in such   manner, however, that the two
                               a
coatings were completely separated from each other,
by    a space around the lip of the vessel being left
uncovered.      Whenever a communication was formed
by the interposition of a conducting medium between
the inside and outside coating, an instant and loud
explosion took place, accompanied with a flash of
light, and the sensation of a sharp blow,        the con-    if
ductor employed was any part of the human body.
     The first announcement of the wonders of the
Leyden phial excited the curiosity of all Europe.
The accounts given of the electric shock            those         by
who first experienced       are perfectly ludicrous, and
                                   it
well illustrate how strangely the imagination       acted         is
upon by surprise and terror, when novel or unex-
pected results suddenly come upon
                                                  it
                                                  *.
     From the original accounts, as Dr. Priestley ob-
serves, could we not have repeated the experiment,
     * See Priestley's History of Electricity, vol.   i.,   or the Treatise
on   Electricity   in   the Library of Useful Knowledge.

248             THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
we should have formed a very different idea of the
electric shock to what it really is, even when given
in greater strength than it could have been by those
early experimenters. It was this experiment, however,
that first made electricity a subject of general curi-
osity.    Every body was eager, notwithstanding the
alarming reports that were spread of         it,
                                               to feel the
new sensation and in the same year in which the
                  ;
experiment was first made at Leyden, numbers of
persons, in almost every country in Europe, obtained
a  livelihood by going about and shewing it.
    The particulars, then, that we have enumerated
may be said to have constituted the whole of the sci-
ence of Electricity, in the shape in which       first pre-
                                                 it
sented itself to the notice of Dr. Franklin.        In the
way in which we have stated them, they are little
rrfore, the reader will observe, than    a mass of seem-
ingly unconnected facts, having, at first sight, no
semblance whatever of being the results of common  a
principle, or of being reducible to any general and
comprehensive system. It          true that
                                   is        atheory, that
 of M. Dufay, had been formed before this time to
account for many of them, and also for others that
we have not mentioned     :  but     does not appear that
                                    it
Franklin ever heard of        ituntil he had formed his
 own, which is, at all events, entirely different; so
 that it   isunnecessary for us to take      itat all into
 account. We shall form   a  fair estimate of the amount
 and merits of Franklin's discoveries, by considering
 the facts we have mentioned as really constituting
 the science in the state in which he found it
     It was in the year 1746, as he tells us himself in
the narrative of his life, that, being at Boston, he met
with a Dr. Spence, who had lately arrived from Scot-
land, and who shewed him some electrical experi-
 ments.    They were imperfectly performed, as the
 doctor was not very expert " but being," says Frank-
                              ;

                       FRANKLIN.                       249
lin, " on  a subject quite new to me, they equally sur-
prised and pleased me.         Soon after my return to
Philadelphia, our Library Company received from
Mr. Peter Collinson, F.R.S. of London, a present
of a glass tube, with some account of the use of it in
making- such experiments.        I eagerly seized the op-
portunity of repeating what      I had seen at Boston;
and, by much practice, acquired great readiness in
performing those also which we had an account of
from England, adding a number of new ones.           I say
much practice, for my house was continually full for
some time, with persons who came to see these new
wonders.     To divide a little this incumbrance among
my friends, I caused a number of similar tubes to be
blown in our glass-house, with which they furnished
themselves, so that we had at length several per-
formers."     The newly discovered and extraordinary
phenomena exhibited by the Leyden phial, of course
very early engaged his attention in pursuing these
interesting experiments; and his inquisitive mind
immediately set itself to work to find out the reason
of such strange effects, which still astonished and per-
plexed the ablest philosophers of Europe. Out of his
speculations arose the ingenious and beautiful theory
of the action of the electric influence which is known
by his name ; and which has ever since been received
 by the greater number of philosophers as the best, be-
 cause the simplest and most complete, demonstration
 of the phenomena, that has yet been given to the world.
    Dr. Franklin's earliest inquiries were directed to
 ascertain the source of the electricity which friction
 had the effect of at least rendering manifest in the
 glass cylinder, or other electric. The question was,
 whether this virtue was created by the friction in the
 electric, or only thereby communicated to it from
 other bodies. In order to determine this point, he
 resorted to the very simple experiment of endeavour-

250         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ing to electrify himself; that is to say, having insu-
 lated himself, and excited the cylinder by rubbing it
 with his hand, he then drew off its electricity from it
in the usual manner into his own body.            But he
found that he was not thereby electrified at all, as he
would have been by doing the same thing, had the
friction been applied by another person. No spark
could be obtained from him, after the operation, by the
presentment of a conductor ; nor did he exhibit on such
bodies as were brought near him any of the other
usual evidences of being charged with electricity.
  If   the electricity had been created in the electric by
the friction, it was impossible to conceive why the
person who drew it off should not have been electri-
fied in this case, just as he would have been had
another person acted as the rubber.       The result evi-
dently indicated that the friction had effected a change
upon the person who had performed that operation,
as well as upon the cylinder, since it had rendered
him incapable of being electrified by a process by
which, in other circumstances, he would have been
so.   It was plain, in short, that the electricity had
passed, in the first instance, out of his body into the
cylinder ; which, therefore, in communicating it to him
in the second instance, only gave him back what it
had received, and, instead of electrifying him, merely
restored him to his usual state to that in which he
had been before the experiment was begun.
    This accordingly was the conclusion to which
Franklin came ; but, to confirm     it,
                                      he next insulated
two individuals, one of whom he made to rub the
cylinder, while the other drew the electricity from it.
In this case, it  was not the latter merely that was
affected;  both were electrified.  The one had given
out as much electricity to the cylinder in rubbing     it,
as the other had drawn from it.     To prove this still
farther, he made them touch one another, when both

                       FRANKLIN.                       251
were instantly restored to their usual state, the redun-
dant electricity thrown off by the one exactly making
up the deficiency of the other.     The spark produced
by their contact was also, as was to have been ex-
pected, greater than that which took place when
either of them was touched by any third person who
had not been electrified.
    Proceeding upon the inferences which these results
seemed so evidently to indicate, Franklin constructed
the general outlines of his theory.       Every body in
nature he considered to have its natural quantity of
electricity, which may, however, be either diminished,
by part of it being given out to another body, as that
of the rubber, in the operation of the electrical ma-
chine, is given out to the cylinder ; or increased, as
when the body is made to receive the electricity from
the cylinder.    In the one case he regarded the body
as negatively, in the other as positively, electrified. In
the one case it had less, in the other more, than its
natural quantity of electricity ; in either, therefore,
supposing it to be composed of electricity and com-
mon matter, the usual equilibrium or balance between
its two constituent ingredients was, for the time,
 upset or destroyed.
    But how should this produce the different effects
which are observed to result from the action of elec-
trified bodies ? How is the mere circumstance of the
overthrow of the customary equilibrium, between the
 electricity and the matter of a body, to be made to
account for its attraction and repulsion of other bodies,
 and for the extraordinary phenomena presented by
the Leyden phial ? The Franklinian theory answers
these questions with great ease and completeness.
    The fundamental law of the electric fluid, accord-
 ing to this theory, is that its particles attract matter,
 and repel one another. To this we must add a simi-
 lar law with regard to the particles of matter, namely

  252        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 that they repel each other, as well as attract electri-
 city.   This latter consideration was somewhat unac-
 countably overlooked by Franklin ; but was afterwards
 introduced by Mr. Jilpinus, of Petersburg, and our
 celebrated countryman, the late Mr. Cavendish, in their
 more elaborate expositions of his theory of the elec-
trical action. Let us now apply these two simple
principles to the explanation of the facts we have
already mentioned.
     In the first place, when two bodies are in their
ordinary or natural state, the quantity of matter is
an exact balance for the quantity of electricity in
each, and there is accordingly no tendency of the
fluid to escape ; no spark will take place between
two such bodies when they are brought into con-
tact.    Nor will they either attract or repel each
other, because the attractive and repulsive forces
operating between them are exactly balanced, the two
attractions of the electricity in the first for the matter
in the second, and of the electricity in the second for
the matter in the first, being opposed by the two re-
pulsions of the electricity in the first for the electricity
in the second, and of the matter in the first for the
 matter in the second.      They, therefore, produce no
 effect upon each other whatever.
    But let us next suppose that one of the bodies is
 an electric which has been excited in the usual way by
 friction, a stick of wax, or a glass cylinder, for ex-
 ample, which has been rubbed with the hand, or a
piece of dry silk.    In this case, the body in question
has received an addition to its natural quantity of
electricity, which addition, accordingly, it will most
readily part with whenever it is brought into contact
with a conductor.      But this is not all. .Let us see
how it will act, according to the law that has been
stated, upon the other body, which we shall suppose
to be in its natural state, when they are brought near

                         FRANKLIN.                     253
each other.     First, from the repulsive tendency  of the
electric particles, the extra electricity in the excited
body will drive away a portion of the electricity of
the other from its nearest end, which will thus be-
come negatively electrified, or will consist of more
matter than is necessary to balance its electricity.    In
this state of things, what are the attractive and repul-
sive forces operating between the two bodies, the
one, be it remembered, having an excess of electricity,
and the other an excess of matter?          There are, in
fact, five attractive forces opposed by only four re-
pulsive; the former being those of the matter in the
first body for the electricity in the second, of the
balanced electricity in the first for the balanced matter
in the second, of the same for the extra matter in the
second, together with the two of the extra electricity
in the first for the same two quantities of matter ; and
the latter being those of the matter in the first for the
balanced matter in the second, of the same for the
extra matter in the second, together with those of the
electricity in the second both for the balanced and the
extra electricity in the first.   The two bodies, there-
fore, ought to meet, as we find they actually do. But
no sooner do they meet than the extra electricity of
the first, attracted by the matter of the second, flows
over partly to it; and both bodies become positively
electrified; that is to say, each contains a quantity of
electricity beyond that which its matter is capable of
balancing.     It will be found, upon examination, that
we have now four powers of attraction opposed by
five of repulsion; the former being those of the matter
in each body for the two electricities in the other, the
latter those exerted by each of the electricities in the
one against both the electricities of the other, together
with that of the matter in the one for the matter in
the other. The bodies now accordingly should repel
each other, just as we find to be the fact.     Of course
                                               z

254          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
the same reasoning 1 applies to the case of a neutral
body, and any other containing a superabundance of
electricity, whether it be an electric or no, and in
whatever way its electricity may have been communi-
cated to it.    We may add that there is no case of
attraction or repulsion between two bodies, in which
the results indicated by the theory do not coincide
with those of observation as exactly as in this.
   We now come to the phenomena of the Leyden-
phial.    The two bodies upon which we are here to
fix our attention are the interior and exterior coatings,
which, before the process of charging has commenced,
are of course in their natural state, each having ex-
actly that quantity of electricity which its matter is
able to balance, and neither therefore exerting any
effect whatever upon the other.       But no sooner has
the interior coating received an additional portion of
electricity from the prime conductor, with which the
reader will remember it is in communication, than,
being now positively electrified, it repels a correspond-
ing portion of its electricity from the exterior coating,
which therefore becomes negatively electrified.        As
the operation goes on, both these effects increase, till
at last the superabundance of electricity in the one
surface, and its deficiency in the other, reach the
limit to which it is wished to carry them. All this
while, it will be remarked, the former is prevented
from giving out its superfluity to the latter by the in-
terposition of the glass, which is a non-conductor,
and the uncovered space which had been left on both
sides around the lip of the vessel.        If  the charge
 were made too high, however, even these obstacles
would be overcome, and the unbalanced electricity of
the interior coating, finding no easier vent, would at
last rush through the glass to the unsaturated matter
on its opposite surface, probably shattering it to pieces
ill its progress. But, to effect a discharge in the

                      FRANKLIN.                          255
usual manner, a communication must be established
by means of a good conductor between the two sur-
faces, before this extreme limit be reached.       If
                                                   either
a rod of metal, for example, or the human body, be
employed for this purpose, the fluid from the interior
coating will instantly rush along the road made for
        1                                                 it,
occasioning a pretty loud report, and, in the latter
case, a severe shock, by the rapidity of its passage.
Both coatings will, in consequence, be immediately
restored to their natural state.
   That this   is the true explanation of the matter,
Franklin further demonstrated by variety of ingeni-
                                    a
ous experiments.     In the first place, he found that,   it
the outer coating was cut off, by being insulated from
every conducting body, the inner coating could not
be charged ;   the electricity in the outer coating had
here no means of escape, and   it  was consequently im-
possible to produce in that coating the requisite ne-
gative electricity.   On the other hand,      if a good
conductor was brought within the striking distance
from the outside coating, while the process of charg-
ing was going on, the expelled fluid might be seen
passing away towards    it   in sparks, in proportion as
more was sent from the prime conductor into the in-
side of the vessel.    He observed also that, when a
phial was charged, a cork ball, suspended on silk,
would be attracted by the one coating when          ithad
been repelled by the other      an additional indication
and proof of their opposite states of electricity, as
might be easily shewn by an analysis of the attractive
and repulsive forces operating between the two bodies
in each case.
   But Franklin did not rest contented with ascer-
taining the principle of the Leyden phial.      He made
also a very happy application of this principle, which
afforded a still more wonderful manifestation than
had yet been obtained of the powers of accumulated
                                          z   2

256          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
electricity.   Considering the waste that took place,
in the common experiment, of the fluid expelled,
during the process of charging, from the exterior
coating, he conceived the idea of employing it to
charge the inner surface of a second jar, which he
effected, of course, by the simple expedient of draw-
ing it off by means of a metal rod communicating
with that surface. The electricity expelled from the
outside of this second jar was conveyed, in like man-
ner, into the inside of a third ; and, in this way, a
great number of jars were charged with the same fa-
cility as a single one. Then, having connected all
the inside coatings with one conductor, and all the
outside coatings with another, he had merely to bring
these two general conductors into contact or com-
munication, in order to discharge the whole accumu-
lation at once.    This contrivance he called an Elec-
 trical Battery.
    The general sketch we have thus given will put
the reader in possession, at least, of the great outlines
 of the Franklinian theory of electricity, undoubtedly
 one of the most beautiful generalizations to be found
in the whole compass of science.      By the aid of what
 we may call a single principle, since the law with
 regard to the electric fluid and common matter is ex-
 actly the same, it explains satisfactorily not only all
 the facts connected with this interesting subject which
 were known when it was first proposed, but all those
 that have been since discovered, diffusing order and
 light throughout what seemed before little better than
 a chaos of unintelligible contradictions.     We must
 now, however, turn to a very brilliant discovery of
 this illustrious philosopher, the reality of which docs
 not depend upon the truth or falsehood of any theory.
     Franklin was by no means the first person to
  whom the idea had suggested itself of a similarity
  between electricity and lightning.     Not to mention

                       FRANKLIN.                      257
many other names which might be quoted, the Abbe"
Nollet had, before him, not only intimated his suspi-
cion that thunder might be in the hands of Nature
what electricity is In ours, but stated a variety of
reasons on which he rested his conjecture.       It is to
Franklin alone, however, that the glory belongs of
both pointing out the true method of verifying this
conjecture, and of actually establishing the perfect
identity of the two powers in question.
                                                " It has,
indeed, been of late the fashion," says the editor of
the first account of his electrical experiments, pub-
lished at London in 1751, " to ascribe every grand
or unusual operation of nature, such as lightning
and earthquakes, to electricity ; not, as one would
imagine from the manner of reasoning on these
occasions, that the authors of these schemes have
discovered any connexion betwixt the cause and.
effect, or saw in what manner they were related ;
but, as it would seem, merely because they were un-
acquainted with any other agent, of which it could
not positively be said the connexion was impossible."
Franklin transformed what had been little more than
a figure of rhetoric into a most important scientific
fact.
   In  a paper, dated November 7, 1749, he enume-
rates all the known points of resemblance between
lightning and electricity. In the first place, he re-
marks, it is no wonder that the effects of the one
should be so much greater than those of the other ;
for if two gun-barrels electrified will strike at two
inches distance, and make a loud report, at how
great a distance will ten thousand acres of electrified
cloud strike, and give its fire ; and how loud must
be that crack !     He then notices the crooked and
 waving course, both of the flash of lightning, and,
 in some cases, of the electric sparks ; the tendency
 of lightning, like electricity, to take the readiest and
                                            z3

258          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
best conductor ; the facts that lightning 1, as well as
electricity, dissolves metals, burns some bodies, rends
others, strikes people blind, destroys animal life, re-
verses the poles of magnets, &c.
     He had known for some time the extraordinary
power of pointed bodies, both in drawing and in
throwing off the electric fire. The true explanation
of this fact did not occur to him ; but it is a direct
consequence of the fundamental principle of his own
theory, according to which the repulsive tendency of
the particles of electricity towards each other, occa-
sioning the fluid to retire, in every case, from the
 interior to the surface of bodies, drives it with espe-
cial force towards points and other prominences, and
 thus favours its escape through such outlets ; while,
 on the other hand, the more concentrated attraction
 which the matter of a pointed body, as compared
 with that of a blunt one, exerts upon the electricity
 to which it is presented, brings it down into its new
 channel in a denser stream.        In possession, how-
  ever, of the fact, we find him concluding the paper
  we have mentioned as follows :      " The electric fluid
 is attracted by points. We do not know whether
 this property be in lightning ; but since they agree
 in all the particulars in which we can already com-
  pare them, it is not improbable that they agree
  likewise in this.   Let the experiment be made."
     Full of this idea, it was yet some time before he
 found what he conceived a favourable opportunity of
 trying its truth in the way he meditated. A spire
 was about to be erected in Philadelphia, which he
  thought would afford him facilities for the experi-
  ment ; but his attention having been one day drawn
  by a kite which a boy was flying, it suddenly oc-
  curred to him that here was a method of reaching
  the clouds preferable to any other. Accordingly, he
  immediately took a large silk handkerchief, and

                        FRANKLIN.                     2J9
 stretching it over two cross sticks, formed in this
 manner his simple apparatus for drawing down the
 lightning 1 from its cloud. Soon after, seeing a thun-
der-storm approaching', he took a walk into a field in
the neighbourhood of the city, in which there was a
 shed, communicating his intentions, however, to no
one but his son, whom he took with him, to assist
him in raising the kite: this was in June, 1752.
    The kite being raised, he fastened a key to the
lower extremity of the hempen string, and then insu-
lating it by attaching it to a post by means of silk,
he placed himself under the shed, and waited the
result.   For some time no signs of electricity ap-
peared. A cloud, apparently charged with lightning,
had even passed over them without producing any
effect.   At length, however, just as Franklin was
beginning to despair, he observed some loose threads
of the hempen string rise and stand erect, exactly as
if they had been repelled from each other by being
charged with electricity.      He immediately presented
his knuckle to the key, and, to his inexpressible
delight, drew from it the well-known electrical spark.
It is said that his emotion was so great at this .com-
pletion of a discovery which was to make his name
immortal, that he heaved a deep sigh, and felt that
he could that moment have willingly died.          As the
rain increased, the cord became a better conductor,
and the key gave out its electricity copiously.       Had
the hemp been thoroughly wet, the bold experimenter
might, as he was contented to do, have paid for his
discovery with his life.
    He afterwards brought down the lightning into
his house, by means of an insulated iron rod, and
performed with    it,  at his leisure, all the experiments
that could be performed with electricity.       But he did
not stop here.      His active and practical mind was

260               THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 not satisfied even with the splendid discovery, until he
 had turned it to a useful end.     It suggested to him,
 as is well-known, the idea of a method of preserving
building's from lightning, which is extremely simple
 and cheap, as well as effectual ; consisting, as it
does, in nothing more than attaching to the building
a pointed metallic rod, rising higher than any part
of     and communicating at the lower end with the
      it,
ground.       This rod the lightning   is   sure to seize
upon in preference to any part of the building      ;   by
which means            conducted to the earth,
                       it   is                    and pre-
vented from doing any injury. There was always a
strong tendency in Franklin's philosophy to these
practical applications. The lightning-rod was proba-
bly the result of some of the amusing experiments
with which Franklin was, at the commencement of
his electrical investigations, accustomed to employ
his own leisure, and afford pleasure to his friends.
In one of his letters to Mr. Collinson, dated so
early as 1748, we find him expressing himself in
the following strain, in reference to his electrical
experiments
                   " Chagrined a little that we have
                   :
hitherto been able to produce nothing in this way
of use to mankind, and the hot weather coming
on, when electrical experiments are not so agree-
able,   it   proposed to put an end to them for this
             is
season somewhat humorously, in a party of plea-
sure on the banks of SfatyUriil.           Spirits at the
same time are to be fired by a spark sent from side
to side through the river, without any other con-
ductor than the water an experiment which we have
some time since performed to the amazement of
many. A turkey           to be killed for dinner by the
                             is
electrical shock, and roasted by the electrical jack,
before      fire kindled by the electrified bottle.
            a                                   ;    when
the healths of all the famous electricians in England,

                         FRANKLIN.                      261
Holland, France, and Germany, are to be drunk in
electrified bumpers, under the discharge of guns
from the electrical battery"
    Franklin's electrical discoveries did not, on their
first announcement, attract much attention in Eng-
land ; and, indeed, he had the mortification of learn-
ing that his paper on the similarity of lightning to
electricity, when read by a friend to the Royal
Society, had been only laughed at by that learned
body.      In France, however, the account that had
been published in London of his experiments, fortu-
nately fell into the hands of the celebrated naturalist,
BufFon, who was so much struck with       it, that he had
it  translated into French, and printed at Paris. This
made  it    immediately known to all Europe     ;and ver-
sions of   it  in various other modern languages soon
appeared, as well as one in Latin. The theory pro-
pounded in       was at first violently opposed in France
                it
by the Abbe Nollet, who had one of his own to
support, and, as Franklin tells us, could not at first
believe that such a work came from America but      ;
said it   must have been fabricated by his enemies at
Paris. The Abbe was eventually, however, deserted
by all his partizans, and lived to see himself the last
of his sect. In England, too, the Franklinian expe-
riments gradually began to be more spoken of; and,
 at last, even the Royal Society was induced to resume
 the consideration of the papers that had formerly
 been read to them.       One of their members verified
 the grand experiment of bringing down lightning
 from the clouds     ; and upon his reading to them an
 account of his success, " they soon," says Franklin,
  " made me more than amends for the slight with
 which they had before treated me.           Without my
 having made any application for that honour, they
 chose me a member; and voted that        I     should be
  excused the customary payments, which would have

262         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 amounted to twenty-five guineas ; and ever since
 have given me their Transactions gratis.    They also
presented me with the gold medal of Sir Godfrey
 Copley, for the year 1753, the delivery of which was
accompanied with a very handsome speech of the
President, Lord Macclesfield, wherein    I was highly
honoured."      Some years afterwards, when lie was in
this country with his son, the University of St.
Andrew's conferred upon him the degree of Doctor
of Laws ; and its example was followed by the Uni-
versities of Edinburgh and Oxford.       He was also
elected a member of many of the learned societies
throughout Europe.
   No philosopher of the age now stood on a prouder
eminence than this extraordinary man, who had ori-
ginally been one of the most obscure of the people,
and had raised himself to all this distinction almost
without the aid of any education but such as he had
given himself. Who will say, after reading his story,
that anything more is necessary for the attainment
of knowledge than the determination to attain it?
that there is any other obstacle to even the highest
degree of intellectual advancement which may not be
overcome, except a man's own listlessness or indo-
lence ?   The secret of this man's success in the cul-
tivation of his mental powers was, that he was ever
awake and active in that business ; that he suffered
110 opportunity of forwarding it to escape him unim-
proved ; that, however poor, he found at least a few
pence, were it even by diminishing his scanty meals,
to pay for the loan of the books he could not buy ;
that, however hard-wrought, he found a few hours in
the week, were it by sitting up half the night after
toiling all the day, to read and study them.   Others
may not have his original powers of mind ; but his
industry, his perseverance, his self-command, are for
the imitation of all : and though few may look for-

                           FRANKLIN.                          263
ward to the rare fortune of achieving discoveries like
his, all may derive both instruction and encourage-
ment from his example.           They who may never over-
take the light, may at least follow its path, and guide
their footsteps by its illumination.
    Were we to pursue the remainder of Franklin's
history, we should find the fame of the patriot vying
with that of the philosopher, in casting a splendour
over it ; and the originally poor and unknown trades-
man standing before kings, associating as an equal
with the most eminent statesmen of his time, and
arranging along with them the wars and treaties of
mighty nations.          When the struggle of American
independence commenced, he was sent as ambassador
from the United States to the Court of France, where
he soon brought about an alliance between the two
countries, which produced an immediate war between
the latter and England.          In 1783, he signed, on the
part of the United States, the treaty of peace with
England, which recognized their independence. Two
years after he returned to his native country, where
 he was received with acclamation by his grateful and
admiring fellow-citizens, and immediately elected
President of the Supreme Executive Council. He
closed his eventful and honourable life on the 17th of
April, 1790, in the eighty-fifth year of his age.*
   * The engraving which we have given      of Franklin is copied
from portraits taken during his residence in France;      the face
being from   a picture in the possession of the Royal Society, and
the costume (which is rather more splendid than the philosopher's
ordinary dress) as represented in a French print engraved in 1789.

                           CHAPTER      XVI
Devotion to Knowledge        in extreme poverty.  Erasmus ; Kepler
  Schaeffer; Bullinger; Musculus; Postellus; Castalio ; Adrian VI.
  Perrier ; Claude Lorraine; Salvator Rosa; Marmontel ; Hoche
  Lagrange ; Dr. Johnson ; Dr. Parr ; Spaguoletto ; Le Jay ; Castell
  Davies ; Tytler; William Davy. In exile and imprisonment, Ovid
  Boethius ; Buchanan ; Tasso ; Smart ; Maggi ; Le Maistre
  Lorenzini ; Prynne ; Madame Roland ; Raleigh ; Lady Jane Grey
  James   I. (of Scotland) ;  Lovelace.
IN   attempting        to illustrate    such a subject as the
triumphs of the Love of Knowledge, and to set forth
the exceeding might of that passion, the delight with
which the indulgence of it is fraught, and the ob-
stacles of all sorts in the way of its gratification
which it has so often overcome, the materials which
present themselves are so abundant and so various,
that the chief difficulty in using them is which to
choose. The examples we have already cited may
be considered sufficient to shew how perfectly prac-
ticable it is to unite the pursuit of literature with
that of any description of business or professional
occupation. We shall now, therefore, proceed to notice
some aspirants after knowledge, who have had other
difficulties to struggle with than those arising from
either the seducing excitements or engrossing cares
and toils of active life.
    Anecdotes illustrating the devotion with which
knowledge has been pursued under the pressure of
severe penury, or other forms of worldly misfortune,
are evidences, not of any calamities to which litera-
ture has a peculiar tendency to expose its votaries,
 but rather of the power with which it arms them to
conquer and rise superior to calamities.                 Students,
 and authors, and men of genius, have had their share

         ERASMUS.      KEPLER.     SCHAEFFER.             265
of adversity with others   ;  but few others enjoy their
peculiar advantages, if not for warding it off, at least
for bearing up against it.     The man who is most to
be pitied under misfortune, is he whose whole hap-
piness or misery hangs on outward circumstances.
The scholar has sources of enjoyment within him-
self, of which no severity of fortune can altogether
deprive him.      Hence, a man who is truly in love
with philosophy, will often think but lightly of
sufferings and privations which would to another
be almost intolerable.     If  his body be in want, his
mind has store of riches. When ERASMUS was a
poor student at Paris, he was indeed very anxious
to be a little richer ; but, almost in rags as he was,
it was not fine or even comfortable raiment after
which he principally longed.        " As soon as get   I
money," says he, in a letter to a friend,
                                                   "  I  will
buy first Greek books, and then clothes."
                                                     "  It is
the mind," says Shakspeare,       " that makes the body
       "
rich ; and so the young scholar felt. Of his two
contemplated purchases, it was not the clothes, he
knew, but the Greek books, that were to bring him
any thing permanent, in the way either of enjoyment
or distinction.
    And similar to those of Erasmus have been the
feelings of many another aspirant after intellectual
eminence, when struggling, like him, with the incon-
veniences of indigence, or braving every variety of
labour and privation in pursuit of the object on which
his heart was set. The illustrious KEPLER spent his
life in poverty ; yet, amidst all his difficulties, he used
to declare that he would rather be the author of the
works he had written, than possess the duchy of
 Saxony.     There is hardly any severity of endurance
to which ardent spirits have not subjected themselves,
 under the inspiration of an attachment to literature
 or the arts.    The German naturalist, SCHAEFFEK,
                                             2 A

266         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
was so poor when he entered the University of
Halle, that for the first six months of his attendance
his whole expenditure did not exceed a few half-
pence a day ; a little bread, and a few vegetables
boiled in water, were his only food ; and, although
the winter was a very rigorous one, no fire ever
warmed his chimney. Yet all this he bore cheerfully,
counting the opportunity he enjoyed of pursuing his
studies as more than a compensation for it all. This
heroism, indeed, has never been uncommon among
German scholars. We have already mentioned the
cases of Heyne and Winckelman.         The latter, ac-
cording to a practice not unusual among poor
students in that country, was wont, while attending
the grammar school, to support himself chiefly by
singing at night through the streets ; and not him-
self only, but, in a great measure, his father also.
 But Winckelman's expenses were always on the very
 humblest scale. Even when his fondest wishes were
 at last crowned by an opportunity having been atforded
 him of visiting Rome, he considered himself in pos-
 session of an ample revenue in the pension of a hun-
 dred crowns, which he was allowed, by his patron
 Father Rauch, in addition to his board, which he
 had free.    The learned theologian, HEXRY BUL-
 LINGER, one of the distinguished names of the Re-
 formation, had in like manner supported himself at
 school for several years by his talents as a street
 musician.     His contemporary and fellow-labourer
 in the same cause, WOLFGANG MUSCULUS, had com-
 menced his career as a scholar in a similar manner,
  having for some time sung ballads through the
  country, and begged his way from door to door, in
 order to obtain a pittance wherewith to put himself
 to school ; he was at length charitably received into
 a convent of Benedictine monks, who, greatly to his
 delight, offered to educate him, and admit him of

                MUSCULUS.     POSTELLUS.            267
 their order. Muscuhis was afterwards, on embracing
 the tenets of the Lutherans, reduced to such distress,
 that he was obliged to send his wife to service,
 and to bind himself apprentice to a weaver of Stras-
 burg, who no sooner discovered his heretical opinions
 than he turned him out of doors.      He had then no
 other resource but to offer himself as a common
labourer to assist in repairing the fortifications of
the city.    Yet even in this situation he employed
every moment he could spare in study ; and applied
himself, in particular, with so much ardour to the
Hebrew language, that he placed himself eventually
almost at the head of the scholars by whom that
branch of learning was cultivated in his time.
    Another great orientalist of that age, and in
many respects one of the most extraordinary charac-
ters of any age, WILLIAM POSTELLUS, was, when
merely a boy, so fond of reading, that he would
often, it is related, while engaged with his book,
forget to take his meals.    Having set out from his
native village in Normandy on the road to Paris, in
the expectation of finding means to pursue his studies
in that capital, he was attacked, in the course of his
journey, by robbers, who took from him all the little
 he had in the world, and used him besides so barba-
 rously, that his vexation, and the wounds he had
 received, together obliged him to take refuge in an
 hospital, where he lay for two years before his health
 was restored.     On his recovery, he bent his steps
 once more towards Paris ; being at the time, how-
 ever, in such a state of destitution, that he had no
 way of obtaining wherewithal to buy himself a
 coat, except by offering his services as a reaper to
 assist in cutting down the crop which then happened
 to be ready for the sickle.   Having arrived at Paris,
  he thought himself fortunate in being received
  as a domestic into the College of St. Jiarbe, not
                                       2 A 2

268        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
doubting that even this situation would afford him,
in some degree, those opportunities of improvement
which he so ardently longed for.         Accordingly,
having contrived to get possession of a Greek and a
 Hebrew grammar, he soon made himself master of
both these languages, solely by his own efforts ; and,
although the fragments of time he could steal from,
the labours of his humble place were all the leisure
he had for study, he afterwards became one of the
greatest scholars of his time, being distinguished
especially for his knowledge both of ancient and
modern languages, of which there was scarcely one
that he was not familiar with.        To his vast ac-
quirements, however, he added, in the latter part of
his life, no little extravagance both of opinion and
conduct; and, indeed, some of his notions could
have proceeded from nothing else than partial de-
rangement.      But it does not belong to our present
purpose to pursue this part of his history.   Some of
his works exhibit an extraordinary mixture of learn-
ing and genius, with the most melancholy delusion
and absurdity.
   SEBASTIAN CASTALIO, whose elegant Latin version
of the Scriptures we have mentioned in a former
chapter, was for many years of his life so poor, that,
having a wife and family to support, he was obliged
to employ the whole day in labouring in the fields,
and could afford only the earlier part of the morning
for study. Yet, even in these circumstances, litera-
ture was the great consolation of his life.    Calvin,
with whom he had quarrelled, having, in the heat
of controversy, and in the same spirit of cruelty
with which he hunted Servetus to death, allowed
himself directly to charge him with theft, because
he was in the habit of occasionally           bringing
 home with him a little wood to serve for fuel,
was answered by Castalio in a mild but dignified

                CASTALIO.     ADRIAN.                269
remonstrance, in which he admits that, as he dwelt
on the banks of the Rhine, he had indeed been
sometimes accustomed to employ himself, at leisure
hours, in catching with a hook the floating wood
which it carries down in its inundations, in order
to warm his family,       the wood being in fact, he
remarks, public property, and belonging to the first
taker.    And this he did, he says, being at the
time wholly occupied with his translation of the
Scriptures, and resolved rather to beg than to quit it.
   Pope ADRIAN VI. was the son of a poor barge-
builder of Utrecht, who, desirous of procuring for his
son a good education, and yet unable to pay for          it,
found means at last to get him admitted among the
boys educated gratuitously at the university of Lou-
vaine.    While attending this seminary, however, the
pecuniary resources of the young scholar were so ex-
tremely scanty, that he was unable to afford himself
candles whereby to study at night.       But he did not
on that account spend his time in idleness. He used
to take his station, we are told, with his book in his
hand, in the church porches, or at the corners of the
streets, where lamps were generally kept burning, and
to read by their light.    After passing through suc-
                                                 a
cession of ecclesiastical preferments, which he owed
to his eminent acquirements and unimpeachable cha-
racter, Adrian was appointed preceptor to the young
Archduke Charles, grandson to Ferdinand, King of
Spain, who afterwards became so powerful and cele-
brated, under the title of the Emperor Charles V.
To this connexion he was indebted for his elevation
to the papal throne, which he ascended in the sixty-
second year of his age, and occupied for two years,
having died in 1523.      The short time he held this
lofty station was not, however, the happiest period
of Adrian's life, as the following inscription which he
desired to be placed over Ms tomb ^may testify       :
                                     2   A   3

270          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
" Here    lies Adrian VI., who esteemed no misfortune
which happened to him in life so great as his being
called to govern."
    We have already had occasion to quote several ex-
amples of the enthusiasm with which cultivators of
the fine arts have devoted themselves to the acquisi-
tion of that knowledge and skill to which they after-
wards owed their eminence and fame.         The dream
of every young artist's ambition is Rome. The
French painter, FRANCIS PERKIER, when a young
man, living in poverty and obscurity at Lyons, was
haunted by so eager a desire of visiting " the eternal
city," that he gladly consented to act as guide to a
blind person who was travelling thither, on condition
that the latter should pay the expenses of both ; and
in this way, after a journey of above four hundred
miles on foot, he arrived among those monuments of
ancient and modern genius, which, ere he had yet
seen them, he had so long and fondly worshipped in
fancy.     The first engagement he obtained was a
humble and laborious one to make copies for a
dealer in paintings from originals of merit ; but he
profited by the advantage it afforded him of studying
the works of several distinguished masters.      Perrier
afterwards appeared in Paris, and obtained a high
reputation among the artists of his day.     He died in
that city in 1660.
    CLAUDE LORRAINE is said to have been originally
 apprenticed to a pastry-cook, and to have been, on
his first appearance in Rome, so destitute of resources,
that he was obliged to accept of the meanest employ-
 ment connected with the art he was desirous of
 studying, and in which he afterwards attained so
 rare an eminence.     SALVATOR ROSA, who was born
 in 1615, a few years later than Claude, had made
 himself already an able painter, principally by the
 study of nature, while still residing in his native

                   SALVATOR      ROSA.                 271
 village, in the neighbourhood of Naples, and before
 he had ever been able to gratify his earnest desire
 of visiting Rome.      Salvator's genius, indeed, was
 nursed in hardships and sorrows, which yet had
 only the effect of strengthening and exalting it.
 When very young, he had been left, by the death of
 his father, the sole support of his mother and
 sisters ; and so heavily did this burthen press upon
 him, that, although he wrought hard, he was some-
 times, it has been said, after finishing a picture,
 scarcely able to save enough from the scanty price he
 received forit,  to purchase the canvas for another.
 He was in his twentieth year, when a friend and
brother artist, somewhat richer than himself, pro-
posed to take him to Rome with him, and to pay
ihe expenses of both an offer which Salvator gladly
                        ;
accepted.     When he found himself at last in that
celebrated capital, his ardour would scarcely suffer
him to take sustenance or repose, while he examined,
with the enthusiasm of a painter and a poet, the
precious remains of ancient art by which he was sur-
rounded ;    and the incessant fatigue to which he ex-
posed himself at last brought on an attack of fever,
which rendered     it necessary for him to be carried
back to Naples.      It was some years before      was
                                                  it
again in his power to visit Rome but     ;   continued
                                             it
to nil all his visions of the future, and to make his
residence at Naples seem an exile. At length, how-
ever, his eye rested once more on the objects among
which his heart had so long been. Rome was at
this time crowded witli painters, whose names have
now become the household words of fame, and
several of whom were even already regarded with an
admiration as great as      is ever bestowed on living
genius.     But, undismayed by their glory, Salvator
aspired from the first to be, not the imitator of any
of them, but their competitor and rival, to form

272          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
a style, and found a school, of his own.         We need
not say how greatly he succeeded in this object,
since his name, too, is now familiar to every ear, as
one of the most distinguished in the second genera-
tion of the great painters of Italy.
   The celebrated MARMONTEL was born of parents
who belonged to the humblest rank of the people,
and was indebted for the elements of education to
the charity of a priest.       The late French general
HOCHE, who distinguished himself in the wars of
the Revolution, was originally a stable-boy.         While
in that situation, and after having enlisted in the
army, which he did at the age of sixteen, he used
to work at any employment he could find during
the day, to get money to buy books, which he would
often spend the greater part of the night in reading,
LAGRANGE, the French translator of Lucretius, was
so poor while attending the university, that his only
food for the day was a little bread, which he carried
with him from home in the morning, and used to
eat in an alley, or the vestibule of a church, during
the intervals between the different classes. Dr. JOHN-
SON was indebted for his maintenance at college to
the scanty aid of a wealthy individual, who pro-
fessed to keep him there as a companion to his son.
The late learned Dr. PARR, after having, at the early
age of fourteen, distinguished himself above all his
schoolfellows at Harrow, was taken from school by
his father, who wished to initiate him in his own
business of a surgeon and apothecary. Youno- Parr,
however, continued still to pursue his studies with
as much benefit as before, by getting one or other
of his old companions to report to him the master's
remarks on the lesson of every day as it was read ;
until his father, finding the contest with nature likely in
this case to turn out a vain one, at last consented that
 he should proceed to the university. He had been but

            PARR.    SPAGNOLETTO.      LE JAY.       273
a short time, however, at Cambridge, when his father
died ; and this event leaving him almost literally
pennyless, compelled him with a heavy heart to bid
farewell also to this new theatre of his ambition. Yet
these cruel disappointments, and a long succession
of other struggles with indigence and misfortune, by
which they were followed, did not prevent Parr from
attaining eventually the distinction he merited, and
becoming one of the greatest scholars of his time.
Such early difficulties form often, indeed, the very in-
fluences to which no small portion of the future emi-
nence of their victims is to be attributed.     The late
illustrious mathematician Lagrange used to say, that
he certainly never should have been the mathema-
tician he had turned out, if lie had been born to a
fortune, instead of having had to make his own way
to one.
     It is related of the painter Joseph Ribera, com-
monly called Lo SPAGNOLETTO, that after having for
some time pursued his art at Rome in great indi-
gence, he was patronised by one of the cardinals,
who, giving him apartments in his palace, enabled
him to live at his ease ; but that, after awhile, finding
himself growing indolent amidst his new comforts and
luxuries, he actually withdrew himself from their cor-
rupting influence, and voluntarily returned to poverty
 and labour      thus exhibiting the choice of Hercules
 in real life, and verifying the beautiful fiction of
 Xenophon.
      Many of the devotees of literature have pursued
 the objects upon which their hearts were set with a
 resolution which no difficulties seem to have had any
  effect in alarming or impairing. The French Polyglot
  Bible of 1645, in ten volumes folio, was the under-
  taking of an advocate of Paris, GUY MICHEL LE JAY,
 who, having spent his fortune on its completion, de-
 clined the overtures of Cardinal Richelieu to repay part

274         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
of   the expenditure on condition of the work being
 allowed to come forth in his name, preferring to sub-
 mit to poverty rather than to share with any one the
 glory of so great an enterprise.     Our own country-
 man, the most learned Dr. EDMUND CASTELL, ex-
pended his whole fortune, amounting to twelve thou-
 sand pounds, on his ' Lexicon Heptaglotton,' which
appeared in 1669, as a companion to Bishop Walton's
 '
   Polyglot Bible ;' and he, besides, lost his sight in
preparing the work, to which he is said to have de-
voted eighteen hours a day for seventeen years.
    MILES DAVIES, a writer on antiquities in the
earlier part of last century, arid some of whose works
show considerable learning, is said to have hawked
his productions himself from door to door. A work,
entitled ' Essays on the most important Subjects of
Natural and Revealed Religion,' which appeared at
Edinburgh in 1772, was both composed and printed
by the late Mr. JAMES TYTLER, while he resided in
the    Sanctuary of Holyrood      House, without ever
having been written, the sentences being merely
formed in the first instance in the mind of the author,
and then directly put in types.      This reminds us of
what Franklin tells us of Keimer, the first master
with whom he served at Philadelphia, whom he
found, on being introduced to him, employed in
printing an Elegy on a young poet of the place, who
had recently died. " Keimer," says he, " made verses
too, but very indifferently.   He could not be said to
write them, for his method was to compose them in
the types directly out of his head ; there being no
copy, but one pair of cases, and the elegy probably
requiring all the letter, no one could help him."
    But perhaps the most extraordinary instance of
literary industry and perseverance on record is af-
forded us in the history of a work entitled ' A Sys-
tem of Divinity,' by the Reverend WILLIAM DAVY,

                   REV. WILLIAM DAVY.                 275
A. B.,   a clergyman   of the church of England.     Mr.
 Davy was born in 1743, near C'hudleigh in Devon-
 shire, where his father resided pn a small farm, his
own freehold.      From a very early age he gave proofs
of   a mechanical genius, and when only eight years
old, he cut out with a knife and put together the
parts of a small mill, after the model of one that was
then building in the neighbourhood, the progress
made in constructing which he used to observe nar-
rowly every day, while he proceeded with equal
regularity in the completion of his own little work.
When the large mill was finished, it was found not
to work exactly as it ought to have done, and the
defect at first eluded the detection even of the builder.
It is said that while they were endeavouring to ascer-
tain what was wrong, the young self-taught architect
made his appearance, and, observing that his mill went
perfectly well, pointed out, after an examination of a
few minutes, both the defect and the remedy.
   Being intended for the Church, he was placed at
the Exeter Grammar School; and here he distin-
guished himself by his proficiency in classical learn-
ing, while he still retained his early attachment to
mechanical pursuits, and exercised his talents in the
construction of several curious and ingenious articles.
At the age of eighteen, he entered at Oxford, where
he took the degree of A. B. at the usual time.         It
was during his residence at the University that he
conceived the idea of compiling a system of divinity,
to consist of selections from the best writers, and
began to collect, in a common-place book, such pas-
sages as he thought would suit his purpose.
   On leaving college, he was ordained to the curacy
of Moreton, in the diocese of Exeter, and not long
after he removed to the adjoining curacy of Lust-
leigh, with a salary of 40/. a-year.   In the year 17 bo',
he published, by subscription, six volumes of ser-

276          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
mons, by way of introduction to his intended work ;
but this proved an unfortunate speculation, many of
the subscribers forgetting- to pay for their copies, and
he remained in consequence indebted to his printer
above a hundred pounds.         This bad success, how-
ever, did not discourage him: he pursued his literary
researches and completed the work.           But when his
manuscript was finished, he found that, from its ex-
tent, it would cost two thousand pounds to get it
printed.    In these circumstances, he again contem-
plated publication by subscription, and issued his
proposals accordingly; but the names he collected
were too few to induce any bookseller to risk the
expense of an impression of the work.          Determined
not to be defrauded of the honours of authorship, Mr.
Davy now resolved to become a printer himself. So,
having constructed his own press, and purchased from
a printer, at Exeter, a quantity of worn and cast-off
types, he ; commenced operations, having no one to
assist him except his female servant, and having of
course to perform alternately the offices of compositor
and pressman. Yet in this manner did the ingenious
and persevering man, sustained by the anticipation of
the literary fame awaiting him, proceed until he had
printed off forty copies of the first three hundred pages,
his press only permitting him to do a single page at a
time. Confident that he had now produced so ample a
specimen of the work as would be certain to secure for
it the general patronage of the learned, he here sus-
pended his labours for a while ; and having forwarded
copies to the Royal Society, the universities, certain
of the bishops, and the editors of the principal re-
views, waited with eager expectation for the notice
and assistance which he conceived himself sure of
receiving from some of these quarters.         He waited,
however, in vain ; the looked-for encouragement
came not.      Still, although thus a second time disap-

                REV. WILLIAM DAVY.                   277
pointed, he was not to be driven from his purpose,
but returned with unabated courage to his neglected
labours.    He no doubt thought that posterity would
repair the injustice of his contemporaries.    In one re-
spect, however, he determined to alter his plan.      His
presents to the bishops, critics, and learned bodies, had
cost him twenty-six of his forty copies ; and for the
completion of these, so thanklessly received, he natu-
rally enough resolved that he would give himself no
farther trouble, but limit the impression of the re-
mainder of the work, so as merely to complete the
fourteen copies which he had reserved, in this way
saving both his labour and his paper.        And he had
at last, after thirteen years of unremitting toil, the
gratification of bringing his extraordinary undertak-
ing to a conclusion.      The book, when finished, the
reader will be astonished to learn, extended to no
fewer than twenty-six volumes 8vo., of nearly 500
pages each !      In a like spirit of independence he
next bound all the fourteen copies with his own
hands ; after which he proceeded in person to Lon-
don, and deposited one in each of the principal
public libraries there.      We may smile at so pre-
posterous a dedication of the labours of a life-time as
this; but, at least, the power of extraordinary perse-
verance was not wanting here, nor the capability
of being excited to arduous exertion, and long
 sustained under  it,  by those motives that act most
 strongly upon the noblest natures the conscious-
 ness of honourable pursuit, and a trust in the ver-
dict of posterity.     Itis   true this temper of mind
might have been more wisely exercised    ;    and the pa-
tience, ingenuity, and toil which were expended upon
 a performance of no great use in itself, bestowed
upon something better fitted to benefit both the zeal-
 ous labourer and his fellow-men.     Yet this considera-
tion does not entitle us to refuse our admiration to so
                                        2   B

278            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
rare an example of the unwearied and inflexible pro-
secution of an object, in the absence of all those
vulgar encouragements which are generally believed
and felt to be so indispensable.*
     There is nothing more depressing to the spirit than
protracted exile or imprisonment; yet we have many
instances of the successful pursuit of literary labours
under these heavy inflictions.                 The case of OVID
    * There  is a short notice of Mr. Davy in the 'Quarterly Review,'
vol. VIII. and another containing some additional particulars in
Gorton's 'Biographical Dictionary' ;' but the account that has been
here given is principally from the communication of a valued cor-
respondent, to whom the reverend gentleman was known. "A few
years after the completion of his work," continues our authority,
" I became acquainted with him. Though advanced in years, and
much disappointed at the neglect he conceived he had experi-
enced, he still hoped that a time would come when his labours
would be noticed.       His genius was decidedly mechanical, and
his industry great.      He had formed a curious garden among the
rocks close to his house, and his health and strength were
unabated.       He shewed me the only copy of his work in his pos-
session. It was a curious one, being interspersed with manuscript
 remarks. The printing was not elegant, but fair and legible. He
 still entertained hopes that the whole would be reprinted, as well
 as an index which he had completed to it in two volumes.        In the
 year 1823 he recommenced his printing, and worked off a new
 volume of sermons; and in 1825, he published at Exeter, an
 abridgment of his system of divinity in two volumes, being then
 in his eighty-second year.      (These volumes, however, the first of
 which contains a print of the author, were not, we believe printed
 by himself.)      In the following year he was presented by the
 Bishop of Exeter to the vicarge of Winckleigh, Devon.          He was
 exceedingly gratified by     this circumstance, and, contrary to the
 wishes of his friends, he removed to his living. The exertion was
 too much for him, and he died on the 13th of June, 1826, in his
  eighty-third year, and is buried at Winckieigh, having possessed
  his living only a few months. Having acquired some property
  during the latter part of his life, he founded a school for the poor
  at Lustleigh, and endowed it with a meadow, worth about three
 hundred pounds. He likewise subscribed towards building a
 school-room,    and gave some handsome       communion,  plate  to the
 Church."

            OVID.  BOETHIUS.      BUCHANAN.            279
will occur to the recollection of many of our readers.
He spent the last years of his life in banishment
among the barbarians inhabiting the inhospitable
coasts of the Black or Euxine Sea, where he was
sent, after being stript of his possessions at Rome,
by the emperor Augustus, one of the vilest tyrants
that ever lived, and whose almost single good quality
was his patronage of letters. For a long time despair
was the only feeling which the mind of the poet could
indulge under his changed fortunes ; but he rose at
last above the pressure of his deprivations, and some
of the finest works that he has left us were written
in that abode of universal rudeness and desolation, for
which he had been obliged so suddenly to exchange
the splendid and luxurious capital of the world. He
even learned the language of the Getae, among whom
he lived ; and, as he tells us himself, took the trouble
of composing a poem in that barbaric tongue, which
procured him unmeasured admiration from his new
associates.   Ovid never again beheld his family or na-
tive country, but died among the Getae, after an exile
of seven or eight years, and in the fifty-ninth year of his
age. We have mentioned in a former chapter the trans-
lation, by our own Alfred the Great, of BOETHIUS'S
 '
   Consolations of Philosophy.' This beautiful trea-
tise was written in the beginning of the sixth century
by Boethius, while confined under sentence of death
 in the tower of Pa\ ia, and when he was not even al-
 lowed the use of books.      In more modern times,
 BUCHANAN, as we have already stated, commenced
 his elegant Latin version of the Psalms, while lying in
 prison at Coimbra, in Portugal; and Don Quixote was
 written in a dungeon, to which an unjust judgment
 had consigned its great author.      TASSO was shut up
 in a cell of the monastery of St. Anne, at Ferrara,
  under the imputation of being deranged, when he
  produced several of the ablest of his minor pieces
                                           2 B'2

280         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
both in     prose and verse.     An English poetical
composition of great power, entitled
                                          '
                                            A Song of
 David,' which was reprinted a few years ago, and
 attracted considerable notice, in consequence of a
 resemblance which some stanzas of it were con-
 ceived to present to a celebrated passage in one of
 Lord Byron's works, was written by its author,
 CHRISTOPHER SMART, with charcoal on the walls of
 his cell, while confined in a mad house. The learned
JEROME MAGGI, who occupied a high situation under
the Venetian government, in the island of Cyprus,
when it was attacked and taken by the Turks in
 1571, contrived, during the captivity to which he
was afterwards subjected by the conquerors, to write
his two Latin works, entitled ' On Bells' and ' On
the Wooden Horse,' both displaying great erudi-
tion.    He was altogether deprived of books, and
obliged to toil so constantly the whole day, that the
only leisure he had was what he stole from the hours
allotted him for sleep ; and his life was spared
only for about a year by his barbarous jailors, who
at last finished their cruelties by strangling him
in his dungeon.       The French translation of the
Scriptures, in thirty-two volumes, octavo, by LE
MAISTRE, or SACI, as he chose to call himself by a
transposition of his Christian name Isaac or Isac,
was commenced by the author while confined in the
Bastille ; the New Testament and a considerable
part of the Old having been finished by him in the
three years and a half during which his imprison-
ment lasted.     LORENZO LORENZINI, a learned Italian
who lived in the early part of the last century, is
 said to have relieved the weariness of an imprison-
 ment of nearly twenty years by the composition of a
 work on Conic Sections.        Our countryman, the
 famous WILLIAM PRYNNE, after having been con-
 demned to imprisonment for life, (from which, how-

                 ROLAND.     RALEIGH.              281
ever, he was subsequently released,) continued to
write as actively and with as unconquered a spirit as
he had done while at liberty.   The celebrated Mad.
ROLAND, who perished in the storm of the Revolu-
lution, wrote her Memoirs, (afterwards published
under the title of ' Appel a 1'Impartiale Posterity'),
during the two months she spent in prison imme-
diately before her execution, while her own fate was
full iu her view, and that of her husband, to whom
she was tenderly attached, and who so soon followed
her, was in suspense ; and yet the manuscript, it
has been remarked, scarcely exhibited an erasure.
   Another name which naturally suggests itself to
us under this head, is that of our celebrated country-
man, Sir WALTER RALEIGH, whose ' History of the
World' is perhaps the greatest literary work ever
accomplished under the circumstances we are now
considering.    He was one of those rare and won-
derful men who, supereminently endowed both with
the reflective and active     powers, seem equally
qualified to distinguish themselves in studious soli-
tude and on the theatre of affairs.    His life was a
busy one from his earliest years, having been passed
chiefly in the camp and on ship-board, amid the toils
and agitations of war, and every other variety of
daring and hazardous adventure. Yet thus occupied,
it was his custom to spend four hours every clay in
reading and study, only five being given to sleep.
The duties of his situation, and the exercises he
underwent to improve himself in his profession, em-
 ployed the rest of his time.    The first part of his
'                       '
  History of the World appeared when its illustrious
author was sixty-two years of age, having been
written in the Tower, to which he had been consigned
more than ten years before, after a trial on a charge
of high-treason, which violated all the customary
forms of legal procedure, as well as the rules of
                                      2 B 3

282         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
natural justice.   All the time during which he was
employed in composing the work, he was lying under
that sentence of death which, a few years after his
book was finished, was carried into execution by a
singularly barbarous perversion of law.        He had
in the interim, as is well known, been not only
liberated from confinement, but restored to public
employment, and thus, by implication at least,
pardoned, when advantage was taken of his con-
demnation fifteen years before to destroy him for
his commission of certain other alleged offences, for
which he was never brought O   to trial.  Yet, although
                                                     O
at last the victim of an iniquitous conspiracy, it was
his own immoderate ambition that led this great
man to his ruin. But for this " infirmity of noble
minds," he was one of the very chief glories of an
age crowded with towering spirits.       His History is
very precious as one of the classical works of our
language : exhibiting in its style one of the most
perfect models we possess of that easy but vigorous
and graphic eloquence, which testifies both the learn-
ing of the scholar and a mind fertilized by converse
with the living world. It was the largest, but not
the only literary performance, with which he occu-
pied the hours of his long imprisonment of twelve
years, a period of his life during which he may be
said, through these labours, to have earned his best
and most enduring renown.
   The unfortunate LADY JANE GREY, and her equally
unfortunate, but most guilty cousin, QUEEN MARY of
Scotland, both solaced hours of captivity, destined
to terminate only on the scaffold, by learned labours.
The ancestor of the latter, JAMES I. of Scotland,
one of the most amiable and accomplished of princes,
having been in his twelfth year taken captive on his
way to France by one of the ships of the King of
England, was detained by him in close confinement

                  JAMES I.      LOVELACE.             283
for nearly twenty years, having 1 been lodged in the first
instance in the Tower, afterwards in the Castle of
Nottingham, and eventually in that of Windsor. It
was while in this last-mentioned prison that he wrote
                           '
his beautiful allegory, The King's Quhair,' certainly
the finest poem that had been yet produced in the
English language, with the exception of the immortal
works of Chaucer. It was occasioned by his passion
for the Lady Joanna Beaufort, a young person of dis-
tinguished beauty, and nearly allied to the royal fa-
mily, whom he afterwards married, and of whom he
became enamoured by beholding her from the win-
dow of his apartments walking in the gardens of the
Castle.   But as another of our poets, the elegant
LOVELACE, has beautifully said, writing also, as it
would seem, from a place of confinement,
           " Stone walls do not a prison make,
                Nor iron bars a cage ;
             Minds innocent and quiet take
               That for an hermitage."

                          CHAPTER       XVII.
Natural Defects overcome    : Demosthenes ; De Beaumont ; Navarete ;
   Saunderson;   Rugendas ; Diodotus ; Didymus; Eusebius; Nicaise;
   De Pagan ;  Galileo ; Euler ; Moyes.
STILL more depressing than any of those deprivations
which we have yet considered, are such natural in-
flictions as close up altogether some one or more of
the ordinary avenues by which knowledge finds its
way into the mind; and thus seem to oppose an
almost insurmountable obstacle to the pursuit, per-
haps, of the very studies in which the intellectual
powers, thus cramped or darkened, might otherwise
have been best fitted to excel.                Several instances
might be mentioned, in which individuals, strongly
attached to a particular path of ambition, have, by
mere perseverance, entirely overcome the slighter
impediments presented by physical malconformation.
Thus, for example, DEMOSTHENES strengthened a
weak voice, and cured his natural indistinctness of
articulation, by exercising himself in declamation
while ascending the brow of a hill, or walking amid
the noise of the waves along the sea-shore.                Others
have contrived to prosecute certain professional em-
ployments with distinguished success, under disad-
vantages of this sort, which no discipline could cure.
The French advocate, ELIEDEBEAUMOXT, after having
been educated for the bar, found his voice so weak,
as completely to prevent his making any figure as a
speaker ; but by devoting himself to the writing of
memorials for his clients, he soon established for
himself the most brilliant reputation as a master both
of law and of eloquence.                The celebrated Spanish

               NAVARETE.    SAUNDERSON.               285
painter, FERNANDEZ NAVARETE, was seized with an
 illness, when only two years old, which left him deaf
 and dumb for life. Yet in this state he displayed from
his infancy the strongest passion for drawing:, cover-
ing the walls of the apartments with pictures of all
sorts of objects, done with charcoal ; and having
afterwards studied under Titian, he became eventu-
ally one of the greatest artists of his age.   Navarete,
who flourished in the sixteenth century, could both
read and write, and even possessed considerable
learning.
     Blindness, however, is the calamity that seems
most effectually to shut the mind up from the acqui-
sition of knowledge.     Yet we have many examples
of the attainment of distinguished eminence in in-
tellectual pursuits, under this severe deprivation.
Of these we shall now proceed to lay a few of the
more remarkable before our readers.
    NICHOLAS SAUNDERSON was born at the village of
Thurston, in Yorkshire, in 1682.        He was only a
year old, when he was deprived, by small-pox, not
only of his sight, but even of his eyes themselves,
which were destroyed by abscess.        Yet it was pro-
bably to this apparent misfortune that Saunderson
chiefly owed both a good education, and the leisure
he enjoyed, from his earliest years, for the cultivation
of his mind and the acquisition of knowledge. He
was sent when very young to the free school at Pen-
niston, in the neighbourhood of his native place ; and
here, notwithstanding the mighty disadvantage under
which it would seem that he must have contended
with his schoolfellows, he soon distinguished himself
by his proficiency in Greek and Latin.       It is to be
regretted that we have no account of the mode of
teaching that was adopted by his master in so sin-
gular a case, or the manner in which the poor boy
contrived to pursue his studies in the absence of that

286            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 sovereign organ to which the mind is wont to be
 chiefly indebted for knowledge.          Some one must
 have read the lesson to him, till his memory, strength-
 ened by the habit and the necessity of exertion,
had obtained complete possession of      it, and the mind,
as   itwere, had made a book for itself, which      itcould
read   without  the assistance  of the eye. At all events,
it    certain that the progress he made in this part of
     is
his education was such as    is  not often equalled, even
by those to whom nature has given all the ordinary
means of study   ;   for he acquired so great famili-
                                                    a
arity with the Greek language, as to be in the habit
of having the works written in      it   read to him, and
following the meaning of the author as         if the com-
position had been in English, while he shewed his
perfect mastery over the Latin, on many occa-
sions in the course of his life,  by   both dictating and
speaking  it  with the utmost fluency and command of
expression.
    These acquirements were due of course, in great a
measure, to an excellent memory, which again
owed, no doubt, much of its power and aptitude
to the very difficulties under which      it   was obliged
to exert itself. Every one of our faculties, corpo-
 real and mental,    isto a certain extent weakened, or
 at least prevented from reaching its utmost pos-
 sible vigour and developement, by the assistance        it
 usually receives in its labours from other faculties.
 Individuals deprived of the use of their hands have
learned to write and paint with their toes no reason
                                               ;
 in the world, certainly, why those in possession of the
fitter and more natural instrument should relinquish
it  for the other, but yet an evidence of how much
more some of our members are capable, and may be
 made by  a   certain discipline to perform, than we ge-
 nerally suppose.     The German painter, HUGE NBAS,
celebrated for the spirit ot his battle pieces, was ori-

                       RUGENDAS.                      287
ginally an engraver, but was obliged to abandon that
profession in consequence of a weakness in his right
hand, which, however, permitted him to manage the
pencil, although not the burin, and accordingly he
applied himself to painting. But, some years after,
his   disease  increased so much, that, even for the
lighter work it had now to do, his right hand
became quite unserviceable ; and he would have been
without a profession, or any means of subsistence at
all, if he had not determined to make his left hand
supply the place of its disabled companion.      The ex-
periment, after being persevered in for some time,
succeeded perfectly, and he came at last to use the
one hand with more ease and effect than he had ever
done the other.
    Any one of us, it is obvious from this, might ac-
quire for himself two right hands instead of one,
if he thought it worth his while, and chose to take
the requisite pains.    And the same rule holds as to
the other organs and higher faculties.      The peculiar
attribute of the eye is to distinguish colours ; there is
none of its other functions which may not be per-
formed by some one or more of the other senses.
But yet it does commonly serve us in a variety of
other ways ; or rather, by means of the power it pos-
sesses of distinguishing colours, it is able better than
any of the other senses to do us certain services
which yet they also might be made to perform.
However convenient this arrangement may be in
most respects, it is not unattended with disadvan-
tages.    If  we did not possess the faculty of sight, or
never opened our eyes except when we wanted
merely to distinguish colours, many of our other
senses and faculties would acquire a degree of power
of which we have scarcely any conception. \V e de-
rive more knowledge of the external world from the
eye, than from all our other senses put together ; for

  288         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE,
  it is its power of distinguishing colours which we
  chiefly make use of to measure every variety of dis
 tance, form, and motion, which objects assume, and
  of many of them to ascertain even a multitude of
  other qualities.  Above all, it is by this simple power
  of distinguishing colours that we read books, and
  are enabled to drink our fill from these most abound-
 ing fountains of knowledge and reflection.      But even
 without the eye, we should not be altogether destitute of
 the means of forming an acquaintance with the things
 around us. We should only have to make our other
 faculties do more than they now do.           Our touch
 would detect inequalities in surfaces that now feel to
 us perfectly smooth ; our taste and smell would ac-
  quire a delicacy and power of discernment, which
 would enable them to intimate to us, with exactness,
 the presence or approach of many bodies and sub-
 stances, by which they are now scarcely affected ;
 our hearing would come to their aid with a fineness
 of perception and discrimination that would tell the
 direction and distance of every sound, and measure
 with ease, and instinctively, differences of tone which
 at present only the closest attention can render sen-
 sible to the acutest ear.    Undoubtedly we derive all
 this knowledge with infinitely greater convenience
 through the medium of the eye, than we should do
 by this augmentation of the powers of our other
 senses, which, if so invigorated, would probably oc-
 casion us no little annoyance and discomfort, in con-
veying to us the information we sought from them
 to say nothing of the extremely inferior degree of ser-
vice they would after all render us as compared with
that which we receive from the eye. But the consi-
deration of these sleeping capabilities which are in
 us (beside its importance in a philosophic point of
view), ought not to be without its use both in shew-
ing us, should we be deprived of the most valuable

                     SAUNDERSON.                    289
of our bodily organs, what resources we still have for
perseverance to avail itself of; and perhaps also in
exciting us to bestow a little more pains than we
ordinarily do in what we may call the education of
those of our natural powers, which, however suscep-
tible of being put to profitable exercise, we are apt to
allow to remain inactive, merely because we do not
find it absolutely necessary to make a call upon them
for their services.
   What has been stated may teach us at least how
much more efficient we might make almost any one
of our faculties, by subjecting it to the proper dis-
cipline.   They are all invigorated by the habit of
exertion. And more especially may the memory be
rendered, by judicious cultivation, both quick and
retentive, to a degree of which its ordinary efficiency
seems to give no promise.      In blind men this faculty
is almost always powerful.       Not having the same
opportunities which others enjoy of frequent or long-
continued observation in regard to things with which
they wish to make themselves acquainted, or of re-
peated reference to sources of information respecting
them, (their knowledge coming to them mostly in
words, and not through the medium of the eye, which
in general can both gather what it may desire to learn
more deliberately, and recur at any time for what may
have been forgotten to some permanent and ready
remembrancer,) they are obliged to acquire habits
of more alert and watchful attention than those who
are beset by so many temptations to an indolent and
relaxed use of their faculties, as well as to give many
matters in charge to their memory which it is not
commonly thought worth while to put it to the trouble
of treasuring up. Their reward for all this is an
added vigour of that mental power, proportioned to
the labour they give it to perform.      But any one of
us might improve his memory to the same extent
                                           2 c

290       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
by a voluntary perseverance in something like the
same method of discipline in regard to      it,
                                              to which a
blind man   is   obliged to resort.   The memory       it
not one of the highest faculties of the mind, but      is is
yet a necessary instrument and auxiliary, both in
the acquisition and application of knowledge.       The
training, too,   it  may be observed, which       isbest
adapted to augment its strength,       is   exactly that
which, instead of being hurtful to any of our other
faculties, must be beneficial to them all.
    On being brought home from school, young Saun-
derson was taught arithmetic by his father, and soon
evinced as remarkable an aptitude for this new study
as he had done for that of the ancient languages.        A
gentleman residing in the neighbourhood of his native
village gave him his first lessons in geometry    ;  and
he received additional instruction from other indivi-
duals, to whose notice his unfortunate situation and
rare talents introduced him. But he soon got beyond
all his masters, and left the most learned of them
without any thing more to teach him.            He then
pursued his studies for some time by himself, needing
no other assistance than a good author and some one
to read to him.    It was in this way he made himself
acquainted with the works of the old Greek mathe-
 maticians, Euclid, Archimedes,      and Diophantus,
 which he had read to him in the original.
    But he was still without a profession, or any
 apparent resource by which he might support him-
 self through life, although he had already reached
 his twenty-fourth or twenty-fifth year.        His own
 wish was to go to the University     ;    but the cir-
 cumstances of his father, who held a place in the
 excise, did not enable him to gratify this ambition.
 At last, however, was resolved that he should pro-
                      it
 ceed to Cambridge, not in the character of a student,
  but to open classes for teaching mathematics and

                      SAUNDERSON.                    291
natural philosophy. Accordingly, in the year 1707, he
made his appearance in that University, under the
protection of a friend, one of the fellows of Christ's
College.    That Society, with great liberality, imme-
diately allotted him a chamber, admitted him to the
use of their library, and gave him every other accom-
modation they could for the prosecution of his
studies. It is to be recorded, likewise, to the honour
of the eccentric Whiston, who then held the Luca-
sian Professorship of Mathematics in the university,
(a chair in which he had succeeded Sir Isaac Newton,
having been appointed at the express recommenda-
tion of that great man,) that, on Saunderson opening
classes to teach the same branches of science upon
which he had been in the habit of reading lectures, he
not only shewed no jealousy of one whom a less gene-
rous mind might not unnaturally have regarded as a
rival and intruder, but exerted himself, in every way in
his power, to promote his success. Saunderson com-
menced his prelections with Newton's Optics.        The
Newtonian philosophy was as yet only beginning to
attract attention among the learned at Cambridge.
Whiston himself informs us, in that curious produc-
tion called his Memoirs, that his own attention had
been first strongly excited to the Principiaby a paper
written by Dr. Gregory, (nephew of the celebrated
James Gregory, whom we have already mentioned),
when professor at Edinburgh, " wherein," says he,
" he had given the most
                            prodigious commendations
to that work, as not only right in all things, but in a
manner the effect of a plainly divine genius ; and had
already caused several of his scholars to keep Acts,
as we call them, upon several branches of the New-
tonian philosophy ; while we at Cambridge, poor
wretches! were ignominiously studying the fictitious
hypotheses of the Cartesian, which Sir Isaac Ne\vton
                                       2 c 2

292        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
had also himself done formerly, as                I
                                            have heard
him say."
   The subject itself which Saunderson chose, inde-
pendently of the manner in which he treated        was     it,
\vell calculated to attract notice, few things seeming
at first view more extraordinary than that a man who
had been blind almost from his birth should be able
to explain the phenomena and expound the doctrines
of light. The disadvantage under which Saunderson
laboured here, however, was merely that he did not
know experimentally the peculiar nature of the sensa-
tions communicated by the organ of vision.            There
was nothing in this to prevent him from apprehending
perfectly the laws of light     that    moves in straight
                                       it
lines   that it   falls upon surfaces, and         reflected
                                                      is
from them, at equal angles that             itrefracted, or
                                                 is
has its course changed, on passing from one me-
dium into another of different density that rays of
different colours are so refracted in different degrees          ;
and the consequences to which these primary laws
necessarily lead. He was not,         true, able to see the
                                      it
                                      is
 rays, or, rather, to experience the sensation which
 they produce by falling upon the eye but, knowing
                                             ;
 their direction, he could conceive them, or represent
 them, by other lines, palpable to the sense of touch,
 which he did possess. This latter was the way he ge-
 nerally took to make himself acquainted with any geo-
 metrical figure.     He had board, with great number
                            a                    a
 of holes in it, at small and regular distances from each
 other; and on this he easily formed any diagram he
 wished to have before him,      by
                                  merely fixing a few pins
 in the proper places, and extending       piece of twine
                                             a
 over them to represent the lines. In this manner,we are
 told, he formed his figures more readily than another
 could with pen and ink. On the same board he per-
            a
formed his calculations,    by means of    very ingenious
                                            a

                      SAUNDERSON.                  293
method of notation which he had contrived.         The
holes were separated into sets of nine, each set
forming a square, having a hole at each corner,
another at the middle point of each side, and one in
the centre.   It is obvious that in such a figure, one
pin placed at the centre might be made to stand in
any one of eight different positions with reference to
another pin placed on the boundary line of the square ;
and each of these positions might represent, either
to the eye or the touch, a particular number, thus
affording signs for eight of the digits.    Saunderson
used to employ a pin with a larger head for the
central hole; so that even when it stood alone, it
formed a symbol easily distinguishable from any
other.   Lastly, by using two large-headed pins in
one of the positions, instead of one with a large and
another with a small head as usual, he formed a
tenth mark, and so obtained representatives for the
nine digits and the cypher      all the elementary cha-
racters required, as every one knows, in the common
system of notation.     Here, then, were evidently the
means of performing any operation in arithmetic.
   In a description of this contrivance, which we have
from the pen of Mr. Colson, Saunderson's successor
at Cambridge, we are assured that its inventor, in
making use of   it, " could place and displace his pins
with incredible nimbleness and facility, much to the
pleasure and surprise of all the beholders. He could
even break off in the middle of a calculation, and
resume it  when he pleased, and could presently know
the condition of it  by only drawing his fingers gently
over the table."   But Saunderson was also wont to
perform many long operations, both in arithmetic and
algebra, solely by his powerful and admirably disci-
plined memory. And his mind, after having once got
possession of even a very complicated geometrical
figure, would, without the aid of any palpable sym*
                                      2   c   3

294       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
bols, easily retain a perfect conception of all its parts
 and reason upon    it,   or follow any demonstration
of which        might be the subject, as accurately as
if  he hadit it all the while under his eye.    It occa-
sionally cost him some effort, it  was remarked, to im-
print upon his mind, in the first instance, a figure
unusually intricate;    but when this was once done all
his difficulties were over.    He seems indeed to have
made use of sensible representations chiefly in explain-
ing the theorems of science to his pupils. In the print
prefixed to his Algebra he    is  represented discours-
ing upon the geographical and astronomical circles
of the globe by the assistance of an armillary sphere
constructed of wood.       His explanations were always
remarkable for their simplicity and clearness, qualities
which they derived, however, not from any tedious
or unnecessary minuteness by which they were cha-
racterised, but from the skill and judgment with
which he gave prominence to the really important
points of his subject, and directed the attention of
his hearers to the particulars most concerned in its
elucidation.
    His ability and success as teacher continued and
                              a
augmented that crowded attendance of pupils, which,
in the first instance, he had owed perhaps principally
to the mere curiosity of the public.     Every succeed-
 ing University examination afforded additional evi-
 dence of the benefit derived from his prelections.
 His merits, consequently, were not long in being
 appreciated both at Cambridge and among scientific
 men in general.        He obtained the acquaintance
 of Sir Isaac Newton, his veneration for whom was
 repaid by that illustrious philosopher with so much
 regard, that when Whiston was expelled from his chair
 in 1711, Sir Isaac exerted himself with all his in-
 fluence to obtain the vacant situation for Saunderson.
 On this occasion, too, the heads of colleges applied to

                     SAUNDERSON.                     295
the Crown in his behalf to issue a mandate for confer-
ring upon him the degree of Master of Arts, as a ne-
cessary preliminary to his election ; and their request
being complied with, he was appointed to the profes-
sorship. From this time Saunderson gave himself up
almost entirely to his pupils.   Of his future history
we need only relate that he married in 1723, and was
created Doctor of Laws in 1728, on a visit of George
II. to the University, on which occasion he delivered
a Latin oration of distinguished eloquence.     He died
in 1739, in the 57th year of his age, leaving a
son and daughter.
    His constant labours as a teacher had left him but
little time to prepare any thing for the press.     But
an able and well-known treatise on Algebra, which
he had employed his latter years in compiling, ap-
peared in two volumes quarto the year after his death.
With the exception of a work on Fluxions, and a
Latin commentary on Sir Isaac Newton's ' Principia,'
which were printed together several years afterwards,
none of the other papers left by this eminent mathe-
matician have yet been given to the world.
    Saunderson's knowledge of the external world, as
we have already observed, was principally obtained
by his sense of touch, which he possessed in exquisite
perfection.    He could not, however, by this means
distinguish colours, as it has been asserted that blind
men have sometimes done ; and after many efforts he
became convinced that the attempt was quite impos-
sible.    But he would detect counterfeit from genuine
medals with great exactness, even in cases in which
able connoisseurs were deceived.      He always felt a
roughness on the new cast coin, although imperceptible
either to the touch or the eye of others.    His feeling
of the changes of the atmosphere was in like manner,
as might be supposed, extremely delicate.
                                               " I have
been present with him in a garden, making observa-

 296         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
tions on the sun," says the writer of the account of
 his life prefixed to his Algebra, who had been one of
 his intimate friends, " when he has taken notice of
 every cloud that disturbed our observation, almost as
 justly as we could.       He could tell when any thing
 was held near his face, or when he passed by a tree
at no great distance, provided the air was calm, and
little or no wind : these he did by the different pulse
of the air upon his face." His sense of hearing, too,
was exceedingly refined ; and it was thought that he
might have risen to great eminence as a musician, if
his geometrical talents had not withdrawn him to
other pursuits.     He played with great skill on the
flute ; but the principal advantage which he derived
from the accuracy of his ear, was the means it afforded
him, in the absence of a higher sense, of distin-
guishing not only persons by the sound of their
voices, but places, distances, and the different sizes of
rooms, by the echo which they returned of his own
voice or his tread. To such perfection had he car-
ried the art of interpreting these signs, which are so
vague to ordinary observers, because so little noticed
by them, that we are told he scarcely ever was carried
a second time to any place in which he had once been,
without recognizing it.
    Saunderson is not the only blind mathematician on
record.      The writer of his life, whom we have
already quoted, mentions DIODOTUS the Stoic,
DIDYMUS of Alexandria, EUSEBIUS, and NICASIUS DE
VOERDA. Diodotus was the preceptor of Cicero in
Greek literature and geometry, and, as that great
philosopher himself informs us, lived many years in
his house after becoming blind, giving himself to
philosophy more assiduously than ever, and even
continuing to teach geometry ; a thing, says Cicero,
which one would think scarcely possible tor a blind
man to do, yet would he direct his pupils where

                       DIDYMUS.                     297
every line was to be drawn just as exactly as if he
had had the use of his eyes. This was nothing, how-
ever, to what Saunderson did, who directed his pupils
how to draw figures not only which he did not see,
but which he had never seen. Didymus, who flou-
rished in the fourth century, is known only as a
theological writer ; but we are informed by St. Je-
rome, who was his pupil, that although he lost his
sight at five years of age, he distinguished himself
at the school of Alexandria by his proficiency
not merely in grammar, rhetoric, logic, music, and
arithmetic, but in the remaining two of the seven
departments then conceived to constitute the whole
field of human learning, geometry and astronomy,
sciences of which, remarks the narrator, it is scarcely
conceivable how any knowledge should be obtained
without the assistance of the eye.       Didymus, like
 Saunderson, pursued his studies by employing per-
sons to read for him. One of his disciples, Palladius,
remarks, that blindness, which is to others so terrible
 a misfortune, was the greatest of blessings to Didy-
 mus, inasmuch as, by removing from him all objects
 that would have distracted his attention, it left his
 faculties at much greater liberty than they otherwise
 would have been for the study of the sciences.
 Didymus, however, does not seem to have been
 himself altogether of this opinion, since we find it
 recorded, that when St. Anthony, who, attracted by
  the report of his wonderful learning and sanctity, had
  come from the desert to pay him a visit, put to him
  the question, "Are you grieved that you are blind?"
  although it was repeated several times, Didymus
  could not be prevailed upon to return any other
  answer than that he " certainly was,"    greatly to the
  mortification of the Saint, who was astonished that a
  wise man should lament the loss of a faculty which
  we only possess, as he chose to express    it, in com-

298            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
mon with the gnats and ants. The old Greek phi-
losopher, Democritus, who is said by some authors
to have actually put out his eyes in order that he
might the better fit himself for the study of philoso-
phy, would have presented a spectacle more to the
taste   of Anthony.
     The Eusebius mentioned above is not the cele-
brated ecclesiastical historian, but a person of the
same name, described by Cassiodorus as an Asiatic,
and eminent for his learning and his ability as a
teacher, although he had lost his sight at five years
of age, his right eye having become opaque, and his
left being altogether destroyed. NICASIUS DE VOERDA,
or NICAISE OF VOURDE, taught the canon and civil
law in the university of Cologne, in the fifteenth
century, and is said to have possessed extraordinary
erudition both in literature and science, although he
had been blind from his third year.                  He was wont
to quote with great readiness the books of which he
had acquired a knowledge only from having heard
them read by others*.
     To these instances we may add that of the COUNT
DE PAGAN, who was born in the beginning of the
seventeenth century, and has been accounted the
Cither of the modern science of fortification.              Having
    * It was   the example of Nicaise      de Vourde  which excited
 another blind individual, Dr. Nicholas Bacon, to pursue the study
 of the law.    Dr. Blacklock, in the article on the Blind which he
 wrote for the Encyclopaedia Britannica. informs us that he had
 corresponded by letter with this gentleman, who resided in the
 Netherlands, but was, he says, of the same family with the Lord
 Chancellor Bacon.       He lost his sight, when only nine years old,
 by  a wound   from   an arrow ; but, having recovered his health, he
 determined to continue his studies as before, until, as well as
 jSicaise, he should obtain his degree of Doctor of Laws. Accord-
 ingly, having finished his education at school, he proceeded to
 college, where, having greatly distinguished himself, he in due time
 attained the title of which he was so ambitious, and became eventu-
 ally one of the most eminent advocates in tlie council of Brabant.

                   DE PAGAN.     EULER.              299
entered the army at the early age of twelve, he lost
his left eye before he was seventeen, at the siege of
Montauban.      He still, however, pursued his pro-
fession with unabated ardour, and distinguished
himself by many acts of brilliant courage.      At last,
when about to be sent into Portugal with the rank
of Field Marshal, he was seized with an illness,
which deprived him of his remaining eye.             He
was yet only in his thirty-eighth year, and he de-
termined that the misfortunes he had already sus-
tained in the service of his country should not
prevent him from recommencing his public career
in a new character. He had always been attached
to mathematics, and he now devoted himself assi-
duously to the prosecution of his favourite study,
with a view principally to the improvement of the
science of fortification, for which his great experi-
ence in the field particularly fitted him.   During the
twenty years after this which he passed in a state
of total blindness, he gave a variety of publications
to the world; among which may be mentioned, besides
his well-known and largest work, on Fortification,
his ' Geometrical Theorems,' and his ' Astronomical
Tables.'    He is also the author of a rare book called
'
  An Historical and Geographical Account of the
River of the Amazons,' which is remarkable as con-
taining a chart asserted to have been made by him
self after he was blind.     It is said not to be very
correct, although a wonderful production for such
an artist.
   The distinguished mathematician, EULEK, was
struck with blindness in his fifty-ninth year, his sight
having fallen a sacrifice to his indefatigable applica-
tion.    He had literally written and calculated him-
self blind. Yet after this misfortune he continued
to calculate, and to dictate books, at least, if not to
 write them, as actively as ever.     His ' Elements of

300         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Algebra,' a work that has been translated into every
language of Europe, was dictated by him when blind
to an amanuensis, who was only a tailor's appren-
tice; but who, though altogether unacquainted with
algebra 'when he began his task, is said to have ac-
quired a complete knowledge of that science in the
course of merely taking down what Euler spoke,
with such admirable clearness and simplicity is the
work composed. His Algebra was followed by several
other most ingenious and elaborate works, among
which particularly deserve to be mentioned his ' New
Theory of the Moon's Motions,' and the Tables by
which it was accompanied,           the computation   of
which, by a person in Euler's situation, not only de-
prived of sight, but harassed by other misfortunes,
(for while he was engaged on this work, his house
was burned to the ground by a fire, from which he
narrowly escaped with his life,) cannot but be re-
garded as one of the most wonderful triumphs ever
achieved by the energy of mind over the opposition of
circumstances. But Euler affords us in every way the
most remarkable example on record of activity in sci-
entific labours.   The mere catalogue which has been
published of his works extends to fifty printed pages.
 " It may be asserted, without exaggeration," says
Lacroix*, " that he composed more than one-half of
the mathematical memoirs contained in the forty-six
quarto volumes which the academy of Petersburg
published from 1727 to 1783 ; and he left at his
 death about a hundred memoirs ready for the press,
 which the same academy inserts successively in the
 volumes it still continues to give to the world.    In
 addition to this immense mass of productions, he
 composed various separate works, extremely im-
 portant in respect of the subjects of which they treat,
 and many of them of considerable magnitude.         He
                 *  Biographic Universelle.

                         MOYES.                       301
likewise greatly enriched the collections of the aca-
demy of Berlin, during the twenty-five years which
he passed in that city. He presented several memoirs
to the Academy of Sciences of Paris, the prizes
offered by which he ten times succeeded in carrying
or dividing ; nor did he disdain to contribute to the
transactions of less illustrious associations of the
learned.     In fine, it requires the incontrovertible
evidence of facts to convince us that so many labours
can all have been performed by one man, who passed
the last seventeen years of his life in a state of blind-
ness."     As a proof that even this statement rather
underrates than exaggerates the amazing industry and
fertility of Euler, we may just add, that, in the list
of his works already referred to, there are enume-
rated, of separate publications alone, twenty-nine
volumes quarto, and two octavo, in Latin ; one
volume quarto, and six octavo, in German ; and
five volumes octavo, in French.
     We may mention still another, though certainly a
very inferior name, that of the late Dr. HENRY
MOVES.      Moyes was born at Kirkaldy, in Fifeshire,
and lost his sight by small-pox before he was three
years old, so that he scarcely retained in after-life
 any recollection of having ever seen.      Yet he used
to say, that he remembered having once observed a
 water-mill in motion ; and it is characteristic of the
 tendencies of his mind, that even at that early age
 his attention was attracted by the circumstance of
 the water flowing in one direction, while the wheel
 (having been what is called an undershot wheel)
 turned round in the opposite, a mystery on which he
 reflected for some time before he could comprehend
 it.  Blind as he was, he distinguished himself when
 a boy, by his proficiency in all the usual branches
 of a literary education. But " mechanical exercises,''
 says Mr. Bew, who has given a short account of him
                                           2 D

   302        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  in the first volume of the ' Memoirs of the Literary
  and Philosophical Society of Manchester,' " were the
  favourite employments of his infant years. At a very
  early age he made himself acquainted with the use
  of edged tools so perfectly, that, notwithstanding his
 entire blindness, he was able to make little wind-
 mills ; and he even constructed a loom with his own
 hands, which still shew the cicatrices of wounds he
 received in the execution of these juvenile exploits."
 Besides a knowledge of the ancient languages, and
 of music, he is stated by Mr. Bew, who became ac-
 quainted with him about the year 1782, to have made
 himself extensively conversant with Algebra and
 Geometry, and with Chemistry, Mechanics, Optics,
Astronomy, and the other departments of Natural
 Science.    At this time he was engaged in deliver-
 ing lectures on Chemistry and Natural Philosophy
in the different large towns throughout the country.
 He used to perform all his experiments, we are told,
with his own hands, and with extraordinary neatness.
Moyes possessed all that extreme delicacy in the
senses of touch and hearing for which the blind have
usually been remarkable.      We have been told, that
having been one day accosted in the street by a
young friend whom he had not met with for a good
many years, his instant remark, on hearing his voice,
was, how much taller you have grown since we
last met ! When first brought into a company,
his custom was to remain silent for a short time,
until by the sound of the different voices he had
made himself acquainted with the size of the
room, and the number of persons in it.          He was
then quite at his ease, readily distinguished one
speaker from another, and shone greatly himself by
his powers of conversation.      Although at that time
not in affluent circumstances, and having indeed no-
thing to depend upon except the very precarious

                       MOYES.                      303
occupation to which he had betaken himself, he was
remarkable for his cheerfulness and buoyant spirits.
He contrived for himself a system of palpable arith-
metic, on a different principle from that of Saun-
derson, and possessing the advantage in point of
 neatness and simplicity.   An explanation of it may
 be found in a letter from himself, inserted in the
 '
   Encyclopaedia Britannica' under the article Blind.
 Dr. Moyes, who must have been a person of extra-
ordinary mental endowments, and who affords us
certainly,  next to Saunderson, the most striking
example on record of attainments in the Mathe-
matics, made without any assistance from the eye,
received his degree from a college in America, in
which country he lectured for some years. He
eventually made in this way a good deal of money;
and some time before his death had retired to the
town of Pittenweem, not far from his native place,
where his society was much courted.       His lectures
are said to have been well delivered, and his expla-
nations were eminently perspicuous.      It has been
reported that he could distinguish colours by the
touch; but as this circumstance is not mentioned
in his friend Dr. Blacklock's article just referred
to, we may fairly assume that he did not himself
pretend to the possession of any such power.
                                    2 D 2

                         CHAPTER       XVIII.
Difficulties occasioned by Blindness conquered.        Homer; Milton;
   Salinas ; Stanley ; Metcalf ; Henry the Minstrel ; Scapinelli ; Black-
   lock ; Anna Williams; Huber.
MATHEMATICAL investigation is, strictly speaking,
merely a mental exercise, and it is certainly con-
ceivable that every theorem man has yet demon-
strated in abstract science might have been discovered
by him without the aid of his external senses.                     But,
on the other hand, every operation of mind is so
greatly facilitated by the employment of sensible
symbols, and especially the processes of acquiring,
apprehending, and recollecting knowledge, as well as
of pursuing long and intricate calculations or deduc-
tions, receive such important assistance from those
lines, figures, letters, and other marks which may
be made to present the record of every thought
faithfully to the eye, that we are justified in quoting
any remarkable case of progress, even in abstract
science, attained without the aid of this invalua-
ble organ, as a noble example of what persever-
ance may accomplish in the face of the most formi-
dable difficulties.        It is much even for the mind to
rise superior to so crushing a calamity as the loss of
 sight, and to maintain or recover its spirit of exertion
under a deprivation which may be said to take from
 it for ever that which nature has appointed to be at
 once the chief helpmate and best sweetener of its
 labours.       It would seem almost as if life could
 scarcely continue desirable to him whose hourly

                               HOMER.                     305
 thought may he expressed, in the language, familiar
 to all, of Milton's beautiful and pathetic lamenta-,
  tion :
                       "          with the year
         Seasons return ; but not to me returns
         Day, or the sweet approach of even or morn,
         Or sight of vernal bloom, or summer's rose,
         Or flocks, or herds, or human face divine ;
         But cloud instead, and ever-during dark
         Surrounds me, from the cheerful ways of men
         Cut off, and, for the book of knowledge fair,
         Presented with a universal blank
         Of Nature's works, to me expunged and rased."
 What an attestation          to the medicinal value of intel-
 lectual labour, that it has so often cheered even such
 desolation as this ! and how strong must be the
 natural love of knowledge in the human mind, that
even in the midst of such impediments to its gratifi-
cation it has in so many instances so eagerly sought
and so largely attained its end ! After the examples
we have mentioned of individuals who in this state
of blindness have distinguished themselves by their
eminence in the severest exercises of the mind, it may
be thought less surprising that others should, in the
^ame condition, have devoted themselves with suc-
cess to pursuits of a less laborious character, and not
so rigorously taxing the attention and the memory.
Poetry and music, for example, may be deemed the
especially appointed occupations of the blind, as
having their subject and their materials chiefly in the
imagination and the affections, and being apparently
better fitted to dispense with the aid of visible sym-
bols than the intricate reasonings and calculations of
science. Yet even poetry owes much of its inspiration
to the eye wandering in freedom over nature; and
more to that serenity and gladness of the soul, which
so heavy an affliction as the loss of sight is apt to
                                                2 D 3

306             THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
destroy or impair.  Whosoever, therefore, suffering
under this doom, shall not
                                            jot
                                        bate a
          Of heart or hope; but still bear up and steer
          Right onward,"
be the  healing and strengthening toils in which he
exercises his spirit those of science or of song, still
presents us with an example of heroic wisdom well
worthy of our admiration.
   It seems to have been the tradition of Greece that
the Iliad and Odyssey were both composed by HOMER
after he was blind, although, of course, from mate-
rials which he had collected before that misfortune
befel him ; for it is very evident that the author of
these poems must, at one time of his life, have sur-
veyed whatever was most interesting that the world
had at that early age to shew, with no dim or unob-
servant eye.    But of Homer, in truth, we know
nothing. The origin of the Iliad and the Odyssey
is the most perplexing problem in literature ; and
 Homer must, in all probability, ever remain to us a
 mere name.    The poems themselves are Homer, and
 perhaps there never was another.    But if
           "    Blind Thamyris, and blind Maeonides,
                And Tiresias, and Phineus, prophets old,"
instead of being fablers themselves, were merely the
creations of other fablers, the Poet of Paradise at least
uttered his harmonious numbers in darkness,            as
he himself expresses            it,
         " In   darkness,   and with dangers compass'd   round."
MILTON      supposed to have been in the fifty-fourth
                is
year of his age when he commenced the composition
of his immortal  epic, although the high theme had
doubtless for some time before occupied his thoughts.

                              MILTON.                       307
 At this period of his life       he was quite blind, having
 lost his sight, which had early begun to decay, during
 the composition of his famous ' Defence of the People
 of England,' in answer to Salmasius. He felt the
 calamity that was coming upon him while occupied
 with this work, but the apprehension did not induce
 him even to relax his labours ; and after the foreseen
event had occurred, we find him, in one of his ma-
jestic strains, consoling himself under the extinction
of his sight by the thought of the cause in which he
had sacrificed it :
                 " What supports me, dost them ask ?
        The conscience, friend, to have lost them overplied
        In liberty's defence, my noble task,
        Whereof all Europe rings from side to side."
    Paradise Lost was probably only the work of three
 or four years, since there is reason to believe that it
 was completed in 1665, although not published
till 1667.       But this poem, as is well known, was
not the only fruit of the noble intellect of Milton,
while bearing up against the accumulated pressure of
disease, old age, and the
                                " evil days " on which he had
fallen. Beside a mass of philological labours of extra-
ordinary magnitude, and several political tracts, which
 in ;/loquence and power are scarcely surpassed by
 anything he had written in the vigour of life and
 health, we owe to the blind old man the Paradise
 Regained, and the Samson Agonistes, the not un-
 worthy companions of his grander song. We cannot
 mourn over the sightless orbs of Milton ; he could
 not have done greater things than he did in his
blindness :
                 "          Samson hath quit himself
        Like Samson, and heroically hath finished
        A   life heroic
        Nothing is here for tears, nothing to wail,
        Or knock the breast ; no weakness, no contempt,
        Dispraise or blame; nothing but well and fair."

303        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
   The Spanish musician, FRANCIS         SALINAS, wha
flourished in the sixteenth century, was born blind.
Nevertheless, he early distinguished himself by his
proficiency, not only in music, but in the ancient
languages and in science.     This blind man event-
ually became Professor of Music in the University of
Salamanca ; and he published an able work in Latin
on the theory of his favourite science. We had in
later times, in our own country, an eminent example
of musical attainments made in similarcir cumstances
to those of Salinas.     JOHN STANLEY was born in
London in 1713, and lost his eyesight, when only
two years old, by a fall. In this condition he applied
himself with such extraordinary success to the study
of music, that in his eleventh year he was chosen
organist to the church of Allhallows, in Bread-
street, and two years afterwards obtained the same
situation in the church of St. Andrew, Holborn,
although opposed by many other candidates.       From
this he went, in 1734, to the Temple Church, having
already, when only sixteen, taken his degree of
Bachelor of Music, at Oxford. Mr. Stanley died in
1786, after having for many years stood at the head
of the practitioners of sacred music in England.
The names of other distinguished musical composers,
who were either born blind or became so in early
infancy, might be added to these.
   Nor is music the only one of the fine arts in which
the blind have excelled.   We read of a sculptor who
became blind at twenty years of age, and yet ten
years afterwards made a statue of Pope Urban
VIII. in clay, and another of Cosmo II. of Flo-
rence, of marble. Another blind sculptor is men-
tioned by Roger de Piles, in one of his works on
painting ; he executed a marble statue of our
Charles I. with great taste and accuracy. Nor ought
we to be surprised at this dexterity, if we may believe

                 EXTRAORDINARY      CASES.            309
 what is told us of a young French lady, who lost
 her sight in her second year, and of whose marvellous
 accomplishments we have an account in the Annual
 Register for 1762. This lady is said, notwithstand-
 ing her blindness, to have been an excellent player
at cards, a ready and elegant writer, and even to
have been able to read written characters.            On
 sitting down to play at cards, she first went over
 the pack, marking every one of the fifty-two cards
by so slight an indentation, as scarcely to be percep-
tible to any one else on the closest inspection, but
which, nevertheless, she herself, by the delicacy of
her touch, instantly recognised. She then proceeded
without difficulty, only requiring, of course, that every
card should be named as it was played.        In writing
she used a sharp and hard-pointed pencil, which
marked the paper so as to enable her to read what
she had written with her finger-ends.        All this, it
must be confessed, seems very like a fiction ; but
it is, perhaps, scarcely so wonderful as what is told
of an English lady, who was examined by several
eminent physicians, and among others by Sir Hans
 Sloane.      She had been deprived by disease, not
only of her sight but of her powers of speech and
 hearing, so that there remained only the organs of
 touch, taste, and smell, by which she could hold
 communication       with others.    Deaf, dumb, and
 blind as she was, however, she yet in course of
 time learned to converse with her friends by means of
 an alphabet made by their hands or fingers pressed in
 different ways upon her's. She very soon also acquired
 the power of writing with great neatness and exact-
 ness, and used to sit up in bed, we are told, at any
 hour of the night, either to write or to work, when she
  felt herself indisposed to sleep.  We shall feel what
 an invaluable possession the knowledge of writing
  must have been to this individual, when we reflect,

310,       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
that on first being reduced to the state of deplorable
helplessness which she afterwards found admitted of
so many alleviations, nothing but the power she still
retained of scrawling a few words, which yet she
could not discern, could have enabled her at all to
communicate her wishes or feelings to those around
her. But for this power it would seem that she must
have been for ever shut out from even the most
imperfect intercourse with her species ; for it was
through it alone that she could intimate to them the
meaning she wished to be assigned to each of the
different palpable signs which constituted her alphabet.
With this instrument of communication, the arrange-
ment would be easily effected ; it would otherwise
have been impracticable. We have abundant reason to
set a high value on the art of writing, but to this
person it was invaluable.      To us it is the most use-
ful of all the arts ; to her it was the means of resto-
ration to life from a state of exclusion, almost as
complete as that of the grave.
   But perhaps the most singular instance on record
of a blind person triumphing over those difficulties of
his situation, which are apparently most insuperable,
is afforded in JOHN METCALF ,or, as he was com-
monly called, Blind Jack, a well-known character,
who died only a few years ago.        This person was a
native of Manchester or the neighbourhood,           and
Mr. Bew has given an account of him in the
paper we have already quoted.       After telling us that
he became blind at a very early age, so as to be
entirely ignorant of light and its various effects,
the narrative proceeds as follows:          "This man
passed the younger part of his life as a waggoner,
and occasionally as a guide in intricate roads during
the night, or when the tracks were covered with
snow.     Strange as this may appear to those who
can see, the employment he has since undertaken is

                      JOHN METCALF.                         311
 still more extraordinary ; it is one of the last to
 which we could suppose a blind man would ever turn
 his attention. His present occupation is that of pro-
jector and surveyor of highways in difficult and
 mountainous parts.        With the assistance only of a
 long staff,    I have several times met this man tra-
versing the roads, ascending precipices, exploring
valleys, and investigating their several extents, forms,
and situations, so as to answer his designs in the
best manner.       The plans which he designs, and the
estimates he makes, are done in a method peculiar
to himself, and which he cannot well convey the
meaning of to others.          His abilities in this respect
are nevertheless so great, that he finds constant em-
ployment.       Most of the roads over the Peak in Der-
byshire have been altered by his directions, particu-
larly those in the vicinity of Buxton ; and he is at
this time constructing a new one betwixt Wilmslow
and Congleton, with a view to open a communication
to the great London road, without being obliged to
pass over the mountains."         Mr. Bew adds in a note,
" Since this paper was written, and had the honour
of being delivered to the Society,           I  have met this
blind projector of the roads, who was alone as usual,
and amongst other conversation,            I made some en-
quiries concerning this new road.               It was really
astonishing to hear with what accuracy he described
the courses and the nature of the different soils
through which it was conducted. Having mentioned
 to him a boggy piece of ground it passed through,
 he observed, that ' that was the only place he had
 doubts concerning ; and that he was apprehensive
 they had, contrary to his directions, been too sparing
 of their materials.' " *
    We will mention, in conclusion, only a very few
 others of the blind who have distinguished them-
    * Memoirs of the Literary and Philosophical Society of Man-
chester, vol. i.

312        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
selves   in literature.   The Scotch poet, commonly
known by the name of HENRY the Minstrel, better
known as " Blind Harry," who has left, a poem
in  the dialect   of his country on   the   achievements
of Sir William    Wallace,  was  born blind. In addi-
tion to his poetical powers, which are consider-
able, he seems to have possessed a knowledge of
Latin and French, as well as of the principal sciences
cultivated in his time.    His work shews him to have
had some acquaintance in particular           both with
divinity and astronomy.         He flourished about the
middle of the fifteenth century ; and John Major,
the historian, in whose youth he was still alive, tells
us, that he was wont to recite his verses at the feasts
of the nobility, " obtaining in that manner," he
adds, " his food and raiment, of which he was well
worthy."     Henry's work long continued a popular
favourite in Scotland, and is still very generally
read in a modernised form.       The Italian poet SCA-
PINELLI, who was born at Modena in 1585, was also
blind from his birth. He held a professor's chair
successively at Bologna, Modena, and Pisa ; and
having then been recalled to occupy the place of
Chief Professor of Eloquence, on which he had
long set his heart, in the first of these Universities,
died there in the forty-ninth year of his age.      Sca-
pinelli, beside several prose compositions, wrote
verses both in Italian and Latin ; and all his works
are distinguished, not only by their learning, but by
a purity and elegance of diction, rare at the time
when he flourished.        He was accounted, indeed,
one of the most finished scholars of his day.
   Nor must we forget here the well-known name of
the Rev. Dr. BLACKLOCK.          He was born at the
town of Annan, in Dumfries-shire, in 1721.         When
no more than six months old he was reduced to a
state of complete blindness by small pox.         To one
in his circumstances this was a peculiarly heavy

                      BLACKLOCK.                     313
calamity ; for his father was only a poor working
mason, with several other children to provide for,
and but little in a condition, therefore, to sustain the
burden of a son, not only left more than usually de-
pendent upon him during childhood, but seemingly
unfitted for ever taking care of himself.     But never
were the duties of a father more admirably fulfilled
than by this excellent man in his humble estate.
His poor blind boy was the object of an unceasing
tenderness and care, which, not satisfied with provid-
ing for the supply of his bodily wants, left nothing un-
done that could contribute either to improve or amuse
his mind, and so make up to him, as far as possible,
for his melancholy deprivation.       He delighted es-
pecially to spend his leisure hours in reading to
him ; and finding him fond of poetry, he procured
as many of the works of our English poets
as he could, and thus nourished in him a passion
which afterwards became one of the chief consola-
tions of his life.  In this way young Blacklock be-
came a versifier himself at a very early age, some
of his poems, which were afterwards published, being
dated in his twelfth year.    He had before this, how-
ever, been sent to school, where, in the course of
time, he became a tolerable proficient in the common
branches of education, and even made considerable
progress in the knowledge of the Latin language.
He was very much indebted, in making these at-
tainments, to the assistance of his schoolfellows, to
all of whom his gentle and yet lively and playful
disposition, as well as his helplessness, greatly en-
deared him. At last, however, in his nineteenth
year, he lost his inestimable father.   Helpless as he
was, and rendered more so than he would otherwise
have been from the very excess of care he had here-
tofore experienced, he was now left apparently with-
out a friend on earth from whom he could expect a
                                          2 E

314        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
continuation of the attentions he so much needed ;
and the prospect before him was us gloomy as it is
possible to imagine.    He has expressed the feelings
with which he looked forward to the future at this
time in some very pathetic verses, which are to be
found among his printed poems.          He was not,
however, left long without a protector. His case hav-
ing reached the ear of Dr. Stephenson, one of the
Medical Professors in the University of Edinburgh,
that gentleman generously invited him to come to the
Scottish metropolis, where he engaged to find him
the means of pursuing his studies at College. Black-
lock gladly accepted this liberal offer.     While in
Edinburgh, he availed himself with eagerness of
every opportunity of improvement which presented
itself.  Thus, for instance, he acquired a familiarity
with the French language, by conversing with a lady
of his acquaintance, who was a native of France.
When he had been a few years at the University, he
published, at the suggestion of his friends, a volume
of poems ; and this attracted to him the more general
notice of the literary world.   Among others whose
attention was drawn to the productions of the blind
poet was Mr. Spence, Professor of Poetry at Oxford,
who published a critical review of them, accompanied
by a sketch of their author's history, w^hich had a
great effect in making him more extensively known.
In the meanwhile, Blacklock continued his studies
at Edinburgh, until he had finished the usual
course of education prescribed to candidates for the
 ministry in the Scotch Church, which occupied
 him ten years.    In 1754 a second edition of his
 poems was published by subscription ; and having
 been a few years afterwards licenced by the Presby-
 tery as a preacher, he was inducted to the church of
 Kirkcudbright, on the presentation of the Earl of
 Selkirk.   So much opposition, however, was made

                    MISS WILLIAMS.                   315
by the inhabitants of the place to this arrangement
for giving1 them a blind clergyman, that Blacklock
was soon induced to resign his appointment for a
small annuity.     With this provision he returned to
Edinburgh ; and being now married, opened an esta-
blishment for receiving boarders, whose studies he
proposed to superintend.     In this occupation, and in
a variety of literary pursuits, he spent his remaining
life, and died at Edinburgh in 1791.         He had re-
ceived the degree of Doctor of Divinity in 1766, and
may be said to have eventually attained a highly
respectable place among the literary characters of his
time, although his poetry does not indicate a great deal
of power. He possessed, however, we are told, won-
derful facility in verse-making, and used sometimes
to dictate thirty or forty verses to his friends almost
as fast as they could be written down.      His chief en-
joyments were conversation and music ; and although
not unvisited by occasional depression of spirits, he
was generally cheerful, and seemed, indeed, to enjoy
life as much upon the whole as any of his friends
whom nature had more bountifully endowed.            One
of the most interesting of Dr. Blacklock's productions
is his paper, to which we have already more than
once referred, on the Blind, in the Encyclopedia
 Britannica.    He produced, also, a few other per-
 formances in prose of greater extent.
    At this time, too, lived a female writer of verses,
 who was also blind, Miss ANNA WILLIAMS. This
 lady came to London in 1730, when only twenty-
 four years of age, with her father, a Welsh sur-
 geon, who had given up his profession in conse-
 quence of imagining that he had discovered a
 method of finding the longitude at sea, which would
 make his fortune.     After many etforts, however, to
 obtain the patronage of Government for his scheme,
 and having exhausted his resources, he was obliged to
                                        2 E 2

  316       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 take  refuge in the Charter-house.       His daughter,
 who had been liberally educated, and had at first
 mixed in all the gaieties of the metropolis, was now
 obliged to support both him and herself by working
 at her needle.     But after struggling in this way
 for some years, she lost her sight by a cataract.
 Her situation, it might be imagined, was now both
 helpless and hopeless in the extreme ; but a strong
 mind enabled her to rise above her calamity.      She
 not only continued the exercise of her needle, we are
 told, with as much activity and skill as ever, but
 never suffering her spirits to droop, distinguished
herself just as she had been used to do, by the neat-
ness of her dress, and preserved all her old attach-
ment to literature.    In 1746, after she had been six
years blind, she published a translation from the
French of La Bleterie's ' Life of the Emperor
Julian.' Her father having some time after this met
with Dr. Johnson, told him his story, and in men-
tioning his daughter, gave so interesting an account
of her, that the Doctor expressed himself desirous
of making her acquaintance, and eventually invited
her to reside in his house as a companion to his wife.
Mrs. Johnson died soon after; but Miss Williams
continued to reside with the Doctor till her death, in
1783, at the age of 77.     In 1752 an attempt was
made to restore her sight by the operation of couch-
ing, but without success.     We find her father pub-
lishing, three years later, an account of his method
for discovering the longitude ; and about the same
time, Garrick gave the daughter a benefit at Drury
Lane, which produced her two hundred pounds.
Miss \\ illiams also appeared again as an authoress,
in 1766, when she published a volume, entitled,
'
   Miscellanies in Prose and Verse,' written partly by
herself, and partly by several of her friends.
    One of the most ingenious and original works ever
written upon the habits and natural history of insects,

                        M. HUBER.                       317
is the ' Recherches sur les Abeilles' of M. HUBER, of
Geneva, who had been reduced to a state of complete
blindness, by gutta serena, at the age of seventeen.
He was assisted in his observations by his wife, an
admirable woman, who made it the business of her
life to contrive the means of alleviating her husband's
misfortune, and for whom, indeed, it has been said,
he was indebted chiefly to his blindness ; as although
an attachment had existed between them previously,
the lady's friends were, so much opposed to the
match, that she would probably have been induced
to listen to the addresses of another suitor, had not
Huber's helpless condition awakened a sympathy she
could not resist, and determined her, at all hazards,
to unite herself to him.      Madame Ducrest, who, in
her late Memoirs of the Empress Josephine, relates
this anecdote, knew M. Huber and his wife; and
nothing, she assures us, could exceed either the un-
wearied attention of the latter to every wish and
feeling of her husband, or the happiness which, not-
withstanding his blindness, he seemed in consequence
to enjoy.     During the war, we are told, Madame
 Huber used to put her husband in possession of the
movements of the armies by arranging squadrons of
pins on a map, in such a manner as to represent the
different bodies of troops.       A method was also in-
 vented by which he was enabled to write; and his
 wife used to form plans of the towns they inhabited,
 in relief, for him to study by the touch.         In short,
 so many ways did her affection find of gladdening
 his darkened existence, that he was wont to declare
 he should be miserable were he to cease to be blind.
    I
 " should not know," said he, " to what extent a
 person in my situation could be beloved ; besides, to
 me my wife is always young, fresh, and pretty, which
 is no light matter*."
                * Memoires sur Josephine, torn. i.
                                            2 E 3

                      CHAPTER     XIX.
               Account of James Brindley;   Canals.
JAMES BRINDLEY, the celebrated engineer, was en-
tirely self-taught in even the rudiments of mechanical
science,     although, unfortunately, we are not in pos-
session   of any very minute details of the manner in
which his powerful genius first found its way to the
knowledge of those laws of nature of which it after-
wards made so many admirable applications. He was
born at Tunsted, in the parish of Wormhill, Derby-
shire, in the year 1716 ; and all we know of the first
seventeen years of his life,     is,
                                 that his father having
reduced himself to extreme poverty by his dissipated
habits, he was allowed to grow up almost totally un-
educated, and, from the time he was able to do any
thing, was employed in the ordinary descriptions of
country labour.    To the end of his life this great
genius was barely able to read on any very press-
ing occasion for, generally speaking, he would no
              ;
more have thought of looking into a book for any
information he wanted, than of seeking for           in    it
the heart of   amillstone    and his knowledge of the
                             :
art of writing hardly extended farther than the ac-
complishment of signing his name.        It probable, is
that as he grew towards manhood, he began to feel
himself created for higher things than driving a cart
or following plough and we may even venture to
              a          ;
conjecture, that the particular bias of his genius to-

                        BRINDLEY.                     319
  wards mechanical invention had already disclosed
  itself, when, at the age of seventeen, he bound him-
  self apprentice to a person of the name of Bennet, a
  millwright, residing at Macclesfiekl, which was but
 a few miles from his native place.     At all events, it
  is certain that he almost immediately displayed a
 wonderful natural aptitude for the profession he had
 chosen.    " In the early part of his apprenticeship,"
                                    '
 says the writer of his life in the Biographia Britan-
 nica,' who was supplied with the materials of his
 article by Mr. Henshall, Brindley's brother-in-law,
 " he was frequently left by himself for whole weeks
 together, to execute works concerning which his
 master had given him no previous instructions. These
works, therefore, he finished in his own way ; and
Mr. Bennet was often astonished at the improve-
ments his apprentice from time to time introduced
into the millwright business, and earnestly questioned
him from whom he had gained his knowledge.           He
had not been long at the trade, before the millers,
wherever he had been employed, always chose him
again in preference to the master, or any other work-
man ; and before the expiration of his servitude, at
which time Mr. Bennet, who was advanced in years,
grew unable to work, Mr. Brindley, by his ingenuity
and application, kept up the business with credit,
and even supported the old man and his family in u
comfortable manner."
     His master, indeed, from all that we hear of him,
does not appear to have been very capable of teaching
him much of any thing ; and Brindley seems to have
been left to pick up his knowledge of the business in
the best way he could, by his own observation and
sagacity. Bennet having been employed on one occa-
sion, we are told.to build the machinery of a paper mill,
which he had never seen in his life, took a journey to
a distant part of the country expressly for the pur-

320'        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
pose of inspecting one which might serve him for a
model.     However, he had made his observations, it
would seem, to very little purpose ; for, having re-
turned home and fallen to work, he could make
nothing of the business at all, and was only be-
wildering himself, when a stranger, who understood
 something of such matters, happening one day to see
what he was about, felt no scruple in remarking in
 the neighbourhood that the man was only throwing
away his employer's money. The reports which in
 consequence got abroad soon reached the ears of
Brindley, who had been employed on the machinery
 under the directions of his master. Having probably
 of himself begun ere this to suspect that all was not
 right, his suspicions were only confirmed by what
 he heard ; but aware how unlikely it was that his
 master would be able to explain matters, or even to
 assist him in getting out of his difficulties, he did not
 apply to him. On the contrary, he said nothing to
 any one ; but, waiting till the work of the week was
 over, set out by himself one Saturday evening to see
 the mill which his master had already visited.        He
 accomplished his object, and was back to his work
 by Monday morning, having travelled the whole
journey of fifty miles on foot. Perfectly master now
 of the construction of the mill, he found no difficulty
 in going on with his undertaking ; and completed
 the machine, indeed, not only so as perfectly to satisfy
 the proprietor, but with several improvements on his
 model, of his own contrivance.
    After remaining some years with Bennet, he set
 up in business for himself.    With the reputation he
 had already acquired, his entire devotion to his pro-
 fession, and the wonderful talent for mechanical in-
 vention, of which almost every piece of machinery he
constructed gave evidence, he could not fail to suc-
ceed.    But for some time, of course, he was known

                        BRINDLEY.                    321
only in the neighbourhood of the place where he
lived.    His connexions, however, gradually became
more and more extensive ; and at length he began
to undertake engineering in all its branches.        He
distinguished himself greatly in 1752, by the erection
of a water-engine for draining a coal-mine at Clifton
in Lancashire.     The great difficulty in this case,
was to obtain a supply of water for working the
engine ; this he brought through a tunnel of six
hundred yards in length, cut in the solid rock.        It
would appear, however, that his genius was not yet
quite appreciated as it deserved to be, even by those
who employed him.         He was in some sort an in-
truder into his present profession, for which he had
not been regularly educated ; and it was natural
enough that, before his great powers had had an op-
portunity of showing themselves, and commanding the
universal admiration of those best qualified to judge
of them, he should have been conceived by many to be
rather a merely clever workman in a few particular
departments, than one who could be safely entrusted
with the entire management and superintendence of
a complicated design. In 1755 it was determined to
erect a new silk-mill at Congleton, in Cheshire ; and
another person having been appointed to preside over
the execution of the work, and to arrange the more
 intricate combinations,     Brindley was engaged to
 fabricate the larger wheels and other coarser parts
 of the apparatus. It soon became manifest, however,
 in this instance, that the superintendant was unfit
 for his office; and the proprietors were obliged to
 apply to Brindley to remedy several blunders into
 which he had fallen, and give his advice as to how
 the work should be proceeded in.     Still they did not
 deem it proper to dismiss their incapable projector ;
 but, the pressing difficulty overcome, would have had
  him by whose ingenuity they had been enabled to

322        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
get over   it,
             to return to his subordinate place, and
work under the directions of the same superior.
This Brindley positively refused to do. He told
them he was ready,    if  they would merely let him
know what they wished the machine to perform, to
apply his best endeavours to make      it   answer that
purpose, and that he had no doubt he should succeed   ;
but he would not submit to be superintended by a
person whom he had discovered to be quite igno-
rant of the business he professed.        This at once
brought about    a   proper arrangement of matters.
Brindley's services could not be dispensed with       ;
those of the pretender, who had been set over him,
might be so, without much disadvantage. The entire
management of the work, therefore, was forthwith
confided to the former, who completed        it,with his
usual ability, in a superior manner.       He not only
made important improvements,         indeed, in many
parts of the machine itself, but even in the mode of
preparing the separate pieces of which      itwas to be
composed. His ever-active genius was constantly dis-
playing itself by the invention of the most beautiful
and economical simplifications.   One of these was    a
method which he contrived for cutting all his tooth
and pinion wheels by machinery, instead of having
them done by the hand, as they always till then had
been.   This invention enabled him to finish as much
of that sort of work in one day as had formerly been
accomplished in fourteen.
   But the character of this man's mind was compre-
hensiveness and grandeur of conception and he had
                                         ;
not yet found any adequate field tor the display of
his vast ideas and almost inexhaustible powers of
execution. Happily, however, this was at last afforded
him, by the commencement of       a   series of under-
takings in this country, which deserved!} rank among
the achievements of modern enterprise and mechani-

                          BRINDLEY.                    323
  cal skill  ; and which were destined, within no long;
 period, to change the whole aspect of the internal
 commerce of the island.
     Artificial water-roads, or canals, were well known
 to the ancients. Without transcribing all the learning
 that has been collected upon the subject, and may
 be found in any of the common treatises, we may
 merely state that the Egyptians had early effected a
junction by this means between the Red Sea and the
Mediterranean; that both the Greeks and the Romans
attempted to cut a canal across the Isthmus of Co-
rinth ; and that the latter people actually cut one in
Britain from the neighbourhood of Peterborough to
that of Lincoln, some traces of which are still discern-
ible. Canal navigation is also of considerable antiquity
in China. The greatest work of this description in
the world is the Imperial Canal of that country, which
is two hundred feet broad, and, commencing at Pekin,
extends southward, to the distance of about nine
hundred miles.         It is supposed to have been con
structed about eight centuries ago ; but there are a great
many smaller works of the same kind in the country,
many of which are undoubtedly much older.             The
Chinese are unacquainted, as were also the ancients,
with the contrivance called a lock, by means of which
different levels are connected in many of our modern
 European canals, and which, as probably all our
readers know, is merely a small intermediate space,
 in which the water can be kept at the same elevation
 as either part of the channel, into which the boat is
 admitted by the opening of one floodgate, and from
 which it is let out by the opening of another, after
 the former has been shut ; the purpose being thus at-
 tained, of floating it onwards, without any greater waste
 of water than the quantity required to alter the level
 of the enclosed space. When locks are not employed,
 the canal must be either of uniform level throughout,

324         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
or it must consist of a succession of completely sepa-
rated portions of water-way, from one to the other of
which the boat is carried on an inclined plane, or by
some other mechanical contrivance.
   Canals have also been long in use in several       of
the countries of modern Europe, particularly in
the Netherlands and in France.           In the former,
indeed, they constitute the principal means of com-
munication between one place and another, whe-
ther for commercial or other purposes.        In France,
the canals of Burgundy, of Briare, of Orleans, and
of Languedoc, all contribute important facilities to
the commerce of the country.        The last-mentioned,
which unites the Mediterranean to the Atlantic, is
sixty feet broad and one hundred and fifty miles in
length.     It was finished in 1681 ; having employed
twelve thousand men for fifteen years, and cost twelve
hundred thousand pounds sterling.
    It is remarkable that, with these examples before
her, England was so late in availing herself of the
advantages of canal navigation.       The subject, how-
ever, had not been altogether unthought of. As early
as the reign of Charles the Second a scheme was in
agitation for cutting a canal (which has since been
made) between the Forth and the Clyde, in the northern
part of the kingdom ; but the idea was abandoned,
from the difficulty of procuring the requisite funds.
A very general impression, too, seems to have been
felt, in the earlier part of the last century, as to the
desirableness of effecting a canal navigation between
the central English counties and either the metropolis
or the eastern coast.
   The first modern canal actually executed in Eng-
land was not begun till the year 1755. It was the
result of a sudden thought on the part of its under-
takers, nothing of the kind having been contemplated
by them when they commenced the operations which

                       BRINDLEY.                    325
led to it.    They had obtained an act of parliament
for rendering 1 navigable the Sankey brook, in Lanca-
shire, which flows into the river Mersey, from the
neighbourhood of the now flourishing town of St.
 Helen's, through a district abounding in valuable
beds of coal.    Upon surveying the ground, however,
with more care, it was considered better to leave the
natural course of the stream altogether, and to carry
the intended navigation along a new line ; in other
words, to cut a canal.      The work was accordingly
commenced ; and the powers of the projectors having
been enlarged by a second act of parliament, the
canal was eventually extended to the length of about
twelve miles.     It has turned out both a highly suc-
cessful speculation for the proprietors, and a valuable
public accommodation.
    It is probable that the Sankey canal, although it
did not give birth to the first idea of the great work
we are now about to describe, had at least the honour
of prompting the first decided step towards its exe-
cution.    Francis, duke of Bridgewater, who, while
yet much under age, had succeeded, in the year
1748, by the death of his elder brothers, to the
family estates, and the title, which had been first
borne by his father, had a property at Worsley,
about seven miles west from Manchester, extremely
rich in coal-mines, which, however, had hitherto
been unproductive, owing to the want of any suf-
ficiently economical means of transport.     The object
of supplying this defect had for some time strongly
engaged the attention of the young duke, as it had
indeed done that of his father ; who, in the year 1732,
had obtained an act of parliament enabling him to
cut a canal to Manchester, but had been deterred
from commencing the work, both by the immense
pecuniary outlay which it would have demanded,
and the formidable natural difficulties against which
                                          2 F

326       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
at that time there was probably no engineer in the
country able to contend.       When the idea, however,
was now revived, the extraordinary           mechanical
genius of Brindley had already acquired for him
an extensive reputation, and he was applied to by
the duke to survey the ground through which the
proposed canal would have to be carried, and to
make his report upon the practicability            of the
scheme.      New as he was to this species of engi-
neering, Brindley, confident in his own powers,
at once undertook to make the desired examination,
and, having finished   it,  expressed his conviction that
the ground presented no difficulties which might not
be surmounted.        On receiving this assurance, the
duke at once determined upon commencing the
undertaking and an act of parliament having been
             ;
obtained in 1758, the powers of which were consi-
derably extended by succeeding acts, the formation
of the canal was begun that year.
     From the first the duke resolved that, without re-
gard to expense, every part of the work should be
executed in the most perfect manner.         One of the
 chief difficulties to be surmounted was that of pro-
 curing a sufficient supply of water and, therefore,
                                       ;
 that there might be as little of it as possible wasted,
it   was determined that the canal should be of uni-
 form level throughout, and of course without locks.
 It had consequently to be carried in various parts of
 its course both under hills and over wide and deep
 vallies.   The point, indeed, from which     it  took its
 commencement was the heart of the coal-mountain
  at \Vorsley.    Here a large basin was formed, in the
  first place, from which a tunnel of three-quarters of
  a mile in length had to be cut through the hill.    We
  may just mention, in passing, that the subterraneous
 course of the water beyond this basin has since been
  extended in various directions for about thirty miles.

                      BRINDLEY.                      327
After emerging from under ground,      the line of the
canal was carried forward, as we have stated,
by the intrepid engineer, on the same undeviating
level ; every obstacle that presented itself being tri-
umphed over by his admirable ingenuity, which the
difficulties seemed only to render more fertile in happy
inventions.     Nor did his comprehensive mind ever
neglect even the most subordinate departments of
the enterprize.      The operations of the workmen
were every where facilitated by new machines of his
contrivance ; and whatever could contribute to the
economy with which the work was carried on, was
attended to only less anxiously than what was deemed
essential to its completeness.      Thus, for example,
the materials excavated from one place were em-
ployed to form the necessary embankments at ano-
ther, to which they were conveyed in boats, having
bottoms which opened, and at once deposited the
load in the place where it was wanted. No part of
his task, indeed, seemed to meet this great engineer
unprepared.      He made no blunders, and never had
either to undo any thing or to wish it undone ; on
the contrary, when any new difficulty occurred, it
appeared almost as if he had been all along pro-
viding for it as if his other operations had been
directed from the first by his anticipation of the one
now about to be undertaken.
    In order to bring the canal to Manchester it
was necessary to carry it across the Irwell. That
river is, and was then, navigable for a considerable
way above the place at which the canal comes up to
it; and this circumstance interposed an additional
 difficulty, as, of course, in establishing the one navi-
gation, it was indispensable that the other should not
be destroyed or interfered with.      But nothing could
 dismay the daring genius of Brindley. Thinking       it,
 however, due to his noble employer to give him the
                                       2
                                       F
                                       2

328          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  most satisfying evidence in his power of the prac-
 ticability of his design, he requested that another
 engineer might be called in to give his opinion
 before its execution should be determined on.        This
 person Brindley carried to the spot where he pro-
 posed to rear his aqueduct, and endeavoured to
 explain to him how he meant to carry on the
 work.     But the man only shook his head, and
remarked, that " he had often heard of castles in
the air, but never before was shewn where any of
 them were to be erected."      The duke, nevertheless,
retained his confidence in his own engineer, and it
was resolved that the work should proceed.            The
erection of the aqueduct, accordingly, was begun in
 September, 1760, and on the 17th of July follow-
ing the first boat passed over     it,
                                     the whole structure
forming a bridge of above two hundred yards in length,
supported upon three arches, of which the centre one
rose nearly forty feet above the surface of the river    ;
on which might be frequently beheld a vessel passing
along, while another, with all its masts and sails
standing, was holding its undisturbed way directly
under its keel.
    In 1762 an act of parliament was, after much op-
position, obtained by the duke, for carrying    a  branch
of his canal to communicate with Liverpool, and so
uniting that town, by this method of communication,
to Manchester.      This portion of the canal, which     is
more than twenty-nine miles in length, is, like the
former, without locks, and    is carried by an aqueduct
over the Mersey, the arch of which, however,        is less
lofty  than  that  of the one  over   the Irwell,  as the
river is  not navigable at the place where     it crosses.
It passes    also  over several vallies of considerable
width and depth. Before this, the usual price of
the carriage of goods between Liverpool and Man-
chester had been twelve shillings per ton by water,

                            BRINDLEY                              329
and forty shillings by land ; they were now conveyed
by the canal, at a charge of six shillings per ton, and
with all the regularity of land carriage.
     In contemplating this great work, we ought not to
overlook the admirable manner in which the enter-
prising nobleman, at whose expense it was undertaken,
performed his part in carrying it on. It was his deter-
mination, as we have already stated, from the first,
to spare no expense on its completion.               Accordingly,
he devoted to it during the time of its progress nearly
the whole of his revenues, denying himself, all the
while, even the ordinary accommodations of his rank,
and living on an income of four hundred a year.
He had even great commercial difficulties to contend
with in the prosecution of his schemes, being at one
time unable to raise 500/. on his bond on the Royal
Exchange ; and it was a chief business of his agent,
Mr. Gilbert, to ride up and down the country to
raise money on his Grace's promissory notes.                    It is
true that he was afterwards amply repaid for this
outlay and temporary sacrifice ; but the compensation
that eventually accrued to him he never might have
lived to enjoy ; and at all events he acted as none but
extraordinary men do, in thus voluntarily relinquish-
ing the present for the future, and preferring to any
dissipation of his wealth on passing and merely per-
sonal objects, the creation of this magnificent monu-
ment of lasting public usefulness *. Nor was it only
    * Francis, Duke of Bridgewater,     died in 1803, at the age of
67, when the ducal title became extinct, and the earldom passed
to his cousin, General Egerton. The income arising from his canal
property alone was understood to be, at the time of his death,
between 50.000/. and 80,000/. per annum         a large revenue, but
not amounting, although we add to it the rents of his other estates,
to anything like that assigned to this nobleman, by the writer of his
life, in the Biographie UaiverseUe, -who informs us, that the income-
tax which he payed every year amounted alone to 110.000/. ster-
ling. " La somme qu'il payait, chaque annee, pour sa portion
                                                     2 F 3

330          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
in the liberality of his expenditure that the duke ap-
proved himself a patron worthy of Brindley.           He
supported his engineer throughout the undertaking
with unflinching spirit, in the face of no little outcry
and ridicule, to which the imagined extravagance or
impracticability of many of his plans exposed him
and that even from those who were generally ac-
counted the most scientific judges of such matters.
The success with which these plans were carried into
execution, is probably, in no slight degree, to be at-
tributed to the perfect confidence with which their
author was thus enabled to proceed.
.  We have entered at the greater length into the his-
tory of this undertaking, both because it was the first
of a succession of works of the same description, in
which the great engineer of whom we are speaking
displayed the unrivalled hardihood, originality, and
fertility of his genius, and because from it is also to
be dated the commencement of that extended canal
navigation, which now forms so important a part of
our means of internal communication in this country.
While the Bridgewater canal was yet in progress,
Mr. Brindley was engaged by Lord Grower*, and the
other principal landed proprietors of Staffordshire, to
survey a line for another canal, which it was proposed
should pass through that county, and, by uniting the
Trent and the Mersey, open for it a communication,
by water, with both the east and west coast.      Having
reported favourably of the practicability of this design,
and an act of parliament having been obtained in
dans la tase du revenue (income true) s'elevait seule a 110,000
livres st." The fact  is,  that in the returns which he made under
the act imposing the   tax  in question, the duke estimated his in-
come at that amount.      He left at his death, besides his large pro-
perty in  land, about  C00,000/.  in the funds.
    * Lord Gower married sister of the Duke of Bridgewater
                             a                                      ;
and his Grace left his canal property         in  Lancashire to his
 nephew,   the present Marquess    of Stafford.

                      BRINDLEY.                     331
 1765 for carrying: it into effect, he was appointed to
conduct the work.     The scheme was one which had
been often thought of; but the supposed impossibility
of carrying the canal across the tract of elevated
country which stretches along the central region of
England had hitherto prevented any attempt to exe-
cute it. This was, however, precisely such an obstacle
as Brindley delighted to cope with ; and he at once
overcame it, by carrying a tunnel through Harecastle
Hill, of two thousand eight hundred and eighty yards
in length, at a depth, in some places, of more than
two hundred feet below the surface of the earth.
This was only one of five tunnels excavated in dif-
ferent parts of the canal, which extends to the length
of ninety-three miles, having seventy-six locks, and
passing in its course over many aqueducts.       Brind-
ley, however, did not live to execute the whole of
this great work, which was finished by his brother-
in-law, Mr. Henshall, in 1777, about eleven years
after its commencement.
   During the time that these operations, so new in
this country, were in progress, the curious crowded
to witness them from all quarters, and the grandeur
of many of Brindley's plans seems to have made a
deep impression upon even his unscientific visitors. A
letter which appeared in the newspapers, while he was
engaged with the Trent and Mersey canal, gives us a
lively picture of the astonishment with which the
multitude viewed what he was about.         The writer,
it will be observed, alludes particularly to the Hare-
castle tunnel, the chief difficulty in excavating
which arose from the nature of the soil it had to
be cut through.
                     " Gentlemen come to view our
eighth wonder of the world, the subterranean naviga-
tion which is cutting by the great Mr. Brindley, who
 handles rocks as easily as you would plum-pies, and
 makes the four elements subservient to his will.    He

332         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
is as plain a looking man as one of the boors of the
Peak, or one of his own carters ; but when he speaks
all ears listen, and every mind is rilled with wonder
at the thing's he pronounces to be practicable.     He
has cut a mile through bogs, which he binds up,
embanking them with stones, which he gets out of
other parts of the navigation, besides about a quarter
of  a mile into the hill Yelden, on the side of which
he has a pump, which is worked by water, and a
stove, the fire of which sucks through a pipe the
damps that would annoy the men who are cutting
towards the centre of the hill. The clay he cuts out
serves for brick to arch the subterraneous part, which
we heartily wish to see finished to Wilden Ferry,
when we shall be able to send coals and pots to
London, and to different parts of the globe."
   It would occupy too much of our space to detail,
however rapidly, the history of the other undertakings
of this description to which the remainder of Mr.
Brindley's life was devoted. The success with which
the Duke of Bridgewater's enterprising plans for the
improvement of his property were rewarded, speedily
prompted numerous other speculations of a similar
description ; and many canals were formed in different
parts of the kingdom, in the execution or planning
of almost all of which Brindley's services were em-
ployed.    He himself had become quite an enthusiast
in his new profession, as a little anecdote that has
been often told of him may serve to shew.      Having
been called on one occasion to give his evidence
touching some professional point before a Committee
of the House of Commons, he expressed himself, in
the course of his examination, with so much contempt
of rivers as means of internal navigation, that an
honourable member was tempted to ask him for what
purpose he conceived rivers to have been created ?
when Brindley, after hesitating a moment, replied,

                           BRINDLEY.                  333
 "To    feed   canals."     His success as a builder of
aqueducts would appear to have inspired him with
almost as fervid a zeal in favour of bridges as of
canals, if it be true, as has been asserted, that one of
his favourite schemes contemplated the joining of
Great Britain to Ireland by a bridge of boats
extending from Portpatrick to Donaghadee.            This
report, however, is alleged to be without foundation
by the late Earl of Bridgewater, in a curious work
which he published some years ago at Paris, relative
to his predecessor's celebrated canal.
    Brindley's multiplied labours, and intense applica-
tion, rapidly wasted his strength, and shortened his
life.   He died at Turnhurst, in Staffordshire, on the
27th of September, 1772, in the fifty-sixth year of
his age, having suffered for some years under a hectic
fever, which he had never been able to get rid of.
In his case, as in that of other active spirits, the
soul seems to have
             " O'er-inform'd its tenement of clay ;"
although the actual bodily fatigue to which his many
engagements subjected him must doubtless have
contributed to wear him out.
    No man ever lived more for his pursuit, or less for
himself, than Brindley. He had no sources of enjoy-
ment, or even of thought, except in his profession.
It is related, that having once, when in London,
been prevailed upon to go to the theatre, the unusual
 excitement so confused and agitated him, as actually
 to unfit him for business for several days, on which
 account he never could be induced to repeat his visit.
 His total want of education, and ignorance of litera-
 ture, left his genius without any other field in which
 to exercise itself and spend its strength than that
 which the pursuit of his profession afforded it : its
 power, even here, would not probably have been im-
 paired, if it could have better sought relaxation in

334        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
variety ; on the contrary, its spring would most likely
have been all the stronger for being occasionally un-
bent.   We have already mentioned that he was all
but entirely ignorant of reading and writing.       He
knew something of figures, but did not avail himself
much of their assistance in performing the calcula-
tions which were frequently necessary in the prose-
cution of his mechanical designs. On these occasions
his habit was to work the question, by a method of
his own, chiefly in his head, only setting down the
results at particular stages of the operation ; yet his
conclusions were generally correct.     His vigour of
conception, in regard to machinery, was so great,
that, however complicated might be the machine he
had to execute, he never, except sometimes to satisfy
his employers, made any drawing or model of it ;
but having once fixed its different parts in his mind,
would construct it without any difficulty, merely from
the idea of which he had thus possessed himself.
When much perplexed with any problem he had to
solve, his practice was to take to bed, in order to
study it ; and he would sometimes remain, we are
told, for two or three days thus fixed to his pillow in
meditation.
   We shall the more clearly appreciate the impulse
given to inland navigation in this country by the
achievements of Brindley, and the extent of the new
accommodation which our commerce has hence ob-
tained within the last sixty or seventy years, if we
cast our eye for a moment over the map of Great
Britain, and note a few of the principal canals by
which the island is now intersected in all directions.
First, there is the Trent and Mersey Canal, which
we have already mentioned, and which was denomi-
nated by Brindley the Grand Trunk Navigation,
as, in fact, uniting one side of the kingdom to the
other, and therefore especially adapted to serve, as

                      BRINDLEY.                    335
it lias since actually clone, by way of stem, from
which other similar lines might proceed as branches
to different points.    By this canal, a complete
water communication was established, though by
a somewhat circuitous sweep, between the great ports
of Liverpool on the west coast, and Hull on the
east.   A branch from   it,the Staffordshire and Wor-
cestershire canal, was afterwards carried to the river
Severn;    and thus a union was effected between the
port of Bristol and the two already mentioned. This
branch, being about forty-six miles long, was also
executed by Brindley, and was completed in 1772.
Similar communications were subsequently formed
from other points on the south coast to the central
counties.    But the most important line of English
canals    is that which extends from the centre of
the kingdom to the metropolis, and,     by  falling into
the Grand Trunk Navigation, forms in fact a con-
tinued communication by water all the way from
London to Liverpool. Of this line, the principal
part is formed by what  is called the Grand Junction
Canal, which, commencing at Brentford, stretches
north-west till  falls into a branch of the Oxford
                it
Canal, at Braunston, in Northamptonshire, passing
at one place (Blisworth) through a tunnel three
thousand and eighty yards in length, eighteen feet
high, and sixteen and a half wide. The Regent
and Paddington canals have since formed com-
munications between the Grand Junction Canal, and
the eastern, western, and northern parts of the me-
 tropolis.  The whole length of the direct water-way
thus established between Liverpool and London         is
 about two hundred and sixty-four miles but  ;   ifthe
 different canals which contribute to form the line be
 all of them measured in their entire length, the ag-
 gregate amount of the inland navigation, in this con-

336        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
nexion alone, will be found to extend to above one
thousand four hundred miles.
   The oldest canal in the northern part of the king-
dom is that between the Forth and Clyde, which was
executed by the celebrated Smeaton, although its
plan was revised by Brindley.        It commences at
Grangemouth, on the Carron, at a short distance
from where that river falls into the Forth, and ori-
ginally terminated at Port Dundas, in the neigh-
bourhood of Glasgow.         A portion of this canal,
owing to the great descent of the ground over
which it passes towards the west, has no fewer than
twenty locks in the first ten miles and a half.       It
was afterwards carried farther west to Dalmuir, on
the Clyde ; and is now connected with the Glasgow
and Saltcoats canal, whose course is across the coun-
ties of Renfrew and Ayr, to the river Garnock,
which flows into the Atlantic opposite to the Isle
of Arran. More recently, a branch has been ex-
tended from its north-eastern extremity, along the
south bank of the Forth, as far as Edinburgh ; so
that the whole now forms an uninterrupted line of
canal navigation from the east to the west coast
of Scotland. The famous Caledonian Canal, in the
north of Scotland, also unites the two opposite
seas, and indeed runs pretty nearly parallel to a
part of the line that has just been described.  It was
commenced in 1802, under the management of Mr.
Telford, who conducted it throughout ; and was
first opened on the 23d of October, 1822.          The
distance between the German and the Atlantic
Oceans, measured in the direction of this canal, is
two hundred and fifty miles ; but of this nearly
two hundred and thirty miles, consisting of friths
and lakes, were already navigable.     The canal itself,
therefore, which has cost about a million of pounds

                       BRINDLEY.                      337
sterling, is only, properly speaking, about twenty
miles in length ; and, had not steam navigation been
fortunately discovered while the work was going on,
there seems every reason to believe that the cut would
have been nearly useless.
    The entire length of the canal navigation already
formed in Great Britain and Ireland is not much
under three thousand miles. The whole of this is
the creation of the last seventy years, during which
period, therefore, considerably above forty miles of
canal may be said to have been produced every
year,    a truly extraordinary evidence of the spirit
and resources of a country, which has been able to
continue so large an expenditure, for so long a time,
on a single object ; and which has in a single year,
during that period, spent almost as much money upon
war as all those canals together have cost for three
quarters of a century.    If Brindley had never lived, we
should undoubtedly ere now have been in possession
of much of this accommodation ; for the time was
ripe for its introduction, and an increasing com-
merce, every where seeking vent, could not have
failed, ere long, to have struck out for itself, to a
certain extent, these new facilities.    But had it not
 been for the example set by his adventurous genius,
 the progress of artificial navigation among us would
 probably have been timid and slow, compared to
 what it has been.    For a long time, in all likelihood,
 our only canals would have been a few small ones,
 cut in the more level parts of the country, like that
 substituted in 1755 for the Sankey Brook, the
 benefit of each of which would have been extremely
 insignificant, and confined to a very narrow neigh-
 bourhood.     He did, in the very infancy of the
  art, what has not yet been outdone ; struggling, in-
  deed, with such difficulties, and triumphing over
  them, as could be scarcely exceeded by any his suc-
                                           2 G

338        THE PtJRStflT OF KNOWLEDGE.
cessors might have to encounter.          By the bold-
ness and success with which, in particular, he car-
ried the Grand Trunk Navigation across the ele-
vated ground of the midland counties, he demon-
strated that there was hardly any part of the island
where a canal might not be formed ; and, accord-
ingly, this very central ridge, which used to be
deemed so insurmountable an obstacle to the junc-
tion of our opposite coasts, is now intersected by
more than twenty canals beside the one which he first
drove through the barrier. It is in the conception and
accomplishment of such grand and fortunate devia-
tions from ordinary practice that we discern the
power, and confess the value, of original genius.
    The case of Brindley affords us a wonderful example
of what the force of natural talent will sometimes
do in attaining an acquaintance with particular de-
partments of science, in the face of almost every
conceivable disadvantage      where not only all educa-
tion is wanting, but even all access to books.     Nor
is he the only celebrated practical mechanician that
might be named, whose inventive faculties have been
successfully exercised without any help from litera-
ture. The French engineer, SWALM RENKI.V, or
RANNEQUIN, as he is more commonly called, who,
in the reign of Louis XIV., constructed the famous
machine of Marli for raising the water of the Seine
to the gardens of Versailles, was originally only a
common carpenter at Liege, where he was born
about the middle of the seventeenth century, and
had no means of acquiring knowledge except in
 the work-shop and by his oivn reflection. A learned
 contemporary writer, Professor Weidler of Wittem-
 berg, describes him by the Greek epithet ava\-
 0fl/3^Tos   ignorant eveji of the alphabet.        Vet
 the apparatus which he erected at Versailles, and
 which was of extraordinary complexity, was regarded

              ZABAGLIA.    FERRACINO.             339
in that age as the greatest mechanical wonder in the
world. It raised water from the Seine to the height
of four hundred and seventy-six feet above the
level of the river.  The Italian engineer, NICHOLAS
ZABAGLIA, who was born at Rome in 1674, was
also originally a poor working carpenter, and alto-
gether uneducated.     In this capacity he was first
employed at the Vatican ; and yet he was even-
tually appointed to preside over the building of
St. Peter's, where he did not, however, confine
himself to the duties of superintendence and direc-
tion, but continued to work with his own hands as
before. Zabaglia was the author of many mecha-
nical contrivances, distinguished for their simplicity
and elegance.     He was the contemporary of BAR-
THOLOMEW FERRACINO, another self-taught mecha-
nician of great genius. Ferracino was bred a sawyer,
in which occupation he was employed while very
young, and when the severe labour was almost too
much for his strength.        He at length, however,
contrived a saw which moved by the wind, and
did his work for him. After this, he invented many
other ingenious machines, and acquired a distin-
guished reputation in various departments of prac-
tical mechanics.     The great clock in the Place
 of St. Mark, at Venice, was constructed by him.
 But his greatest work was the bridge over the
 Brenta, near his native town of Bassano, which
 has been much celebrated.        Ferracino was quite
 ignorant of books ; and when his friends would
 sometimes judiciously advise him to give his great
 natural powers fair play, by applying himself to
 the regular study of the principles of mechanical
 science, he used to say, with a foolish laugh, which
 his ignorance alone could excuse, that nature had
 been a very good teacher to him, and that he had all
  the book he wanted in his head.    Our own country-
                                       2 G 2

340        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
man, the celebrated JOHN HARRISON, who, in 1767,
obtained the parliamentary reward of twenty thou-
sand pounds for the invention of his admirable time-
piece for ascertaining the longitude at sea, may be
quoted as another example of self-taught genius,
but not so entirely unaided by books.      He was born
at Pontefract, in  Yorkshire, in 1693, and was bred a
carpenter ; yet he very early manifested a taste for
mathematical science, which is said to have been first
awakened by a manuscript copy of some lectures
of Saunderson (the blind mathematician), that ac-
cidentally fell into his hands ; and it should seem
that he was not so entirely without education as to
be unable to peruse and profit by them.       Before he
was twenty-one, he had made two wooden clocks by
himself, and without having received any instructions
in the art. We have, in a former chapter, mentioned
the circumstance of his having been first induced to
think of applying himself to the construction of ma-
rine chronometers by living for some time in sight of
the sea.    It was in 1728 that he first came up to
London, in order to prosecute this object; but he
had to devote to it the anxious labours of nearly
forty years before his inventions were perfected, or
their general merit fully recognized.        The art of
watchmaking owes several valuable improvements to
Harrison ; among which may be particularly men-
tioned the gridiron pendulum, and the expansion
balance-wheel     the one serving to equalize the move-
ments of a clock, and the other those of a watch,
under all changes of temperature and both depend-
ing upon the unequal stretching under change of
temperature of two different metals, which are so
 employed to form the rod of the pendulum and the
 circumference of the wheel, that the contraction of
 the one exactly counterbalances the expansion of the
 other.   Although, however, a most skilful and inge-

                       HARRISON.                    341
nious artist, Harrison never acquired any acquaint-
ance with literature ; and a little work, which he pub-
lished in his old age, in explanation of some of his
ideas on the construction of time-pieces, is miserably
ill-written. He died in London, in 1776, at the age
of eighty-three.
    Of  these, and all such instances, it may safely be
remarked that, far from proving the inutility of sci-
entific acquirements, they only show how far, in one
particular line, natural genius can carry its possess-
ors without cultivation ; and make us regret their
having wanted those helps which, even in that line,
would have carried them so much farther.

                       CHAPTER       XX.
Knowledge of Languages. Magliabecchi ; Hill; Wild; Aram; Purver;
                           Pendrell.
IF  mechanical invention does not necessarily imply
much study of books, and may seem, on that account,
a province of intellectual exertion fitted for persons
who have not enjoyed the advantages of a regular
education, as being one in which natural sagacity
and ingenuity, as much as literary attainments, are
requisite to ensure advancement, the same thing can
hardly be said of another department, in which self-
taught genius has frequently made extraordinary
progress ; we mean the study of languages.                 This
is the sort of knowledge, indeed, which, in common
parlance, is more peculiarly called learning.           Its ac-
quisition, in the circumstances alluded to, can only
be the result of a love for, and familiarity with, books,
and of what we may call the literary habit tho-
roughly formed.
   There are three purposes for Avhich languages
may be studied, independently of their gratifying
that general desire of information which makes both
the acquirement and the possession of all know-
ledge delightful.       One use, and an infinitely im-
portant one, to be made of the knowledge of lan-
guages, is the study of that intellectual mechanism
by which they have been formed, and of which they
present us, as it were, with the impress or picture.
Another department of philosophy to which this
knowledge is a key, is that relating to the early his-

                     MAGLIABECCHI.                    343
tory of our race, and the origin of the different nations
by whom the earth is peopled          a subject to many
parts of which we have no other guide than the evi-
dence of language, but upon which this evidence,
skilfully interpreted, may be made to throw the surest
of all light. But the motive which most generally
induces the student to seek an acquaintance with
foreign or ancient tongues, is, of course, that he may
be able to read the books written in them, and thus
obtain access to worlds of intellectual treasure, from
which he would be otherwise entirely, or almost en-
tirely, shut out ; for no satisfactory knowledge of any
foreign literature is to be acquired through trans-
lations.   Of many works translations do not exist,
or are not accessible, when the original is ; and of
many there can be no adequate translation.      The man
whose knowledge of the literature of another age or
country is confined to translations, is in the situation
of the untravelled reader, who may, indeed, learn
something of foreign lands from the descriptions of
those who have visited them ; but a person familiar
with the language of another people has that sort
of access to their literature, which he would have to
the general knowledge of their country and their
manners who was in possession of one of the talis-
mans of eastern fiction, by which he could transport
himself thither at a wish.
   Perhaps the greatest reader that ever lived was
the famous ANTONIO MAGLIABECCHI, of whose latin-
ized name, Antonius Magliabbechhts,            some one
formed the anagram,       Is unus bibliotheca magna
Himself a great library. He was born at Florence,
in 1633, and, according to one account, commenced
his career as a scholar in a very curious manner ; for
having, it is affirmed, been apprenticed by his parents,
who were extremely poor, to a seller of pot-herbs, he
used to take the greatest delight, although he could

344         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
not read a word, in poring; over the leaves of old
books in which his master wrapped his commodities ;
till having been one day observed at this sort of study
by a bookseller who lived in the neighbourhood, that
person offered to take him into his service.        The
proposal was instantly accepted by Magliabecchi,
who could conceive no greater happiness than an
occupation which would surround him with his be-
loved books.    So keen, it is added, was the interest
which he took in his new employment, that in two
or three days he knew the place of every volume in
the shop, and could find any one, when asked for,
more readily than his master himself.      After a short
time he had learnt to read ; and then every moment
of his leisure was devoted to this new pleasure. Such
is the story which Mr. Spence has told us, on the
authority, as he states, of a Florentine gentleman well
acquainted with Magliabecchi and his family.        The
Italian writer,  Marmi,    however, who, having been
librarian to the Grand Duke of Florence, was, for
many years, an intimate friend of Magliabecchi, has,
in a life which he has written of him, given a dif-
ferent account of his early years.      His mother, ac-
cording to Marmi, had him instructed both in the art
of design and in Latin when he was a boy, after
which she apprenticed him to a goldsmith. Whether
his master was a goldsmith or a bookseller, it is
agreed, on all hands, that, during the time of his
apprenticeship, Magliabecchi had already begun those
extraordinary acquisitions which made him at length
the most learned man of his age.        The fame of his
ardour for study, and extensive knowledge, at length
procured him the notice of some of the Florentine
literati ; and having been introduced at court, he was
appointed by the Grand Duke keeper of one of his
libraries. In this situation he remained till his death,
in 1714, at the age of eighty-one.

                       MAGLIABECCHI.                345
      Many wonderful     stories are told of the exten-
sive reading and retentive memory of Maglia-
becchi.      It has been said, among other things, that
a manuscript of a work of some length, which,
at the request of the author, he had read, having
been accidentally lost, was actually recovered by being
taken down from his recitation.        This, however, as
Mr. Spence observes, is doubtless a very wild exag-
geration : it amounts, evidently, if true, to nothing
less than a proof that Magliabecchi's memory was
such as to retain everything, without exception, to
which his attention was ever called. But of what
he read really worth recollecting, he undoubtedly
recollected a great deal.      He was, indeed, a library
of reference upon all sorts of subjects for the other
literary men of his time, who were wont to apply to
him whenever they wanted to know what had been
already written upon any matter which they were
engaged in studying or discussing.          Two volumes
           '
of the Letters of the Learned' to Magliabecchi
were published at Florence in 1745, and they form
but a small part of those that were addressed to him
during his long life, from every part of Europe, by
persons who wished to avail themselves of the aid of
his universal learning.       Upon almost any subject,
we are told, on which he was consulted, he could
not only state what any particular author had said of
it,  but in many cases could quote the very words
employed, naming, at the same time, the volume,
the page, and the column in which they were to be
found.       Authors and printers were generally wont
to send him all the works which they published         a
 sure method,   if   they contained any thing valuable,
 of getting them, as      it   were, advertised over the
 world of letters, since literary men were every where
 in communication with Magliabecchi and he would
                                       ;
 not fail, if  the new book deserved his recojnmenda-

346       THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
tion, to mention its merits to such of his corre-
spondents as it was likely to interest.     He had a
sort of short-hand method of reading, by which he
contrived to get over a great many volumes in little
time, and which every person will be in some de-
gree able to understand who has been much in the
habit of looking over new books.      His way, we are
told, was to look first to the title-page, then to dip
into the preface, dedication, or other preliminary
matter, and, finally, to go over the divisions or
chapters ; after which, being so completely in pos-
session, as he was, of all that former writers had
said upon the subject treated of, he had a compe-
tent general notion of the contents of the new work.
Of course, if this cursory inspection gave him reason
to believe that there was in any part of it matter
really new and important, he would examine it more
particularly before he laid it down. At all events, it
is certain, that although thus expeditiously acquired,
his knowledge was the very reverse of superficial.
The reverence with which he was regarded by the
greatest scholars of his time proves this. The dex-
terity, if we may so callit,  which he attained in the
art of acquiring such knowledge as can be communi-
cated by books, was in great part the result of the
exclusiveness with which he devoted his life to that
object.    He might be said literally to live in his
 library for in fact he both slept and took his meals
      ;
in the midst of his books. Three hard eggs and a
 draught of water formed his common repast and a
                                             ;
 sort of cradle, which he had made for the purpose,
 served him both for his elbow chair during the day,
 and for a bed at night.     He never travelled more
than a few miles from Florence but all the great
                                 ;
 libraries in the world were, nevertheless, nearly as
 well known to him as his own.       " One day," says
               " the Grand Duke sent for him, after
 Mr. Spence,

                    MAGLIABECCHI.                      347
he was his librarian, to ask him whether he could
get for him a book which was particularly scarce.
' No, Sir,'                            '
              answered Magliabecchi,      it is impossible,
for there is but one in the world ; that is in the
Grand Seignor's library at Constantinople, and is
the seventh book on the second shelf, on the right
hand as you go in.' " This is not to be taken as a
proof of the extraordinary memory of Magliabecchi ;
for the book in question being a remarkable one, it
is not at all wonderful that the circumstance which,
in point of fact, principally made it so, should have
been distinctly remembered by him : but the familiar
style in which he alludes to the localities of the
Sultan's library, shews the hold that everything about
it had taken of his fancy, and how entirely books
were his world.
    We are too apt, perhaps, to underrate Magliabecchi
as a mere helluo librorum, or book glutton.           Pro-
bably few men have passed their lives with more
enjoyment to themselves, and, at the same time,
more serviceably in regard to others.          His powers
of mind, wonderful as they were in certain respects,
do not seem to have been such as qualified him for
profound and original thinking, or for enlarging the
boundaries of human knowledge.           He did what he
 AVUS best fitted to do well, when he devoted himself
 to the accumulation of a multifarious learning for
his own gratification, and the benefit of all who
 needed his assistance.      In choosing this province
 for himself, he certainly chose that which no one could
have occupied so successfully.
    The Rev. Joseph Spence, whom we have already
 mentioned more than once in these pages, has written
 a little volume, which he entitles, ' A Parallel in the
 manner of Plutarch, between a most celebrated man
 of Florence, and one, scarce ever heard of, in Eng-
        '
 land     The celebrated Florentine here alluded to is

348        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Magliabecchi   ; and our obscure countryman, with
whom he is compared, is a person of the name of
ROBERT HILL.        Hill, as Spence informs us, was
born, in 1699, at Miswell, near Tring, in Hertford-
shire, of parents in humble life, who had scarcely
been married a year when his father died.         Five
years after this event, however, his mother was mar-
ried a second time to a tailor at Buckingham ; but,
upon removing to that place, she left Robert at
Miswell, in charge of his grandmother.        The old
woman herself taught him to read, and afterwards
sent him to school for seven or eight weeks to learn
writing, which was all the school education he ever
received.   He then went to reside with an uncle who
lived at Tring Grove, by whom he was employed to
drive the plough, and do other country work. At
last, when he was about fifteen years of age, it was
resolved to bind him an apprentice to his father-in-
law, the tailor.   With him he remained for the usual
period of seven years, in which time he learned that
business.    In the year 1716, he chanced to get hold
of an imperfect Latin Accidence and Grammar, and
about three-fourths of a Littleton's Dictionary.    He
had already begun to be a great reader, purchasing
candles for himself with what money he could pro-
cure, and sitting up at his books a great part of the
night, the only time he had any leisure ; but these
acquisitions gave additional force to a desire he had
for some time felt to learn Latin, originally excited,
 as he declared, by some epitaphs in that language in
 the church, which his curiosity made him wish very
 much to be able to read.       Next year, however, he
 was sent back to Tring Grove, in consequence of the
 small-pox raging in Buckingham; and, in the hurry
 of departure, he left his Latin books behind him. It
 was a year and a quarter before he returned to Buck-
 ingham, and during that interval he was employed

                           HILL.                      349
 in keeping his uncle's sheep, an occupation in which
 he said he was very happy, as, to use his own ex-
pression,
            " he could lie under a hedge and read all
 day long."    The only books he had with him were
     '
the    Practice of Piety,' the ' Whole Duty of Man,'
 and a French Grammar, which he read so often
through, that at last he had them almost all by
heart.    When he got back to Buckingham, how-
ever, he found his old Latin Grammar ; and this set
him anew on his classical studies.       Here he derived
considerable assistance from some of his young com-
panions, who were attending the Free Grammar
School of the place, and whom he used to bribe to
help him over his difficulties, by doing for them in
return any little service in his power.   He considered
himself very well paid for running on a message by
being told the English of some Latin word, which
he had not been able to find in his Dictionary.        In
this way he enabled himself, before the expiration of
his apprenticeship, to read a great part of a Latin
Testament, which he had purchased, as well as of a
Caesar, which some one had given him.
   On getting over his apprenticeship, he married,
and set up in business for himself.         Soon after, a
gentleman by whom he was employed gave him a
Homer and a Greek Testament ; upon which, as he
could not bear to have a book in his possession which
he was unable to read, he resolved to learn Greek.
Accordingly he imparted his scheme to a young
gentleman to whom he was known, and received
from him a grammar of the language, and a promise
of his assistance, Hill engaging to teach him to fish,
in return for his literary instructions.
   His family beginning now to increase, he bethought
him of adding something to his income by his
book knowledge; and in the year 1724, he opened a
school for reading, writing, and arithmetic, which he
                                           2 H

3$0        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 continued to teach for six or seven years. By his
 own account, however, he was not at first very well
prepared for some of the duties of his new employ-
ment.     Soon after he had entered upon     it,a scholar
came to him wishing to receive lessons in arithmetic,
who had already advanced as far as decimal fractions.
Poor Hill himself had at this time got no farther than
what he calls "     a  little way into division;" and he
was at first in no small consternation   :    however, he
hit upon   a   plan of managing the matter which an-
swered well enough.          To consume the time, he set
his pupil, by way of preliminary exercise, to copy a
series of tables, which had some apparent relation to
the subject of his intended studies.      They must have
been tolerably voluminous, for we are told they
occupied the patient writer six weeks, although         it
may be supposed his master was not very importu-
nate in urging him through the task.           Meanwhile,
however, Hill made the best use he could of the
respite lie had obtained for himself by this stratagem  ;
and   by sitting up frequently nearly the whole night,
after his day's work was over, he contrived, by the time
the copying of the tables was finished, to be a small
degree in advance of his pupil.
   After he had been married for seven or eight years
his wife died but in two years he married again.
                ;
This second match turned out very unfortunate       ; his
wife, who appears to have been     a    worthless person,
having in a short time run him so much in debt, that
he found   it  necessary to leave the place, and thus to
etfect his escape at once from her and his creditors.
He now led, for several years, a wandering life con-;
tinuing, as he travelled through the country, both to
work at his business and to pursue his studies. He
was seized with a violent desire to learn Hebrew,
in consequence of meeting with some quotations in
that language in    a book which he was perusing    ; but

                         HILL.                       351
for a long time he could not find a grammar           he
could make anything of, although he tried no fewer
than eleven ; and at last he got so out of humour
at his ill success, that he disposed of them all again,
and gave up his design.         His desire to learn the
language, however, soon returned ; and having bought
a lot of thirteen Hebrew books for as many shillings,
he was lucky enough to find among them a Grammar
(Stennit's) which lie was able to understand ; and
having in this way got over the first difficulties of the
study, he went on with great ease.
    It was twelve years after he parted from his wife be-
fore he returned to Buckingham, which he did, at last,
on hearing accidentally that she had been two or three
years dead. Soon after his return, he married a third
time, and once more resumed a domestic and settled
life. This was in the year 1747. Till now he had,
according to his own account, concealed his literary
acquirements ; but about this time he attracted the
notice of a clergyman in the neighbourhood of Buck-
ingham, who had chanced to put a question to him,
which he answered in such a way as to discover his
scholarship.    His clerical friend, some time after the
commencement of their acquaintance, put into his
hands Bishop Clayton's ' Essay on Spirit;' and Hill,
having read the book, wrote a series of remarks on
it,  which were published in the year 1753. This was
his first attempt at authorship.      He afterwards sent
to the press several other productions on theological
subjects, of which one, ejititled      Criticisms on the
                                   '
Book of Job,' in five sheets, was the largest.
    When Spence first met Hill, which was at the
house of the clergyman just mentioned, he was in
great poverty, and struggling hard to obtain a sub-
sistence for himself and his family.       Bad times had
made employment scarce    ;    and "  this," says Spence,
 " has reduced him so very low, that       I   have been
                                       2   H   2

 352        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 informed   that he has passed many and many whole
 days in this and the former year, without tasting
 anything but water and tobacco.      He has a wife and
 four small children, the eldest of them not above
 eight years old ; and what bread they could get he
 often spared from his own hunger to help towards
 satisfying theirs."   Spence's principal object in pub-
lishing his little work, was to raise a subscription for
 the poor scholar who was its subject ; and who, not-
withstanding some errors by which part of his life
was marked, appears to have been upon the whole a
person of much worth of character, and well deserv-
ing of public sympathy and encouragement              It is
believed that the effect of this appeal was to relieve
him, for the rest of his days, from the difficulties
under which he was at this time suffering.        He con-
tinued to live at Buckingham for about twenty years
after his remarkable acquirements had in this way
been made known to the world, having died there in
the year 1777.
    Hill was evidently not a person of any uncommon
extent of talent or quickness of apprehension ; and
it is this peculiarity that makes his example most in-
teresting and instructive.    His story teaches us what
the mere love and persevering pursuit of knowledge
may accomplish, even where there is no extraordinary
degree of mental power to make up for the want of a
regular education.     All his acquirements were made
laboriously and slowly. As he himself stated, he had
been seven years in learning Latin, and fourteen in
learning Greek ; and although he declared he could
teach any person Hebrew in six weeks, his own diffi-
culties, we have just seen, in the acquisition of the ele-
ments of that tongue, had been far from inconsider-
able. Every thing yielded, however, to his invincible
perseverance, and a zeal which no labour could
damp or exhaust.
                       " When was saying to him,"
                                 I

                         WILD.                        353
writes Spence, " among other things, that       I   was
afraid his studies must have broke in upon his
 other business too much, he said that sometimes
they had a little ; but that his usual way had been
to sit up very deep into the nights, or else to rise by
two or three in the morning, on purpose to get time
for reading, without prejudicing himself in his trade."
Although of a weakly constitution, he had in this
way, we are told, accustomed himself to do very
well with only two or three hours of sleep in the
twenty-four, and he lived to be seventy-eight.
   Nearly contemporary with Hill, lived HE.VRY WILD,
another learned tailor, who had also acquired an ex-
traordinary knowledge of languages chiefly by his
own unassisted efforts. Wild, who was bom in 1684,
had been at the grammar school of Norwich for
several years when a boy ; but, upon leaving    it, was
bound apprentice to a tailor in the same city, with
whom he served first for seven years under his
indenture, and then for seven more as      a  journey-
man.    In the course of this protracted estrangement
from literature, he almost completely forgot what-
ever scholarship he had at one time possessed.
Having, however, been attacked by lingering fever
                                     a
and ague, and obliged to discontinue working at his
trade, he took to reading by way of amusing his
leisure
      ;   and  itwas in the course of his perusal of
a work of controversial divinity, that, like Hill,
he met with some Hebrew quotations, which are
said to have first inspired him with the resolution
of endeavouring to recover his school learning.
Accordingly, by labouring hard for some time, he at
last succeeded       enabling himself again to read
                    in
Latin with tolerable facility upon this he immedi-
                            ;
ately proceeded to the study of Hebrew, and soon
made considerable progress in that tongue also, by
the aid of a   dictionary, in which the words were
                                      2u3

 354       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 rendered in Latin.    While he was thus engaged, his
 health gradually improved, and he was enabled to
 return to his business ; but he did not, for all that,
 neglect his studies.     After working all day, his
 general practice Avas to sit up reading for a great
 part of the night, deeming himself far more than
 compensated for his labours and privations, by ob-
taining, even at this sacrifice, a few hours every
week for the pursuits he loved ; and in this manner,
within seven years, he had actually made himself
master of the Latin, Greek,          Hebrew, Chaldee,
 Syriac, Arabic, and Persian languages.        Yet his
extraordinary attainments seem not to have been
generally known till a fortunate accident intro-
duced him to the notice of Dean Prideaux, a distin-
guished proficient in oriental learning.    The Dean,
who also resided in Norwich, was one day shown
some Arabic manuscripts in a bookseller's shop,
which, upon inspecting them, he wished to pur-
chase ; but the bookseller would not dispose of them
for the price he offered.   Some days afterwards, re-
gretting that he had not secured the manuscripts,
he returned to the bookseller, intending to give
him what he asked, when, upon making in-
quiry after them, he learned, to his consternation,
that they had been sold to a tailor! Never doubting
that they were destined for the scissors, if not al-
ready in shreds, he requested that the tailor, who
was no other than Wild, might be instantly sent
for, that they might yet, if it were possible, be
saved.   Upon Wild making his appearance, the Dean
had the gratification of learning, in answer to his first
question, that the parchments were still uninjured ;
but he was more surprised than ever, when, upon ex-
pressing his wish to purchase them, Wild refused to
part with them.     " What can you mean to make of
them ?" asked the Dean. Wild told him he intended

                      EUGENE   ARAM.                 355
   to read them ; and the Dean found, upon examining
   him, that this was no vain boast : the manuscripts
   were produced, and Wild read and translated a part of
  them in his presence.    Dr. Prideaux soon after ex-
  erted himself to raise a small subscription for this
  poor and meritorious scholar, by which means he was
  sent to Oxford, not to be entered at the University,
  but that he might have access to the libraries, and
  find a more appropriate occupation for his talents, in
 teaching those oriental tongues with which he had
 in so wonderful a manner contrived to make himself
 acquainted. He came to Oxford about the year 1713,
 and resided in that city, where he went by the name
 of the Arabian Tailor, for two or three years, having
 been employed partly in teaching, and partly in
 making transcripts and translations from oriental
 manuscripts in the Bodleian Library. Nothing more
 is known of him, except that in 1720 he removed to
London, where he was patronized by the celebrated
Dr. Mead. The period of his death has not been
ascertained ; but in 1734 there appeared a translation
                                           '
by him of an Arabic production, entitled Mahomet's
Journey to Heaven,' which is supposed, however, to
have been a posthumous publication.          There is a
letter from Dr. Turner respecting Wild among the
'
    Letters by Eminent Persons,' published some years
ago, by which it would appear, that, in pursuing his
solitary studies, he had to struggle with severe pe-
nury, as well as with other disadvantages.         The
letter is dated in 1714, while Wild was still at Nor-
wich ; and the writer, after mentioning his extensive
acquisitions, adds,
                     " But he is very poor, and his
landlord lately seized a Polyglot Bible (which he had
made shift to purchase) for rent."
     We may here mention the wretched EUGENE ARAM,
who was tried and convicted, in 1759, for a murder
committed fourteen years before. The strange circu,m*

356         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
stances which, after so long a concealment, led to the
discovery of this crime, form one of the most singular
chapters in the history of human guilt.       This man,
whom bad passions led to the commission of so sad an
 atrocity, and, in consequence, to so miserable an end,
 strikingly exemplified, in the previous part of his life,
what resolution and perseverance may accomplish in
the work of self-education.     Aram, who was born in
Yorkshire, in the year 1704, only learned to read a
little English in the school of his native village, and
 never afterwards had the benefit of any further in-
 struction ; yet, by his own exertions, he first qualified
 himself to teach all the more common branches of
 education, including arithmetic and mathematics, and
 then proceeded, with an industry that has scarcely
 been surpassed, to make his way to the highest
 departments of learning.      In a letter written to a
 clerical friend from York Castle, after his conviction,
 in which he gives an account of his life, he says,
 referring to the period when he was first engaged in
 thus at the same time teaching others and himself,
  " Perceiving the deficiency in my education, and
  sensible of my want of the learned languages, and
 prompted by an irresistible covetousness of know-
  ledge,  I commenced a series of studies in that way,
  and undertook the tediousness, the intricacies, and
  the labours of grammar.      I selected Lilly from the
  rest, all which   I got and repeated by heart. The
  task of repeating it all every day was impossible
  while   I attended the school ; so    I divided it into
  portions, by which method it was pronounced thrice
  every week ; and this   I performed for years. Next
   I became acquainted with Camden's Greek Gram-
   mar, which I also repeated in the same manner,
  memoriter.     Thus instructed, I entered upon the
   Latin Classics, whose allurements repaid my assi-
   duities and my labours.      I remember to have at

                        EUGENE ARAM.                   357
first hung over five lines for a whole clay; and never,
in all the painful course of my reading, left any one
passage but      I did, or thought  I did, perfectly com-
                       I
prehend it. After had accurately perused every one
of the Latin classics, historians, and poets, I went
through the Greek Testament, first parsing every
            I
word as proceeded : next        I ventured upon Hesiod,
Homer, Theocritus, Herodotus, Thucydides, and all
the Greek tragedians. A tedious labour was this ;
but my former acquaintance with history lessened it
extremely, because it threw a light upon many pas-
sages which, without that assistance, must have ap-
peared obscure."         There was scarcely any part of
literature, indeed, with which Aram was not pro-
foundly conversant.        History, antiquities, heraldry,
botany, had all been elaborately and extensively stu-
died by him : but his favourite pursuit was the in-
vestigation and comparison of languages, with a
view to the determination of their origin and con-
nexion.       For this purpose, in addition to the Greek,
Latin, and French, he had studied with great atten-
tion several of the oriental tongues, and all the
remaining dialects of the Celtic.      He had meditated,
indeed, the compilation of a dictionary of the Celtic,
Hebrew, Greek, Latin, and English, in which dif-
ferent languages he is said to have left behind him a
list of about three thousand words, which he consi-
dered them to possess in common.              Some of his
observations upon this subject have been printed,
and are creditable both to his ingenuity and good
sense.     The address, we may add, which he deli-
vered on his trial in his own defence, is an extraordi-
nary specimen of the curious learning with which his
 mind seems to have been stored. But lie is a mourn-
 ful example of high mental powers brought low by
 ill-regulated passions, and of the vanity and worth-

353          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
lessness even of talents and knowledge, when sepa-
rated from moral principle*.
    There is an English translation of the Scriptures,
in two volumes folio, which was published at London
in 1765, and, although not distinguished by much
elegance, is held in considerable esteem for its general
accuracy and closeness to the original. This was the
work of a person of the name of ANTHONY PURVER,
who, at the time when it appeared, was a school-
master at Andover, but had been almost entirely self-
educated.    Having been born (about the year 1702)
in low life, he had been originally apprenticed to a
shoemaker, by whom, however, he was employed as
a shepherd, an occupation which afforded him con-
siderable leisure for reading and study. In the course
of time, he acquired, with scarcely any assistance, a
very considerable knowledge of Latin, Greek, and
Hebrew. It was the accidental perusal of a book, in
which some errors were pointed out in the common
translation of the Bible, that first awakened in him a
desire to make himself acquainted with the two sacred
tongues.    Purver, who died in 1777, was a Quaker;
and his version of the Scriptures, which was the
labour of thirty years of his life, was published at the
expense of the eminent Dr. Fothergill,f who was
himself also a member of that religious body.
    There has lately appeared in the newspapers an
 account of a scholar in humble life, who died some
 time since in London, and whose attainments seem
  * For   the trial of   Eugene Aram, see Howell's ' State Trials.
  f    Dr. Fothergill gave Purver    1000 for the copy of his trans-
lation (an attempt had before been made to publish it in
numbers), and also carried    it, at his own expense, through the
press.    Purver afterwards revised the work for a  second edition,
which, however, has not yet appeared. See Chalmers's Bio-
graphical Dictionary.

                      PENDRELL.                       359
  to have been as extensive, and as entirely the result
  of his own exertions in quest of knowledge, as those
  of any one of the individuals we have yet mentioned.
  JOSEPH PENDRELL had received at school nothing
  more than the ordinary education in English reading
  and writing, and at an early age was apprenticed by
  his father to a shoemaker, which business he followed
 until his death. He had, when young, a great taste
 for books ; but was first led to the more learned
 studies in which he eventually made so much pro-
 gress, by the following accident :     Stopping at a
 book-stall one day, he laid hold of a book of arith-
 metic, marked fourpence ; he purchased         it, and
 availed himself of his leisure hours at home in
 making himself master of the subject. At the end
 of the volume, he found a short introduction to the
 mathematics. This stimulated him to make farther
 purchases of scientific works   ;and in this way he
 gradually proceeded from the elements to the highest
departments of mathematical learning.         When a
journeyman, he made every possible saving in order
 to purchase books.      He found there were many
valuable writers on his favourite subject in French   :
this determined him to study that language, for which
purpose he procured a grammar,       book of exercises,
                                        a
and a dictionary, and he persevered until he was
able to read the French writers with ease.      In the
same manner, he proceeded to acquire the Latin
and Greek languages, of the latter of which he made
himself master so far as to have little difficulty in
reading the Septuagint, or any other common pro-r
work. He had formed a large collection of classi-
cal books, many of which he purchased at the
auction-rooms in King Street, Covent Garden, for-
merly belonging to Paterson, the celebrated book-
auctioneer,* in whose time they formed      a favourite
                    *   See page 189.

360         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
resort   of literary    men.   Pendrell did not, how-
ever, avail himself of any opportunity of becom-
ing known to the literary characters he was accus-
tomed to meet here.         On the contrary, he always
shunned notice, and made it a practice invariably to
conceal his name when a lot was knocked down to
him.    He had often met in these rooms the learned
Bishop Lowth, who frequently fell into conversation
with him, as they sometimes happened to meet
before the sale began.       The Bishop was much in-
terested with his     conversation,  and one day asked
Paterson who he was ; on which Paterson took the
first opportunity to inquire his name, acquainting
him, at the same time, who the person was that felt
interested in his favour.     The poor shoemaker, how-
ever, from extreme diffidence, declined telling Pater-
son his     name,    although the introduction to the
Bishop, of which an opportunity was thus given
him, might probably have drawn him from obscurity
and led to some improvement of his humble circum-
stances.    Pendrell's knowledge of mathematical sci-
 ence was profound and extensive, embracing fortifi-
cation, navigation, astronomy, and all the different
 departments of natural philosophy.        He was also
 familiar with our poetical literature ; and had a
 thorough acquaintance with most English writers in
 the department of the belles lettres.   He resided for
 several years before his death at Gray's-buildings,
 Duke-street,    Manchester-square, and died in the
 seventy-fifth year of his age.     He was descended, it
 is supposed, from the Pendrell who concealed Charles
 II. after the battle of Worcester.

                     CHAPTER       XXL
         Force of Application.   Dr. Alexander Murray.
WITH the exception of Magliabecchi,  the names we
have as yet mentioned under our present head have
been those of persons whose acquirements, although
most honourable to themselves, and well entitled to
our admiration, when the circumstances in which
they were made are considered, have yet hardly
been such as to secure for their possessors any per-
manent place in the annals of the learned. They
are remembered not so much on account of what
they accomplished, as on account of the disad-
vantages under which it was accomplished.       But he
whom we are now to introduce, while the narrative
of his progress from obscurity to distinction presents
to us as praiseworthy a struggle with ad verse circum-
stances as is anywhere else recorded, had taken his
rank, even before his premature death, among the
scholars of his time ; and although suddenly arrested
when in the very speed of his career, has bequeathed
something of himself in his works to posterity. We
speak of the late Dr. ALEXANDER MUIIUAY, the ce-
lebrated orientalist ; nor are there many more in-
teresting histories than his in the whole range
of literary biography.    Happily the earlier portion
of it,  with which we have principally to do, has
                                                2 i

362         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
been sketched by his own pen* with characteristic
naivete; and we are thus in possession both
of a very full, and of a perfectly trustworthy detail
of every thing we can desire to know respecting
him.     This piece of autobiography, which is pre-
                                                 '
fixed to Dr. Murray's posthumous work,             The
History of European Languages,' is, we believe,
comparatively but little known to ordinary readers ;
and both for this reason, and from its value as an
illustration of our subject, we shall allot as much
space as can be afforded to an abstract of it.  There
are one or two other sources, from which a few addi-
tional particulars, with regard to Dr. Murray, may
be gathered, and to which we shall occasionally
refer.
    He was born in the parish of Minnigaff, in the
shire of Kirkcudbright, on the 22d of October, 1775.
His father was at this time nearly seventy years of
age, and had been a shepherd all his life, as his own
father, and probably his ancestors for many genera-
tions, had also been.   Alexander's mother was also
the daughter of a shepherd, and was the old man's
second wife ; several sons, whom he had by a for-
mer marriage, being all brought up to the same
primitive occupation. This modern patriarch died in
the year 1797, at the age of ninety-one; and he
appears to have been a man of considerable natural
sagacity, and possessed,     at least, of the simple
scholarship of which the Scottish peasant is rarely
 destitute.
    It was from his father that Alexander received
  * In   a letter to the Rev. Mr. Maitland, minister of Minnigaff,
written in 1812,       evidently a hasty composition, as it bears to
be,  and  intended only for the eye of a friend, hut more heautiful
and touching in its unlaboured, and, sometimes, even incorrect
simplicity of phrase aud manner, than any less natural eloquence
could have made  it.

                   DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                  363
 his first lessons in reading.      This was in his sixth
 year ; and he gives an amusing account of the pro-
 cess.     The old man, he tells us, bought him a
 Catechism (which in Scotland is generally printed
 with a copy of the alphabet, in a large type, pre-
 fixed)  ;   but " as it was too good a book," he pro-
 ceeds, " for me to handle at all times, it was gene-
 rally locked up, and he, throughout the winter, drew
the figures of the letters to me, in his written hand,
on the board of an old wool card, with the black end
of an extinguished heather stem or root, snatched
from the fire.        I  soon learned all the alphabet in
this form, and became writer as well as reader.             I
wrought with the board and brand continually.
Then the Catechism was presented, and in a month
or two     I   could read the easier parts of it.     I daily
amused myself with copying, as above, the printed
letters.      In May, 1782, he gave me a small Psalm-
book, for which I totally abandoned the Catechism,
which      I   did not like, and which     I  tore into two
pieces, and concealed in a hole of a dyke.            I soon
got many psalms by memory, and longed for a new
book.       Here difficulties rose. The Bible, used every
night in the family,        I was not permitted to open or
touch.       The rest of the books were put up in chests.
I   at length got a New Testament, and read the
historical parts with great curiosity and ardour.
But I longed to read the Bible, which seemed to me
a much more pleasant book ; and          I  actually went to
where      I   knew an old loose-leaved Bible lay, and
carried it away in piece-meal.        I perfectly remember
the strange pleasure I felt in reading the histories of
Abraham and David. I liked mournful narratives ;
and greatly admired Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and the
Lamentations.         I pored on these pieces of the Bible
in secret for many months, but I durst not shew
them openly ; and as        I read constantly and remein-
                                            2  i 2

364           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
bered well,     I   soon astonished all our honest neigh-
bours with the large passages of scripture            I  repeated
before them.        I have forgot too much of my biblical
knowledge, but I can still rehearse all the names of
the Patriarchs from Adam to Christ, and various
other narratives seldom committed to memory."
    His father's whole property consisted only of two
or three scores of sheep, and four muirland cows.
" He had no debts," says his son, "and no money."
As all his other sons were shepherds, it was with him
a matter of course that Alexander should be brought
up to the same employment ; and accordingly, as soon
as he had strength for any thing, that is, when he
was about seven or eight years of age, he was sent
to the hills with the sheep.         However, from the first
he gave no promise of making a good shepherd, and
he was often blamed by his father as lazy and useless.
The truth is, he was not stout, and was likewise short-
sighted*, which his father did not know.                 Besides,
" was sedentary," says he, " indolent, and given to
   I
books, and writing on boards with coals."                 But his
father was too poor to send him to school, his at-
tendance upon which, indeed, would have been
scarcely practicable, unless he could have been boarded
in the village, from which their cottage, situated in a
wild and sequestered glen, was five or six miles dis-
tant. About this time, however, (in May 1784,) a
brother of his mother's, who had made a little money,
 came to pay them a visit ; and hearing such accounts
 of the genius of his nephew, whose fame was now
 the discourse of the whole glen, he offered to be at
 the expense of boarding him for a short time in New
    * This  defect, according to the author of the ' Literary His-
 tory of Galloway,' who has given a sketch of Dr. Murray's life,
 made his father often think that his son wilfully deceived him by
 the incorrect accounts he gave of the sheep, when sent to observe
 iq what directions they were straying,

                DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                  365
  Galloway, and keeping him at school there.          Our
  home-taught and mostly self-taught scholar, as he
  tells us himself, made at first a somewhat awkward
  figure on this new scene.
                                  " My pronunciation of
  words," says he, " was laughed at, and my whole
  speech was a subject of fun."
                                    " But," he adds, "   I
 soon gained impudence ; and before the vacation in
 August, I often stood dux of the Bible class.      I was
 in the mean time taught to write copies, and use
 paper and ink. But       I  both wrote and printed, that
 is, imitated printed letters, when out of school."
     His attendance at school, however, had scarcely
 lasted for three months, when the poor boy fell into
 bad health, and he was obliged to return home.       For
 nearly five years after this he was left again to be his
 own instructor, with no assistance whatever from any
one. He soon recovered his health, but during the
long period we have mentioned, he looked in vain for
the means of again pursuing his studies under the
advantages he had for so short a time enjoyed.         As
soon as he became sufficiently well he was put to his
old employment of assisting the rest of the family as
a shepherd boy.      " I was still," he says, however,
" attached to reading, printing of words, and getting
by heart ballads, of which I procured several.
About this time, and for years after, I spent every six-
pence that friends or strangers gave me, on ballads
and penny histories.      I carried bundles of these in
my pockets, and read them when sent to look for
cattle on the banks of Loch Greanoch, and on the
wild hills in its neighbourhood."     And thus passed
away about three years of his life.    All this time the
Bible and these ballads seem to have formed almost
his only reading ; yet even with this scanty library he
contrived to acquire among the simple inhabitants of
the glen, a reputation for unrivalled erudition.
                                                   " My
fame," he tells us, " for reading and a memory was
                                         2 I 3

366         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
loud, and several said that I was ' a living miracle.'
I   puzzled the honest elders of the church with re-
citals of scripture, and discourses about Jerusalem,
&c. &c." Towards the close of the year 1787, he
borrowed from a friend L'Estrange's translation of
'                  '
   Josephus,' and Salmon's Geographical Grammar.'
This last work, in particular, as we shall see imme-
diately, had no little share in determining the direc-
tion and character of the studies of his future life.
 Referring, however, merely to the new information of
which it put him immediately in possession, he says,
 "  I  got  immense benefit from Salmon's book.          It
gave me an idea of geography and univ ersal history,
and I actually recollect at this day almost every thing
 it contains."  A Grammar of Geography was also
 one of the first books that Ferguson studied ;
 although the minds of the two students, differing as
 they did in original character, were attracted by dif-
 ferent parts of their common manual ; the one pon-
 dering its description of the artificial sphere, the other
 musing over its accounts of foreign lands, and of the
 history and languages of the nations inhabiting them.
Murray, however, learned also to copy the maps
which he found in the book ; and, indeed, carried
 his study of practical geography so far as to make
 similar delineations of his native glen and its neigh-
bourhood.
     He was now twelve years of age ; and as there
 seemed to be no likelihood that he would ever be
able to gain his bread as a shepherd, his parents
were probably anxious that he should attempt some-
thing in another way to help to maintain himself.
Accordingly, in the latter part of the year 1787, he
engaged as teacher in the families of two of the
neighbouring farmers ; for his services in which ca-
pacity, throughout the winter, he was remunerated
with the sum of sixteen shillings ! He had pro-

               DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                  367
bably, however, his board free in addition to his
salary, of which he immediately laid out a part in
the purchase of books.     One of these was ' Cocker's
Arithmetic,' " the plainest," says he, " of all books,
from which, in two or three months, I learned the four
principal rules of arithmetic, and even advanced to the
Rule of Three, with no additional assistance except
the use of an old copy-book of examples made by
some boy at school, and a few verbal directions from
my brother Robert, the only one of all my father's
sons by his first marriage that remained with us."
He borrowed, about the same time, some old maga-
zines from a country acquaintance.        " My memory
now,'' says he, " contained a very large mass of his-
torical facts and ballad poetry, which I repeated with
pleasure to myself and the astonished approbation of
the peasants around me."
    At last, his father having been employed to
herd on another farm, which brought them nearer
the village, Alexander was once more permitted to
go to school at Minnigaff for three days in the week.
" I made the most," says he, " of these days ;          I
came about an hour before the school met ;       I pored
on my arithmetic, in which I am still a proficient ;
and I regularly opened and read all the English
books, such as the ' Spectator,' ' World,' &c. &c.,
brought by the children to school. I seldom joined
in any play at the usual hours, but read constantly."
" It occurred to me," he adds, " that       I  might get
qualified for a merchant's clerk.    I, therefore, cast a
sharp look towards the method of book-keeping, and
                                           '
 got some idea of its forms by reading        Button' in
the school, and by glancing at the books of other
 scholars."   This second period of his attendance at
 school, however, did not last even so long as the
 former.    It terminated at the autumn vacation,
that is to say, in about six weeks ; and the winter

 368        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
   was again devoted to teaching the children of a few
   of the neighbouring farmers.
      In 1790, he again attended school during the
  summer for about three months and a half. It seems
  to have been about this time that his taste for learning
  foreign languages first began to develops itself,
  having been excited, as he tells us, by his study of
  '
    Salmon's Geography.'     " I had," he writes, " in
  1787 and 1788 often admired and mused on the spe-
  cimens of the Lord's Prayer, in every language,
  found in ' Salmon's Grammar.' I had read in the
                  '
  magazines and Spectator,' that Homer, Virgil, Mil-
  ton, Shakspeare, and Newton were the greatest of
  mankind.   I  had been early informed that Hebrew
  was the first language, by some elders, and good,
  religious people.    In 1789, at Drigmore, an old
  woman who lived near shewed me her Psalm-book,
 which was printed with a large type, had notes on
 each page, and, likewise, what I discovered to be the
  Hebrew alphabet, marked letter after letter, in the
  119th Psalm.      I took a copy of these letters, by
 printing them off in my old way, and kept them."
 Meantime, as he still entertained the notion of going
 out as a clerk to the West Indies, he took advan-
 tage of the few weeks he was to be at school to begin
 the study of the French language.        Not satisfied,
 however, with learning merely the tasks set him by
 his master, he used to remain in the school, during
 the middle of the day, while his companions were at
 play, and compare together the different grammars
 used in the class.    But we must allow him to tell
 in his own way the manner in which his French
 studies introduced him by accident to the Latin
tongue also.
     " About the 15th of June, Kerr
                                      (one of his class-
fellows) told me that he had once learned Latin for
a fortnight, but had not liked     it,and still had the

                DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                  369
 Rudiments beside him.       I said, '
                                       Do lend  me them ;
 I  wish to see what the nouns and verbs are like, and
 whether they resemble our French.'           He gave me
the book.     I  examined it for four or five days, and
 found that the nouns had changes on the last sylla-
bles, and looked very singular.         I used to repeat a
lesson from the French Rudiments every forenoon in
 school.    On the morning of the midsummer fair of
Newton Stewart      I set out for school, and accidentally
put into my pocket the Latin grammar instead of the
French Rudiments.        On an ordinary day, Mr. Cra-
mond would have chid me for this ; but on that
festive morning he was mellow, and in excellent
spirits   a state not good for a teacher, but always
desired in him by me, for he was then very commu-
nicative. With great glee he replied, when I told him
                                                    '
my mistake and shewed him the Rudiments,              Gad,
Sandy, I shall try thee with Latin ;' and, accordingly,
read over to me no less than two of the declensions.
It was his custom with me to permit me to get as
 long lessons as I pleased, and never to fetter me by
joining me to a class. There was at that time in the
 school a class of four boys, advanced as far as the
 pronouns in Latin grammar.            They ridiculed my
 separated condition.      But before the vacation in
 August I had reached the end of the Rudiments,
 knew a good deal more than they, by reading at home
 the notes on the foot of each page, and was so greatly
 improved in French, that I could read almost any
 French book at opening of it. I compared French
 and Latin, and riveted the words of both in my
  memory by this practice. When proceeding with
 the Latin verbs, I often sat in the school all mid-day,
  and pored on the first page of Robert Cooper's
  (another of his schoolfellows) Greek grammar         the
  only one  I   had ever seen.     He was then reading
 Livy, and learning Greek.        By help of his book    I

  370         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  mastered the letters ; but     I  saw the sense of the
  Latin rules in a very indistinct manner. Some boy
  lent me an old Corderius, and a friend made me a
  present of Eutropius.      I  got a common vocabulary
  from my companion Kerr.          I read to my teacher a
  number of colloquies, and before the end of July was
 permitted to take lessons in Eutropius.          There was
 a copy of Eutropius in the school that had a literal
 translation.    I studied this last with great attention,
 and compared the English and Latin.               When my
 lesson was prepared,      I  always made an excursion
 into the rest of every book ; and my books were not,
 like those of other schoolboys, opened only in one
 place, and where the lesson lay."
     All this was the work of about two months and a
 half before the vacation and a fortnight after it.
 During the winter, he was as usual employed in
 teaching ; but he continued to pursue his own studies
in private.      Having stated that he had bought an
old copy of Ainsworth's Dictionary for eighteenpence,
and been lucky enough to find a few other Latin
books in the possession of some of his friends, he
proceeds :
               "  I employed every spare moment in
pondering upon these books.            I literally read the
Dictionary throughout. My method was to revolve
the leaves of the letter A, to notice all the principal
words and their Greek synonymes, not omitting a
glance at the Hebrew ; to do the same by B, and so
on through the book.         I then returned from x and
                                         I
z to A ; and in these winter months amassed a large
stock of Latin and Greek vocables. From this exer-
cise   I  took to Eutropius, Ovid, and CaBsar, or at
times to Ruddiman's Grammar.           The inverted order
often perplexed me ; and       I frequently mistook, but
also frequently discerned, the sense. The wild fictions
of Ovid have had charms for me ever since.            I was
not a judge of simple and elegant composition ; but

                DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                    371
 when any passage contained wild, sublime, pathetic,
 or singular expressions,      I both felt and tenaciously
 remembered them. Here I got another book which,
 from that time, has influenced and inflamed my
 imagination.      This was Paradise Lost of which           I
 had heard, and which I was eager to see.           * *
 I  cannot describe to you the ardour, or various feel-
 ings, with which I read, studied, and admired this
first-rate work.     I  found it as difficult to understand
 as Latin, and soon saw that it required to be parsed,
 like that language.                     I account my first
 acquaintance with Paradise Lost an era in my read-
 ing."
     The following summer, that of the year 1791,
 appears to have been spent by this indefatigable
  student still more laboriously than any of the pre-
  ceding ; and the advancement he made is a surprising
  evidence of what diligence may accomplish.              He
  again attended school for about three months, where
  he found a class reading Ovid and Caesar, and after-
  wards Virgil.    "  I  laughed," says he,
                                               " at the diffi-
  culty with which they prepared their lessons ; and
  often obliged them by reading them over, to assist
  the work of preparation."       In addition to the tasks
  of the school, he read with avidity by himself what-
  ever books in English, Latin, or Greek, he could
  anywhere borrow.        Beside remaining in the school,
  according to his old custom, at the hours of play,
  when his amusement was to read the books belong-
  ing to the other scholars, he employed his time at
  home in almost incessant study. "My practice was,"
  he says,
            " to lay down a new and difficult book after
  it had wearied me ; to take up another then a third
     and to resume this rotation frequently and labo-
  riously.   I always strove to seize the sense ; but
  when I supposed that        I  had succeeded, I did not
  weary myself with analyzing every sentence." Hav-

372               THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ing introduced himself to Mr. Maitland, the clergy-
man of the parish, by writing; letters to him in
Latin and Greek, he got from that gentleman a
number of books, and these, which included Homer,
               '
Longinus, the    CEdipus Tyrannus' of Sophocles,
a volume of Cicero's    '
                          Orations,' &c., he read
and studied with great diligence.    Nor were his
studies confined to the classic tongues.         Having
purchased a copy of Robertson's Hebrew Grammar,
he got through      with all the intricacies of the doc-
                        it,
trine of the points, of which the author      an uncom-
                                                  is
promising champion, in         month.
                                 a         He was soon
after fortunate enough to procure a Dictionary of
this language, from an old man living in the neigh-
bourhood, whose son had been educated for the
church * and as the volume happened to contain
              ;
the whole of the Book of Ruth in the original,
he considered      an invaluable acquisition.
                       it                         But a
still greater prize than this was a copy of the
entire Bible in Hebrew, which was lent to him
for a few months by a woman, with whom               had   it
been left      her brother, a clergyman in Ireland.
                  by
" made good use," says he, " of this loan
I                                                   read
                                                       :I
it throughout, and many passages and books of                   it   a
number of times."     This summer must, indeed, to
use his own words, have been
                                 " devoted to hai'd and
continued reading."     He had, in fact,      would ap-
                                                  it
pear, actually made himself familiar, and that chiefly
by his own unassisted exertions, with the French,
Latin, Greek, and Hebrew languages, and perused
several of the principal authors in all of them, within
     * Thiswas the father of Robert Heron,    a  laborious literary
character, who died in  London about twenty years ago, and of
whom an account may be found     in Mr. D'Israeli's Calamities of
                                                   '
Authors.'   There was    relationship, as we are informed by the
                            a
author of The Literary History of Galloway,' between Heron's
              '
family aad that of Murray.

              DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                 373
abcmt a year and a half from the time when they
were all entirely unknown to him ; for it was at the
end of May, 1790, that he commenced, as we have
seen, the study of French ; and all this work had
been done by the end of November in the year fol-
lowing . There is not, perhaps, on record a more
       1
extraordinary instance of youthful ardour and perse-
verance.    It may serve to shew what is possible to
be accomplished.
    He was again engaged in teaching during the win-
ter, and received, as he states, for his labours about
thirty-five or forty shillings.
                                " I devoted," however,
he says,
            " as usual, every spare hour to study.
French, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, occupied all my
leisure time."     In the summer of 1792, he returned
to school for the last time ; and remained for about
three months and a half.         The different periods
of his school attendance, added together, make
about thirteen months, scattered over the space of
nearly eight years.     From November 1792 till the
March following, he was once more employed in
teaching the children of one of the farmers, at a salary
of thirty shillings.   This winter a friend lent him a
copy of Bailey's Dictionary, from which he learned,
he informs us, a vast variety of useful matters.
Among other things, it put him in possession of
the Anglo-Saxon alphabet and Pater Noster, as well
as of a great many words in the same dialect.      This
was his introduction to the study of the northern
languages.      There chanced, also, to fall into his
hands about the same time a small religious treatise,
in Welsh, a language of which he had neither dic-
tionary nor grammar.
                            " I mused, however," says
he, " a good deal on the quotations of Scripture
that abound in   it,   and got acquainted with many
Welsh words and sentences.      If
                               I I   had a copy of the
Bible in any language of which knew the alphabet,
                                         2K

374       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
I could make considerable progress in learning 1     it,
without grammar or dictionary.   This    done by
                                           is
minute observation and comparison of words, termi-
nations, and phrases.      It the method dictated by
                            is
necessity, in the absence of all assistance."     About
this time, too, he made himself acquainted with the
Abyssinian alphabet, from an inaccurate copy of      it
which he found in an odd volume of the Universal
History. The Arabic letters he had learned before,
from Robertson's Hebrew Grammar.
   " In the autumn of 1792," says he, " had, in
                                            I
the hour of ignorance and ambition, believed myself
capable of writing an epic poem."       So violent, in-
deed, were his poetical affections at this period, that,
having obtained the loan of volume of Ossian for
      1
                             a
four days, he had actually transcribed, for his own
use, the whole of Fingal.        During the ensuing-
winter he wrote several thousand lines of his poem,
which was in blank verse, and its subject the
exploits of Prince Arthur.
                               " The poem of Arthur,"
says he,
            " was, so far as remember, a very noisy,
                         I
bombastic, wild, and incorrect performance.       It was
not without obligations      to Ossian,    Milton, and
 Homer. But   I     had completed the seventh book
beforeI     discerned that my predecessors were far
superior to me in every thing.     The beauties of the
first books of Paradise Lost overwhelmed me, and     I
 began to flag in the executive department.          My
 companions, young and ignorant like myself, ap-
 plauded my verses, but I     perceived they were mis-
 taken;    for my rule of judgment proceeded from
 comparison in another school of criticism."         The
 unfinished epic accordingly was thrown into the fire.
 But poor Murray, in truth, now in his nineteenth
 year, was looking around him, in all directions, for
 the means of attaining an object on which he had set
 his heart;   and he hud probably at one time indulged

              DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                   375
 the dream of reaching   it,   through the publication of
 this poem. His most intimate school companion had,
 the year before, gone to the university, for which
 Murray no doubt felt that he himself was infinitely
 better qualified,
                 if     his utter want of resources had
 not, at least for the present, opposed an insurmount-
 able barrier to his ambition.      But was not unna-
                                      it
 tural for him to hope that the successful exertion of
 his talents in the way of authorship might perchance
 enable him to gratify his wishes. So, after destroying
 his epic, he bethought him of what he should sub-
 stitute in its place.   He had happened to purchase a
 volume of the. manuscript lectures of a German pro-
 fessor on Roman literature.       They were written in
 Latin, and he determined to translate them, and
 offer them to the world in their English dress.      Ac-
 cordingly, having finished his task, he took the
 work to Dumfries, in the early part of the year
 1794;    but neither of the two booksellers of the
 place would publish it.      He had brought with him
 also a quantity of verse, chiefly in the Scottish
 dialect and the other speculation having failed, he
       ;
 resolved to publish these poems by subscription.
Fortunately, he was saved from this folly by the
judicious counsel of one best of all entitled to advise
him here.      " During the visit to Dumfries," says he,
" was introduced to Robert Burns, who treated me
I
with great kindness, and told me that   if I  could get
out to college without publishing my poems,      itwould
be much better, as my taste was young and not
formed, andI       would be ashamed of my productions
whenI     could write and judge better. I    understood
this, and resolved to make publication my last
resource."
    At this place, the narrative, as written by Murray
himself, terminates ;      the part of his history that
immediately followed being merely alluded to, as
                                      2    K 2

 376        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 well known to the person to whom the letter is
 addressed.     Unknown as our poor scholar was
 to the wealthy and powerful, he had a friend, in
 the same sphere of life in which he himself moved,
 who became the means of at last procuring for
 him the opportunity, which he so greatly desired,
 of prosecuting   his studies. This was an itinerant
 tea-merchant, of the name of M'Harg, who knew
 Murray well, and had formed so high an idea of his
 genius and learning, that he was in the habit of
 sounding    his fame wherever he went.        Among
 others to whom he spoke of him, was Mr. James
 Kinnear, of Edinburgh, then a journeyman printer
 in the king's printing-office. Mr. Kinnear, with a
 zeal in behalf of unfriended merit which does him
 infinite honour, immediately suggested that Murray
 should transmit an account of himself, and some
 evidences of his attainments, to Edinburgh, which
 he undertook to lay before some of the literary cha-
 racters of that city. This plan was adopted ; and
 the result was, that the young man, having come up
 to town, was examined by the Principal, and several
 professors of the university, and so surprised them
 by the extent and accuracy of his acquaintance with
 French, Latin, Greek, and Hebrew, that measures
 were immediately taken for having the classes thrown
 open to him, and his maintenance secured while
 attending them.     These arrangements, it would be
 unjust not to mention, were chiefly effected through
 the exertions of Principal Baird, who procured for
 him an exhibition, or bursary, as it is called ; and
 whose ardent and most efficient patronage of one
.thus recommended to him only by his deserts and
 his need of patronage, entitles him to the lasting
 gratitude of the commonwealth of learning. Murray
 was, indeed, very soon able to support himself by the
 employment which he obtained as a teacher, and by

                 DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                    377
 his literary labours.       All his difficulties might be
 said to be over as soon as he had found his way to
 the university, and his talents had thus been trans-
ferred to a theatre where they were sure to acquire
him distinction.
    For the next ten or twelve years of his life he re-
 sided principally in Edinburgh.         During that time,
beside passing through the course of education ne-
cessary to qualify him for the ministry of the Scottish
church, he continued to devote himself with all his
old enthusiasm to the study of languages, in which
he was so admirably qualified to excel.             No man
that ever lived, probably, not excepting Sir William
Jones himself, has prosecuted this branch of learning
to such an extent as Murray.              By the end of his
short life, scarcely one of either the oriental or the
northern tongues remained uninvestigated by him, in
so far as it was possible to acquire the knowledge of
it from sources then accessible in this country.            Of
the six or seven dialects of the Abyssinian or Ethio-
pic language in particular, he had made himself cer-
tainly much more completely master than any Euro-
pean had ever been before ; and this led to his being
selected by the booksellers in 1802 to prepare a new
edition of Bruce's Travels, which appeared in seven
volumes octavo three years after, and at once placed
him in the first rank of the oriental scholars of the
age.
    In  1806 he left Edinburgh, in order to officiate as
clergyman in the parish of Urr in Dumfriesshire.
And here he remained pursuing his favourite studies
for six years.      " He devoted his leisure moments
while at Urr,'' says a writer to whom he was known*,
" to the composition of his stupendous work on the
languages of Europe, without communicating his
design almost to a single individual ; and a person
   *  " Literary History of Galloway," byT. Murray, p. 320.
                                            2 K 3

378          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
might have spent whole weeks in his company with-
out hearing a word of his favourite pursuits, or of
the extent to which, in the department of philology,
he had carried his researches."     Events, however, at
last called him forth from this retirement, to win and
for a short time to occupy a more conspicuous station.
    In 1812 the professorship of Oriental Languages in
the University of Edinburgh became vacant ; and
Mr. Murray's friends immediately seized the op-
portunity of endeavouring to obtain for him the
situation of all others which he seemed especially
formed and endowed to fill.          Three other can-
didates, however, also advanced their pretensions ;
and as the result of the election depended upon the
votes of the members of the town council, or city cor-
poration, a body consisting of thirty-three individuals,
the contest soon became a keen and doubtful one.
It was eventually carried on between Murray and
a single opponent, one of the other candidates having
in the most handsome manner withdrawn as soon as
lie learned that Murray had come forward, and ano-
ther having found it impossible to command any in-
terest which gave him a chance of success.        A full
account of this election, the progress of which was
 watched by the friends of learning with the deepest
anxiety, is given in the Scots Magazine for July
 1812. Murray's friends, with Principal Baird at their
 head, submitted a multitude of testimonials of his
 qualifications for the vacant chair, as honourable as
 ever were given to any candidate, whether we look
 to the decided terms in which they were expressed,
 or to the authority of the writers.      One was from
 the late Mr. Hamilton, the very eminent professor
 of oriental languages in the East India College
 at Hertford, in which that gentleman says of Mr.
 Murray,
             " I  happened last week to meet with
 him in Galloway, and found his acquisitions in

                    DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.                     379
  oriental literature and languages so extensive and
  various as greatly to exceed my power to appreciate
  them accurately. With the few languages in which
  I   am conversant he discovered an acquaintance
 that surprised me exceedingly ; but the range of his
 studies included many of which             I  am completely
 ignorant."       Another was from the late Mr. Salt,
 one of the most distinguished of modern oriental-
 ists.
          " My acquaintance with Mr. Murray,"
                                                             says
 he, " originated in my admiration of the deep
 erudition and extensive research displayed in his
 edition of Mr. Bruce's travels in Abyssinia. Having
 twice visited that country, I was led to pay particular
 attention to its history and literature, and in these pur-
suits   I  received so much assistance from Mr. Murray's
                  I
labours, that took an early opportunity, on my return
to England in February, 1811, from the mission to
Abyssinia in which I had been engaged, to recom-
mend him to the Marquis Wellesley as the only
perso?i in the British dominions, in my opinion,,
adequate to translate an Ethiopic letter which I had
brought from Ras Willida Selase, addressed to the
king. My recommendation was attended to, and Mr.
Murray finished the translation in the most satisfac-
tory way*."        There were others, from a host of dis-
tinguished names         among which may be mentioned
the late Dr. James Gregory, Mr. Leslie, Mr. Jeffrey,
Sir Walter Scott, the late Professors Playfair and
Dugald Stewart,         &c.   all bearing warm testimony
to the general talents and worth of the candidate, even
when there was no pretension to be able to appreciate
his peculiar scholarship.        Well was Murray entitled
to pay, as he did, in a letter written from Urr to one
of his most zealous supporters, on the day after the
    * After Dr. Murray's death, a pension of 80A a year was be-
stowed upon his widow by the king, in remembrance oi his services
on this occasion.

380         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
election, but before he had learned its result            " If
your efforts have been exerted for an unsuccessful
candidate, they will not be forgotten -for we have
perished in light!"
   He was elected on the 5th of July by a majority
of two votes* ; and a few days after, the Senate of
the University unanimously passed a vote of thanks
to Dr. Baird for bringing his pretensions before the
patrons, conferring, at the same time, the degree of
Doctor of Divinity upon their new associate.              But
all these honours came only to make the setting
of the luminary more bright.                  On the 31st of
October, Dr. Murray entered upon the discharge of
his public duties, in a weak state of health, but with
an ardour in which all weakness was forgotten.
Although declining in strength every day, he con-
tinued to teach his classes during the winter, perse-
vering in the preparation and delivery of a course of
most learned lectures on oriental literature, which
were attended by crowded and admiring audiences ;
and even carrying an elementary work through the
press for the use of his students.          A new impression
of his edition of Bruce's Travels also appeared in the
beginning of February.            Engaged in these labours,
he could not be persuaded that he was so ill as he
really was ; and when Mrs. Murray, who had been
left behind him at Urr, urged him to permit her to
come to town, it was with difficulty that he was at
last brought to consent to her joining him on the
 16th of April.       Fortunately, her affection and her
fears impelled her to set out on her journey a few
days earlier than the appointed time, and she arrived
in Edinburgh on the 13th.             She found her husband
surrounded by his books and papers, and even
engaged in dictating to an amanuensis. But life \\ as
   * Of twenty-eight members of the Town-Council who voted, fif-
teen voted for Murray, and thirteen for his opponent.

               DR. ALEXANDER MURRAY.               381
now ebbing rapidly.     He retired that evening to the
bed from which he never rose ; and before the     close
of another day he was among the dead.
     Thus perished in his thirty-eighthyear one who,
if he had lived longer, would probably have reared for
himself many trophies, and extended the bounds
of human learning.      His ambition had always   been
to perform in the field to which he more especially-
dedicated his powers, something worthy of remem-
brance ; and his latter years had been given to the
composition of a work (his History of European
Languages already mentioned)         which, if time had
been allowed to finish  it, would unquestionably have
formed    a  splendid monument of his ingenuity and
learning.    It has been published since his death, in
so far as it  could be recovered from his manuscripts;
and although, probably, very far from what   it   would
have been had he lived to arrange and complete it,
is  still a wonderful display of erudition, and an im-
portant contribution to philological literature.
    Of Murray's short life scarcely half was passed
amidst those opportunities which usually lead to study
and the acquisition of knowledge. The earlier portion
of   it was a continued struggle with every thing that
tends most to repress intellectual exertion, and to
extinguish the very desire of learning.      Yet in all
the poverty and the many other difficulties and
discouragements with which he had for his first eigh-
teen years to contend, he went on pursuing his work of
self-cultivation, not only as eagerly and steadily, but
almost as successfully as he afterwards did when
surrounded by all the accommodations of study.
It   is  a lesson that ought to teach us how inde-
pendent the mind really        of circumstances, which
                              is
 tyrannize over us chiefly through our habits of
 submission, and by terrifying us with a mere show
 of unconquerable resistance.     The worst are gene-

382        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
rally more formidable in their appearance than in
their reality, and when courageously attacked are
more than half overcome.        Had there been any
obstacles of a nature sufficient to check the onward
course of this enterprising and extraordinary boy,
how often would he have been turned back in the
noble career upon which he had entered ! But one
after another, as they met him, he set his foot upon
and crushed ; and at last, after years of patient,
solitary, unremitting labour, and of hoping almost
against possibility, he was rewarded with all he had
wished and toiled for.

                      CHAPTER      XXII.
               Self-tuition.  Shakspeare : Burns.
 IT  is an interesting train of reflection which is ex-
 cited by the fact, first noticed, we believe, by Mr.
 Malone, that the father of SHAKSPEARE could not
 write his own name, a cross remaining to this day
 as his mark or signature in the records of the town
 of Stratford-upon-Avon, of which he was an alder-
 man.    Had the great dramatist himself been born
 half a century earlier, he probably might have lived
and died as ignorant as his father appears to have
been ; and a few rudely scrawled crosses might have
been the only efforts in the art of writing of that
hand to which we owe so many an immortal page.
That Shakspeare's own education, however, em-
braced at least English reading and writing, there
can be no doubt.           Dr. Farmer, in a well-known
essay, distinguished by its ingenuity and learning,
has attempted to shew that he never had acquired
any knowledge of the ancient languages, and owed
his acquaintance with classical literature entirely to
translations.    Perhaps in this the learned critic goes
a little too far.    Shakspeare was evidently a great
reader, for his poetry abounds with allusions, more or
less accurate, to all the learning of his age, of which
not even the most curious and abstruse depart-
ments seem to have escaped his attention. Of this any
one may convince himself merely by perusing a few
pages of the elaborate commentaries that have been
written upon his works, and observing how the eru-
dition of succeeding times has exhausted itself, some-
times in vain, in attempting to pursue the excursive

384         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
range of his memory and his fancy.       It may be con-
ceded, however, that his native tongue was probably
the only one which he read with much facility,
and that to it he was indebted for nearly all he
knew.     And it is not to be overlooked, that in writ-
ing his plays, in particular, it was probably delibe-
rately, and upon system, that he preferred taking his
version of the ancient story rather from the English
translation than from the original author.     In those
days, translations from the ancient tongues appear
to have formed, in this country, no small part of the
reading of the people, as the numerous performances
of this kind which were produced within a few years,
some of them by the ablest writers of the time, and
the rapid succession of editions of several of them
with which the press teemed, may serve to testify.
Now it would seem to have been a maxim with
Shakspeare always to give his auditors the story
which was most familiar to them, and with which
they had been longest acquainted, rather than one,
the novelty of which they would not so easily com-
prehend, or with which their old impressions and
affections were not so likely to sympathize.     Hence,
although the most original of all writers in every
thing else, he seldom has recourse to his own invention
for the plot or story of his drama, but sei2es merely
upon the popular tale.
   Several   peculiarities in his style would rather
indicate that he knew something, at least, of the
vocabulary of the Latin language, and its com-
mon forms of phraseology ; or about as much as is
retained of their school learning by the greater
number of those who study the ancient tongues
in their youth.         This perhaps is, after all,
the view of the matter most consistent with the
expression of his friend, Ben Jonson, who, in the
verses he has written to his memory, represents

                       SHAKSPEARE.                    385
 him, not as entirely ignorant of ancient literature, but
                       " small Latin, and less Greek."
 only as having had
    But, however this may be, Shakspeare must have
taken to literature as a profession entirely of his own
 accord ; and commenced and pursued the business
 of cultivating his powers by study, in the midst of
 circumstances very unfavourable to the prosecution
of such an aim. Imperfect and uncertain as are the
 accounts we have of his early years, tradition is uni-
 form in representing him to have led for some time
 an irregular and unsettled life. He is said, when
very young, to have been for a short period in the
 office of a country attorney; but it is certain that he
 precipitately left his native place, and came up to
 London, with nothing but chance and his talents to
 depend upon, when he was about twenty-two years
 of age, having already a wife, to whom he had been
 married four or five years before, and several children.
 There is every reason to suppose, too, that his first
 employment in the metropolis was one of the very
 humblest: some accounts giving him only the rank
 of call-boy, or attendant on the prompter, at one of
 the theatres; while others reduce him to the still
 lower vocation of holding gentlemen's horses at the
 door during the performance.      From this condition,
 however, he gradually raised himself by his own
 exertions, till he became first an actor, and, even-
 tually, a theatrical proprietor; when, after having
 spent about twenty-six years in London, he returned
 to his native place, and purchased an estate, where
 he resided in affluence arid     respectability till his
 death.
    Unfortunately, we know nothing of Shakspeare's
 studies, except by their imperishable produce.     But,
judging from his works, it seems plain that he must
have been, as we have already said, an ardent and
unwearied reader, a student both of the world of men
                                          2 i,

386        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
and of the world of books.           Indeed, when he first
appeared in London, whatever his mere school edu-
cation had been, his acquaintance with literature,
owing to the nature of his subsequent pursuits, and
his scanty opportunities, could not but have been
exceedingly circumscribed, and he must have made
himself all that he afterwards became.              His whole
history, in so far as we know       it,  goes to prove him
to have been, in his maturer days,        a     person of even
and regular habits of life first, accumulating what
                             ;
was in those times an ample fortune by the sedulous
exertions of many years, and then, as soon as he had
acquired this competency, wisely bidding adieu to
the contests and fatigues of ambition, and retiring
from the town and from fame to the country to enjoy
it. Nor shall we arrive at         a    different conclusion
with regard to his diligence and application, from a
considerate examination of those matchless crea-
tions of his fancy, which he has been ignorantly
asserted to have thrown off with such a careless and
random precipitancy.          That a     mind so rich and
plastic as his formed and gave forth its conceptions
with  a  facility such as slower powers may not emu-
late, may be easily believed   ;    but, although very pro-
bably a rapid, Shakspeare was certainly not                 a
careless, writer.    It is   curious enough that Jonson
himself, to whom has been attributed the expression
of a wish that he had blotted much of what he lias
allowed to remain in his compositions, speaks in the
poem already quoted, of his
                 " well-turned and true-filed lines
                                                ;"
an expression which       seems to impute     to him rather
consummate elaboration than inattention or sloven-
liness as  awriter. The truth may probably be best
gathered from the words of his two friends, Heminge
and Condel, who, in their address to the reader, pre-

                       SHAKSPEARE.                    387
fixed to the first folio edition of the plays, speaking
of the author, say, " Who, as he was a happy imi-
tator of nature, was a most gentle expresser of it.
His mind and hand went together ; and what he
thought, he uttered with that easiness, that we have
scarce received from him a blot in his papers."
    It is a common, but a very ill-founded prejudice,
to imagine that anything like regularity or diligence
is either impracticable to high genius, or unfavour-
able to its growth and exercise. Perfect self-controul
is the crowning attribute of the very highest genius,
which so far, therefore, from unfitting its possessor
to submit, either in the management of his time or
the direction of his thoughts, to the restraints of
arrangement and system, enables him, on the con-
trary, to yield to them as if he felt them not;
and which, by exerting this supremacy over itself,
achieves, in fact, its greatest triumphs.     It is true
that its far-seeing eye will often discern the error or
inadequacy     of theories and rules of discipline,
which to a narrower vision may seem perfect and
incontrovertible, and will violate them, accordingly,
with sufficient audacity. But when it does so, it
is out of no spirit of wanton outrage, or from any
inaptitude to take upon itself the obligations of a
law ; but merely because it must of necessity reject
the law that is attempted to be imposed upon           in
                                                     it,
 order to be enabled to obey a higher and more com-
 prehensive law of its own.         It would be well       if
 those would think of this, who, feeling within
 themselves merely a certain excitement and turbu-
 lence of spirit, the token,it   may be, of awakening
 powers,   but as certainly the evidence of their imma-
 turity and weakness, mistake their feverish volatility,
 and unsettledness of purpose, for what they have
 been taught to call the lawlessness of genius   ;  and
thereupon fancy   it   is  incumbent upon them to ily
                                    2 L   a

 388       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
from all manner of restraint, as perilous to their high
prerogative.    Genius is neither above law, nor op-
posed to it ; but, provided only that the law to
which it is proposed to subject it be one worthy of
its obedience, finds its best strength, as well as
its most appropriate embellishment, in wearing its
fetters.  Art, which is the manifestation of genius,
is equally the manifestation of judgment ; which,
instead, therefore, of being something irreconcileable
with genius, may, from this truth, be discerned to be
not only its most natural ally, but, in all its highest
creations, its indispensable associate and fellow-
labourer.
   The name of Shakspeare naturally recalls that of
BURNS, the next greatest poet (unless we reckon
Homer in that list) that ever was formed merely or
chiefly by the discipline of self-tuition ; and also,
considered without reference to his poetical powers,
another striking example of what a man may do in
educating himself, and acquiring an extensive ac-
quaintance with literature, while occupying a very
humble rank in society, and even struggling with the
miseries of the most cruel indigence.       Burns has
himself given us a sketch of his early life, in a letter
to Dr. Moore.      His father, a man of a decidedly
superior mind, and with even something of literary
acquirement beyond his station, had led a life of hard
labour and poverty ; and at the time of his son
Robert's birth, was employed as gardener by a gen-
tleman in the neighbourhood of the town of Ayr.       A
few years afterwards, he took a small farm, on which,
however, his utmost exertions, and those of the
members of his family who were able to give him
any assistance, seem to have hardly sufficed to earn
a subsistence without running in debt.
                                          " The farm,"
says his son,
               " proved a ruinous bargain. . . . My
lather was advanced in life when he married :    I  was

                          BURNS.                     389
the eldest    of seven children ; and he, worn out by
early hardships, was unfit for labour.        My father's
spirit was soon irritated, but not easily broken.
There was a freedom in his lease in two years more;
and to weather these two years we retrenched our
expenses. We lived very poorly.       I was a dexterous
ploughman for my age ; and the next eldest to me
was a brother (Gilbert), who could drive the plough
very well, and help me to thresh the corn. . . . This
kind of life the cheerless gloom of a hermit, with
the unceasing moil of a galley-slave       brought me to
my sixteenth year."
    On the expiration of this lease, his father took
another farm.       " For four years," continues Burns,
" we lived comfortably here ; but a difference com-
mencing between him and his landlord as to terms,
after three years tossing and whirling in the vortex
 of litigation, my father was just saved from the
horrors of a jail by a consumption, which, after two
 years' promises, kindly stepped in, and carried him
 away to where the wicked cease from troubling and
 the weary are at rest."     Yet it was during this time
 that the future poet made his first important acqui-
 sitions in literature.      I
                           " was, at the beginning of
 this period," says he, " perhaps the most ungainly,
 awkward boy in the parish,         no solitaire was less
 acquainted with the ways of the world.          What    I
 knew of ancient story was gathered from Salmon's
 and Guthrie's Geographical        Grammars ; and the
 ideas   I had formed of modern manners, of literature,
 and criticism,   I  got from the Spectator."    He then
 goes on to enumerate the other books to which his
 reading extended.       The whole formed a sufficiently
 miscellaneous collection, although not very nume-
  rous ; the principal being Pope's Works, some Plays
 of Shakspeare, Locke's Essay on the Human Under-
  standing, Stackhouse's History of the Bible, Allan
                                         2 L 3

390         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Ramsay's Works, and a collection of English songs.
" The collection of songs," he adds, " was my vade
mecum.      I  pored over them driving my cart, or
walking to labour, song by song, verse by verse,
carefully noting the true tender or sublime, from
affectation and fustian.      I am convinced    I  owe to
this practice much of my critic craft, such as it is."
    He afterwards went for a few weeks to a village
school, where he obtained some acquaintance with
the elements of geometry, and the practical sciences
of mensuration, surveying, and dialling.        Misread-
ing, too, gradually enlarged, as accident threw new
books in his way.          He mentions, in particular,
among those he met with, Thomson's and Shen-
stone's Works ; " and     I engaged," says he,
                                                 " several
of my school-fellows to keep up a literary corre-
spondence with me.        This improved me in compo-
sition.   I  had met with a collection of letters, by the
wits of Queen Anne's reign, and        I pored over them
most devoutly.      I  kept copies of any of my own
letters that pleased me ; and a comparison between
them and the composition of most of my corre-
spondents, flattered my vanity."
    In a letter from Gilbert Burns, which Dr. Currie
has published, we have a still more particular ac-
count of the manner in which the father of this
humble family struggled, in all his difficulties, to
procure education for his children ; from which, as
interestingly illustrative of the extent to which the
poorest have it in their power to discharge this
most important parental duty, we shall here tran-
scribe a few sentences.        " There being no school
near us," says the writer,
                                " and our little services
being viseful on the farm, my father undertook to
teach us arithmetic in the winter evenings, by candle-
light ; and in this way my two eldest sisters got all
the education they received.       . . .  My father was

                         BURNS.                     391
for some time almost the only companion we had.
He conversed familiarly on all subjects with   us, as  if
we had been men ; and was at great pains, while
we accompanied him in the labours of the farm, to
lead the conversation to such subjects as might tend
to increase our knowledge, or confirm us in virtuous
habits. He borrowed ' Salmon's Geographical Gram-
mar' for us, and endeavoured to make us acquainted
with the situation and history of the different coun-
tries in the world ; while from a book society in Ayr
he procured for us the reading of ' Derham's Physico
and Astro Theology,' and ' Ray's Wisdom of God in,
the Creation,' to give us some idea of astronomy and
natural history."     Gilbert also gives us, in this
letter, a more particular account of his brother's early
reading.
            " Robert," he proceeds, " read all these
books with an avidity and industry scarcely to be
equalled.    My father had been a subscriber to
'
   Stackhouse's History of the Bible,' then lately pub-
lished by James Meuross, in Kilmarnock : from
this Robert collected a competent knowledge of
ancient history ; for no book was so voluminous as
to slacken his industry, or so antiquated as to damp
his researches.   A brother of my mother, who had
lived with us some time, and had learnt some arith-
metic by our winter evening's candle, went into a
bookseller's shop in Ayr to purchase the ' Ready
 Reckoner, or Tradesman's Sure Guide,' and a book
 to teach him to write letters.   Luckily, in place of
      '
 the    Complete Letter- Writer,' he got by mistake a
 small collection of letters by the most eminent
 writers, with a few sensible directions for attaining
 an easy epistolary style.   This book was to Robert
 of the greatest consequence. It inspired him with a
 strong desire to excel in letter-writing, while it fur-
 nished him with models by some of the first writers
 in our language."

392        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  After mentioning the manner in which his brother
obtained a few of his other books, Gilbert goes on
to state that a teacher in Ayr, of the name of
Murdoch, to whom he was sent for two or three
weeks by his father, to improve his writing:, being
himself engaged at the time in learning French,
communicated the instructions he received to his
ardent and persevering pupil, who, when he re-
turned home, brought with him a French dictionary
and grammar, and a copy of ' Telemachus.'         " In a
little while," continues the writer, " by the assistance
of these books, he had acquired such a knowledge of
the language as to read and understand any French
author in prose."     He afterwards attempted to learn
Latin, but did not prosecute the study so long as to
make much progress. All this while, the misfortunes
and sufferings of this admirable father and his poor
family continued to increase every day.        Gilbert's
picture of their condition is touching in the extreme.
" To the buffetings of misfortune," says he, " we
could only oppose hard labour, and the most rigid
economy. We lived very sparing. For several years
butcher's meat was a stranger in the house ; while
all the members of the family exerted themselves to
the utmost of their strength, and rather beyond      it,
in the labours of the farm. My brother, at the age
of thirteen, assisted in thrashing the crop of corn,
and at fifteen was the principal labourer on the farm,
for we had no hired servant, male or female. The
anguish of mind we felt at our tender years, under
these straits and difficulties, was very great.       To
think of our father growing old (for he was now
above fifty), broken down with the long-continued
fatigues of his life, with a wife and five other
children, and in a declining state of circumstances,
these reflections produced in my brother's mind and
mine sensations of the deepest distress. I    doubt not

                         BURNS.                        393
  but the hard labour and sorrow of this period of his
  life, was, in a great measure, the cause of that de-
  pression of spirits with which Robert was so often
  afflicted through his whole life afterwards.      At this
 time he was almost constantly afflicted in the even-
 ing's with a dull headache, which, at a future period
 of his life, was exchanged for a palpitation of the
 heart, and a threatening of fainting and suffocation
 in his bed in the night time."
      Murdoch, Burns's English master, although not
 a man of great learning, appears to have been a
judicious elementary instructor, as well as to have
 preserved, in a remarkable degree, that zeal for the
 improvement of his pupils, and delight in witnessing
their progress, which do more, perhaps, than any
 thing else to render a teacher's efforts ^successful.
 In a letter addressed to Mr. Walker, and written
 some years after the death of the poet, this person
         " Upon this little farm
 says,                            (the first which Burns's
father had) was erected an humble dwelling, of which
William Burns was the architect. It was, with the
exception of a little straw, literally a tabernacle of
clay. In this mean cottage, of which I myself was
at times an inhabitant,   I   really believe there dwelt a
larger portion of content than in any palace in
Europe."       In noticing, afterwards, the ease with
 which his young pupils (Robert being then about
 six or seven years of age) learned their tasks, he re-
 marks, " This facility was partly owing to the
 method pursued by their father and me in instruct-
ing them, which was, to make them thoroughly
 acquainted with the meaning of every word in each
 sentence that was to be committed to memory.           By
 the bye, this may be easier done, and at an earlier
 period, than is generally thought.        As soon as they
were capable of   it,
                   I      taught them to turn verse into
its natural prose order    ;    sometimes to substitute

394         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
synonymous expressions for poetical words, and to
supply all the ellipses. These, you know, are the
means of knowing that the pupil understands his
author.    These are excellent helps to the arrange-
ment of words in sentences, as well as to a variety
of expression." In the remainder of the letter the
writer gives a very interesting account of the manner
in which he and his pupil, at a future period, com-
menced and carried on their French studies.       When
Robert Burns was about thirteen years of age,
Murdoch had been appointed parish schoolmaster of
Ayr, upon which, as we have already mentioned,
Burns was sent for a few weeks to attend his school.
" He was now with me," says Murdoch, " day and
night, in school, at all meals, and in all my walks.
                           I
At the end of one week told him, that, as he was
now pretty much master of the parts of speech, &c.,
I  should like to teach him something of French pro-
nunciation ; that when he should meet with the name
of a French town, ship, officer, or the like, in the
newspapers, he might be able to pronounce it some-
thing like a French word.      Robert was glad to hear
this proposal, and immediately we attacked the
French with great courage.        Now there was little
else to be heard but the declension of nouns, the
conjugation of verbs, &c. When walking together,
and even at meals,    I was constantly telling him the
names of different objects, as they presented them-
selves, in French ; so that he was hourly laying in a
stock of words, and sometimes little phrases.         In
short, he took such pleasure in learning, and       I in
teaching, that it was difficult to say which of the two
was most zealous in the business; and about the
end of the second week of our study of the French,
we began to read a little of the ' Adventures of
Telemachus,' in Fenelon's own words."
    Another week, however, was hardly over, when

                          BURNS.                      395
the young student was obliged to leave school for
the labours of the harvest.      " I  did not, however,"
says Murdoch,
                    " lose sight of him, but was a fre-
quent visitant at his father's house, when     I had my
half-holiday ; and very often went, accompanied by
one or two persons more intelligent than myself, that
good William Burns might enjoy a mental feast.
Then the labouring oar was shifted to some other
hand. The father and the son sat down with us,
when we enjoyed a conversation, wherein solid rea-
soning, sensible remark, and a moderate seasoning
of jocularity, were so nicely blended, as to render it
palatable to all parties. Robert had a hundred ques-
tions to ask me about the French, &c. ; and the
father, who had always rational information in view,
had still some question to propose to my more
learned friends upon moral or natural philosophy, or
some such interesting subject."       It is delightful to
contemplate such scenes of humble life as these
shewing us, as they do, what the desire of intellectual
cultivation may accomplish in any circumstances, and
with how much genuine happiness it will irradiate
the gloom even of the severest poverty.
    We shall not pursue farther the history of Robert
Burns. All know his sudden blaze of popularity
the misfortunes and errors of his short life         and
the immortality which he has won by his genius.
It is plain, from the details that we have given,
that, even had he never been a poet, he would
have grown up to be no common man.             Whatever
 he owed to nature, it was to his admirable father,
 and his own zealous exertions, that he was indebted
 at least for that education of his powers, and that
 storing of his mind with knowledge, which, in so
 great a degree, contributed to make him what he after-
 wards became. It is an error to regard either Burns
 or Shakspeare   as  simply a poet of Nature's making.

396         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
If learning  be taken to include knowledge in general,
instead of   being restricted merely to an acquaintance
with the ancient languages, it may be rather said that
they were both learned poets     as, indeed, every great
poet must be. Their minds, that of Shakspeare es-
pecially, were full of multifarious knowledge, which
was the fruit both of vigilant observation and exten-
sive reading, and was perpetually entering into, and,
in some degree regulating, the spirit or form of their
poetry.    The wonder in the case of each was, not
that he produced poetical compositions of transcen-
dant excellence without any acquaintance with litera-
ture, but that he acquired his literary knowledge in
the face of difficulties which would have discouraged
most men from making the attempt to gain it. Such
minds, too, learn a great deal from a few books,
deriving both information and rules of taste from the
writers they peruse, with a rapidity and felicity of
apprehension which people of inferior endowments
cannot comprehend.
    GILBERT BURNS, the younger brother of Robert,
had no turn for poetry ; but he, too, derived in-
finite benefit from those studies which were inter-
mixed, as we have seen, with the labours of his
early days. To this excellent man, who died only a
few years ago, literature was the solace of a life of
hardships.     He never became a scholar in the ordi-
nary sense of the word ; his situation, that of a
small farmer, did not require that he should give
himself to the study of Greek or Latin ; but he
obtained an extensive acquaintance with the best
books in his native language, and learned to write
English in a manner that would not have done dis-
 credit to a scholar.     Some of his letters, indeed,
which Dr. Currie has printed, would be ornaments
to any collection of epistolary compositions         es-
 pecially a long one, dated October, 1800, which

                      BURNS.                     397
appeared first in Dr. Currie's second edition of the
poet's works ; and which contains a disquisition on
the education of the humble classes, abounding in
valuable remarks, and characterized by no ordinary
powers, both of expression and thought.
                                 2 M

                      CHAPTER      XXIII.
                 Gifford  ; Holcroft. Conclusion.
AMONG narratives          which illustrate the power of the
Love of Knowledge in overcoming the opposition of
circumstances, there are few more interesting than
that which has been given us of his early life by the
late WILLIAM GIFFORD. Mr. Gifford was born in 1755
at Ashburton, in Devonshire.            His father, although
the descendant of a respectable and even wealthy
family, had early ruined himself by his wildness and
prodigality ; and even after he was married had run
off to sea, where he remained serving on board a
man-of-war for eight or nine years. On his return
home, with about a hundred pounds of prize-money,
 he attempted to obtain a subsistence as a glazier,
 having before apprenticed himself to that business ;
 but in a few years he died of a broken-down consti-
 tution before he was forty, leaving his wife with two
 children, the youngest only about eight months old,
 and with no means of support except what she might
 make by continuing the business, of which she was
 quite ignorant.         In about a twelvemonth she fol-
 lowed her husband to the grave.             " I was not
                                                         quite
  thirteen," says her son, " when this happened ; my
 little brother was hardly two; and we had not a rela-
  tion nor a friend in the world."
      His brother was now sent to the workhouse, and
  he was himself taken home to the house of a person
  named Carlile, who was his godfather, and had seized
  upon whatever his mother had left, under the pre-
  tence of repaying himself for money which he had

                          OIFFORD.                       399
advanced to her.       By this person, William, who had
before learned reading:, writing;, and a little arithmetic,
was sent again to school, and was beginning; to make
considerable progress in the last branch of study;
but in about three months his patron grew tired of
the expense, and took him home, with the view of
employing him as a ploughboy. An injury, however,
which he had received some years before, on his
breast, was found to unfit him for this species of
labour ; and it was next resolved that he should be
sent out to Newfoundland to assist in a storehouse.
But upon being presented to the person who had
                                                       '
agreed to fit him out, he was declared to be             too
small'     and this scheme also had to be abandoned.
" My godfather," says he, " had now humbler views
for me, and I had little heart to resist any thing. He
proposed to send me on board one of the Torbay
fishing-boats :   I  ventured, however, to remonstrate
against this, and the matter was compromised by my
consenting to go on board a coaster.         A coaster was
speedily found for me at Brixham, and thither I went
when little more than thirteen."
    In this vessel he remained for nearly a twelve-
month.       " It will be easily conceived,'' he remarks,
" that my life was a life of hardship.     I  was not only
'
   a ship-boy on the high and giddy mast,' but also
in the cabin, where every menial office fell to my
lot; yet, if I was restless and discontented, I can
 safely say it was not so much on account of this, as
 of my being precluded from all possibility of reading ;
 as my master did not possess, nor do           I   recollect
 seeing during the whole time of my abode with him,
                                                 '
 a single book of any description except the Coasting
         "
 Pilot.'
     While in this humble situation, however, and
 seeming to himself almost an outcast from the world,
 he was     not altogether forgotten.     He had broken
                                         2 M 2

  400         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  off all connexion with Ashburton,          and where his
  godfather lived ; but
                             "  the women of Brixham,"
  says he,
            "  who travelled to Ashburton twice a-week
  with fish, and who had known my parents, did not
  see me without kind concern, running about the
  beach in a ragged jacket and trowsers."         They often
  mentioned him to their acquaintances at Ashburton ;
  and the tale excited so much commiseration in the
  place, that his godfather at last found himself obliged
 to send for him home.           At this time he wanted
  some months of fourteen.         He proceeds with his own
 story as follows :
     " After the            I  returned to my darling pur-
                   holidays
 suit   arithmetic : my progress was now so rapid that
 in a few months I was at the head of the school, and
 qualified to assist my master (Mr. E. Furlong) on
 any extraordinary emergency.          As he usually gave
 me a trifle on those occasions, it raised a thought in
 me that, by engaging with him as a regular assistant,
 and undertaking the instruction of a few evening
 scholars, I might, with a little additional aid, be
 enabled to support myself.          God knows, my ideas
 of support at this time were of no very extravagant
 nature.    I  had, besides, another object in view. Mr.
 Hugh Smerdon (my first master) was now grown
old and infirm: it seemed unlikely that he should
hold out above three or four years ; and            I  fondly
flattered myself that, notwithstanding my youth,             I
might possibly be appointed to succeed him. I was
in my fifteenth year when         I  built these castles : a
storm, however, was collecting, which unexpectedly
burst upon me, and swept them all away.
    " On mentioning
                        my little plan to Carlile, he treated
it with the utmost contempt; and told me, in his
turn, that, as   I  had learned enough, and more than
enough, at school, he must be considered as having
fairly discharged his duty (so, indeed, he had) ; he

                          GIFFORD.                          401
 added, that he had been negotiating with his cousin,
 a shoemaker of some respectability, who had liberally
 agreed to take me without a fee as an apprentice.             I
 was so shocked at this intelligence that          I   did not
 remonstrate ; but went in sullenness and silence to
 my new master, to whom I was soon after bound*,
 till I should attain the age of twenty-one."
     Up to this period his reading had been very limited,
 the only books he had perused, beside the Bible, with
which he was well acquainted, having been a black-
letter romance, called Parismus and Parismenes, a
few old magazines, and the Imitation of Thomas a
Kempis.             I
              " As hated my new profession," he con-
tinues, " with a perfect hatred,      I  made no progress
in it; and was consequently little regarded in the
family, of which     I sank by degrees into the common
drudge : this did not much disquiet me, for my spirits
were now humbled.        I did not, however, quite resign
my hope of one day succeeding to Mr. Hugh Smer-
doii, and therefore secretly prosecuted my favourite
study at every interval of leisure.         These intervals
were not very frequent ; and when the use          I  made of
them was found out, they were rendered still less so.
I   could not guess the motives for this at first; but at
length    I  discovered that my master destined his
youngest son for the situation to which         I aspired.
     " possessed at this time but one book in the
       I
world : it was a treatise on algebra, given to me by a
young woman, who had found it in a lodging-house.
I considered it as a treasure ; but it was a treasure
locked up ; for it supposed the reader to be well
acquainted with simple equations, and I knew nothing
of the matter. My master's son had purchased ' Fen-
ning's Introduction :' this was precisely what wantedI
     but he carefully concealed it from me, and I was
    * " My indenture, which now lies before me, is dated the 1st
of January, 177'2."

402        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
indebted   to chance alone for stumbling upon his
hiding-place. I sat up for the greatest part of several
nights successively, and, before he suspected that his
treatise was discovered, had completely mastered it.
I   could now enter upon my own ; and that carried
me pretty far into the science.      This was not done
without difficulty.    Ihad not a farthing on earth, nor
a friend to give me one : pen, ink, and paper, there-
fore, (in despite of the flippant remark of Lord Or-
ford,) were, for the most part, as completely out of
my reach as a crown and sceptre. There was, indeed,
a resource; but the utmost caution and secrecy were
necessary in applying to it.          I
                                      beat out pieces of
leather as smooth as possible, and wrought my pro-
blems on them with a blunted awl ; for the rest, my
 memory was tenacious, and        I  could multiply and
divide by it to a great extent."
    No situation, it is obvious, could be more unfa-
 vourable for study than this ; and yet we see how the
 eager student succeeded in triumphing over its
 disadvantages, contriving to write and calculate even
 without paper, pens, or ink, by the aid of a piece of
 leather and a blunted awl.     Where there is a strong
 determination to attain an object, it is generally suffi-
cient of itself to create the means; and almost any
means are sufficient We mistake in supposing that
there is only one way of doing a thing, namely,
that in which it is commonly done. Whenever we
have to prove    it, we find how rich in resources      is
 Necessity and how seldom
           ;
                               it
                               is    that, in the absence
 of the ordinary instrument, she has not some new
 invention to supply its place.         This  is  a truth
 which studious poverty has often had experience of,
 and been all the better for experiencing; for difficulties
 so encountered and subdued not only whet ingenuity,
 but strengthen  a  man's whole intellectual and moral
 character, and fit him for struggles and achievements

                         GIFFORD.                        403
in after life, from which other spirits less hardily trained
turn away in despair.
    At last, however, Gifford obtained some alleviation
of his  extreme penury.     He had scarcely, he tells us,
known poetry even by name, when some verses, com-
posed by one of his acquaintances, tempted him to
try what he could do in the same style, and he suc-
ceeded in producing a few rhymes.             As successive
little incidents inspired his humble muse, he pro-
duced several more compositions of a similar descrip-
tion, till he had got together about a dozen of them.
" Certainly," says he, " nothing on earth was ever
so deplorable ;" but such as they were they procured
him not a little fame among his associates, and he
began at last to be sometimes invited to repeat them
to other circles. " The repetitions of which I speak,"
he continues, " were always attended with applause,
and sometimes with favours more substantial ; little
collections were now and then made, and              I  have
received sixpence in an evening.          To one who had
long lived in the absolute want of mojiey, such a
resource seemed a Peruvian mine : I furnished myself
 by degrees with paper, &c., and, what was of more
importance, with books of geometry and of the higher
 branches of algebra, which I cautiously concealed.
 Poetry, even at this time, was no amusement of mine:
 it was subservient to other purposes ; and I only had
 recourse to it when    I wanted money for my mathe-
 matical pursuits."
     But even this resource was soon taken from him.
  His master, having heard of his verse-making, was
 so incensed both at what he deemed the idleness of
  the occupation, and especially at some satirical allu-
 sions to himself, or his customers, upon which the
  young poet had unwisely ventured, that he seized upon
  and carried away all his books and papers, and even
 prohibited him in the strictest manner from ever agaiu

404         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
repeating a line of his compositions. This severe stroke
was followed by another, which reduced him to utter
despair.    The master of the free school, to whom he
had never resigned the hope of succeeding 1, died, and
another person was appointed to the situation, not
much older than Gifford, and who, he says, was cer-
tainly not so well qualified for it as himself.
                       "
                                                   "I look
back," he proceeds,       on that part of my life which
immediately followed this event with little satisfaction;
it was a period of gloom, and savage unsociability :
by degrees I sunk into a kind of corporeal torpor ;
or, if roused into activity by the spirit of youth, wasted
the exertion in splenetic and vexatious tricks, which
alienated the few acquaintances which compassion
had yet left me."
    But his despondency and discontent seem to have
gradually given way to the natural buoyancy of his
disposition ; some evidences of kindly feeling from
those around him tended a good deal to mitigate his
recklessness ; and, especially as the term of his ap-
prenticeship drew towards a close, his former aspira-
tions and hopes began to return to him.            He had
spent, however, nearly six years at his uncongenial
employment, before any decided prospect of deliver-
ance opened upon him.          " In this humble and ob-
scure state," says he, " poor beyond the common lot,
yet flattering my ambition with day dreams which
perhaps would never have been realized,             I  was
found, in the twentieth year of my age, by Mr.
William Cookesley,       a name never to be pronounced
by me without veneration.       The lamentable doggrel
 which   I  have already mentioned, and which had
 passed from mouth to mouth among people of my
 own degree, had by some accident or other reached
 his ear, and given him a curiosity to inquire after the
 author." Mr. Cookesley, who was a surgeon, and
 not rich, having learnt Gifford's history from him-

                        GIFFORD.                          405
self, became so much interested in his favour, that
he determined to rescue him from his obscurity.
 " The plan,"    says Gifford,
                                 "  that occurred to him
was naturally that which had so often suggested
itself to me. There were, indeed, several obstacles
to be overcome.     My hand-writing was bad, and my
language very incorrect ; but nothing could slacken
the zeal of this excellent man.        He procured a few
of my poor attempts at rhyme, dispersed them
amongst his friends and acquaintance, and, when
my name was become somewhat familiar to them,
set on foot a subscription for my relief.        I still pre-
serve the original paper ; its title was not very mag-
nificent, though it exceeded the most sanguine wishes
of my heart. It ran thus : ' A subscription for pur-
chasing the remainder of the time of William Gifford,
and for enabling him to improve himself in writing
and English grammar.'        Few contributed more than
five shillings, and none went beyond ten and six-
pence,     enough, however, was collected to free me
from my apprenticeship*, and to maintain me for a
few months, during which I assiduously attended the
Rev. Thomas Smerdon."
   The rest of the story may be very compendiously
told. The difficulties of the poor scholar were now
over, for his patrons were so much pleased with the
progress he made during this short period, that, upon
its expiration, they renewed their bounty, and main-
tained him at school for another year.          " Such libe-
rality," he remarks, "was not lost upon me; I grew
anxious to make the best return in my power, and I
redoubled my diligence.       Now that I am sunk into
indolence, I look back with some degree of scepticism
to the exertions of that period."       In two years and
two months from what he calls the day of his emanci-
        * " The sum my master received was six pounds."

406        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
pation, he was pronounced by his master to be fit for
the University; and a small office having been ob-
tained for him by Mr. Cookesley's exertions at Ox-
ford, he was entered of Exeter College, that gentleman
undertaking to provide the additional means neces-
sary to enable him to live till he should take his
degree.    Mr. Gifford's first patron died before his
protege had time to fulfil the good man's fond antici-
pations of his future celebrity ; but he afterwards
found, in Lord Grosvenor, another much more able,
though it was impossible that any other could have
shewn more zeal, to advance his interests.      A long
and prosperous life, during which he acquired a
distinguished name in the literary world, was the
ample compensation for the humiliation and hard-
ships of his youth.      He was the Editor, for many
               '
years, of the Quarterly Review,' which was placed
under his management at its commencement in
 1809 ;   and which attained the most distinguished
success, in a great degree through his judicious and
careful attention to its conduct.        The narrative
from which we have extracted the preceding pages,
and which is so interestingly written that we have
generally preferred retaining the original words in
our abridgment, is prefixed to his English version
of Juvenal, the first edition of which appeared in
 1802. Mr. Gifford died in London on the 3 1st of
December 1826, in the seventy-first year of his age.
It is a beautiful circumstance in his history, and one
which shews how a generous act sometimes receives
even a worldly reward, that he left the bulk of his
fortune to the son of his first most kind and disin-
 terested patron, Mr. Cookesley.
    Similar in some respects to Gifford's early history,
 is that of a very inferior man, the late THOMAS
 HOLCROFT, the author of ' Hugh Trevor,' and
 many other well known productions in light litera-

                        HOLCROFT.                   407
ture.    Holcroft has also left us part of a memoir
of his own life, the composition of which, how-
ever, he commenced too late to live to finish.   " How
much he had it at heart," says the editor of the
manuscript, which was given to the world some
years after the death of the author,
                                        " may, however,
be inferred from the extraordinary pains he then
took to make some progress in it. He told his phy-
sicians that he did not care what severity of treat-
ment he was subjected to, provided he could live six
months longer to complete what he had begun.
By dictating a word at a time, he succeeded in
bringing it down to his fifteenth year. When the
clearness, minuteness, and vividness of what he thus
wrote, are compared with the feeble, half-convulsed
state in which it was written, it will be difficult to
bring a stronger instance of the exertion of resolution
and firmness of mind under such circumstances."
    Holcroft was born in London in the year 1745, at
which time his father wrought as a shoemaker, and
his mother dealt in greens and oysters.      His father,
 who seems to have been a person of unsettled
 habits, though a well-meaning and upright man, knew
 very little of his business, to which he had not been
 regularly bred, and, in spite of the exertions both of
 himself and his wife, his affairs did not prosper.
 When young Holcroft was about six years old, the
 family were suddenly removed from London to a place
 in Berkshire beyond Ascot Heath, where they re-
 mained for about twelve months.        Thomas had as
 yet only been for a short time at a school where chil-
 dren were sent rather to keep them out of harm's way
 than to learn anything, and to which he used to be
 carried by an apprentice of his father's.      This lad
  afterwards gained his warmest gratitude by making him
  a present of the first two books he ever possessed, the
  one being the History of Parismus and Parismenes,

408         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
already mentioned as one of Gifford's early literary
companions, and the other the Seven Champions of
 Christendom.     It was while they resided in Berkshire
that his father began teaching him to read.            " The
task," says he, " at first   I found difficult, till the idea
one day suddenly seized me, of catching all the sounds
T had been taught from the arrangement of the let-
ters ; and my joy at this amazing discovery was so
great, that the recollection of it has never been
effaced.   After that my progress was so rapid that it
astonished my father.        He boasted of me to every
body ; and that    I  might lose no time, the task he set
me was eleven chapters a day in the Old Testament.
I  might, indeed, have deceived my father by skipping
some of the chapters, but a dawning regard for truth,
                     I
aided by the love had of reading, and the wonderful
histories I sometimes found in the Sacred Writings,
generally induced me to go through the whole of my
task.                   I
         One day as was sitting at the gate with my
Bible in my hand, a neighbouring farmer, coming to
see my father, asked me if I could read the Bible
already.    I answered, yes; and he desired me to let
him hear me.       I began at the place where the book
was open, read fluently, and afterwards told him,
that, if he pleased, he should hear the tenth chapter
of Nehemiah.       At this he seemed still more amazed,
and wishing to be convinced, bade me read. After
listening till he found I could really pronounce the
uncouth Hebrew names so much better, and more
easily, than he supposed to be within the power of so
young a child, he patted my head, gave me a penny,
and said I was an uncommon boy. It would be hard
to say whether his praise or his gift was most flatter-
ing to me. Soon after, my father's apprentice, the
kind-hearted Dick, \vho came backward and forward
to my father on his affairs, brought me the two de-
lightful histories  I  have above mentioned, which were

                       HOLCROFT.                     409
among those then called Chapman's Books.          It was
scarcely possible for anything to have been more
grateful to me than this present. Parismus and Pa-
rismenes, with all the adventures detailed in the Seven
Champions of Christendom, were soon as familiar to
me as my catechism, or the daily prayers I repeated
kneeling before my father."
    On leaving their house in Berkshire, the family
were obliged to adopt a wandering life, the mother
turning pedlar, and hawking her wares through the
outskirts and neighbourhood of London, while her
son trotted after her, and the father, after a vain
attempt to obtain some regular employment, in a
short time joining the party, who now extended their
peregrinations to remote parts of the country. While
leading this life, they endured the greatest hardships;
and upon one occasion were so severely pressed, that
Thomas was sent to beg from house to honse in a
village where they happened to be. At length the
father managed (o buy two or three asses, which he
loaded with hampers of apples and pears, and drove
about through the country.       But this apparent im-
provement in their circumstances afforded no alle-
viation to the sufferings of the poor boy.
                                              " The bad
nourishment     I  met with," says he ;"   the cold and
wretched manner in which I was clothed ; and the
excessive weariness I endured in following these
animals day after day, and being obliged to drive
creatures perhaps still more weary than myself, were
miseries much too great, and loaded my little heart
with sorrows far too pungent ever to be forgotten.
Bye roads and high roads were alike to be traversed,
but the former far the oftenest, for they were then
almost innumerable, and the state of them in winter
would scarcely at present be believed."       In one in-
stance, he mentions that he travelled on foot thirty
miles in one day ; and he was at this time only a child
                                         2 N

410        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
of about ten years old.   During all this time, he made
little or no progress in reading     " I was too much
pressed," he says, " by fatigue,  hunger,  cold, and na-
kedness."     Yet as he continued to repeat his prayers
and catechism morning and evening, and to read the
prayer-book and Bible on Sundays, he, at least, did
not forget what he had formerly learned.         On one
occasion, too, he states, that the ballad of Chevy
Chace having fallen into his hands, his father, who
was very proud of what he conceived to be his son's
talents, and particularly of his memory, set him to
get by heart the whole song, by way of task, which
he performed, in the midst of his toils, in three days.
His father gave him a halfpenny for the achievement,
which made him think himself at the time quite a
rich man.
    When in his eleventh or twelfth year, having been
present at the Nottingham races, he was so much
struck by the contrast between his own mean and
 ragged condition, and that of the clean, well-fed, and
well-clothed stable-boys, that he determined to try if
 he could not find a master to engage him in that
capacity at Newmarket.        After much perseverance,
and being turned off upon a short trial, first by one
 master and then by another, from the little knowledge
 he was found to have of riding, he was at last taken
into the service, of a person who was considerate
 enough not to expect him to be a finished groom
almost before he could have ever mounted a horse.
 He very soon began to distinguish himself by his
 expertness in his new occupation ; and the language
 in which he speaks of his change of circumstances
 forcibly paints his sense of the miseries from which
 he had been extricated.       Alluding to the hearty
 meal which he and his companions were wont to
 make every morning at nine o'clock, after four
 hours' exercise of their horses, he says, " Nothing,

                       HOLCROFT.                      411
perhaps, can exceed the enjoyment of a stable-
boy's breakfast : what, then, may not be said of
mine, who had so long been used to suffer hunger,
and so seldom found the means of satisfying it ?"
" For my own part," he adds, " so total and striking
was the change which had taken place in my si-
tuation, that   I  could not but feel it very sensibly.
I  was more conscious of it than most boys would
have been, and therefore not a little satisfied.     The
former part of my life had most of it been spent in
turmoil, and often in singular wretchedness.       I had
been exposed to every want, every weariness, and
every occasion of despondency, except that such poor
sufferers become reconciled to, and almost insensible
of, suffering ; and boyhood and beggary are fortu-
nately not prone to despond.     Happy had been the
meal where    I  had enough ; rich to me was the rag
that kept me warm ; and heavenly the pillow, no
matter what, or how hard, on which       I could lay my
head to sleep.      Now   I was warmly clothed, nay
gorgeously ; for    I was proud of my new livery, and
never suspected that there was disgrace in it ;     I  fed
voluptuously, not a prince on earth perhaps with
half the appetite, and never-failing relish ; and in-
stead of being obliged to drag through the dirt after
the most sluggish, obstinate, and despised among
our animals,   I  was mounted on the noblest that the
earth contains, had him under my care, and was
borne by him over hill and dale, far outstripping the
wings of the wind. Was not this a change such as
might excite reflection even in the mind of a boy?"
   We must, however, pass over the account which
he gives of his life as a stable-boy, interesting
as many of the details are into which he enters.
During his wanderings through the country with
his father, as has been already mentioned, he
had scarcely had any opportunity of extending his
                                       2 N 2

 412        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  knowledge of books ; the Bible, and such old
  ballads as he met with by chance on the walls of
  cottages and ale-houses, constituting all his reading.
  " Books were not then," he remarks, " as they for-
 tunately are now, great or small, on this subject or
 on that, to be found in almost every house. A book,
 except of prayers, or of daily religious use, Avas
 scarcely to be seen but among the opulent, or in the
 possession of the studious ; and by the opulent they
 were often disregarded with a degree of neglect
 which would now be almost disgraceful." For some
 time after his arrival at Newmarket, he was not much
 better off. In about half a year, however, his father
 followed him to that place, where he at first found
 a little employment at his old trade of making shoes ;
 and one of his shopmates, who happened to be fond
 of books, and to be in possession of a few, occa-
 sionally lent young Holcroft a volume from his col-
 lection.   Among other works, this person put into
 his hands ' Gulliver's Travels,' and the ' Spectator,'
 with which, the former especially, he was much de-
 lighted.   He mentions, also, the. ' Whole Duty of
 Man,' the ' Pilgrim's Progress,' and other religious
 books, as at this time among his chief favourites.
As he was one day passing the church, he heard
 some voices singing, and was immediately seized
with a strong desire to learn the art. Having ap-
proached the church door, he found the persons
within engaged in singing in four parts, under the
direction of a Mr. Langham.        They asked him to
join them, and his voice and ear being pronounced
good, it was agreed that he should be taken into the
class ; the master offering to give up the entrance
 money of five shillings, in consideration of his being
but a boy, whose wages could not be great, and the
others agreeing to let him sing out of their books.
 " From the little," he proceeds, " that day learned,
                                     I

                          HOLCROFT.                          413
and from another lesson or two, I obtained a tolerable
conception of striking intervals upwards or down-
wards, such as the third, the fourth, and the re-
mainder of the octave, the chief feature in which              I
soon understood ; but of course          I   found most diffi-
culty in the     third,  sixth,   and seventh.       Previously,
however, to any great progress,             I   was obliged to
             '
purchase       Arnold's Psalmody ;' and, studious over
this divine treasure,      I passed many a forenoon ex-
tended in the hay-loft.          My chief, and almost my
only difficulty, lay in the impenetrable obscurity of
such technical words as were not explained either by
their own nature, or by the author in other language.
I  was illiterate ;   I  knew the language of the vulgar
well, but little more. Perhaps no words ever puzzled
poor mortal more than        I  was puzzled by the words,
major and minor keys.           I  think it a duty, which no
one who writes an elementary book ought to neglect,
to give a vocabulary of all the words which are not in
common use, in the language in which he writes,
and to explain them by the simplest terms in that
language ; or, if that cannot be done, by a clear and
easy paraphrase.        The hours      I  spent by myself in
mastering whatever belonged to notation, and in
learning the intervals, occasioned my progress to be
so very ditferent from that of the others, that it ex-
cited the admiration of them all ; and Mr. Langham,
the great man whom         I then looked up to, declared it
was surprising.       If  any part was out,       I heard it im-
mediately, and often struck the note for them,
getting the start of Mr. Langham.                 If  he should
happen to be absent, he said that             I  could set them
all right ; so that by this, and the clearness of my
voice,  I  obtained the nickname of ' the sweet singer
of Israel.'"
    His wages were four pounds           a year,    and he paid
five shillings a quarter to his singing master ; but
                                              2 N 3

414          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
upon Mr. Langham offering to give him lessons in
arithmetic also for as much more, he agreed to the
proposal, and attended him daily for three months.
In that time he got so far as Practice, and the Rule-
of-Three. " Except what        I   have already related,"
says he,
           "  these three months, as far as others were
concerned, may be truly called my course of educa-
tion.    At the age of two or three and thirty, indeed,
when I was endeavouring to acquire the French
language,    I  paid a Monsieur Raymond twenty shil-
lings for a few lessons, but the good he did me was
so little that it was money thrown away.        At New-
market,  I   was so intent on studying arithmetic, that
for want of better apparatus,      Ihave often got an old
nail, and cast up sums on the paling of the stable-
yard."    This will remind the reader of Gifford, with
his leather for paper, and his blunted awl for a pen.
   Holcroft continued at Newmarket for about two
years and a half, when he determined to go to Lon-
don once more to join his father, who now kept a
cobbler's stall in South Audley Street. " My mind,"
he says, " having its own somewhat peculiar bias,
circumstances had rather concurred to disgust me
than to invite my stay.    I   despised my companions
for the grossness of their ideas, and the total absence
of every pursuit in which the mind appeared to have
any share. It was even with sneers of contempt that
they saw me intent on acquiring some small portion
of knowledge ; so that I was far from having any
prompter either as a friend or a rival.''      He was at
this time nearly sixteen.      For some years he con-
tinued to make shoes with his father, and at last be-
came an able workman.          But he grew every day
fonder of reading ; and whenever he had a shilling
to spare, spent  it,   we are told, in purchasing books.
 In 1765, having married, he attempted to open a
school for teaching children to read, at Liverpool     ;

                         HOLCROFT.                   415
  but was obliged to abandon the project in about a
  year,   when he returned to town, and resumed his
  trade of a shoemaker.      Beside his dislike to this
  occupation, however, on other accounts, it brought
  back an asthmatic complaint he had had when a
  boy ; and every consideration made him resolve to
  endeavour to escape from it. Even at this time he
  had become a writer for the newspapers, the editor
  of the ' Whitehall Evening Post' giving him five
  shillings a column for some essays which he sent to
 that journal.    He again attempted to open a school
 in the neighbourhood of London ; but after living for
 three months on potatoes and butter-milk, and obtain-
 ing only one scholar, he once more returned to town.
 Having acquired some notions of elocution at a deba-
 ting club which he had been in the habit of attending,
 he next thought of going on the stage, and obtained an
 engagement from the manager of the Dublin theatre,
 at a poor salary, which was very ill paid.      He was
 so ill treated, indeed, in this situation, that he was
 obliged to leave it in about half .a year.     He then
joined a strolling company in the north of England ;
 and wandered about as an itinerant actor for seven
 years, during which time he suffered a great deal of
 misery, and was often reduced almost to starving.
 In the midst of all his sufferings, however, he re-
 tained his love of books, and had made himself ex-
 tensively conversant with English literature.       At
 last, in the end of the year 1777, he came up to
 London, and by means of an introduction to Mr.
 Sheridan, obtained an engagement in a subordinate
 capacity at Drury Lane.       He had just before this,
 as a desperate resource, sat down to compose a farce,
                    '
 which he called      The Crisis ;' and this turned out
 the commencement of a busy and extended literary
 career.    The farce, although only acted once, was
 well received ; and it soon encouraged him to new

416            THE PURSUIT      OF KNOWLEDGE.
efforts   of   the same kind.   Yet   he continued for many
years involved in difficulties,   from which it required
 all his exertions to extricate himself.  The remainder
 of Mr. Holcroft's history, with the exception of a
 short but stormy period, during which he was sub-
jected to very severe usage on account of certain
 political opinions which he was supposed to hold, is
 merely that of a life of authorship.    He never became
a good actor, and after some time dedicated himself
entirely to literary occupation. His industry in his new
profession is abundantly evidenced by the long list of
his works, which comprise several of high talent and
established popularity. In his maturer years, beside
many other acquirements, he made himself master of
the French and German languages, from both of
which he executed several well-known translations.*
    Mr. Holcroft died in 1809. His life is in many
respects admirably calculated to answer the design
which he had in view, he tells us, in writing the
account of the early part of          it,
                                     namely,
                                               " to excite
an ardent emulation in the breasts of youthful
readers, by shewing them how difficulties may be
endured, how they may be overcome, and how they
may at last contribute, as a school of instruction, to
bring forth hidden talent."
    * Among others, that of Mad. Genlis's Veillees du Chateau,'
                                            '
which he renders, incorrectly, 'Tales of the Castle,' instead of
 Evenings of (or, at} the Country House.'
'

            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.                417
WE have      now given    so  many examples of the
success with which the PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE has
been carried on hy zealous and energetic minds, in
the face of difficulties which have too generally pre-
vented such a labour from being even attempted,
that it is probable nearly every reader who may
conceive himself unfavourably placed for intellectual
improvement, will find something resembling his own
case in some one or other of those which we have
quoted. The present volume, therefore, may be
regarded as complete in itself; although there still
remain so many histories and anecdotes illustrative
of our design which we have not had room to in-
troduce, that it is not improbable, we may resume the
 subject on some future occasion, for the sake both of
noticing several omitted names, and of considering
 some parts of it upon which we have not yet been
 able to enter.   Meanwhile we shall be well-pleased,
if the instances we have already selected shall have
awakened any love of knowledge in minds previously
unacquainted with that passion ; or helped to strengthen
 arid sustain it where, for want of encouragement, it
 was in danger of waxing faint; or, finally, trans-
 formed it from being a mere vague ambition, into an
 active and resolute prosecution of a clearly-discerned
 object, by a path leading surely and directly to its
 attainment.
    The great lesson, indeed, which a review of the
 facts that have been stated is calculated to teach, is
 the mighty power of a steadily-maintained deter-
 mination to work out the end at which it aims, even
 in the most unfavourable circumstances.       The lives
 of Heyne, of Simpson, of W. Jlutton, of Franklin,

418          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
of Murray, not to mention more names, where the
enumeration     might be carried to hundreds, ought to
prevent any one from desponding, be his present
difficulties what they may.     The struggle he has to
wage may be a protracted, but it ought not to be a
cheerless one ; for if he do not relax his exertions,
every movement he makes is necessarily a step
forward if not towards that distinction which in-
tellectual attainments sometimes confer, at least to
that inward satisfaction and enjoyment which is
always their reward.       In other pursuits, the most
unremitting endeavours often fail to secure the
object sought; that object being generally some
worldly advantage, is equally within the grasp of
other competitors, some one of whom may snatch
it away before it can be reached by him who
best deserves it.    But in the pursuit of knowledge it
matters not how many be the competitors.        No one
stands in the way of another, or can deprive him of
any part of his chance, we should rather say of his
certainty, of success ; on the contrary, they are all
fellow-workers, and may materially help each other
forward. The wealth which each seeks to acquire
has, as it were, the property of multiplying itself to
meet the wants of all.
    But it is not merely as a direction for the student
that we ought to account the lesson valuable which
teaches how much every man has it in his power to
do for himself, if he will but set resolutely about the
doing of it; it is still more valuable as a moral
lesson.     Indeed, if knowledge were not itself one of
the supports of morality, it would not be worthy of
the commendations which have universally been
bestowed upon it ; nor would its diffusion deserve
the warm encouragement it has uniformly received
from an enlightened philanthropy.       But though it is
not true that the man who has accomplished himself

           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.               419
in science   or literature is always a more virtuous
character than he who is without any intellectual
culture, there can be no doubt of the generally
humanizing and elevating tendency of a devotion
to such pursuits.    And, more especially, must the
best effects be experienced from this dedication of
his faculties by him whom it compels to learn and
practise, to an extraordinary extent, the duties of
steadiness, diligence, husbanding of time, concentra-
tion of attention, and every other quality which de-
pendsupon the exercise of self-command or self-denial.
Jn learning these virtues he learns what is more
precious than any knowledge, and will go farther to
render him a useful and even influential member of
society, than if he were to make himself master of
all the learning that ever was stored up in libraries.

        LONDON    :
Printed by W. CLOWKS,
     Stamford-street.


             University of California
    SOUTHERN REGIONAL LIBRARY FACILITY
        Return this material to the library
          from which it was borrowed.
 NON-RENEWABLE
         DEC 2 019        31
DUE 2 WKS FROM DAT       '. RECEIVED
           1996
FEB  2

  A  000 1 53 288 6
3 1158 01249 6484


