The pursuit of knowledge under difficulties; illustrated by anecdotes.
Craik, George L. (George Lillie), 1798-1866.
London : C. Knight, 1830-31.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/hvd.hn5q19
                                Public Domain, Google-digitized
                                http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                                We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                                meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                                free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                                in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                                heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                                of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                                copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                                of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                                need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                                address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                                produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                                on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                                the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                                or used commercially. The images are provided for
                                educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.


ibarvaro College XiDrar?
          FROM











PUBLISHED UNDER THE SUPERINTENDENCE OF THE SOCIETY
       FOR THE DIFFUSION OF USEFUL KNOWLEDGE.
                THE LIBRARY
                          OF
  ENTERTAINING KNOWLEDGE.
                         THE
  PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE
               UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

                              The Eight Hon.       THE LORD CHANCELLOR.
                        Vice Chairman— TheRlghtHon.            LORD JOHN RUSSELL.
                             Treasurer—     WILLIAM TOOKE,          Esq., F.R.S.
 W. Allen, Esq., F.R.S.                H. Hallam, Esq., F.R.S., M.A John Herman Merivale, Esq.
  Rt. Hon. Vise. AllhoTp. M.P.         M. D. Hill, Esq.                    James Mill, Esq
 Rt. Hon. Vise. Ashley, M.P.            Rowland Hill, Esq.                 James Morrison, Esq., M.P.
  Rt. Hon. Lcrd Auckland.               Edwin Hill, Esq.                      F.G.S.
  W. B. Baring, Esq., M.P.             John Cam Hobhouse, Esq.,             Sir H. Parnell. Bart., M.P.
  Capt.F. Beaufort, R.N..F.R.S.           M.P.                              Professor Paulson.
 C.Bell, Esq. FR.S.,L.&E.              Leonard Homer, Esq., F.R.S.          T. Spring Rice, Esq., M.P.
  John Conolly, M.D.                   David Jardine, Esq.                    F.A.S.
  William Coulson, Esq.                Henry B. Ker, Esq., F.R.S.           Dr. Hoget, Sec.R.S.
  Wm. Crawford, Esq.                   J.  G. S. Lefevre. Esq., F.R.S.      J. Smith, Esq.
 Fred. Daniel I, Esq.. F.R.S.          Edward Lloyd, Esq., M.A.             Wm. Sturch, Esq.
 Sir T. Denman, M.P.                   James Loch, Esq.,M.P., F.G.S.        E. Smirke, Esq.
John Elliotson, M.D., F.R.S.           George Long, Esq., A.M.             Dr. A. T. Thomson, F.L.S.
Bon. G. Agar Ellis, M.A.              J. W.Lubbock,Esq. F.R.&L.S.          A. N. Vigors, Esq., F.R.S.
    M.P.                               Dr. Lushington. D.CL.               H. Warburton, Esq., M.P.,
T. F. Ellis, Esq., M.A.               Zacharj Macaulay, Esq.
Thomas Falconer, Esq.                 B. H. Malkin, Esq., M.A.             H. Wa> mouth, Esq.
I. L.  Goldsmid, Esq.. F.R.S.         A. G. Malkin, Esq.                   J.Whishaw,Esq.M.A.,F.R.S.
B. Gorapertz, Esq., F.R.S.            Rev. Ed Maltby,D.D.,F.R,S.           Mr. Serjeant W ilde.
G. B. Greenough, Esq., F.R.,          James Manning, Esq.                  J. Wood, Esq., M.P.
   and L,S.                           F. O. Martin, Esq.                  John Wrottesley, Esq. M.A.
                     THOMAS COATES,             Secretary, 4, South Square, Gray's Inn.. ,
                  LOCAL COMMITTEES OF THE SOCIETY.
 Ashburton —J.F.Kingston, Esq,        Edinburgh— The Right Hon.                B. Heywood, Esq. Treas.
 Birmingham Local Association.                 the Lord Chief Baron            T. W.         Winstaaley,     Esq.
     Rev. John Corrie, Chair                   of Scotland.                        Hon. Sec.
        man.                               R. Grevllle, LL.D.                  Sir G. Philips, Bart.. M.P.
     Paul Moon James, Esq.,               D. Ellis, Esq., F.R S.          Monmouth-^.            H. Mc.ggridgc,
         Treasurer.                        Capt.    Basil Hall, R.N.,              Esq.
     Jos. Paikes, Esq. 1 Hon.                  F.R.S L.  Sc E.            Newcastle — James Losh, Esq.
     Wm.Redfem,EBo.      f  Sea.
Bristol— J. N. Sanders, Esq.,
                                           Fras. Jeffrey, Esq.
                                           Prof. Napier, F.R.S.E.
                                                                               Rev. W. Turner.
                                                                          Newport— Ab. Clarke, Esq.
        Chairman.                          Rev. A. Thomson, D.D.               T. Cooke, Jun , Esq.
    J.  Reynolds, Esq., Treat.             W. Thomson, Esq.                   R. G. Kirkpatrick, Esq.
    J.B.   Estlm,Esq.F.L.S.,   Sec.  Etruria— Jos. Wedgwood, Esq.         Newport Pagnelt — James Mil
Cambridge — Rev. James Bow.          Exeter— Rev. J. P. Jones.                     lar, Esq.
        stead, M.A.                        J.  Tyrrel, Esq.               Norwich— Rt. Hon. Lord Suf.
    Rev. Prof. Henslow, M.A.,         Glasgow- K. Finlay, Esq.                     field.
        F.L S. &t G. S.                    D. Bannalyne, Esq.                  Rich. Bacon, Esq.
    Rev. Leonard Jenyns, M.A.,             Rt. Urahame, Esq.              Plymouth— Qeo. Harvey, Esq.
        F.L.S.                             Professor Mylne.                       F.R.S.
    Rev. John Lodge, M.A.                 Alexander MtGrigor, Esq.        Portsmouth— E. Carter, Esq.
    Henry Maiden, Esq., M.A.               Charles    Macintosh,    Esq.      G. Grant, Esq.
    Rev.    Geo. Peacock,   M.A.,              F.R.S.                         D. Howard, Esq.
        F.R.S.  & G.S.                     Mr. T. Atkinson,    Hon. Sec.      Rev. Dr. Inman, NaT. Col.
    Marmaduke       Ramsay,   Esq.,   Hull-Dl. Sykes, Esq      , M.P.     Sheffield—    J.   H. Abraham, Esq.
        M.A., F.L.S.                  KeigMey, Yorkshire— Rev.     Th.    Shrewsbury— R.A. Slaney, Esq.
    Rev. Prof. Sedgwick, M.A.,             *Dury,A.M.                     South Petherton—3. Nicholetts,
        F.R.S & G.S.                  Launceston — Rev. J.Barfitt.                Esq.
    Rev. Connop        Thirlwall,    Leamington Spa — Dt. Loudon.         Tavistock— Rev. W. Evans.
        M.A.                         Lmb— Benjamin Gott, Esq.                 John Rundle, Esq.
 Canton— J. F. Davis, Esq.,               J.  Marshall, Esq.              7Varo_Wro. Peter, Esq.
   F.R.S                                  J. Marshall, Jun., Esq.         Warwick— The Rev. W. Field,
 Chichester- Dr. Forbes, F.R.S.     Lewes—      J. W. Woollgar, Esq.          ( Learn. )
      Dr. Sanden.                    Liverpool Local Association.         Waterford—        Sir John Newport,
      C.C. Dendy.Esq.                     Dr. Traill, Chairmttn.                  Bart       M.P.
Corfu— Prof. Thistlethwaite.              J. Mulleneux, Esq., Treat.      Wolverhampton
                                                                                          ,
                                                                                               -J  . Pearson, Esq
Dei by — Joseph Strutt, Esq.              Rev. W. Shepherd.               Worcester— Hr. Corbet, M.D.
    William Strutt, Esq.                  J.  Ashton Yates, Esq.               Dr. Hastings, M.D.
Devonport — Major J. Hamilton       Maidenhead — K. Goolden, Esq.,             C. H.Hebb, Esq.
        Smith, F.R. & L.S.                    F.L.S.                           Mr.Henry Martin.
Dublin— Hon, Thus. Vesev.           Manchester Local Association.         Yarmouth— 0. E. Rumbold,
                                          G.W,Wood,Esq                            Ebq., M.P.

     TBB LIBRARY OF ENTERTAINING            KNOWLED OE.
                             THE
  PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE
             UNDER DIFFICULTIES;
          ILLUSTRATED          BY     ANECDOTES.
                         VOL.     II.
                     LONDON            :
   CHARLES KNIGHT, PALL MALL EAST                     ;
LONGMAN, REES, ORME, BROWN, & GREEN, PATERNOSTER ROW     J
  OLIVER & BOYD, EDINBURGH ; T. ATKINSON & CO., GLASGOW;
            WAKEMAN, DUBLIN ; WILLMER, LIVERPOOL ;
                   & BAINES & CO., LEEDS.
                        MDCCCXXXI.

         LONDON:
Printed by William Clowes,
       Stamford Street.

                      CONTENTS.
                             CHAPTER I.
                                                                  Page
Amusement in the Pursuit of Knowledge ; Pursuit of
   Knowledge by Persons of rank or wealth : Democritus;
   Anaxagoras ; Nicephorus Alphery; Marcus Aurelius;
   Julian; Charlemagne; Alfred; James I. of Scotland;
   Elizabeth ; Alphotiso X                                            1
                            CHAPTER      II.
Peter the Great (Czar of Russia)                          ,     ,   22
        '   '
                            CHAPTER III.
Advantages    of Wealth    in the  Pursuit   of Knowledge. —
   Napier                                             ,    . ,      39
                           CHAPTER IV.
DrummondofHawthomden;           TychoBrahe; Tsehirnhausen ;
   Boyle. — The Air-pump. — Cavendjsh         .  .   .    ,   .    67
                            CHAPTER V.
                                                 ....
Other Individuals of rank distinguished in Literature and
   Science: — Marquis of Worcester, &c.: — Self-educated
  cultivators of Spierfce : — Parkes; Davy .                       97
                          CHAPTER VI.
Diversities of Intellectual   Excellence.  — Painters : — Ben
  jamin West                                                      131
                          CHAPTER VII.
Other English Painters : — Spencer ; Highmore
  Gilpin; Gainsborough; Barry; Lawrence
                         CHAPTER VIII.
                                                 ....
                                                 ;  Hannam    ;
                                                                  155
Foreign Painters:  —   Giotto; Greuze; Ehret; Solario. —
   Other cultivators of the Fine Arts : — Canova; Bewick .        179

vi                         CONTENTS.
                          CHAPTER IX.
Usefulness of such encouragements as the examples here
   given are calculated to afford to youthful genius in every
   department    of study. — Self-educated       Poets:— John
   Taylor; Antonio Bianchi    ; Ramsay;   Bloomneld       .    . 201
                           CHAPTER X.
H. K. White ; Hawkesworth ; Goldsmith        ;  Mendelsohn     . 223
                          CHAPTER XI.
John of Salisbury  ; Roger Bacon                                 243
                          CHAPTER XII.
Professors  of  Optical  Discovery : — Dollond ; Ramsden ;
   Herschel ; Thomas    Phelps and John Bartlett ; Fraun-
   hofer; Palitzch                                               267
                         CHAPTER XIII.
Discovery and Improvement of the Steam-Engine. — James
   Watt                                                          295
                         CHAPTER XIV.
Sir Richard Arkwright— The Cotton Manufacture             .    « 325
                          CHAPTER XV.
Invention of the Power-Loom.     — Dr. Cartwright. —W. Ed
   wards.— R. Walker . :
                            J|                                   345
                         CHAPTER XVI.
Pursuit of Knowledge     by Travellers. — Lithgow; Walking
   Stewart; Athenian Stuart;       Niebuhr; Ledyard ;       Bel-
   zoni. Conclusion                                              367
                        PORTRAITS.
        Sir Richard Arkwright                to face the Title.
        James Barry                          Page   157
        James Watt                            .   . 306

                                   THE
   PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE
                       UNDER DIFFICULTIES             ;
                ILLUSTRATED          BY ANECDOTES.
                               Chapter I.
Amusement    in  the Pursuit of Knowledge   ; Pursuit of Knowledge by per
   sons of rank or wealth    : Democritns ;   Anaxagoras ; Nicephorus Al-
   phery; Marcus Aurelius; Julian;    Charlemagne; Alfred; James I. of
   Scotland ; Elizabeth ; Alphonso X.
We remarked, at the close of our former volume, that
the moral habits which the Pursuit of Knowledge
has a    tendency to create and foster, form one of its
chief recommendations.                Knowledge is, essentially
and directly, power ; but it is also, indirectly, virtue.
And this it is in two ways.                   It can hardly be ac
quired without the exertion of several moral qualities
of high value; and, having been acquired, it nurtures
 tastes, and supplies sources of enjoyment, admirably
 adapted to withdraw the mind from unprofitable and
corrupting pleasures.             Some distinguished scholars,
 no doubt, have been bad men ; but we do not know
 how much worse they might have been, but for their
 love of learning, which, to the extent it did operate
 upon their characters, could not have been otherwise
 than beneficial.         A genuine relish for intellectual en
 joyments is naturally as inconsistent with a devotion
  to the coarser gratifications of sense, as the habit of
     VOL,    II.                                            B

2              THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
assiduous study is with that dissipation of time, of
thought, and of faculty, which a life of vicious plea
sure implies.
    But knowledge is also happiness, as well as
power and virtue ; happiness both in the acquisition
and in the possession.         And were the pursuit of it
 nothing better than a mere amusement, it would de
serve the preference over all other amusements, on
many accounts.        Of these, indeed, the chief is, that
it must almost of necessity become something better
than an amusement, — must invigorate the mind as well
as entertain     it,and refine and elevate the character
while     gives to listlessness and weariness their most
          it
agreeable excitement and relaxation.          But, omitting
this consideration,       it  still of all amusements the
                               is
best, for other reasons.      So far from losing any part
of its zest with time, the longer   itis   known the better
is   itloved.    There      no other pastime that can be
                           is
compared with        in variety. Even to him who has
                     it
                                    it,
been longest conversant with        it    has still as much
novelty to offer as at first.     It may be resorted to by
all, in all circumstances by both sexes, by the young
                                ;
and the old, in town or in the country, by him who
has only his stolen half hour to give to       it,   and by
him who can allow          nearly his whole day, in com
                          it
pany with others, or in solitude, which       it    converts
into the most delightful society. Above all,         it  the
                                                          is
cheapest of all amusements, and consequently the
most universally accessible.        Causes which will sug
gest themselves to the reflection of every reader, and
which, therefore, we need not here stop to explain,
have hitherto, in a great measure, excluded our
labouring population from the enjoyments of science
and literature but this state of things
                 ;                          passing
                                               is
away,  and  the habit of reading    extending itself
                                         is
rapidly, even among the humblest ranks. Nothing
can be more natural than this.   A book    emphati
                                              is

                     INTRODUCTION.                      3
cally the poor man's luxury ; for it is of all luxuries
that which can be obtained at the least cost. By means
of itinerating libraries for the country, and stationary
collections for each of our larger towns, almost
every individual of the population might be enabled
to secure access for himself to an inexhaustible store
of intellectual amusement and instruction, at an ex
pense which even the poorest would scarcely feel. As
yet these advantages have been chiefly in the posses
sion of the middle classes, to whom they have been a
source not more of enjoyment than of intelligence
and influence.
    Among the highest orders of society, the very
cheapness of literary pleasures has probably had the
effect of making them to be less in fashion than others
of which wealth can command a more exclusive
enjoyment.     Even such distinction as eminence in
intellectual pursuits can confer must be shared
with many of obscure birth and low station ; and on
that account alone has doubtless seemed often the
less worthy of ambition to those who were already
raised above the crowd by the accidents of fortune.
Yet, whatever enjoyment there may really be in such
pursuits will not, of course, be the less to any one, be
cause he happens to be a person of wealth or rank.
 On the contrary, these advantages are perhaps on no
other account more valuable, than for the power which
they give their possessor of prosecuting the work of
 mental cultivation to a greater extent than others.
 He has, if he chooses, a degree of leisure and free
dom from interruption, greatly exceeding what the
generality of men enjoy. Others have seldom more
than the mere fragments of the day to give to study,
after the bulk of it has been consumed in procur
ing merely the bread that perisheth ; he may make
literature and philosophy the vocation of his life. To
be enabled to do this, or to do it only in small part,
                                            b2

 A          THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
 many have willingly embraced comparative poverty
 in preference to riches.   Among the philosophers of
 the ancient world, some are said to have spontane
 ously disencumbered themselves of their inheritances,
 that the cares of managing their property might
 not interrupt their philosophic pursuits.       Crates,
 Thales, Democritus, Anaxagoras, are particularly
 mentioned as having made this sacrifice.        But in
 those days, it is to be remembered, knowledge was
 only to be obtained by travelling into foreign coun
 tries, and those who sought it were therefore obliged,
 before setting out on the search, either to relinquish
 altogether the possessions they had at home, or to
 leave them in charge of trustees, who generally took
 advantage of their stewardship to embezzle or squan
 der them.     Doubtless no one of the celebrated per
 sons we have enumerated would have thrown away
 his patrimony, if he could have retained it with as
 little inconvenience   as such an incumbrance can
 possibly occasion a philosopher in our own times.
 The only worldly imprudence, even, of which they
 can be fairly accused, is, that of having preferred
 knowledge to wealth, when it was necessary to
 make a choice between the two ; or that of having
 allowed themselves to be too easily cheated of the
 latter, in their enthusiastic devotion to the former.
 Bayle, who had himself a strong sympathy with this
love of a quiet in preference to a splendid life,
states the matter correctly in the case of Democri
tus, when he says, in his article on that great father
of natural philosophy, " The spirit of a great tra
veller reigned in him ; he journeyed to the heart of
India, in quest of the riches of learning, and be
stowed but little thought on those other treasures
which he had almost at his door."         Anaxagoras,
in like    manner,  although he did  not travel so far
from home as Democritus, still owed the loss of his

                    NICEPHORUS       ALPHERY.                         5
property to his being obliged to leave it in the hands
of others. This ingenious but somewhat fanciful
speculator, the master of Socrates and Euripides,
and the honoured friend of Pericles, was a native of
Clazomenffi in Ionia, and the descendant of noble
and wealthy ancestors, whose lands he inherited.
 But, determining to devote his life to philosophy, he
did not hesitate, when only about twenty years of
age, to bid adieu to his fair possessions, and, cross
ing the jEgean, to repair to Athens, where he con
tinued to pursue his studies while his estate was
running to waste, and at last maintained himself
by giving lessons to others.             Cicero mentions
Anaxagoras, along with Pythagoras and Democri-
tus, as having declined those public honours, and
that share in the management of affairs, to which
his birth and qualities entitled him to aspire, " for
the sake," as he expresses           " of tranquillity, and
                                   it,
for the sake of the sweetness of knowledge, than
which nothing       is  to man more delightful" — propter
tranquillitatem, et propter ipsius scientiee suavita-
tem, qua nihil est hominibus jucundius*.            This            is
the testimony of one who had himself tasted the
charms of political power as well as those of philo
sophy  f.
    We may here notice the singular story of Nice-
phorus Alphery, as related in the Biographia Bri-
tannica.    Alphery was born in Russia, about the
close of the sixteenth century, of the family of the
Czars.    He was, we suppose, of the ancient race of
Ruric, which, after occupying the throne for nearly
eight centuries, gave place to         new dynasty on the
                                         a
death of Feodore Iwanovitch, commonly called Feo-
dore I., in 1598.          This event, which was immedi-
   * De Oratore, lib. iii.
t   In modern times, Alfieri, the great Italian dramatist,      gave up
his estate to his sister, in order not to be distracted,   by   the ma.
nagemeut of   it,from his poetical studies.
                                                   B   3

6          THE PURSUIT      OF KNOWLEDGE.
ately followed by the usurpation of Boris Godunow,
after he had caused Feodore's only brother Deme
trius, the heir to the crown, to be assassinated, was
the occasion of protracted troubles to Russia.     It ap
pears to have been about the commencement of these
convulsions that Alphery and his two brothers were
sent by their friends for safety to England, and en
trusted to the care of a merchant, connected by com
mercial relations with their native country. Their
protector gave them a liberal education, and at the
proper age they were all entered of the University of
Oxford.     Soon after this, however, two of them were
attacked by small pox and died.         Nicephorus, the
survivor, now resolved to take orders in the English
church ; and, accordingly, having been ordained, he
was appointed in 1618 to the living ofWooley, in
Huntingdonshire, the income of which was barely suf
ficient to afford him a maintenance. By this time
the throne of his ancestors was in the possession of
Michael Fedrowitch Romanow, who was the son of
a patriarch of the Greek church, and had, in 1613,
when only sixteen years of age, obtained the im
perial crown, which has ever since been worn by his
descendants.     Thus, while, on the one hand, the
church had received into her ranks the heir of an
empire, that empire, on the other hand, received a
sovereign from the church.       The disturbances that
had so long distracted      Russia, however, were not
settled by the  accession of Michael ; and it is asserted
that, subsequently to this period, Nicephorus was ac
tually twice invited to return to his native country
and put himself at the head of a powerful party who
desired to place him on the throne.    But, with a want
of ambition which many will despise, although its
wisdom might perhaps be defended, he preferred, on
both occasions, his humble parsonage to this splendid
temptation. Never having obtained any additional

                   MARCUS   AURELIUS.                    7
 preferment, he long made himself happy by the dis
 charge of his duties in the lowly condition he had
  embraced ; and his meek spirit was probably but
 rarely troubled even by a thought of the exalted sta
 tion to which he once might have attained.          After
 settling at Wooley he married, and had a family.
 Alphery was not destined, however, even by his re
linquishment of the rights of his birth, to escape the
storms of political commotion ; for, on the ascendancy
 of the republican party after the civil wars, he was
 deprived of his living, and, with his wife and children,
compelled to wander about for some time without a
home ; nor did he recover his benefice till the Re
storation. By this time the infirmities of advanced
age had left him but little strength for the perform
ance of his wonted duties ; and, leaving his parish in
charge of a curate, he soon after retired to Ham
 mersmith, to the house of one of his sons who was
settled there. In this retirement he lived for some
years, unnoticed, but not unhappy ; and when his
 death took place at last, his singular fortunes had
 been so much forgotten by all the world that nobody
 has recorded the date of the event.
     We read nothing of any remarkable acquirements
  in literature made by this individual ; but if modera
 tion of desires be a quality of the philosophic spirit,
 he is entitled to be regarded as no ordinary philoso
 pher.     Many others, however, might be enumerated,
 who even on a throne have cultivated science and
 letters, and intermingled the occupations of study with
 those of sovereignty.     We may mention among the
 Roman emperors the excellent Marcus Aurelius,
 a prince who, with some failings, manifested many
 virtues that have rarely adorned in the same degree
 either a public or a private station.      Called to the
 imperial dignity contrary to his own wishes, Aurelius,
 who had been a philosopher before his exaltation.

8            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
remained the same in character, and as far as possi
ble in habits, after he became the master of the world ;
and he is at least one instance of a naturally good
disposition which power the most unbounded was
unable to corrupt.     To our common notions, or pre
judices, his giving his attendance, when nearly sixty
years of age, to a course of philosophical lectures
 may seem to savour something of pedantic display :
 but kings have often been worse employed ; and it
 is at any rate delightful to find this good and en
 lightened emperor, after his victorious campaigns,
 repairing, ere he returned home to receive the con
 gratulations of his impatient Romans, to the mother-
 city of philosophy, learning, art, and freedom, the
 subjugated but still illustrious Athens, and there exa
 mining the trophies of her old glory, mixing in her
 religious processions and ceremonies, rebuilding and
 re-endowing her schools, bestowing new honours and
 privileges on the teachers, and neglecting nothing
 that could make her once more the metropolis of the
 world of letters. Marcus Aurelius is said to have
 written several books ; but only one work, his Moral
 Reflections, composed in Greek, has come down to us.
 How happy would nations be, this prince was wont
 to exclaim in the words of Plato, if the philosophers
 were their kings, or their kings were philosophers.
 And he afforded in himself, equally able as was his
 administration of affairs at home and abroad, in peace
 and in war, at least one splendid exemplification of
 the truth of his favorite remark — which yet might not
 be found to hold generally good, unless philosophy
 were to include, as it did in him, practice as well as
 speculation. The emperor Julian, in a later age,
 though, perhaps, surpassing Marcus Aurelius in lite
 rary talents and accomplishments, and endowed also
 with many great qualities by nature, does not exhibit
 to us quite so beautiful a picture of philosophy on a

                JULIAN.   CHARLEMAGNE.                9
throne. He had neither the simplicity, sincerity, and
perfect truthfulness of his predecessor's moral cha
racter, nor the unimpassioned sagacity and clearness
of vision which distinguished his understanding; and
is chargeable indeed with acting in many respects in
a spirit of affectation and blind prejudice, anything
but creditable to a philosopher. Yet, during his short
reign of little more than a year and a half, Julian
proved himself both an able monarch and a man
possessed of great virtues.      In war his valour was
only equalled by his clemency.         An enemy to all
luxury, and excess, he did every thing in his power,
by his authority and his example, to repress the grow
ing extravagances and debaucheries of the times,
and abolished many customs of the imperial court
which he considered only occasions of expense and
effeminate indulgence.      Much of his time was spent
in conversing with learned men, much in solitary
 study ; indeed, from a very early hour in the night
till morning was generally devoted by him, even
during his campaigns, to reading and writing.       He
has left several works, all written in Greek, which
was then the language of the court.
    In a still more recent but much darker age, we find
literature cultivated with zeal by the emperor Charle
magne, when there were few other individuals
to whom it was at all an object of attention through
out his vast dominions.    This great conqueror, whose
life was spent in almost incessant wars, was yet wont
 to give whatever leisure he could spare to reading,
writing, and the converse of the learned ; and a con
siderable number of letters and other literary per
formances are still extant, the production of his pen.
Even when confined to bed by sickness, he was accus
 tomed to amuse himself, we are told by his biographer
 and contemporary Eginhard, in attempting to imitate
 the elaborately ornamented characters common in the

  10         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 books of that age, — a statement which has been er
 roneously interpreted as importing that all his pro
 gress in the art of writing consisted merely in these
 ineffectual essays.   It can scarcely be doubted, from
 other circumstances, that he was familiar with this
 art.   The greatest service, however, which Charle
 magne rendered to learning, was his munificent pa
 tronage of its professors, and the readiness and zeal
 with which he lent himself to various schemes for its
restoration and diffusion.     The University of Paris,
 as is well known, sprang from a seminary which he
established in his palace, (hence called the Palatine
 school,) and in the institution of which his principal
adviser and assistant was our countryman, the able
and accomplished Alcuin. This school was opened
about the year 780, while its projector was yet in the
very midst of his wars. While letters, long forgotten
both in courts and general society, were thus enjoy
ing the protection of Charlemagne in the West, the
famous Haroun Al Raschid (orthe Just), whose name
the Arabian Nights' Entertainments have made so
familiar to every reader, and whose extensive domi
nions entitled him to be regarded as Emperor of the
East, was affording them equal encouragement in
that quarter of the globe. Haroun was himself, in
deed, an excellent poet, and distinguished for his
proficiency in various branches of learning.     But at
this time the Moors were very considerably a-head
of the nations of Christendom in civilization and the
knowledge of the arts. The two great potentates we
have mentioned, between whom so large a portion of
the earth was divided, are recorded to have corre
sponded with each other; and in the year 807 an
ambassador from the Caliph arrived in France,
bringing with him various presents for Charlemagne.
Among these was a clepsydra, or water-clock, which
excited especial admiration, as a contrivance beyond

                        ALFRED.                        11
anything which ingenuity had yet invented in Eu
rope. Another of Haroun's presents was a set of
chess-men, some of which are still preserved in the
Royal Library at Paris. Charlemagne reigned from
the year 768 to 814, when he died at the age of
seventy-one ; and Haroun Al Raschid died at the age of
forty-seven in 809, after a reign of twenty-three years.
   But our own Alfred,      whose extraordinary attain
ments in learning, made in the latter portion of a short
and very busy life, we have already briefly noticed *,
sheds a much brighter glory over the ninth century,
than Charlemagne and the Caliph Haroun do over
the eighth.    Alfred was born in the year 849, suc
ceeded to the crown in 871, and his reign extended
to the close of the century. Even the unusual lateness
of  the period at which his acquaintance with books
commenced, was but the least of the untoward cir
cumstances with which this wonderful man had to
contend in his pursuit of knowledge.         Born, as he
was, the son of a king, how scanty were the means of
education of which he had it in his power to avail
himself, compared with those which, in our happier
days, are within the reach of the poorest peasant !
In that age it demanded the price of a goodly estate
to purchase a book ; and in England, especially,
teachers were so scarce, that Alfred, so long as
he continued merely a prince dependent upon his
father or his elder brothers, actually seems to have
been without the requisite resources to procure their
services. Nothing, as his biographer, Asser, informs
us, was a more frequent subject of regret with him,
than that, during the only time of his life when he had
either health or leisure for study, he had thus been
left utterly without the means of obtaining instruction.
For as soon almost as he had passed his boyhood,
he was obliged to engage in active duty as a soldier ;
and the incessant toils of a military life, in the course
                    * See vol. i, p. 63.,

12f       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
of which he is recorded to have fought no fewer than
fifty battles, as well as to have undergone a succes
sion of hardships and sufferings, under which an
ordinary mind would have broken down in despair,
consumed not a few of the best of his succeeding
years.    And even after he succeeded to the throne,
when we consider that, in addition to the extensive
literary labours which he accomplished, he not only
attended to his multifarious public duties with a
punctuality that has never been surpassed, but, not
withstanding his harassing bodily ailments, signa
lized himself by his prowess and dexterity in every
manly exercise, we may well ask by what mysterious
art did he find time for all this variety of occupa
tion ! The answer is, that he found time by never
losing it. Time is the only gift or commodity of
which every man who lives has just the same share.
The passing day is exactly of the same dimensions to
each of us, and by no contrivance can any one of us
extend its duration by so much as a minute or a se
cond. It is not like a sum of money, which we can
employ in trade, or put out to interest, and thereby
add to or multiply its amount.           Its amount is
unalterable. We cannot     " make it breed ;" we cannot
even keep it by us.     Whether we will or no, we must
spend it ; and all our power over     therefore, consists
                                         it,
in the manner in which                      Part with    it
                                 it is
                            it    spent.
we must  ;    but we may give     either for something,
or for nothing.    Its mode of escaping from us, how
ever, being very subtle and silent, we are exceedingly
apt, because we do not feel         passing out of our
                                   it
hands like so much told coin, to forget that we
are parting with    it  at all and thus, from mere
                             ;
heedlessness, the precious possession         allowed to
                                               is
flow away as   if it  were a thing of no value.      The
first and principal rule, therefore, in regard to the
economising and right employment of time,           is to
habituate ourselves to watch it. Alfred knew this

                          ALFRED.                     13
 well ; and we may here relate the method he adopted
 to measure the passing hours, in his want of those
  more artificial time-pieces which we possess. Having
  made his chaplains, as Asser in his simple narrative
  informs us, procure the necessary quantity of wax, he
  ordered six candles to be prepared, each of twelve
  inches long, which he had found would together burn
  for four and twenty hours.        Having marked the
 inches on them, therefore, he ordered that they should
  be lighted in succession, and each three inches that
 were consumed he considered as recording the flight
 of an hour. " But finding," continues the historian,
 " that the candles burned away more
                                          quickly at one
 time than at another, on account of the rushing vio
 lence of the winds, which sometimes would blow
 night and day without intermission, through the
 doors and windows, the numerous chinks in the
 walls, or the slender covering of the tents, he be
 thought him how he might prevent this inconvenience,
 and having contrived artfully and wisely, he ordered
 that a lanthorn should be fairly fashioned of wood
 and horn ; for white horn, when scraped thin, allows
 the light to pass through even like glass. The can
 dle, therefore, being placed in the lanthorn, thus
 wonderfully constructed, as we have said, of wood
 and horn, was both protected from the wind, and
 shone during the night as luminously without as
within." Every heart will acknowledge that there
 is something not a little interesting, and even touch
ing, in these homely details, which paint to us so
graphically the poor accommodations of every kind
in the midst of which Alfred had to pursue his stu
dies, and the humble matters with which his great
mind was often obliged to occupy itself in contriving
the means of gratifying its noble aspirations.      This
illustrious   man,  indeed, seems almost to have lifted
himself quite above the tyranny of circumstances ;
     VOL. II.                                c

 14          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 realizing, in the most disadvantageous, nearly all that
 could be expected or desired in the most favourable.
 The difficulties with which he had to contend, in
 truth, formed the very soil out of which no small
 portion of his greatness grew. Among kings he is
 not only the Great, but the very greatest     If we look
 merely to his zeal and services in behalf of literature,
 it is impossible to name any royal personage that can
 be compared with him, either in classic antiquity or in
 modern times.       A genuine love for letters, and a
 proficiency in them, in the possessor of a throne, is
 worthy of our admiration, in whatever age or country
 the phenomenon may be recorded to have been wit
 nessed ; because it must always be considered as a
 striking example of a triumph over seductions that are
 generally, of all others, found the most difficult to re
 sist, and have, accordingly, been of all others the most
 seldom resisted.     But of the other learned kings of
whom we read in history, some were literary in a li
terary age ; others, naturally unfitted for the more
active duties of their station, took to philosophy, or
pedantry, as a refuge from insignificance ; some had
caught the love and the habit of study before they had
mounted a throne, or had dreamed of mounting one ;
above all, most, if not all of them, had been carefully
educated and trained to letters in their youth.       But
it is  told only of Alfred,  that, without an example to
look to, without even the advantages of the very
scantiest education, in an unlearned age, and a still
more unlearned country, he, who had been only a
soldier from his youth upwards, withdrew himself of
his own accord from the rude and merely sensual
enjoyments of all his predecessors and all his con
temporaries, to devote himself to intellectual pursuits,
and to seek to intertwine with the martial laurels that
already bound his brow, the more honourable wreath
of literary distinction.

                           JAMES I.                       15
    Of   the royal personages of our own country who
 have distinguished themselves by their love and cul
 tivation of letters, the most eminent, next to Alfred,
 is James I. of Scotland, whose poem, entitled the
 " King's Quhair,"
                         composed by him during his im
 prisonment in Windsor Castle, we have already men
 tioned*.     James was born in 1394, but having been
 taken prisoner by the king of England in 1405, was
 detained in that country, mostly in close confine
 ment,  till his thirtieth year ; after which, having been
 allowed to return to Scotland, he reigned for thirteen
 years, and was at last cruelly assassinated in the
 Carthusian monastery, at Perth, on the 20th of Fe
 bruary, 1437, by a faction of his nobles, whom his
 attempted reforms dissatisfied.        Literature had been
 the principal solace of James's long imprisonment,
 and he brought with him to the throne the tastes
 which he had acquired in his exile.            He certainly
 contributed very essentially, even during his short
 reign, to promote the civilization of his native country.
 Nothing can exceed the warmth of the admiration
 with which all the old historians speak of his genius
and accomplishments, and of the effect which his
example      had in diffusing among his people that
spirit of literary cultivation, and love for all elegant
and intellectual accomplishments by which he was
himself distinguished.       He was a proficient, we are
told, in the Latin language, and some authorities
add, even in the Greek, although this last state
ment must be regarded as apocryphal, all things
considered.       His mastery over his native tongue
was, at all events, his most remarkable endowment.
The songs and other metrical pieces which he com
posed in the Scottish dialect, long continued to be the
delight of all classes of his countrymen ; and to their
influence we are, in all probability, to trace much of
                                                c2

16         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
that universal sensibility to poetry, which hasever since
distinguished the Scottish peasantry, and which has
displayed itself in the creation of a body of tradition
ary verse, of wonderful extent and richness.        Give
me, some one has       said,  the making of a people's
ballads, and   I care not who has the making of their
laws.    If the opinion conveyed in this remark be
correct, James I. perhaps influenced the character of
his countrymen quite as much as any of their legis
lators. Some authorities also claim for this prince
the honour of being the father of the music, as well
as of the poetry, of his country.      He is recorded by
our old chroniclers to have been eminently skilled
both in vocal and instrumental music, and to have
performed on no less than eight different instruments,
of which the one on which he most excelled is stated
to have been the harp.       But it is certain that from
             J
the time of ames we may date the birth at least of
the literature of Scotland ; to which, indeed, he seems
to have also given not a little of the peculiar cha
racter that long distinguished it.     His own writings,
as has been stated, were poetical compositions, in
the style that had been so recently introduced by
Chaucer, whom, in his Quhair, he expressly men
tions as his master.     Those of them that have come
down to us, evince powers both of pathos and of
humour of the very highest order, and such as no
other Scottish poet, with the exception of Burns, can
be considered as having equalled.        Before his day,
Fordun had written his prose chronicle of Scottish
kings, and Barbour his metrical work entitled The
Bruce ; but these, notwithstanding some passages of
vivid description in the latter, which certainly give its
author considerable pre-eminence among the class to
which he belongs, were merely such works as have
been produced among every people having the use of
letters, as soon as they have acquired for themselves

                         JAMES I.                        17
what may be called a history ; and indicate not so
much that a national literature has taken root among
them, as simply that they have reached a certain anti
quity, and have a past national existence to look back
upon.     That which alone we can properly call the
 authorship of Scotland commences with the works
 of king James, and is continued by those of Dunbar,
 Gavin Douglas, and Sir David Lyndsay ; who may
 all in some sort be considered as his imitators, or
 at least as having, like himself, taken their inspiration
 from that new-born poetry of England with which
 he, there can be little doubt, was the first to make
 his countrymen acquainted.
    Few kings, therefore, in spite of the failure of
many of his projected political reforms, have done
 more for their subjects than James did for his.        He
regenerated them by means more powerful than any
merely political contrivances, when he exhibited be
fore them for the first time the graces and attractions
of intellectual cultivation, and gradually seduced
them by the charm of his example to the love of the
arts and elegances of civilized life. Laws and insti
tutions are, after all; in themselves but the dead ske
leton of society, and can only derive their life and
efficiency from the spirit breathed into them by the
character and moral condition of the people.         They
are the body ; this is the animating soul. In giving,
therefore, to his countrymen the first impulses of
literary refinement, he gave them something better
even than good laws, because it was that which,
while it would eventually enable them to secure good
laws for themselves, at the same time could alone fit
them for their enjoyment.      His life, not less than his
death, was a sacrifice to his zeal for their improve
ment ; for, with tastes and habits that tended to sepa
rate him so completely from his subjects, his resi
dence, even as a king, in Scotland, must have been

18         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
felt by him as far more truly exile than even his pre
vious imprisonment. Yet we have no reason tothink
that, although his days were spent first in durance
abroad, and then in worse than durance at home, he
ever indulged in any weak or undutiful murmuring
at his fate.   On the contrary, we gather from all that
is related of him, that, during the short period of his
life when he was permitted to mix with the world,
he shewed himself of a cheerful and even joyous
spirit, and found the means of making himself happy
even in the midst of the hardest fortune that was
dealt out to him.      With his intellectual endowments
and his love of letters, he had sources of happiness
which few in his station have ever enjoyed, and these
were blessings which the vicissitudes of outward for
tune had but little power to affect.
    We might add several names to the list of learned
kings, even from the monarchs of our own country.
Henry I., in the early part of the twelfth century,
obtained the surname of Beauclerc, or the Learned,
from his proficiency in the literature of the times.
During the sixteenth century, classical and theolo
gical erudition was so much in fashion, that persons
of the very highest rank, and of both sexes, very ge
nerally received what is called a learned education.
It is related of the emperor Charles V., that having
been upon one occasion addressed by an ambassador
in a Latin oration, he was so much affected at finding
himself unable perfectly to follow the speaker, that he
publicly reproached himself for his inattention, when
 a boy, to the instructions of his tutor*, who, he re
 marked, had often warned him, that a day would
 come when he would regret his negligence.                So
universally in those days was this sort of learning
 expected in crowned heads.       Accordingly we find al-
    * The same who afterwards became Pope, under the title of
 Adrian VI.— See vol.
                    i., p. 269.

                           ELIZABETH.                           19
 most all our sovereigns of that age proficients in the
 ancient languages, and adepts in polemical divinity.
 Henry VIII. disputed, through the press, with Lu
 ther, in Latin.       His son, Edward VI., had he lived,
 would probably have given proofs of still greater ac
 complishments in the same department of scholarship.
 One of his tutors was Sir John Cheke, of whom
 Milton speaks, in a well-known sonnet, as having
 taught " Cambridge, and King Edward, Greek ;"
 and it is a curious illustration of the times, that this
 learned individual was soon after selected to fill the
office of Secretary of State.        Queen Elizabeth, we
need hardly remark, is famous as a learned princess.
 She also, like her royal predecessor, King Alfred,
completed an English translation of Boethius's Con
solations of Philosophy— a work which, in addition
to having been thus rendered into the vernacular
tongue by two of the greatest of our monarchs, had
the honour of receiving the same service from Chaucer,
the father of our poetry*.           Elizabeth's successor,
James, had more learning than good sense, and was
a pedant rather than a scholar ; but, with less learn
ing, he certainly would not have been a wiser king.
He is the instance, however, that has perhaps con
tributed more than any other to confirm the common
prejudice, that a taste for letters is, after all, no very
desirable quality in the possessor of a throne.              If it
be meant that literary kings have generally been bad
kings, the notion is certainly not borne out by the
facts of history.         It may be asserted with much
greater truth that, in all of those who, notwithstanding
their scholarship, have shewn themselves unworthy
of their high station, that scholarship has yet been a
   * The   original  copy of Queen Elizabeth's     translation  of
Boethius, partly in her majesty's hand-writing, and partly in that
of her secretary, was discovered, about five yeais since, in the
State I'apcr Office.

20          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
redeeming quality, both in itself, and in its effects.
If, again, all that is meant be only that learning has
some tendency to become pedantic on a throne, this
may be admitted ; for it is a natural consequence of
the possession being so unusual: but even this result,
where it has happened, has, in by far the majority
of cases, formed but a very trifling drawback
upon the good with which it was connected. James
certainly has not gained much credit to his name by
his authorship ; though it deserves to be remarked,
that it is posterity that has been least indulgent to
his pretensions. In his own day his learning procured
him great admiration, not only from the mere courtly
flatterers of the time, but from many of its most dis
tinguished scholars — for evidence of which, we need
go no farther than to the dedication of their work
addressed to him by the authors of our admirable
translation of the Bible, and still commonly printed
at its head.    The character of the man, however,
the species and quality of the learning which he
had acquired, and above all the spirit of the age,
had more share in making James the pedant that he
was, than any disadvantage under which his station
 placed him.
    Another name, which is sometimes quoted as that
of a king to whom learning was a misfortune rather
than a blessing, is that of the celebrated Alphonso
X., king of Castile and Leon, commonly called the
 Wise.    This prince, who lived in the thirteenth cen
tury, was certainly unlucky in his schemes of poli
tical ambition ; and the vain attempt he made to ob
 tain possession of the imperial crown involved him
in a series of calamities, and eventually led to his
 dethronement. But it does not appear that his literary
 and scientific acquirements, so extraordinary for his
 age, had anything to do in occasioning the errors to
which he owed his ruin, or that, with less learning,

                     ALPHONSO X.                        21
he would    have been either more prudent, or more
fortunate.   As it was, Alphonso, notwithstanding the
troubles in which his reign was passed, conferred
such services, both upon his own country and upon
the world at large, as few royal names have to boast
of. Spain owes to him, not only her earliest national
history and translation of the scriptures, but the
restoration of her principal university, the introduction
of the vernacular tongue in public proceedings and
documents, and the promulgation of an admirable
code of laws ; and science is indebted to this mo
narch for the celebrated astronomical tables known
by his name, the earliest which were compiled sub
sequently to those given in the Almagest of Ptolemy,
who flourished in the second century.          According
to some    accounts,  Alphonso spent the large sum of
400,000 crowns on the preparation of these tables,
in which he was assisted by others of the most learned
astronomers of the time. They went through several
editions, even after the invention of printing, and
continued, indeed, to be generally used by astrono
mers till the commencement of the sixteenth century.

                          Chapter       II.
                  Peter the Great, (Czar of Russia.)
 But   the pursuit of knowledge is not necessarily con
 fined to the study of books ; and, therefore, although
 we pass over many other names that might be here
 introduced, we must not omit that of a sovereign who
 distinguished himself by his ardour in this pursuit in
 a variety of ways, and was, in all respects, one of the
 most extraordinary men that ever lived, — the Czar
 Peter I. of Russia. Peter was born in 1672, and at
ten years of age found himself in nominal possession
of the throne ; although, for some time, all the actual
power of the state remained in the hands of his sister,
the princess Sophia, who was about five years older
than himself.      But his boyhood was scarcely expired,
when he gave proof of the energy of his character
by ridding himself of this domination ; and in 1689
the princess was already removed from the govern
ment, and immured in a monastery.                  From this mo
ment the young czar, now absolute in reality as well
as in name, directed his whole efforts to the most
extraordinary enterprize in which a sovereign ever
engaged ; being nothing less than to change
entirely the most settled habits and prejudices of his
subjects, and not so much to reform them, as to
transform them, almost by main force, from barbarians
into a civilized people.           For the Russians at this
time — not more than a century and a half ago — were,
in truth, little better than a nation of savages.           Nay,
Peter himself was born and reared a savage ; and to
his last days the passions and propensities of his ori

                 PETER THE GREAT.                     23
ginal condition remained strong in his nature.        It
speaks the    more for his wonderful genius that,
throughout his whole history, he forces us to feel
 that we are reading the adventures of the chief
of a barbarous country, struggling to civilize him
self as well as his people. And undoubtedly we do
not follow his progress with the less interest on that
account.    Nothing, in fact, in his proceedings or his
character so much engages our curiosity, as to watch
the astonishment with which his own ignorance was
struck on the first view of those arts of civilized life
which he was so anxious to introduce among his less
ambitious, but hardly more ignorant, subjects. It is
exactly the case of a strong-minded and enterprising
leader of some tribe of wild Americans, or South
Sea islanders, setting out to see with his own eyes
the wonders of those distant lands of which his white
visitors have told him, and, after all, viewing the
scenes which civilization presents to him with an
intoxication of surprise, Vhich shews how imperfectly
even his excited fancy had anticipated their actual
nature.    But, however he was at first struck with
what he beheld, Peter did not continue long lost in
mere amazement.       The story which is told of the
occasion which awakened him to the ambition of
creating a Russian navy is very illustrative of his
character.    While looking about one day among
some old stores and other neglected effects, he
chanced to cast his eye upon the hulk of a small
English sloop, with its sailing tackle, lying among
the rest of the lumber, and fast going to decay.
This vessel had been imported many years before by
his father, Alexis Michelovitch, also a prince of dis
tinguished talents, and who had nourished many
schemes for the regeneration of his country ; but it
had long been forgotten by every body, as well as

24            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
sooner, however, was it observed by Peter than it
fixed his attention ; he made inquiries of some of
the foreigners by whom he was surrounded, as to the
use of the mast and sails, even the general purposes
of which he did not know ; and the explanations
which he received made him look on the old hulk
with new interest.    It immediately became, in his
imagination, the germ of a magnificent national
marine ; and he could take no rest till he had made
arrangements for having it repaired and set afloat.
With some difficulty the Dutch pilot was found out
whom Alexis had procured at the same time with
the sloop to teach his subjects the method of managing
it ; the man, like the vessel, of which he was to have
the charge, had long been forgotten by all the world.
Once more, however, brought out of his obscurity,
he soon refitted the sloop ; and the Czar was gratified
beyond measure by at length beholding           with its
                                                     it,
mast replaced and its sails in order, moving on its
proper element. Delighted as he was he went himself
on board, and was not long before he became a
sufficiently expert seaman to take the place of his
Dutch pilot. For several years after this his chief
 attention was given to maritime affairs       although
                                                    ;
 his first ships were all of foreign construction, and
it  was considerable time before any issued from his
         a
 own docks.     From so small a beginning as has been
 described, Russia has since become, after England,
 one of the greatest naval powers in the world             *.
     * The   mostdetailed account we have met with of the story
told in the text    one preserved among the MSS of Sir Hans
                    is
Sloane, in the British Museum (No. 3,168).     It appears to have
been written shortly after the death of Peter the Great, and by  a
person who was either a native of Russia or had resided in that
country. According to this authority the incident took place in
the flax-yard at Ishmaeloff, an old seat of the royal family near
Moscow.      The writer gives us also an account of a   great naval
show, at which he was himself present, in honour of this celebrated

                       PETER THE GREAT.                             25
     But the most extraordinary of the plans which
Peter adopted in order to obtain an acquaintance
with the arts of civilized life, was that which he put
in execution in 1697, when he set out in the suite of
his own ambassador to visit the other countries of
Europe. On this occasion, passing through Prussia,
he directed his course to Holland, and at last arrived
in the city of Amsterdam.                His embassy was here
received by the government of the United Provinces
with all manner of honour and distinction ; but he
himself refused to be recognized in any other cha
racter than as a private individual.             The first days of
his visit were spent in perambulating the different
streets of the city, the various wonders of which were
probably never viewed by any eye with more astonish
ment and gratification than they excited in this illus
trious stranger. The whole scene was nearly as new
to him, and as much beyond anything by which he
had ever before been surrounded, as if he had come
from another world. The different arts and trades
which he saw exercised, and the productions of which
met him, wherever he turned, in such surprising pro
 fusion, were all attentively examined.                   But what
 especially attracted his attention was the great East
 India dock-yard in the village of Saardam (situated
 a few miles from Amsterdam), which was then the
 principal establishment of this description in Hol-
 vessel, which took place by the emperor's command at St. Peters
 burg, on the 12th of August, 1723.       On this occasion the sloop,
 or ship's boat, as it is here called, having been repaired and beau
 tified, was received by about 200 yachts, and, having advanced to the
 harbour attended by that numerous convoy, was then saluted by a
 general volley from the twenty-two men-of-war, which might be
 considered as forming its progeny.      The emperor, of course, was
 present, and the day was altogether one of the greatest festivals
 that had been known in Petersburg.          " A few
                                                      days after," it is
  added,
          "  the boat was  brought   to Petersburg,  and laid up in the
  castle, where she is to be taken the greatest care of."
      VOL.   II.                                         D

26           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
land.     Here he actually took the singular resolution
 of entering himself as a working carpenter ; and ac
cordingly, giving in to the superintendent the simple
name of Peter Michaelof*, he took his place among
the other workmen, and became in all respects one
 of them, even wearing the same dress, eating the
same sort of food, and inhabiting equally humble
lodgings.     The hut in which he lived is still shewn
at Saardam.       When he first made his appearance in
the dockyard nobody knew who he was, and he of
course attracted no notice ; but, even after his true
quality was discovered, he would suffer none of the
observances usual to persons of his rank to be paid to
him, repelling every attempt of the kind with evident
displeasure.    And in this way of life he passed several
months, during which time he bore a considerable
part in the building of a vessel, which, when com
pleted, was named the St. Peter, and was purchased
by the royal person whose hands had thus helped to
put its timbers together. While thus employed, how
ever, the Czar did not neglect his duties and appro
priate occupations as a sovereign. After the labours of
the day were over, his evenings were generally em
ployed either in writing dispatches to the ministers
whom he had left in charge of affairs at home ; or in
holding consultations with his ambassador regarding
the negotiation pending with the Dutch government,
in which he took the most anxious interest, as having
for its object the procuring of a supply of vessels and
seamen from that power to aid his favourite scheme
   * That    Peter, the grandson of Michael, according to the
           is,
manner of forming the surname        Russia among the lower orders.
                                     in
His majesty's proper designation      was Peter Alexovitch, or the
son of Alexis.   Of, or ow, as  it   pronounced, and often written,
                                     is
seems to be the same with the Celtic      O, still used asa  prefix to
proper names in Ireland, and the Scottish oe or oy, which gene
rally signifies  agrandchild, but, in some districts,    a   nephew,
having been applied originally, in all probability, to any near de
scendant, direct or collateral.    Filch, again, is   the Norman, or
old French Fitz, now Fits,  a son.

                    PETER THE GREAT.                          27
 of forming a navy for Russia.             In  this application,
 however, he was unsuccessful.
    On leaving Holland, Peter proceeded to England
 in a vessel sent to convey him by the government ; but
 on his arrival in London he insisted upon still being
 treated only as a private individual.       Here he spent his
 time at first as he had done in Holland, examining the
 many interesting objects that everywhere met his
 view.   Among other places he went to see the Tower,
 where he was much delighted with the armoury, and
 the coining of money in the Mint. He was taken also
 to see the two houses of Parliament when sitting ;
 and he appeared twice or thrice at the play, but did
 not seem to have much relish for that species of
 amusement.       He was very fond, however, of visiting
 the churches ; and was so anxious to learn the mode
 of worship observed by the different denominations
 of dissenters, that he attended several of their chapels.
 On one occasion he was present at a Quaker's meeting.
 He paid one visit to Oxford, to see the University ;
 and another to Portsmouth, where he was greatly en
 tertained by a mock sea fight that was exhibited to
 him.    On this occasion he declared that he considered
 an English admiral a happier man than a Czar of Mus
 covy *. He also applied himself with zeal and dili
gence to learn whatever he deemed useful, without
regarding the humble nature of any of the handi
crafts in which he wished to become a proficient.
With these views he did not scruple to work as a
common labourer in paper-mills, saw-mills, rope-
yards, and other establishments of a similar kind.
Voltaire mentions (Histoire de Russie, i. 159), that
he studied with particular attention the art of watch
making. His first residence was a house appointed
for his reception by government below York-build
ings, in the neighbourhood of Westminster-bridge ;
               * Mottley's Life of Peter the Great.
                                                  D 2

28        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
but he found this both a very noisy place of abode and
not conveniently situated for the object on account of
which principally he had come to England, —his im
provement in the art of ship-building.    After a short
time, therefore, he removed to Deptford ; and here he
spent several months in the dockyard, employing
himself in the same manner as he had done in that
of Saardam. He was so much pleased, it is said,
with the superior method of working which he found
pursued here, that he used to declare he never should
have known his trade had he not come to England.
While at Deptford he lodged in the house of the
celebrated John Evelyn, author of the " Sylva,"
which stood on the site now occupied by the Work
house of the parish of St. Nicholas.       We find the
circumstance noticed in Evelyn's Diary under the
date of 30th January, 1698:
                               " The Czar of
                                              Muscovy
being  come   to  England,   and  having a mind to see
the building of ships, hir'd my house at Say's court,
and made it his court and palace, new furnished for
him by the king." He remained here, it appears, till
the 21st of April.    Some notion of his manner of
living may be obtained from a letter written during
this time to Evelyn by his servant : " There is a
house full of people, and right nasty.   The Czar lies
next your library, and dines in the parlour next your
study.    He dines at 10 o'clock and 6 at night, is
very seldom at home a whole day, very often in the
king's yard or by water, dressed in several dresses.
The king is expected there this day, the best parlour
is pretty clean for him to be entertained in.      The
king pays for all he has *."
    While the dockyard, however, was the place in
which the Czar spent the greater part of the day, he
employed many of his leisure hours in taking lessons
in mathematics, navigation, and even anatomy, which
            * Bray's Memoirs of Evelyn,   ii,   60.

                    PETER THE GREAT.                   29
  he had begun to study while in Holland under the
  instruction of the eminent professor Frederick Ruysch,
  whose museum he afterwards purchased for the sum
  of thirty thousand florins. Peter, indeed, neglected
  no opportunity, during his travels, of forming the ac
  quaintance of distinguished individuals ; and both in
  Holland and England many of the ablest men of the
  time were introduced to him, some of whom he per
  suaded to accompany him home to Russia.         He also
 expended considerable sums        in   purchasing   such
 curious productions of art as he conceived might best
 excite the emulation of his subjects.
     Among other persons who were made known to
 him when in England was Bishop Burnet, who does
 not seem, however, to have comprehended the cha
 racter of the extraordinary man with whom he was
 on this occasion brought into contact.       In the His
 tory of his own Times he tells us the impression the
 Czar made upon him. " He wants not capacity,"
 says he, " and has a larger measure of knowledge
 than might be expected from his education, which
 was very indifferent ;
                        " but
                               immediately after he adds
 that he    " seems designed by nature rather to be a
 ship-carpenter than a great prince."      He did not at
 that time appear to the bishop to be capable of con
 ducting so great a design as the attack upon the
 Turkish empire, which he was understood to be me
 ditating ; although it is acknowledged that he
 afterwards displayed a greater genius for warlike
 operations than the writer then imagined him to pos
sess.     Bishop Burnet had a good deal of conversa
tion with him upon religious matters, and remarks that
" he was desirous to understand our doctrine, but he
did not seem disposed to mend matters in Muscovy."
 He allows, however, that he was " resolved to en
courage learning, and to polish his people by send
ing some of them to travel in other countries, and to

 30          THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
 draw strangers to come and live among them." The
 learned prelate concludes his account by the following
  curious reflection : " After I had seen him often, and
 had conversed much with him,      I could not but adore
 the depth of the providence of God that had raised
 up such a furious man to so absolute an authority
 over so great a part of the world."
    We cannot here enter into any detail of the various
 reforms in the customs of his people, which this
 extraordinary man proceeded to introduce on his
return to his own dominions, with the view of assi
 milating them more to those which he had found
 prevailing in the other countries of Europe. Suffice
it to say, that by a series of the most energetic and
frequently violent measures, he succeeded in effecting
 a complete change in some of the oldest institutions
of his empire, and even commenced a revolution in
the habits and manners of general society, which,
 from that beginning, has since gone on till it has
 established, in what was before almost a barbarous
country, all the benefits of a flourishing civilization.
Peter may be said, indeed, to have given to his sub
jects nearly every art of civilized life, of which they
were some time afterwards found in possession.        He
 taught them navigation, commerce, and even agri
culture and the management of flocks, having im
ported from Saxony and Silesia both herds of sheep
and shepherds to take care of them.        He called to
him artists of all descriptions from other countries,
and employed them in contriving, each in his appro
priate department, how best to bring into develope-
ment the natural resources of the country.      He built
a new capital, the first truly European city that had
been seen in Russia, on a site which did not form
part of the empire at his accession.        Finally, he
founded schools, academies, colleges, libraries, and
museums, and thus laid the surest of all foundations

                      PETER THE GREAT.                           31
for' the permanent and progressive improvement of
his people.
     A  college of physicians, a dispensary, an observa
 tory, and a botanical garden, were among the esta
blishments with which he adorned his two capitals *.
The art of printing had been introduced into Russia
about the middle of the sixteenth century ; but this
early press seems to have hardly left any trace of its
 operations, and Peter, at his accession, found his
country without books.            To supply this deficiency,
he had some scientific works translated into Rus
sian ; and, when he was in Amsterdam, he employed
a printer of that city to print them, giving him a
monopoly for the sale of them in Russia.                His ma
jesty himself, some time after this, remodelled the
alphabet of his native language, considerably simpli
fying the forms of the characters, and established seve
ral printing-houses in Petersburg, at which various
elementary works were thrown off, mostly translated
from foreign tongues. From this beginning the litera
ture of Russia has so much increased, that in M. So-
pikofs Essai de Bibliographic Russe, no fewer than
thirteen thousand two hundred and forty-nine works
are enumerated as having appeared in the native
 language up to the year 1813. In the three years
 from 1822 to 1824 inclusive, there appeared two
 hundred and seventy-five translations from French,
 German, English, Greek, Latin, Italian, Sclavonic,
Dutch, Danish, and Armenian, and five hundred and
fifty-eight original works ; in all eight hundred and
thirty-three publications, besides works in foreign
languages f.
     In 1717, the Czar set out on a second foreign tour,
    * Eloge  de Pierre Ie Grand, par Fontenelle.
       These particulars are extracted from the dpirqii lur la Lit-
 itrature Russe, at the end of M. Balbi's Introduction    A I' Atlas
 Ethnographique.            .

32          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 attended on this occasion as became his rank.        In
 the course of his progress he visited successively,
 Hamburgh, Berlin, Amsterdam, and Paris ; in the
 last of which cities especially he found all that the
 arts had yet contrived for the use and enjoyment of
 man, in the highest state of advancement.         He no
 longer now applied his hand to the practice of the
 different crafts which he inspected ; his days of ap
 prenticeship were over ; but he was not on that ac
 count less diligent in visiting every workshop and
 manufactory in which anything novel or curious was
 to be seen. He went also to see the observatory, the
 libraries, and the different learned institutions ; and
 was present at a sitting of the Academy of Sciences,
 which admitted him one of its members.
    This great man's education in his youth had been
 worse than neglected.      His sister and her counsel
 lors had even surrounded him with every seduc
tion most calculated to deprave both his moral and
intellectual nature, and to stifle in him the desire of
 knowledge.      The bad parts of his character were
 undoubtedly, in a great measure, the result of the
manner in which he was treated at this time of his
life.   Yet, violent and ungovernable as his passions
continued to be, in some respects, to the last, making
 him act often with a ferocity unsurpassed by anything
that is told of the excesses of infuriated savages, he
succeeded in completely overcoming that one of his
evil habits which he found would have interfered most
with the conduct of his great schemes. In his youth he
was a slave to the love of ardent spirits, but he had
weaned himself entirely, in his maturer days, from that
destructive vice ; nor was he insensible to the other
defects of his original character which he had failed
to correct
             " Alas !" he would sometimes exclaim, on
recovering from one of those paroxysms of rage by
which he was liable to be carried away,
                                            " have re
                                              I

                    PETER THE GREAT.                       33
farmed my people, but have not been able to reform
myself."      Perhaps, however, no man in any station
ever did more than this illustrious monarch to repair
 the mischievous consequences of a neglected youth,
as far as intellectual acquirements are concerned.
In addition to a competent knowledge of mathema
tics, mechanics, navigation, medicine, and anatomy,
he appears to have made himself master of more than
one of the modern languages of Europe.              He trans
lated several works from the French, the manuscripts
of which are still preserved at Petersburg.           He had
even made himself familiar with the Latin tongue,
if we are to believe an anecdote told by M. Stah-
lin*, of his detection, upon one occasion, of the in
accuracies of a monk whom he had employed to
translate a work written in that language into Rus
sian.     But as the original of the work in question
 (PufFendorfF's Introduction to the History of Eu
rope) is in fact not in Latin, but in German, it is
probable that it was by his acquaintance with the
latter tongue, or with the French, into which the
book had also been translated, that Peter was enabled
to discover the defects of the Russian version.            M.
 Stahlin tells another anecdote, which shews how
fully his majesty understood the value of that early
instruction which he had not himself enjoyed. Find
ing two of his daughters one day reading a French
author, he desired one of them to translate the pas
sage before her into Russian, — when, struck with the
facility with which the task was performed, he ex
claimed, " Ah, my children, how happy are you, who
are thus taught to read in your youth, and enjoy
all the advantages of an education which             I totally
wanted." He used often to say that he would wil
 lingly have lost one of his fingers to have had a
 good education in his youth.
    * Original Anecdotes of Peter the Great; London, 1788.

 34          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
     When he began at last to educate himself he did
 not neglect even the more elegant and ornamental
 acquirements. During his first visit to Holland, he
 had an opportunity of seeing many good pictures ;
 and this gave him a taste for painting, to which he
 was ever afterwards much devoted.       Even while at
 Amsterdam, many of his hours were spent in the
 working-rooms of the eminent artists who then re
 sided in that city, some of whom he engaged to ac
 company him to Russia. He afterwards expended
 very considerable sums in the purchase both of pic
 tures and sculptures; and commenced the formation
 of a gallery of these works of art at Petersburg.
 He also formed a valuable collection of medals.
 Every department of liberal knowledge, indeed, found
 in Peter a munificent patron, and, so far as his lei
 sure and opportunities permitted, even an ardent
 cultivator.   When passing through any country in
teresting from its historical recollections, were he
 conducting his army on a warlike expedition, he
 would go many miles out of his way to examine a
 celebrated ruin, or to tread a spot that fame had con
 secrated.   In the same spirit, he was especially soli
 citous for the preservation of the old historic memo
 rials of his own country.    While travelling, his con
 stant habit was to obtain as much information as he
 could beforehand, with regard to every place he was
 about to visit ; and even when he approached the
 smallest village, he would inquire if it contained any
thing remarkable. If those about him told him
it did not, he would reply "Who knows? if it be
not so to you, perhaps it is to me ; let me see all."
 When setting out on his investigations, on such
occasions, he carried his tablets in his hand ; and
whatever he deemed worthy of remembrance was
carefully noted down.      He would often even leave

                    PETER THE GREAT.                       35
   the way side as he passed along, and not only enter
   into conversation with them on agricultural affairs,
  but accompany them to their houses, examine their
  furniture, and take drawings of their implements of
  husbandry *. He obtained in this manner much mi
  nute and correct knowledge which he could scarcely
  have acquired by other means, and which he after
  wards turned to admirable profit in the improvement
  of his own country.
     M. Stahlin, whose notices are in general well au
  thenticated, and may be depended on, except where it
 is likely that his authority was deceived, relates some
 curious anecdotes in illustration of the Czar's predi
 lection for operations in surgery, which shew at least
 that he had made no inconsiderable proficiency in the
 art.   He was rarely absent when a dissection took
 place in Petersburg ; and occasionally he assisted as
 one of the operators.         He let blood and extracted
 teeth with great expertness ; and he is recorded to
have once tapped a patient for dropsy.            These may
 not seem the most appropriate accomplishments for a
 king ; but we must remember the peculiar circum
 stances of Russia during the reign of this great au
 thor of her civilization.      On the one hand, the sim
 plicity of the national manners was such that it was
 not held at all indecorous for the emperor to mix in
 the domestic circles of his subjects, almost as one of
themselves ; and, on the other, the prejudices of the
people were so strong, and their aversion to innova
tion so bigotted, that probably nothing less than the
actual example of their sovereign would have roused
them to take any interest in the new arts he wished
to introduce among them.           Peter, therefore, rightly
felt that the consideration of the undignified nature
of some of the occupations in which he engaged was
far more than overbalanced by the advantages that his
                  .
                     * Stahlin's Anecdotes.

36         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
personal exertions gave him, in overcoming the inert
ness and positive opposition on the part of his country
men which his reforms had to encounter.
   This must be his apology also (if the case shall be
thought to require any) for certain other labours to
which he was sometimes wont to apply his hand.
He once passed a month, M. Stahlin tells us, at
Miiller's iron-works at Istia, about seventy miles from
Moscow, during which time he employed himself in
learning the business of a blacksmith ; and so much
progress did he make, that on one of the last days of
his stay he forged, with his own hand, 720 pounds
of iron, making his mark on each bar. On his return
to Moscow he proceeded to Miiller's house, and, hav
ing received from that gentleman the same pay for
his labour which would have been allowed to any
other workman, about two shillings of our money, he
immediately went and purchased a pair of shoes with
it, which he ever afterwards took great pleasure in
 shewing. One of the bars he forged on this occasion
is  still to be seen at Istia.   He was also accustomed,
 according to Voltaire     *,  to take his place sometimes
 among the men employed in cutting canals,             spe
                                                       a
 cies of public labour on which he expended large
 sums, in order to encourage and animate them in
 the more difficult parts of their work.         But his fa
 vourite art was that of ship-building, his lessons in
 which, learned in Holland and England, he took
 care not to forget on his return home.        The writer of
 the manuscript narrative in the British Museum, to
 which we have referred in a note on a former page,
 gives us some curious information in relation to this
 matter.      The Czar, he tells us, as soon as he got
 back from England, went down to Veronez, whither
 he carried two English builders, named Dean and
 Noy, whom he had brought out with him. Of these,
                *   Histoire de Russie,   ii.   186.

                   PETER THE GREAT.                    37
 however, "the first," the narrative continues, " soon
 after desired a discharge, which was granted, with
 out giving any proof of his art. The Czar himself
 and Joseph Noy received orders from the Lord High
 Admiral, Theodore Alexowitz Golovin, to build each
 of them a man of war. The Czar, having taken upon
 himself the title of a master ship-builder, was pleased
 to subject himself to the condition of that character ;
 and, in compliance with that order, gave the first
 proof of his skill in the art which he had learned
 abroad ; and continued afterwards to bear that title,
 and had, at all times, notwithstanding his great en
 gagements in many other affairs, one ship upon the
 stocks ; and at his death left one ship half built, one
 of the largest in Europe, 180 feet long upon the
 deck, 51 broad, and 21 deep, and mounts 110 guns,
 and is by relation one of the finest bodies that has
 ever been seen ; as were, indeed, all the rest he built.
 He himself drew the draught of this great ship at
 Riga, where was no mastership-builder but himself;
 and when he returned to Petersburg, he gave the sur
 veyor an account that he had drawn his draught of
 the great ship which he had orders to build from the
 surveyor's office, and, according to the regulations
 of the navy, presented his draught to be examined."
    The emperor, this writer adds, collected the results
of his experience and reading upon the subject of
shipbuilding, and formed them into a regular trea
tise on the art.    This work, however, has not been
published, although it is probably preserved, with the
other literary productions of the writer, in the Im
perial Library at Petersburg.     The only work from
the hand of Peter the Great which has been printed,
is his Journal from 1698 to the peace of Neustadt
in 1721.     Of this document, which is almost entirely
occupied with military transactions, a French trans-
    VOL. II.                                 E

38           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
lation by M. Formey was published at Berlin in
1773, in one volume, quarto.
   Peter died in 1725, in the fifty-third year of his
age.    His history presents us with, perhaps, as re
markable a case of the conquest of difficulties in the
pursuit of knowledge as it would be possible to quote.
In his noble resolution to educate not only himself but
his country, he had to contend with obstacles at
every step, which nothing could have overcome but
that determination to succeed which overcomes all
things.      Few monarchs have better deserved the
epithet of Great, if he is to be appreciated either by
the great powers of mind he displayed, or the great
effects he accomplished.         And of these last it is to
be remarked that none have passed away ; all have
been permanent and productive.                 Compare Peter
the Great, in this respect, with many other characters
who during their time have filled the earth with the
noise of their exploits ; and how high must he be
placed above them ! Alexander's mighty empire fell
to pieces as soon as his own hand had resigned its
sceptre ; so did that of Charlemagne ; so did that of
Buonaparte.         These all, after moving everything,
established almost nothing *. But whatever the Rus
sian planted still grows and flourishes, and bears fruit
more plentifully every year. The reason is, that while
other builders up of empires have trusted, for the
support of their institutions, alone or chiefly to the
sword, he based his on the moral strength of know
ledge and civilization.
   * The Code of Laws,    called after his name, is the only perma
nent monument of his power which Napoleon has left in France.
Where he applied his ability to the real advancement of civiliza
tion, the traces of his career were not to be effaced by changes of
rulers or of opinions.

                         Chapter       III.
      Advantages of Wealth in the Pursuit of Knowledge — Napier.
Notwithstanding           the honourable reputation which
the princes we have named, and others whom we
have not room to notice, have acquired by their devo
tion to intellectual pursuits, it is to be observed,
that science and literature have been much more
indebted to the example and patronage, than to the
actual performances, of the royal personages who are
to be counted among their friends.                  No great dis
covery or immortal composition claims a king as its
author.     When the genius that might have accom
plished such has been found on a throne, it has
been otherwise occupied than with the quiet but
divine pleasures of learning and philosophy.                     And
doubtless this is only as it should be.              Men have not
crowns put upon their heads that they may write
books or spend their lives in constructing philoso
phical theories. Every station has its peculiar duties
which must first be attended to, even before the pur
suit of knowledge ; and those of sovereigns are suf
ficiently arduous to make it impossible, when they
are fully performed, that this pursuit can be any
thing more than the avocation of their leisure. To
this extent only, therefore, it is desirable that they
should devote themselves to it. But if so, it can
not be expected that this class of persons should con
tribute many, or even any, names of first-rate dis
tinction to the history of literature or science.                  It
were not fitting, indeed, that the same individual

   40          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
   entirely different and unconnected, as that of poli
   tical dignity and that of genius.    All, therefore, we
   repeat, which philosophy and the arts usually have
   to ask of kings is, their protection and countenance,
   and an example which may at least evidence an
   attachment to intellectual pursuits, even while duties
   of another sort demand the chief attention. Whe
  ther letters, generally speaking, flourish best with or
  without the patronage of courts, we do not here stop
  to inquire. It is at all events certain, that in some
   cases the literary progress of a country has been
  greatly indebted to a love of literature in its sove
  reign.    Thus it was that Alfred imported civilization
  into England, James I. into Scotland, and Peter the
  Great into Russia.
      But other individuals in possession of wealth or
 rank are differently situated from kings.           They
  have often   no public duties to perform,  or none  from
 which they may not disengage themselves, in so far
 at least as they would interfere with the closest appli
 cation to intellectual pursuits. In most countries,
 indeed, they are not called upon to take a part in the
 management of affairs in ordinary circumstances, by
any need that the state has of their services, so much
 as by their own ambition for political distinction ;
 and so numerous are almost always the competitors
 here, that an individual who chooses to withdraw
 from the throng, will rarely have cause to reproach
 himself with having deserted a post which there are
not a hundred others ready, and as well qualified, to
occupy. However, we would neither condemn nor
depreciate any path of honourable enterprise ; doubt
less it is the duty of every man, who believes that he
can most benefit his country by his political services,
to endeavour to do so. But this is at least an ambition
by which many are apt to be seduced, who look
rather to its glittering prizes, than to their own qua.-

                          WEALTH.                         41
 lifications ; and it is also undeniably one in which
 something else than merit often contributes to suc
 cess.    There can be no danger therefore of too
 many persons deserting politics for philosophy.
 There will always be a sufficient number of our men
 of wealth and rank to serve the state, and contend
 for her honours and her offices, although as many
 leave the crowd as the love of study and speculation
 can possibly withdraw.
     But political ambition, in truth, is not that seduc
 tion by which persons of this description are most
 apt to be enthralled.       The besetting temptations
 attendant upon the possession of wealth and leisure
 (which, rightly employed, constitute such inestimable
advantages) are the facilities which they afford to
the indulgence of mere indolence and love of plea
 sure.    A rich man, who can live without exertion of
any kind, is apt to lose the power even of that
degree of exertion which is necessary for the acqui
sition of knowledge. Besides, his money provides
him with other enjoyments ; and he often never
even acquires a taste for those of an intellectual
kind.     A defective or misdirected education too fre
quently only prepares him the better for yielding to
the unfortunate influences of his condition ; and the
habits and prejudices of society come also to assist
their force and confirm their dominion.         When an
individual thus circumstanced, therefore, betakes him
self in good earnest to the pursuit of knowledge, he
also is entitled to be regarded as one who has exhi
bited much energy of character, and conquered many
difficulties, as well as he who has had to struggle with
poverty, or an uncongenial occupation, in his attempts
to obtain an acquaintance with books.        The impedi
ments which have lain in the way of the former are
different from those that have beset the path of the
latter ; but they may not have been less difficult to over

42        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGH.
come.   The fact, at all events,   is, that the tempta
tions of wealth have often exerted as fatal an effect in
repressing all ardour for intellectual pursuits, as ever
did the obstructions of indigence.
   Yet, where the love of knowledge has taken full
possession of the heart, the rich manis  in much more
                                          a
favourable situation than the poor man for the pro
secution of great enterprises in science or literature.
Those demand both leisure and ease of mind — two
good things, of the first of which generally but little,
and of the second often not much, are his who has
to provide for his daily bread by his daily labour.
Hence some of the greatest names, in all depart
ments of philosophy and learning, are those of per
sons who, unembarrassed      by   the toils and cares of
obtaining a subsistence, have been free to lead a life
of contemplation, having purchased to themselves
                                   relinquishment of the
                            by
that inestimable privilege  a
other pleasures or objects of ambition, ordinarily
followed   by  those in their situation, and seeking no
other advantage from their riches or their compe
tence than that of being at liberty to devote their
time and their powers of mind to labours of their own
choosing.    From the list of the illustrious of ancient
times, we need mention no others, and we can men
tion no greater, than Plato and Archimedes — both
of whom were of distinguished birth, (the former
being a descendant of the family of Solon, the other
a near relation of king Hiero) — and, there    is  every
reason to suppose, opulent. But we pass from times
so remote, that, even when the circumstances of the
case are well ascertained,      the changes that have
taken place in every thing detract from the value of
an example or illustration, in order to notice two
or three of the more remarkable instances which
belong to a  state of society more nearly resembling
our own.

                            NAPIER.                                43
     The first name       we shall mention is that of          John
 Napier — often,    but erroneously, called Lord Napier.
   He was not a nobleman, but only what would in
   England be called a lord of a manor. Such persons,
  in Scotland, were formerly designated bdrones mi-
. nores, or lesser barons ; and to this class the baron
  of Bradwardine belonged as well as Napier, who in
  like manner was baron, or, as he himself expresses               it,
  " Peer of Marchistown*," — an old seat of the family
  in the neighbourhood of Edinburgh.        Here, or, ac
  cording to other authorities, at Gartness in Stirling
  shire (an estate which also belonged to the family),
  Napier was born, in the year 1550, at which time
  his father, who lived for fifty-eight years after this,
  could not have been older than sixteen. In 562               1
  he entered St. Salvator's college, St. Andrew's,
 as appears by the books of the university            At     t-
  this time, of course, he was only twelve years old                ;
  but this was not an unusually early age in those
  times for going to the university in Scotland. Many
  entered even younger       and in the university of
                              ;
  Glasgow      was found necessary to make
              it                                law that a
  no student should be admitted to the degree of
  bachelor of arts before the age of fifteen, unless
     *   his dedication of " A Plaine Discovery of the whole Re
         1b
velation of St. John." So, on the title-page of his " Mirifici
Logarithmorum Canonis Descriptio," (Edin. 1614,) he calls him
self,
      " Baro Merchistonii." He was not, on this account, how
ever, either " the Lord Marchiston," as he      isdescribed   by Lilly
the astrologer, or " the Lord Napier," as he has been called        by
others. He was merely laird of Merchiston        ;   atitle which, al
though of course etymologically identical with the English lord,
is applied in Scotland to any landed proprietor.
 f    Lord Buchan,   in his Life of Napier (Edinb. 1788), conjec
tures that he did not go to college till 1566; and observes that the
records of the university do not ascend higher than the beginning
of the seventeenth century. The fact       is that they reach to the
year 1413, when the university was opened.

44         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
upon good reason appearing to dispense with a year
in any particular case.      Napier's own language,
therefore, is not inappropriate, when, in his treatise
on the Apocalypse, published in 1593, he tells us
that it is " no few years" since he began to " preco-
gitate the same," being then, as he adds, in his
" tender years and
                        barneage (childhood) at St
Androes, at the schools."
   On leaving college, Napier is understood to have
set out on his travels, in the course of which he
visited France, Italy, and Germany.         It is not
known when he returned home ; but he was proba
bly a considerable time abroad, since we hear nothing
farther of him till he was above forty years of age.
On arriving again in his own country, although he
had already acquired considerable reputation for
abilities and learning, and might probably have en
tered upon a political career with many advantages,
he declined interfering in public affairs, and retired
to Merchiston, with the intention of devoting him
self exclusively to study. A room in which he used
to seclude himself for this purpose, at the top of the
old tower of Merchiston, is still shewn.      He also
resided occasionally at Gartness, where he was looked
upon by the common people, we are told, as a wizard
— a common fate of learned and studious men, down
even to an age so recent as this, although Napier's
is probably one of the latest names that acquired
this species of celebrity.   As an evidence that his
renown for more than mortal knowledge was not
confined to the simple peasantry of Stirlingshire, we
may mention that there is preserved in the British
Museum, a small tract, printed in London, of which
the following is the title:   "A   Bloody Almanack,
fortelling many certaine predictions which shall come
to pass this present yeare, 1647 ; with a calculation

                             NAPIER.
    concerning the time of the day of judgment, drawne
    out   and published    by that famous astrologer, the
    Lord Napier of Merchiston."
       But  the fact is, that although Napier did not him
    self profess to be either necromancer or astrologer,
    he cannot be altogether acquitted of pretending to
    this very insight into futurity which is here attributed
    to him.    The first publication which he gave to the
    world was an exposition of the Revelations, which
    appeared at Edinburgh in 1593, prefaced by a dedi
   cation to James VI., which is characterized by sin
   gular plainness of speech.
                                     " Verily and in truth,"
   says  the writer, "   such is the injury of this our pre
   sent time, against both the church of God and your
   majesty's true lieges, that religion is despised and
  justice utterly neglected ; for what by atheists, pa
   pists, and cold professors, the religion of God is
   mocked in all estates ; again, for partiality, prolixity,
   dearth, and deceitfulness of laws, the poor perish,
   the proud triumph, and justice is nowhere to be
, found."      He then beseeches his majesty to attend
  himself to these enormities, assuring him that, if he
  act justly to his subjects, " God will ministrate
  justice to him against all his enemies, and contrarily,
  if otherwise." In redressing the evils denounced, he
  goes on to exhort him to
                                 " begin at his own house,
                       "
  family, and court ; a step, the necessity of which he en
  deavours to impress upon him at considerable length,
  and with extraordinary intrepidity.        There is not a
  word of flattery in the whole epistle. As for the work
  itself, it is of a similar character to many others that
  have been written upon the same mysterious subjects.
  The most important proposition which it professes to
  demonstrate is, that the end of the world is to take
  place some time between the years 1688 and 1700.
  It is a large and elaborate treatise, and is garnished
  occasionally with effusions in rhyme, sometimes ori-

46           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ginal, and sometimes translated.         Among other aids,
the author presses the famous Sibylline Oracles into
his service, ornamenting them with a metrical version
and a commentary. This work appears to have at
tracted a great deal of attention on its first appear
ance, and to have retained its popularity for a consi
derable time. It did not, perhaps, cease to be gene
rally remembered, till the termination of the seven
teenth century effectually refuted its conclusions.          A
fifth edition of  it, we observe, appeared at Edinburgh
in 1645, which was, perhaps, not the last. It was
translated into the French language, and published at
Rochelle in 1602*.
    Napier's mathematical studies, after all, however,
probably did more to procure for him the reputation
of being a magician than even these theological lucu
brations. It was believed,       it seems, that he was at
tended by a familiar spirit in the shape of             alarge
black dog. A curious anecdote, for the truth of
which undoubted evidence exists, would even lead
us to suppose that he was not himself averse to being
thought in possession of certain powers or arts not
shared by ordinary men.          A document       isstill pre
served, containing a contract which he entered into,
in July 1594, with a brother baron, Logan of Res-
                            "
talrig, to the effect that, forasmuch as there were old
reports and appearances that a sum of money was
hid within Logan's house of Fastcastle, John Na
pier should do his utmost diligence to search and
   * Napier's book probably occasioned some controversy. There
is a MS. in the British Museum, entitled, "Porta Lucis, or the
way to decypher the name, number, and mark of the Beast, by
a  method more rational, free, and unstrained, than ever any
hitherto ; occasioned by the peremptore     determination of the
Lord Napier of Merchistoune, upon the      name  Axnms." Tha
only part of the promised treatise, however, which the MS. con
tainsis  the Preface, in twelve and   a half closely written folio
pages.

                           NAPIER.                    47
 seek out, and by all craft and ingine to find out the
 same, and by the grace of God shall either find out
 the same, or make it sure that no such thing has been
 there.    For his reward he was to have the exact
 third of all that was found, and to be safely guarded
 by Logan back to Edinburgh with the same ; and in
 case he should find nothing, after all trial and dili
 gence taken, he refers the satisfaction of his travel
 and pains to the discretion of Logan *." This, it
 will be observed, is very cautiously expressed, and so
 as not distinctly to advance on Napier's part any
claim to supernatural skill ; but a person engaging
in such negociations could hardly be very much sur
prised, in that age, if he was held to be acquainted
with more of the sciences than he chose to admit.
The whole affair places before us a very curious pic
ture of the times.
    We do not know exactly when it was that Napier
deserted theology for mathematics — having in this re
spect taken just the opposite course to that followed
long afterwards by the celebrated Count Swedenborg,
who, having been all his previous life a mere man of
science, began, when between fifty and sixty years of
age, to see visions of the spiritual world, and to con
 verse with angels.      But the work upon the Apoca
lypse was, at any rate, the last of his theological pub
lications.    He is understood to have devoted his at
 tention in subsequent years chiefly to astronomy, a
 science which, recently regenerated by Copernicus
 and Tycho Brahe, was then every day receiving new
illustration from the discoveries of Kepler and Gali
leo. The demonstrations, problems, and calculations
 of this science most commonly involve some one or
 more of the cases of trigonometry, or that branch of
 the mathematics which, from certain parts, whether
 sides or angles, of a triangle being given, teaches
             * Douglas's Peerage, by Wood, ii. 291.

 48           THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
 how to find the others which are unknown.        On this
 account trigonometry, both plane and spherical, en
 gaged much of Napier's thoughts ; and he spent a
 great deal of his time in endeavouring to contrive
 some methods by which the operations in both might
 be facilitated.    Now these operations, the reader,
 who may be ignorant of mathematics, will observe,
always proceed by geometrical ratios, or proportions.
Thus,    if  certain lines be described  in or about a
triangle, one of these lines will bear the same geome
 trical proportion to another, as a certain side of the
triangle does to a certain other side.      Of the four
particulars thus arranged three must be known,
and then the fourth will be found by multiplying
together certain two of those known, and dividing
the product by the other.     This rule is derived from
the very nature of geometrical proportion, but it is
not necessary that we should stop to demonstrate
here how it is deduced.      It will be perceived, how
ever, that it must give occasion, in solving the
problems of trigonometry, to a great deal of multiply
ing and dividing, — operations which, as every body
knows, become very tedious whenever the numbers
concerned are large ; and they are generally so in as
tronomical calculations.      Hence such calculations
used to exact immense time and labour, and it
became most important to discover, if possible, a
way of shortening them.       Napier, as we have said,
applied himself assiduously to this object; and he
was, probably, not the only person of that age
whose attention it occupied.      He was, however, un
doubtedly the first who succeeded in it — which he
did most completely by the admirable contrivance
which we are now about to explain.
    When we say that 1 bears a certain proportion, ratio,
or relation to 2, we may mean any one of two things ;

                           LOGARITHMS.                                     49
by 1.  If  the former be what we mean, we may say that
the relation in question is the same as that of 2 to 4, or
of 4 to 8 ; if the latter, we may say that it is the same
as that of 2 to 3, or of 3 to 4. Now in the former
case we should be exemplifying what is called a geo
metrical ; in the latter, what is called an arithmetical
proportion : the former being that which regards the
number of times, or parts of times, the one quantity
is contained in the other ; the latter regarding only the
difference between the two quantities.            We have
already stated that the property of four quantities
arranged in geometrical proportion               is,
                                             that the pro
duct of the second and third, divided by the first,
gives the fourth.      But when four quantities are in
arithmetical proportion, the sum of the second and
third, diminished by the subtraction of the first, gives
the fourth.     Thus, in the geometrical proportion                    1   is
to 2   as 2    to
                is    4,   be multiplied by
                          if   2                   gives 2   it            4
                                                                           ;
which divided by          still remains       while in the
                                                2 4
                           1                         :
arithmetical proportion           to
                                   1   is
                                       as   2  to     is be    3, if   2
added to    2    gives
                 it        from which
                           4   ;             be subtracted,
                                                if1
 there remains the fourth term 3.         It plain, there
                                                      is
fore, that, especially where large numbers are con
cerned, operations by arithmetical must be much
more easily performed than operations by geometri
cal proportion      for in the one case you have only to
                      ;
add and subtract, while in the other you have to go
through the greatly more laborious processes of mul
tiplication and division.
    Now     itoccurred to Napier, reflecting upon this
important distinction, that       method of abbreviating
                                       a
 the calculation of a geometrical proportion might
 perhaps be found, by substituting, upon certain fixed
 principles, for its known terms, others in arithmeti
 cal proportion, and then finding, in the quantity which
 should result from the addition and subtraction of
 these last, an indication of that which would have
   VOL.   II.                                              F

50          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
resulted from the multiplication and division of
the original figures. It had been remarked before
this, by more than one writer*, that if the series of
numbers 1, 2, 4, 8, &c., that proceed in geometrical
progression, that is, by a continuation of geometrical
ratios, were placed under, or alongside of, the series
0, 1, 2, 3, 4c., which are in arithmetical progression,
the addition of any two terms of the latter series
would give a sum, which would stand opposite to a
number in the former series indicating the product of
the two terms in that series, which corresponded in
place to the two in the arithmetical series first taken.
Thus, in the two lines,
     1,   2.  4,   8,  16,   32, 64,     128,   256,
     0,   1,   2,  3,   4,    5,   6,     7,     8,
the first of which consists of  numbers in geometrical,
and the second of numbers in arithmetical progression,
if any two terms, such as 2 and 4, be taken from
the latter, their sum 6, in the same line, will stand
opposite to 64 in the other, which is the product of 4
multiplied by 16, the two terms of the geometrical
series which stand opposite to the 2 and 4 of the
arithmetical. It is also true, and follows directly
from this, that if any three terms, as, for instance, 2,
4, 6, be taken in the arithmetical series, the sum of
the second and third, diminished by the subtraction
of the first, which makes 8, will stand opposite to a
 number (256) in the geometrical series which is
 equal to the product of 16 and 64 (the opposites of 4
 and 6), divided by 4 (the opposite of 2).
    Here, then, is, to a certain extent, exactly such
 an arrangement, or table, as Napier wanted. Having
     * Namely,   by H. Grammateus, in his Commercial Arithmetic,
published    in German,   at Vienna, in 1518; and more clearly by M.
Slifels, in his Arithmetxca Integra, printed at Nuremberg in 1544.
See Montucla, Histoire del Mathematiquea,    ii.  19.   Even Archi
medes    was   acquainted  with  these relations.

                        LOGARITHMS.                                51
any geometrical proportion to calculate, the known
terms of which were to be found in the first line or
its continuation, he could substitute for them at once,
by reference to such a table, the terms of an arith
metical proportion which, wrought in the usual sim
ple manner, would give him a result that would
point out or indicate the unknown term of the geo
metrical proportion.     But unfortunately there were
many numbers which did not occur in the upper line
at all, as it here appears.     Thus, there were not to
be found in it either 3, or 5, or 6, or 7, or 9, or 10,
or any other numbers, indeed, except the few that
happen to result from the multiplication of any of its
terms by 2.      Between 128 and 256, for example,
there were 127 numbers wanting, and between 256
and the next term (512) there would be 255 not to
be found.
    We cannot here attempt to explain the methods by
which Napier's ingenuity succeeded in filling up these
chasms, but must refer the reader, for full information
upon this subject, to the professedly scientific works
which treat of the history and construction of loga
rithms *. Suffice it to say, that he devised a mode
by which he could calculate the proper number to be
placed in the table over against any number whatever,
whether integral or fractional.     The new numerical
expressions thus found, he called Logarithms, a term
of Greek etymology, which signifies the ratios of num
 bers.   The table, however, which he published, in the
first instance, in his Mirifici Logarithmorum Canonis
  *    See especially Montucla, Histoire des Mathematiques,        ii.
16,   &c;  Delambre,  Histoire de FAstronomie Moderne,        491,
                                                           is i.
&c. and,
   ;       where  the most  complete history  of logarithms  to be
found, the Preface to Hutton's Mathematical Tables, London,
1785  ;  which   reprinted
                is         in  the first volume of Baron Maseres's
 Scriplores Logarithmici.
                                                   v   2

52          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 Descriptio, which appeared at Edinburgh in 1614,
contained only the logarithms of the sines of angles
for every degree and minute in the quadrant, which
shews that he chiefly contemplated, by his invention,
facilitating the calculations of trigonometry.    These
logarithms differed also from those that are now in
use, in consequence of Napier having chosen, origin
ally, a different geometrical series from that which
has since been adopted.      He afterwards fixed upon
the progression, 1, 10, 100, 1000, &c., or that which
results from continued multiplication by 10, and
which is the same according to which the present
tables are constructed. This improvement, which
possesses many advantages, had suggested itself
about the same time to the learned Henry Briggs,
then Professor of Geometryin Gresham College, — one
of the persons who had the merit of first appreciating
the value of Napier's invention, and who certainly
did more than any other to spread the knowledge of
it, and also to contribute to its perfection. Lilly,
the astrologer, gives us, in his Memoirs, a curious
account of the intercourse between Briggs and Na
pier, to which the publication of the logarithmic cal
culus led. "    I will acquaint you," he writes, " with
one memorable story, related unto me by John Marr,
an excellent mathematician and geometrician, whom
I  conceive you remember.      He was servant to King
James and Charles the First. At first, when the
Lord Napier, or Marchiston, made public his loga
rithms, Mr. Briggs, then reader of the Astronomy
 Lectures at Gresham College, in London, was so
surprised with admiration of them, that he could
have no quietness in himself until he had seen that
noble person, the Lord Marchiston, whose only in
vention they were ; he acquaints John Marr here
with, who went into Scotland before Mr. Briggs,

                        NftlER.
purposely to be there when these two so learned per
sons should meet. Mr. Briggs appoints a certain day
when to meet at Edinburgh ; but failing thereof, the
Lord Napier was doubtful he would not come. It
happened one day, as John Marr and the Lord Napier
were speaking of Mr. Briggs ; ' Ah, John,' said
Marchiston, ' Mr. Briggs will not now come.' At
the very instant one knocks at the gate ; John Marr
hasted down, and it proved Mr. Briggs, to his great
contentment.     He brings Mr. Briggs up into my
lord's chamber, where almost one quarter of an hour
was spent, each beholding other, almost with admi
ration, before one word was spoke. At last Mr.
Briggs began : ' My lord,    I  have undertaken this
long journey purposely to see your person, and to
know by what engine of wit or ingenuity you came
first to think of this most excellent help into astro
nomy, viz. the logarithms ; but, my lord, being by
you found out,     I wonder nobody else found it out
before, when now known it is so easy.'        He was
nobly entertained by the Lord Napier ; and every
summer after that, during the lord's being alive, this
venerable man, Mr. Briggs, went purposely into
 Scotland to visit him."
   Napier's discovery was very soon known over
Europe, and was every where hailed with admiration
by men of science.    The great Kepler, in particular,
honoured the author by the highest commendation,
and dedicated to him his Ephemerides for 1617.
This illustrious astronomer, also, some years after
 wards, rendered a most important service to the
new calculus, by first demonstrating its principle on
 purely geometrical considerations.    Napier's own
demonstration, it is to be observed, though exceed
 ingly ingenious, had failed to satisfy many of the
 mathematicians of that age, in consequence of its
                                        f 3

 54         THE PURSUIT OK KNOWLEDGE.
 proceeding upon the supposition of the movement of
 a point along a line — a view analogous, as has been
remarked, to that which Newton afterwards adopted
 in the exposition of his doctrine of fluxions, but one
 of which no trace is to be found in the methods of
the ancient geometers.
    Napier did not expound the process by which he
constructed his logarithms in his first publication.
This appeared only in a second work, published at
Edinburgh in 1619, after the death of the author,
by his third son, Robert.      In this work also the
logarithmic tables appeared in the improved form
in which, however, they had previously been pub
lished at London, by Mr. Briggs, in 1617.         They
have since then been printed in numberless editions,
in every country of Europe. Nay, in the year 1721,
a magnificent edition of them, in their most complete
form, issued from the imperial press of Pekin, in
China, in three volumes, folio, in the Chinese lan
guage and character.     As for the invention itself, its
usefulness and value have grown with the progress
of science ; and, in addition to serving still as the
grand instrument for the abridgment of calculation
in almost every department in which figures are em
ployed, it is now found to be applicable to several
important cases which could not be managed at all
without its assistance.   Some of the greatest names
in the history of science, we may also remark, since
Napier's time, have occupied themselves with the
subject of the theory and construction         of loga
rithms ; and the labours of Newton, James Gregory,
Halley, and Eiiler, have especially contributed to
simplify and improve the methods for their investi
gation.
    Napier, however, did not live long to enjoy the
reputation of his discovery, having died at Merchis

                          nApier.                           55
ton on the 3rd of April, 1617, in the sixty-eighth
year of his age.   That same year he had published
at Edinburgh a small treatise in Latin, of about one
hundred and fifty pages, which he entitled, " Rabdo-
logiae seu Numerationis per Virgulas Libri Duo."
It contained an account of a method of perform
ing the operations of multiplication and division, by
means of a number of small rods, having the digits
  inscribed upon them according to such an arrange
  ment that, when placed alongside of each other in
  the manner directed, in order, for instance, to mul
  tiply any two lines of figures, the several lines of
  the product presented themselves, and had only to
 be transcribed and added up to give the proper re
  sult.  This was not, however, nearly so convenient
 a contrivance as that of logarithms, even for multipli
 cation, and it was still less useful in division ; on
 which account it has been supposed that, although
 given to the world so late, it was probably an expe
 dient which had suggested itself to Napier for the
 abridgment of calculation before his great invention.
 It has been thought, too, of so little practical utility
 as, in all likelihood, never to have been actually em
 ployed for the purposes of calculation*. A little
 tract, however, it may be remarked, appeared
 at London so late as the           year 1684, entitled
 " Enneades Arithmeticae," containing, among other
                         "
 things, an account of the Numbering Rods of the
 Right Honourable John, Lord Nepeer, enlarged ;"
 and this work bears to be
                                  " printed for Joseph
 Moxon, at the sign of the Atlas in Ludgate street,
 where also these numbering rods (commonly called
 Napier's hones) are made and sold." These rods,
 or bones, we may add, are what Butler alludes to
in his Hudibras, where, in the account of the " rum
maging of Sidrophel," he speaks of
      * Montucla, Hittoire des Mathematiques,   ii.   26.

                   THE PURSUIT       OF KNOWLEDGE.
                 "A   moon-dial, witk Napier's bones,
                   And several constellation ntones *3
                   Engraved in planetary hour,
                   That over mortals had strange powerf."
   It was principally, as we have seen, with a view
to the simplification of operations in trigonometry
that Napier proposed the logarithmic calculus. This
was not the only improvement which he contributed
to that branch of science.   Among others, it owes to
him a formula of great elegance and convenience, by
which the solution of all the cases of spherical
trigonometry is comprehended under a single rule.
This, with several other new views in the same
department of the mathematics, appeared for the first
time in his second work on logarithms, published
at Edinburgh, as we have already mentioned, in 1 619.
   But his ingenious and contriving mind did not
confine itself merely to speculative science, if we may
believe the very curious statements which he makes
with regard to some of his other inventions, in a
paper with his signature, which is preserved among
the manuscript collections of Anthony Bacon (the
brother of the Lord Chancellor Bacon), in the ar-
chiepiscopal library at Lambeth.     This paper, which
has of late years been several times printed J, is en-
  *A  correspondent informs us that he has seen at Gartness, the
place before-mentioned,  globular stones with the circles of the
sphere and constellations engraven on them, and concave stones
with engravings of a like character, said to have been made by
Napier. They were certainly not of modern date, and one is
built into the wall of a mill, where it is still to be seen.
  f  Part     canto
             ii.        v. 1095. See also Part iii. canto
                         3,                                 2,v. 409.
Professor Napier, of Edinburgh, who             descended from Lord
                                                 is
Napier,     is  possession of the set of bones used by his great
                 in
ancestor.
I    In Dr. Anderson's Bee, vol. iii.      133, —
                                            p.       Lord Buchan's
                                                      in
Life of Napier, — and in Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine, voLxviii.
pp. 53, &c. There       also
                           is  copy of
                                 a          in the British Museum,
                                            it
among the MS. collections of Dr. Birch.

                        NAPIER.                       57
titled " Secret Inventions,  profitable and necessary
in these days for the defence of this island, and with
standing of strangers, enemies to God's truth and
religion."   Of these, the first is stated to be " a
burning mirror for burning ships by the sun's beams,"
of which the author professes himself able to give to
the world the " invention, proof, and perfect de
monstration, geometrical and algebraical, with an
evident demonstration of their error who affirm this
to be made a parabolic section."    The second is a
mirror for producing the same effect by the beams of
a material fire.  The third is a piece of artillery, con
trived so as to send forth its shot, not in a single
straight line, but in all directions, in such a manner
as to destroy every thing in its neighbourhood.        Of
this the writer asserts that he can give   "  the inven
tion and visible demonstration."        The fourth and
last of these formidable machines is described to be
"   a round chariot in metal," constructed so as both to
secure the complete safety of those within it,  and, mov
ing about in all directions, to break the enemy's array,
" by continual
                  charges and shot of the arquebuse
through small holes."         " These inventions," the
paper concludes,
                    " besides devices of
                                           sailing under
the water, and divers other devices and stratagems
for harassing of the enemies,      the grace of God and
                                  by
work of expert craftsmen, I     hope to perform. John
Napier, of Merchiston, anno dom. 1596, June 2."
     From this date would appear that Napier's head
                   it
 had been occupied with the contrivances here spoken
 of, long before he made himself known by those sci
 entific labours  by  which he    isnow chiefly remem
 bered and, indeed, we might perhaps have inferred,
      ;
 even from the general nature of the inventions, and
 the object which the author avows he had in view by
 them, that they were the produce of that part of his
 life in which his apprehensions of the encroachments

58         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
of popery contributed to animate his studies.     Some
of the announcements are certainly very extraordi
nary, and would almost lead us to suppose that the
writer in this paper rather intended to state what he
conceived to be possible, than what he had himself
actually performed. Yet several of his expressions
will not bear this interpretation ; and there are not
wanting other attestations which go to confirm what
he asserts as to his having really constructed some of
the machines he speaks of.     There is a passage in a
strange work, entitled
                          " The Jewel," written by Sir
Thomas Urquhart, and first published in 1652, which
seems manifestly to allude to the third invention here
enumerated.      Sir Thomas, although certainly not the
 most veracious of authorities, would scarcely, one
should think, have ventured to publish what we are
now going to quote, only five and thirty years after
Napier's death, if there had not been some foundation
for his statement.     His description may be suffici
ently overcharged (for he writes, it will be observed,
in an extravagantly bombastic and hyperbolical strain),
without being altogether a fiction. After eulogizing
Napier's mathematical learning in very high-sound
ing terms, Sir Thomas proceeds to remark, that he
deems him especially entitled to remembrance on
account of " an almost incomprehensible device,
which, being in the mouths of the most of Scotland,
and yet unknown to any that ever was in the world
but himself, deserveth very well to be taken notice of
in this place ; " — " and," he adds, " it is this ; he
had the skill (as is commonly reported) to frame an
engine (for invention not much unlike that of Ar-
chytas' dove), which, by virtue of some secret springs,
inward resorts, with other implements and materials
fit for the purpose, inclosed within the bowels thereof,
had the power, if proportionable in bulk to the action
required of it (for he could have made it of all sizes),

                           NAPIER.                           59
to clear a field of four miles circumference, of all the
living creatures exceeding a foot of height that should
be found thereon, how near soever they might be to
one another; by which means he made it appear that
he was able, with the help of this machine alone, to
kill 30,000 Turks, without the hazard of one Chris
tian.    Of this it is said that (upon a wager) he gave
proof upon a large plain in Scotland, to the destruc
tion of a great many heads of cattle and flocks of
sheep, whereof some were distant from other half a
mile on all sides, and some a whole mile*."
    It were to have been desired, certainly, that our
author had been a little more particular in his de
scription of the scene of this devastating exploit
                        "
among the cattle — a large plain in Scotland," being
rather an unsatisfactory form of expression, even in
reference to a country where there are not a great
many large plains ; but this indefinite mode of writ
ing is only Sir Thomas's usual style. We are not
inclined, indeed, to put much faith in the rumour
here recorded that Napier actually put the power of
his machine to the proof in the manner described ;
but the whole statement, taken in conjunction with
what we have found the alleged inventor asserting
under his own hand, seems to put it beyond doubt
that he had at least imagined some such contrivance
as that alluded to in the above passage, and even
that his having done so was matter of general noto
riety in his own day, and for some time after.              Sir
Thomas Urquhart was born in 1613, some years
before Napier's death, and his " Jewel," was first
published in 1652.        Napier, he informs us, when re
 quested on his death-bed to reveal the secret of this
engine of such extraordinary potency in the destruc
tion of cattle, sheep, and Turks, refused to do so, on
   * The Discovery of  a most rare Jewel, &c. second edit. Edin
 burgh, 1774, pp. 57, 58.

60              THE PORSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
the score of there being too many instruments of mis
chief in the world already for it to be the business of
any good man to add to their number*.                     This will
remind the reader of the story told respecting a ma
chine of somewhat similar pretensions constructed at
a later period by the celebrated James Gregory, of
which Sir Isaac Newton, when it was shewn to him,
is said to have expressed his disapprobation on the
same ground which Napier is here made to take.
But the truth is, as has been often remarked, that the
introduction of machines capable of producing the
tremendous effects ascribed to those in question,
 would, in all probability, very soon put an end to
 war, —which has not become more destructive, but
 the reverse, since the invention of a more formidable
 artillery than that anciently in use ; and which,
 waged with such contrivances as those of Napier and
 Gregory, would certainly never be resorted to by na
 tions as a mode of settling their differences, until they
 had become literally insane.            Another consideration,
  however, which might suggest itself to a man of very
 scrupulous feelings on such a matter, is, that it would
  be unfair for him to put even his native country in
  possession of an instrument which would, in fact,
  give her an advantage in her disputes with the rest of
  the world, against which there would be no possi
  bility of contending.        If  it put an end to war, which
  is one great evil, it would do so by enabling a single
  nation to triumph over the prostration of the rest.
      There appeared, some years ago, in one of our
  periodical works t. a very able and learned com
  mentary on Napier's
                              " Secret Inventions," the writer
      * There   is a common report amongst the people at Gartness,
   that this machine is buried in the ground, near the site of the old
   castle said to have been occupied by Napier.
      f Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine, vol. xviii., pp. 53 —65,
   (published Feb. 1804). See also p. 245, &c.

                               NAPIER.                            61
of which has collected, with great industry, whatever
notices the annals of science afford of achievements
similar to those which the Scottish mathematician is
asserted to have performed.            In regard to the mirror
for setting objects on fire at a great distance by the
reflected rays of the sun, he adduces the well-known
story of the destruction of the fleet of Marcellus, at
 Syracuse, by the burning-glasses of Archimedes, and
the other (not so often noticed) which the historian
Zonaras records, of Proclus having consumed by a
similar apparatus the ships of the Scythian leader
Vitalian, when he besieged Constantinople in the
beginning of the sixth century *. The possibility of
such feats as these was long disbelieved ; but may be
considered as having been fully demonstrated by the
experiments of modern times.              Buffon, in particular,
in the year 1747, by means of four hundred plane
mirrors, actually melted lead and tin at a distance of
fifty yards, and set fire to wood at a still greater. This,
too, was in the months of March and April.                     With
summer heat it was calculated that the same effects
might have been produced at four hundred yards dis
tance — or more than ten times that to which, in all
probability, Archimedes had to send his reflected rays.
It may be concluded, therefore, that there is nothing
absolutely incredible in the account Napier gives of
his first invention.        His second announcement, how
ever, is a good deal more startling; inasmuch as he
here professes to have succeeded in an attempt in
which nobody else is recorded to have made any ap
proach to success.          Gunpowder has been lighted by
heat from charcoal collected by one concave mirror
and reflected from another ; but no such effect has ever
    • Malala, another old chronicler, however,
                                                   says that Proclus
 operated, on this occasion, not by burning-glasses, but by burning
 sulphur showered upon the ships from machines.        Vid. Montucla,
 Hitioire ties Mat htmatique*, i. 334.
     VOL.   II.                                        a

62          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
been produced by a single reflection of artificial
heat.   It is not very easy to comprehend the nature
of the chariot mentioned by Napier as his fourth in
vention ; but it seems to bear some resemblance,
this writer remarks, to one of the famous Marquess
of Worcester's contrivances.    As for the device for
sailing under water, noticed in the last paragraph of
the paper, that exploit was performed in Napier's own
day, by the Dutch chemist Cornelius Drebell, who
is reported to have constructed a vessel for king
James I., which he rowed under the water on the
Thames.      It carried twelve rowers, besides several
passengers, the air breathed by whom, it is said,
was made again respirable by means of a certain
liquor, the composition of which Boyle asserts in one
of his publications that he knew, having been in
formed of it by the only person to whom it had been
communicated by Drebell.        Bishop Wilkins, also,
who lived very near the time at which it was per
formed, expressly mentions Drebell's experiment, in
his Mathematical Magic. Various successful essays
in subaqueous navigation have also been made in
more recent times.
   It is to be lamented that the only one of Napier's
inventions, the secret of which was solicited from him
by his friends when he was leaving the world, should
have been that which his conscience would not allow
him to reveal, for the reason that has been stated.
Had they asked him to explain to them his method of
sailing under the water, for example, or even the
construction of his burning mirrors, he probably
would have had no excuse for withholding the infor
mation. But they seem to have been so anxious to
get possession of the machine for destroying the
thirty thousand Turks, that they had not a thought
to spare for any of the other contrivances.        The
circumstance, however, of some of these inventions

                               NAPIER.                             63
 not having been re-discovered by any one else since
 Napier's time, ought not of itself to be taken as con
 clusive evidence that his pretensions to a knowledge
 of them were mere dreams. Extraordinary as is the
 progress that science has made within the last two
 centuries, during which period the conquests she has
 effected have been more numerous and wonderful
 than had been witnessed by all the previous centuries
 that had elapsed from the beginning of the world,
 there can be no doubt that some of her apparently
 new inventions have been only the forgotten discove
 ries of a preceding age revived, and also that there
 were some things known in former times which mo
 dern ingenuity has not yet recovered from oblivion.
 Such machines as those which Napier professes
 to have constructed are exactly of the description
 least likely, for very obvious reasons, to occur to a
 modern speculator*.
     In that curious record, Birrell's Diary, which was
 published in Edinburgh some years ago, we find,
 under date of the 23rd October, 1598, the following
 notice: " Ane proclamation of the Laird of Merkis-
 toun, that he tuik upon hand to make the land mair
 profitable nor it wes before, be the sawing of salt
 upon it." There can be little doubt, we think, that
 this was another scheme of the inventor of the
 logarithms ; although the patent for the new mode of
 manuring appears to have been taken out in the
 name of his eldest son, Archibald, who had been
    ¦
       For a great deal  of very curious information on the lost and
revived inventions   of  antiquity, the reader may consult G. Pasch's
learned work, entitled " De Novis Inventis quorum accuratiori
cultui facem praetulit antiquitas," of which a second edition ap
peared at Leipsick in 1700 ; or Dutens's
                                                  " R6cherches sur
I'origine des decouvertes attributes aux modernes," first published
in 1766, and lately for the fourth time in 1812.         Of this last
work there is an English translation.      See also Theod. Almelo-
been's Inventu Nov.-Antiqua.
                                                    G 2

64           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
infeft in the fee of the barony by his father about a
year before*.      The patent, or gift of office, as it is
 called, was granted upon condition that the patentee
 should publish an account of his method in print,
which he did accordingly shortly afterwards, under
              "
the title of The new order of gooding and manuring
all sorts of field land with common salt."          This tract
is now probably lost ; but the facts that have been
mentioned are interesting as establishing Napier's
claim to an agricultural improvement which has been
revived in our own day and considered of great value t-
The profits of the invention were probably given up
to his son, who was at this time a young man of only
twenty-five years of age, from the same disinterested
feeling which had led his father previously to enfeoff
him in his estate.         Devoted to his books, Napier
appears to have been very indifferent about money ;
and one of his contemporaries J even goes so far as
to assert, that he dissipated his fortune by his experi
ments. Of this, however, there is no evidence ; and
the truth, in all likelihood, is merely that he bestowed
but little attention upon his pecuniary concerns,
occupied as his whole mind was about other matters.
But if he suggested this method of manuring with
salt, he must be allowed to have directed his specula
tions occasionally to the improvement of the arts of
common life, as well as to that of the abstract
sciences.
    Napier died on the 3rd of April, 1617.            He was
twice married, and had         twelve children, of whom
Archibald, the eldest, mentioned above, was raised to
   *  See Records  of Privy Council for 22nd June, 1598, quoted
in Douglas's Peerage, by Wood, ii. 292.
   f See Parkes on " The advantages of using Salt."
   J  Thomas Dempster, a man of unquestionable learning and
genius, but by no means to be always depended upon in what he
states upon his own authority.

                       NAPIER.                       65
the peerage, by the title of Lord Napier, in 1627.
A small volume of Memoirs of this person, written
by himself, was published in 1793. The second
part of Napier's explanation of his Logarithms was
published by his third son, Robert, from his father's
papers, in 1619.    There are said to be still in the
possession of the family some productions of their
distinguished ancestor on scientific subjects, which
have not been printed, especially a treatise, in Eng
lish, on Arithmetic and Algebra, and another, on
Algebra, in Latin*.
   The life which we have thus sketched may be con
sidered as affording us an eminent example of the
manner in which the many advantages enjoyed by
the wealthy may be turned to account in the pursuit
of learning and philosophy.        A good education,
access to all the best means of improvement, un
interrupted leisure, comparative freedom from the
ordinary anxieties of life, the means of engaging in
inquiries and experiments the expense of which can
not be afforded by the generality of students — the
possession of all these things to the mind that knows
how to profit by them, is indeed invaluable.        We
 have seen what they produced in Napier's case.
In dedicating his time and his fortune to pursuits so
 much nobler than those that have usually occupied
persons of his station, this illustrious individual had
his ample reward. We can scarcely doubt that he
led a happier life in his studious retirement, in the
midst of his books and his experiments, than if he
had given himself either to the ordinary pleasures of
the world, or to the hazards and vexations of political
ambition.   The more useful and more honourable
path he certainly chose.    By his great and fortunate
discovery he made the science of all succeeding
times his debtor, and constituted himself the benefac-
                                          g3

66         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
tor of every generation of posterity.     And then for
fame, which our very nature has made dear to us,
that, too, this philosopher found in his closet of me
ditation.    Even in his own day his renown was
spread abroad over Europe, and he was greeted with
the publicly expressed admiration of some of the
most distinguished of his contemporaries ; and the
time that has since elapsed has only served to
throw an increasing light around his name, which is
now sure to retain its distinction so long as the
sciences which he loved shall continue to be culti
vated among men.

                         Chapter IV.
Drummond, of Hawthornden — Tycho Brahe — Tschirnhausen— Boyle — The
                      Air-Pump — Cavendish.
 It would   be easy    to add to that of Napier a long list
of other names of men of wealth and rank, who, in like
 manner, have devoted themselves to science or litera
ture, in preference to all other pursuits.            But we can
afford to mention only a very few. One name which
Napier's naturally suggests to us, is that of his con
temporary and countryman, William Drummond, of
Hawthornden, one of the most elegant poetical writers
of the early part of the seventeenth century. Drum
mond and Napier were neighbours, but probably no
record has been preserved of any intercourse between
the mathematician and the poet.                  As the former,
however, was resorted to every year by his scientific
English friend, Mr. Briggs; so the latter, also, had his
visitor from the south, who came to pay his respects
to him, from admiration of his kindred genius.                   In
the year 1616, the famous Ben Jonson walked all
the way from London to Hawthornden, to see his
brother poet, and remained for some time as his guest.
Of this visit, a curious account is preserved, written
by Drummond himself, which has been often printed.
Drummond, who was distinguished for his learning
as well as his poetry, died in 1649, in his sixty-fourth
year, having lived through a very agitated period
without mixing in its political convulsions, satisfied
with philosophy and the muses.               Another contem
porary of Napier, whose labours and speculations
were more similar to his own, was the celebrated
Danish astronomer, Tycho Brahe.                   Brahe's family

 68        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE,
was both wealthy and noble ; but when by his contri
butions he first manifested his attachment to the sci
ence in which he afterwards acquired so much repu
tation, being then only a boy at school, his friends did
 every thing they could to check an inclination which
they deemed quite unsuited to his birth and pros
pects ; and the young astronomer was obliged to
conceal from his tutor the mathematical books which
he purchased with his pocket-money, and to read
them, as well as to make his observations on the stars,
in hours stolen from the time allowed him for sleep.
 For, even before he was sixteen, he had begun to mea
sure the distances of the heavenly bodies from one
another, although he had no better instrument than
 a common pair of compasses, the hinge of which he
used to put to his eye, while he opened the legs until
they pointed to the two stars whose relative position
he wished to ascertain.     A collection of celestial ob
servations, made by him at this early period, is still
preserved at Copenhagen.       When he became of age,
however, and was his own master, his fortune enabled
him to choose his own pursuits ; and , having first
spent some years in travelling through Germany and
Switzerland, and visiting the different observatories
in these countries, he then returned home, took up his
residence on his estate, and dedicated himself almost
entirely to his favourite science.   Some of the results
of his studies, which he published, soon drew to him
the attention of the learned among his countrymen j
and, at the desire of the king, he at last left his re
treat to teach astronomy in the capital.        But the
constant interruptions to which he was here exposed
disgusted him with a town life ; and he sighed to get
once more back to his country retirement.        All his
wishes in this respect were at length gratified, by an
act of extraordinary munificence on the part of his
royal master, who bestowed on him the island of

                      TYCHO BRAHE.                      69
Hueen, in the Sound, together with a pension of five
hundred crowns, a lordship in Norway, and an eccle
siastical benefice, which brought him two thousand
crowns more, in order that with these revenues, added
to those of his original estates, he might be enabled
to prosecute his celestial observations on the grandest
scale.    In this island, accordingly, Brahe now took
up his abode, and soon erected on it a splendid ob
servatory, provided with all the best instruments
known in that age. He spent, he says, a hundred
thousand crowns of his own money upon its comple
tion, in addition to the produce of his grants from the
king. Here he resided for seventeen years, during
the whole of which time he continued to devote him
self, with unabated zeal, to his scientific pursuits. But
such was now his fame, that, even in this retire
ment, beside being surrounded, as before, by pupils
who crowded to profit by his instructions, he was
sought out by many visitors, both from his own and
foreign countries. Among other persons of distinction
who came to see him, was our James I., then king of
 Scotland, who passed a week with him in the year
 1590 ; but if the story that is told be true, this visit
was anything rather than a fortunate incident for
Brahe. Some years afterwards, it is said, his pro
tector, Frederick II., being dead, he was visited one
day by the young King Christian IV., accompanied by
 his chief minister, Walckendorf ; and it so happened
 that this latter personage, who was very sensitive and
 choleric, was barked at, as he approached the house,
 by two dogs belonging to the astronomer, at which he
 chose to be so much offended, that he went up to the
 animals and beat them severely.       The dogs had been
 presented to Brahe by the Scottish monarch ; and irri
 tated at seeing them ill-treated, he interfered to prevent
 the enraged senator from continuing his chastisement.
  This gave rise to some high words between the two,

JO          THE PURSUIT        OF KNOWLEDGE.
and the result was a quarrel, which Walckendorf, at
least, never forgot.   From that day, Brahe's ruin
was resolved upon by his powerful enemy.    A com
mission was soon after appointed to report upon the
public utility of his establishment ; and upon this
compliant body declaring that they saw nothing in
his splendid observatory but a source of useless ex
pense to the state, a decree was passed, recalling all
the grants he had received from the former king,
and dispossessing him of his island.     On this, Brahe
determined to bid adieu for ever to his ungrateful
country ; and, taking with him all his instruments,
he retired to Germany.      About two years afterwards,
however, he was invited to take up his residence at
Prague, by the Emperor, Rodolph II. ; and by this
prince, who was warmly attached to science, he
was provided with a second asylum, almost as splen
did as that which he had enjoyed in his native country.
But he lived only a very short time after this, having
died in 1601, in the fifty-fifth year of his age. Tycho
Brahe, as most of our readers are probably aware,
was the inventor, or reviver, of a peculiar scheme of
the universe, according to which the earth is con
ceived to be immoveable in the centre of the system,
the sun to revolve round        it,
                                 and the other planets
round the sun.      It
                     is   unnecessary to say that this
hypothesis   has  been long exploded. Indeed, even at
the time when was proposed by its author,
               it                              itwas, al
though supported    by  him with much ingenuity, most
                                                    a
unphilosophical retrogression from the true system
previously established    byCopernicus.    But although
Brahe, it  thus appears, has no very high claims upon
our admiration as a theorist, he undoubtedly did
much in another way to promote the improvement of
astronomy. His extraordinary devotion to the sci
ence, of itself, operated as inspiration upon many of
the other ardent, minds of the time.        But     was
                                                    it

                   TSCHIRNHAUSEN.                    71
by the great number and comparative exactness of
his observations, far surpassing anything that had
been attained by his predecessors, that he chiefly con
tributed to the progress of astronomy.       No other
but one in his circumstances could have commanded
either the leisure or the pecuniary means necessary
for the making of these observations, which, besides
having occupied many years, owed much of their
superior accuracy to the excellence and consequent
costliness of the instruments which Brahe employed.
Here, therefore, was a case in which science was in
debted to the wealth of one of its cultivators for ser
vices which no zeal or talents could have otherwise
enabled him to render.
   Another man of fortune, to whom both science
and the arts are under considerable obligations, is the
German mathematician, Tschirnhausen, celebrated
for the discovery of the peculiar curve called, after
him, Tschirnhausen's Caustics.       He was born in
1651, at the seat of his ancestors, in Upper Lusatia;
and although, after receiving an excellent education,
he entered the army at an early age, he very soon
quitted the profession of a soldier, and set out on his
travels through England, Italy, and France. He
spent several years in traversing these countries, em
bracing every opportunity of obtaining a knowledge
of their arts, manufactures, and productions, and
seeking the acquaintance of the learned men of the
time, wherever he went. On returning home, he took
up his residence on his estate, the revenues of which
were ample ; and the remainder of his life was given
to scientific speculations and experiments.    The sci
ence of optics was that to which he was chiefly at
tached ; and it was while making some experiments
with reflecting mirrors, that he discovered his Caus
tics, which are curves formed by light reflected in
certain circumstances, and are so called from the

 72           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 Greek word for a burning-glass.             They possess some
remarkable geometrical properties*.               When Tschirn-
hausen announced this discovery to the French
Academy of Sciences, he was only in his thirty-first
year ; but he was immediately admitted a member
of the Academy by order of the King, Louis XIV.
In order to have the aid of proper instruments in the
prosecution of his researches, he afterwards established
three glass-houses in his native district ; at which he
employed all the resources of his ingenuity in endea
vouring to fabricate burning-glasses of greater size
and power than any which had ever been elsewhere
produced.        In 1687 he had made a concave reflect
ing mirror of copper, of the diameter of four feet and
a half, which consumed wood and fused metals at
twelve feet distance, in a few seconds ; but although
these effects greatly surpassed anything of the same
kind that had been accomplished in modern times,
he found the inconvenience of operating by reflection
so great, that he determined to persevere in his at
tempts to obtain, if possible, a lens of equal magnitude.
He did not exactly attain this object ; for the largest
lens he succeeded in producing had only a diameter
of three feet. But when it is added that nobody
but himself had ever before made one of more than
four or five inches diameter, his success will probably
be deemed sufficiently extraordinary.                The method
he employed in fabricating this immense glass is not
known.       It was convex on both sides, and weighed
a hundred and sixty pounds.                 Although somewhat
less in size, its effects greatly exceeded those of the
    * In an article  of some length upon Tschirnhausen, in the Bio
graphic   Universelte,   the writer, M. Gley, by a strange blunder,
mistakes  these   curves  for actual burning-glasses; and describes,
with great minuteness, their wonderful powers in kindling and
consuming, or melting, wood, iron, tiles, slates, and earthen-ware !
— Vid. Biog. Univ. xlvii. 3.

               TSCHIRNHAUSEN.        BOYLE.           73
reflector he had formerly used.        This lens was pur
chased from Tschirnhausen by the Duke of Orleans,
who afterwards made a present of it to the Academy
of Sciences. Tschirnhausen deserves, also, to be
remembered as the founder of the celebrated porce
lain manufactory of Dresden.          Before his time, it
was supposed that the Chinese employed for their
porcelain a peculiar earth, only found in their own
country ; but he discovered that the same species of
ware could be manufactured from a compound of dif
ferent sorts of earth, which might be obtained in
Europe as well as in China.          This eminent bene
factor to the arts, who, besides his contributions to
the Transactions of the French Academy, was also
the author of two separate works, — the first, entitled
The Medicine of the Body, the latter, The Medicine
of the Mind, being, in fact, a system of the art of
reasoning, — died in 1708.
    But, perhaps, the best example we can adduce of
the manner in which wealth may be made subser
vient by its possessor, not only to the acquisition of
 knowledge, but also to its diffusion and improvement,
is that of our celebrated countryman the Honourable
 Robert Boyle. Boyle was born at Lismore, in Ire
land, in 1627, and was the seventh and youngest son
 of Richard, the first Earl of Cork, commonly called
 the Great Earl. The first advantage which he de
 rived from the wealth and station of his father, was
 an excellent education.       After having enjoyed the
 instructions of a domestic tutor, he was sent, at an
 early age, to Eton.       But his inclination, from the
first, seems to have led him to the study of things,
 rather than of words.       He remained at Eton only
 four years,   " in the last of which," according to his
 own statement, in an account which he has given us
 of his early life, " he forgot much of that Latin he
  had got, for he was so addicted to more solid parts
    VOL.   II.                                 H

  74         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 of knowledge, that he hated the study of bare words
 naturally, as something that relished too much of
 pedantry, to consort with his disposition and designs."
 In  reference to what is here insinuated, in disparage
 ment of the study of languages merely as such, we
 may just remark that the observation is, perhaps, not
 quite so profound as it is plausible.     So long as one
 mind differs from another, there will always be much
 difference  of sentiment as to the comparative claims
 upon our regard of that, on the one hand, which ad
 dresses itself principally to the taste or the imagina
 tion, and that, on the other, which makes its appeal to
 the understanding only.      But it is, at any rate, to be
 remembered that, in confining the epithet useful, as
 is commonly done, to the latter, it is intended to de
 scribe it as the useful only pre-eminently, and not
 exclusively. The agreeable or the graceful is plainly
 also useful.     The study of language and style,
therefore, cannot, with any propriety, be denounced
 as a mere waste of time ; but, on the contrary, is
 well fitted to become to the mind a source both of
 enjoyment and of power. So great, indeed, is the
influence of diction upon the common feelings of
mankind, that no literary work, it may be safely as
serted, has ever acquired a permanent reputation and
popularity, or, in other words, produced any wide
and enduring effect, which was not distinguished by
the graces of its style.   Their deficiency, in this re
spect, has been at least one of the causes of the com
parative oblivion into which Mr. Boyle's own writings
have fallen, and, doubtless, weakened the efficacy
of such of them as aimed at anything beyond a bare
statement of facts, even in his own day.           It was
this especially which exposed some of his moral lucu
brations to Swift's annihilating ridicule.
faSOn being brought home from Eton, Boyle, who
was his father's favourite son, was placed under

                         BOTLE.
the care of a neighbouring clergyman, who, instruct
ing him, he says,
                     " both with care and civility, soon
brought him to renew his first acquaintance with the
Roman tongue, and to improve it so far that in that
language he could readily enough express himself in
prose, and began to be no dull proficient in the poe
tic strain."
               " Although, however," he adds, " na
turally addicted to poetry, he forbore, in after-life, to
cultivate his talent for that species of composition,
because, in his travels, having by discontinuance
forgot much of the Latin tongue, he afterwards never
 could find time to redeem his losses by a serious
study of the ancient poets." From all this it is evi
dent that the natural bent of his mind did not incline
him very strongly to classical studies ; and as, for
the most obviously wise purposes, there has been
 established among men a diversity of intellectual
 endowments and tendencies, and every mind is most
 efficient when it is employed most in accordance with
 its natural dispositions and predilections, it was just
 as well that the course of his education was now
 changed.     In his eleventh year he and one of his
 brothers were put under the charge of a Mr. Mar-
 combes, a French gentleman, and sent to travel on
 the Continent.    In the narrative of his early life, in
 which he designates himself by the name of Philo-
retus, Mr. Boyle has left us an account of his travel
ling tutor.     " He was a man," says he, " whose
 gait, his mien, and outside, had very much of his
 nation, having been divers years a traveller and a
soldier ; he was well fashioned, and very well knew
 what belonged to a gentleman.         His natural were
 much better than his acquired parts, though divers
 of the latter he possessed, though not in an eminent,
 yet in a competent degree.      Scholarship he wanted
 not, having in his greener years been a professed
 student in divinity ; but he was much less read in
                                          h  2

76          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
books than men, and hated pedantry as much as any
of the seven deadly sins. * * * Before company
he was always very civil to his pupils, apt to eclipse
their failings, and set off their good qualities to the
best advantage.     But in his private conversation he
was cynically disposed, and a very nice critic both of
words and men ; which humour he used to exercise
so freely with Philoretus, that at last he forced him
to a very cautious and considerate way of expressing
himself, which after turned to his no small advantage.
The worst quality he had was his choler, to excesses
of which he was excessively prone ; and that being
the only passion to which Philoretus was much ob
served to be inclined, his desire to shun clashing with
his governor, and his accustomedness to bear the
sudden sallies of his impetuous humour, taught our
youth so to subdue that passion in himself, that he
was soon able to govern it habitually and with ease."
   Under the guidance of this gentleman, who,
although not much fitted, apparently, to make his
pupils profound scholars, or even to imbue them with
a taste for elegant literature, was, probably, very well
qualified both to direct their powers of observation,
and to superintend and assist the general growth of
their minds at this early age, the two brothers
passed through France to Geneva, where they con
tinued some time studying rhetoric, logic, mathe
matics, and political geography, to which were added
the accomplishments of fencing and dancing.
                                                  " His
recreations during his stay at Geneva," says Mr.
Boyle of himself,
                    " were sometimes mall, tennis (a
sport he ever passionately loved), and, above all, the
reading of romances, whose perusal did not only ex
tremely divert him, but (assisted by a total discon
tinuance of the English [tongue) in a short time
taught him a skill in French somewhat unusual to
strangers." The party afterwards set off for Italy ;

                         BOYLE.                      77
and, after visiting Venice and other places, proceeded
to Florence, where they spent the winter.
   While residing here, Mr. Boyle made himself mas
ter of the Italian language. But another acquisition,
for which he was indebted to his visit to Florence,
probably influenced to a greater extent the future
course of his pursuits ; we mean the knowledge he
obtained of the then recent astronomical discoveries of
Galileo. This great philosopher died in the neigh
bourhood of Florence, in the beginning of the year
1642, while Boyle and his brother were pursuing
their studies in that city. The young Englishman,
who was himself destined to acquire so high a repu
tation by his experiments in various departments of
physical science, some of them the same which
Galileo had cultivated, probably never even beheld
his illustrious precursor ; but we cannot tell how
much of Boyle's love of experimental inquiry, and his
ambition to distinguish himself in that field, may
have been caught from this, his accidental residence
in early life in a place where the renown of Galileo
and his discoveries must have been on the lips of all.
    Boyle returned to England in 1644. Although
he was yet only in his eighteenth year, he seems to
have thought that his education had been long enough
under the direction of others, and he resolved, there
fore, for the future, to be his own instructor.    Ac
cordingly, his father being dead, he retired to an
estate which had been left him in Dorsetshire, and
gave himself up, we are told, for five years, to the
study principally of natural philosophy and chemistry.
His literary and moral studies, however, it would
appear, were not altogether suspended during this
time. In a letter written by him from his retirement
to his old tutor, Mr. Marcombes, we find him men
tioning, as also among his occupations, the composing
 of essays in prose and verse, and the study of ethics,

78         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
" wherein,"   says he,
                         " of          I
                                 have been very con
                                late
versant, and desirous to call them from the brain
down into the breast, and from the school to the
house."
   These details do not, like many of those we have
given in former parts of our work, exhibit to us the
ardent lover of knowledge, beset with impediments
at every step, in his pursuit of the object on which
he has placed his affections, and having little or no
thing to sustain him under the struggle, except the
unconquerable strength of the passion with which
his heart is filled.  On the contrary, we have here
a young man who has enjoyed from his birth up
wards every facility for the improvement of his mind,
and is now surrounded with all the conveniences he
could desire, for a life of the most various and excur
sive study.    A happy and enviable lot! Yet by how
few of those to whom it has been granted, as well
as to him of whom we are now speaking, have its ad
vantages been used as they were by him ! The truth
is, that if the mind be not in love with knowledge,
no mere outward advantages will enable any one to
make much progress in the pursuit of it ; while with
this love for  it,all the difficulties which the unkind-
ness of fortune can throw in the way of its acquisi
tion may be overcome. The examples we have al
ready recorded of many          asuccessful struggle with
such difficulties in their most collected and formida
ble strength, sufficiently warrant us to hold out this
encouragement to all.
   In the same letter to Mr. Marcombes, which we
have just quoted, we find Boyle making mention, for
the first time, of what he calls " our new Philoso
phical or Invisible College," some of the leading
members of which, he informs his correspondent,
occasionally honoured him with their company at
his house.    By this Invisible College, he undoubt

                        BOYLE.                      79
edly means that association of learned individuals
who began about this period to assemble together
in London for the purposes of scientific discussion,
and whose meetings formed the germ of the Royal
Society.    According to the account given in a letter
written many years after by Dr. Wallis, another
member of the club, to his friend Dr. Thomas Smith,
it appears that these meetings first began to be held
in London, on a certain day in every week, about
the year 1645.     Mr. Boyle's name does not occur in
the list of original members given by Dr. Wallis ; but
he professes to mention only several of the number.
There can be no doubt that Boyle joined them
soon after the formation of the association.       Ac
cording to Dr. Wallis, the meetings were first sug
gested by a Mr. Theodore Haak, whom he de
scribes as a German of the Palatinate, then resi
dent in London.       They used to be held sometimes
in Wood street, at the house of Dr. Goddard, the
eminent physician, who kept an operator for grind
ing glasses for telescopes and microscopes ; some
times at another house in Cheapside; and some
times in Gresham College, to which several of the
members were attached.        The subjects of inquiry
and discussion are stated to have embraced every
                    "
thing relating to physic, anatomy, geometry, astro
nomy, navigation, magnetics, chemics, mechanics,
and natural experiments," whatever, in short, be
longed to what was then called
                                  " the new or experi
mental philosophy."     In course of time, several of
the members of the association were removed to
Oxford ; and they began at last to meet by them
selves in that city, while the others continued their
meetings in London.      The Oxford meetings began
to be regularly held about the year 1649. In 1654
Mr. Boyle took up his residence at Oxford, pro
bably induced, in great part, by the circumstance of

80          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
so many of his philosophical friends being now there,
and engaged together in the same inquiries with
himself.     The Oxford associates, according to Dr.
Wallis, met first in the apartments of Dr. Petty (after
wards the celebrated Sir William Petty, the ancestor
of the Marquess of Lansdowne), who lodged, it
seems, in the house of an apothecary, whose store of
drugs was found convenient for their experiments.
On Dr. Petty going to Ireland, they next met, the
narrative proceeds, " (though not so constantly) at
the lodgings of Dr. Wilkins, then warden of Wad-
ham College ; and, after his removal to Trinity Col
lege in Cambridge, at the lodgings of the honourable
 Mr. Robert Boyle, then resident for divers years in
Oxford."      Boyle, indeed, continued to reside in this
city till the year 1668.    Meanwhile, in 1663, three
years after the Restoration, the members of the Lon
don club were incorporated under the title of the
 Royal Society.
    It was during his residence at Oxford that Boyle
made some of the principal discoveries with which
his name is connected. In particular, it was here
that he prosecuted those experiments upon the me
chanical properties of the air, by which he first made
 himself generally known to the public, and the results
of which rank among the most important of his con
tributions to natural science.      The first account
which he published of these experiments appeared
at Oxford in 1660, under the title of" New Experi
ments Physico-Mechanical, touching the spring of
the air and its effects."   The work is in the form of
 letters to his nephew, Viscount Dungarvon, the
 son of the Earl of Cork, which are dated in Decem
 ber 1659.     It may be not unnaturally supposed
 that Boyle's attention was first directed to the sub
ject of Pneumatics, when he was engaged at Florence
 in making himself acquainted with the discoveries of

                    THE AIR-PUMP.                       81
 Galileo, whose experiments first introduced anything
 like science into that department of inquiry.          He
 states, himself, in his first letter to his nephew, that
he had some years before heard of a book, by the
Jesuit Schottus, giving an account of a contrivance,
by which Otto Guericke, Consul of Magdeburg, had
succeeded in emptying glass vessels of their contained
air, by sucking it out at the mouth of the vessel,
plunged under water. He alludes here to Guericke's
famous invention of the instrument now commonly
called the air-pump.       This ingenious and ardent
cultivator of science, who was born in Magdeburg,
in Saxony, in the beginning of the seventeenth
century, in his original attempts to produce a va
cuum, used first to fill his vessel with water, which
he then sucked out by a common pump, taking care,
of course, that no air entered to replace the liquid.
This method was probably suggested to Guericke
by Torricelli's beautiful experiment, mentioned in the
former volume *, with the barometrical tube, the va
cuum produced in the upper part of which, by the
descent of the mercury, has been called from him
the Torricellian vacuum.         It was by first filling it
with water, that Guericke expelled the air from the
copper globe, the two closely fitting hemispheres
comprising which six horses were then unable to
pull asunder, although held together by nothing
more than the pressure of the external atmosphere.
This curious proof of the force, or weight of the
air, which was exhibited before the Emperor Ferdi
nand III., in 1654, is commonly referred to by the
name of the experiment of the Magdeburg hemi
spheres.     Guericke, however, afterwards adopted
another method of exhausting a vessel of its con
tained air, which could be applied more generally
than the one he had first employed. This consisted in
                  * Vide vol. i, p. 12.

82         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
at once pumping out the air itself.    The principle of
the contrivance which he used for that purpose will be
understood from the following explanation.        If  we
suppose a barrel of perfectly equal bore throughout,
and having in it a closely fitting plug or piston, to
have been inserted in the mouth of the vessel, it is
evident that, when this piston was drawn up from
the bottom to the top of the barrel, it would carry
along with it all the air that had previously filled the
space through which it had passed.        Now were air,
like water, possessed of little or no expansive force,
this space, after being thus deprived of its contents,
would have remained empty, and there would have
been an end of the experiment.      But in consequence
of the extraordinary elasticity of the element in ques
tion, no sooner would its original air be lifted by the
piston out of the barrel, than a portion of that in the
vessel beyond the piston would flow out to occupy
its place.  The vessel and the barrel together would
now, therefore, be filled by the same quantity of air
which had originally been contained in the first alone,
and which would consequently be diminished in den
sity just in proportion to the enlargement of the
space which it occupied.      But although so much of
the air to be extracted had thus got again into the
barrel, there would still at this point have been an
end of the experiment, if no way could have been
found of pushing back the piston for another draught,
without forcing also the air beyond it into the vessel
again, and thus merely restoring matters to the state
in which they were at the commencement of the
 operation.   But here Guericke was provided with
an ingenious contrivance — that of the valve ; the idea
 of applying which he borrowed, no doubt, from the
 common water-pump, in which it had been long
 used.    A valve, which, simple as it is, is one of the
 most useful and indeed indispensable of mechanical

                              THE AIR-PUMP.                           83
  contrivances, is, as most persons know, merely a flap,
  or lid, moving on a hinge, which, covering an ori
  fice, closes    of course, against whatever attempts to
                   it,
  pass through from behind itself,            force bearing
                                                   (a
  upon      from thence evidently only shutting     closer),
       it it
                                                            it
  while      gives way to and permits the passage of
  whatever comes in the opposite direction.            Now
  Guericke, in his machine, had two of these valves,
  one covering a hole in the piston, another covering the
 mouth of the vessel where the barrel was inserted                    ;
 and both opening outwards.            In consequence of
 this arrangement, when the piston, after having been
 drawn out, as we have already described, was again
 pushed back, the air in the barrel was prevented
 from getting back into the vessel by the farther
 valve, now shut against          it,
                                while     was at the same
                                              it
 time provided with an easy means of escape by the
 other, through which, accordingly,           passed away.
                                                   it
 Here then was one barrel-full of the air in the vessel
 dislodged     ;and the same process had only to be re
 peated a sufficient number of times, in order to ex
 tract as much more as was desired.          The quantity,
 however, removed every time was, of        course,  always
 becoming less for, although
                     ;              filled the same space,
                                         it
it  was more attenuated.
    The principle, therefore, upon which the first air-
pump was constructed, was the expansibility of the
air, which the inventor was enabled to take advan
tage of through means of the valve.             These two
things, in fact, constitute the air-pump        and what;
ever improvements have been since introduced in the
construction of the machine have gone only to make
the working of        more convenient and effective.
                         it                              In
this latter respect the defects of Guericke'          appa  s
ratus, as might be expected,           were considerable.
Among others, with which           was chargeable,
                                        it              re       it
quired the continual labour of two men for several

84          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
hours at the pump to exhaust the air from a vessel
of only moderate size ; the precautions which
Guericke used to prevent the intrusion of air from
without, between the piston and the sides of the
barrel, during the working of the machine, were
both imperfect for that purpose, and greatly added
to the difficulties and incommodiousness of the ope
ration ; and, above all, from the vessel employed
being a round globe, without any other mouth or
opening than the narrow one in which the pump was
inserted, things could not be conveyed into it, nor,
consequently, any experiments made in that vacuum
which had been obtained. Boyle, who says that he
had himself thought of something like an air-pump
before he heard of Guericke's invention, applied
himself, in the first place, to the remedying of these
defects in the original instrument, and succeeded in
rendering it considerably more convenient and useful.
At the time when he began to give his attention to
this subject, he had Robert Hooke, who afterwards
attained a distinguished name in science, residing
with him as an assistant in his experiments ; and it
was Hooke, he says, who suggested to him the first
improvements in Guericke's machine. These, which
could not easily be made intelligible by any mere
description, and which, besides, have long since
given way to still more commodious modifications of
the apparatus, so that they possess now but little
interest, enabled Boyle and his friends to carry their
experiments with the new instrument much farther
than had been done by the consul of Magdeburg.
But, indeed, Boyle himself did not long continue to
use the air-pump which he describes in this first
publication.     In the second part of his Physico-
Mechanical Experiments he describes one of a new
construction; and, in the third part of the same
work, one still farther improved.      This last, which

                          AIR.                          85
is supposed to have been also of Hooke's contrivance,
had two barrels moved by the same pinion-wheel,
which depressed the one while it elevated the other,
and thus did twice as much work as before in the
same time.      The air-pump has been greatly im
proved since the time of Boyle by the Abbe* Nollet,
 Gravesande, Smeaton, Prince, Cuthbertson, and
 others.
     By his experiments with this machine Boyle made
 several important discoveries with regard to the air,
 the principal of which he details in the three succes
 sive parts of the work we have mentioned.       Having
 given so commodious a form and position to the
 vessel out of which the air was to be extracted (which,
 after him, has been generally called the receiver, a
 name, he says, first bestowed upon it by the glassmen,)
 that he could easily introduce into it anything which
 he wished to make the subject of an experiment, he
 found that neither flame would burn nor animals live
 in a vacuum, and hence he inferred the necessity of
 the presence of air both to combustion and animal
 life. Even a fish, immersed in water, he proved, would
 not live in an exhausted receiver.     Flame and animal
 life, he shewed, were also both soon extinguished in
 any confined portion of air, however dense, although
 not so soon in a given bulk of dense as of rarefied
 air ; nor was this, as had been supposed, owing to
 any exhalation of heat from the animal body or the
flame, for the same thing took place when they were
 kept in the most intense cold, by being surrounded
 with a frigorific mixture. What he chiefly sought to
 demonstrate, however, by the air-pump was, the ex
traordinary elasticity, or spring, as he called  it,of the
 air.   It evident, from the account that has been
         is
 given of the principle of this machine, that,     if  the
pump be worked ever so long,      it   never can produce
in the receiver a   strictly perfect vacuum for the air
                                           ;
     VOL. II.                               I

86          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
expelled from the barrel by the last descent of the
 piston must always be merely a portion of a certain
 quantity, the rest of which will be in the receiver.
 The receiver, in truth, after the last stroke of the
 piston, is as full of air as it was at first ; only that
 by which it is now filled is so much rarefied and
 reduced in quantity, although it occupies the same
 space as before, that it may be considered as, for
 most practical purposes, annihilated.      Still a certain
 quantity, as we have said, remains, be it ever so
 small ; and this quantity continues, just as at first, to
 be diffused over the whole space within the receiver.
 From this circumstance Boyle deduced some striking
 evidences of what seems to be the almost indefinite
 expansibility of the air.   He at last actually dilated
a portion of air to such a degree that it filled, he
calculated, 13,679 times its natural space, or that
which it occupied as part of the common atmo
sphere.    But the usual density of the atmosphere is
very far from being the greatest to which the air may
be raised.    It is evident that, if the two valves of the
air-pump we have already described be made to open
inwards instead of outwards, the effect of every
stroke of the piston will be, not to extract air from
the receiver, but to force an additional quantity into
it. In that form, accordingly, the machine is called
a forcing-pump, and is used for the purpose of con
densing air, or compressing a quantity of it into the
smallest possible space.      Boyle succeeded, by this
method, in forcing into his receiver forty times its
natural quantity.     But the condensation of the air
has been carried much further since his time.
Dr. Hales compressed into a certain space 1522
times the natural quantity, which in this state had
nearly twice the density, or, in other words, was
nearly twice as heavy as the same bulk of water.
Of the air thus condensed by Dr. Hales, therefore,

                       BOYLE.                       87
the same space actually contained above twenty mil
lions of times the quantity which it would have done
of that dilated to the highest degree by Mr. Boyle.
How far do these experiments carry us beyond the
knowledge of Aristotle, who held that the air, if
rarefied so as to fill ten times its usual space, would
become fire !
   We have dwelt the longer upon these details, both
as referring to some of the most important contri
butions for which science is indebted to Mr. Boyle,
and because they serve to continue the brief sketch
of discoveries relating to the air which we gave in
our former volume*.       On leaving Oxford, in 1668,
Boyle came to London, and here he continued to
reside during the remainder of his life.     Up to this
time his attendance at the meetings of the Royal
Society had been only occasional, but he was now
seldom absent.      Science, indeed, was as much the
occupation of his life as if it had been literally his
business or profession. No temptations could seduce
him away from his philosophical pursuits.     Belong
ing, as he did, to one of the most powerful families
in the kingdom — having no fewer than four brothers
in the Irish peerage, and one in the English, —the
highest honours of the state were open to his ambition
if he would have accepted of them. But so pure was
his love of science and learning, and, with all his ac
quirements, so great his modesty, that he steadily de
clined even those worldly distinctions which might be
said to lie strictly within the sphere of his pursuits.
He was zealously attached to the cause of religion, in
support of which he wrote and published several trea
tises ; but he would not enter the church, although
pressed to do so by the king, or even accept of any
office in the Universities, under the conviction that
he should more effectually serve the interests both of
                    * See vol.
                           i.,   10, &c.
                                 p.
                                        i   2
     '

 33          THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
 religion and learning by avoiding everything which
 might give him the appearance of being their hired
 or interested advocate.     He preferred other modes
 of shewing his attachment, in which his wealth and
 station enabled him to do what was not in the power
 of others. He allowed himself to be placed at the
 head of associations for the prosecution of those
 objects which he had so much at heart; he con
 tributed to them his time, his exertions, and his
 money ; he printed, at his own expense, several
 editions of the Scriptures in foreign languages for
gratuitous distribution ; if learned men were in pecu
 niary difficulties his purse was open to their relief.
And, as for his own labours, no pay could have made
them more zealous or more incessant.         From his
boyhood till his death he may be said to have been
almost constantly occupied in making philosophical
experiments ; collecting and ascertaining facts in
natural science ; inventing or improving instruments
for the examination of nature ; maintaining a regular
correspondence with scientific men in all parts of
Europe ; receiving the daily visits of great numbers
of the learned both of his own and other countries ;
perusing and studying not only all the new works
that appeared in the large and rapidly widening de
partment of natural history and mathematical and
experimental physics, including medicine, anatomy,
chemistry, geography, &c., but many others relating
especially to theology and Oriental literature ; and,
lastly, writing so profusely upon all these subjects,
that those of his works alone which have been pre
served and collected, independently of many others
that are lost, fill, in one edition, six large quarto
volumes.     So vast an amount of literary perform
ance, from a man who was at the same time so much
of a public character, and gave so considerable a
portion of his time to the service of others, shews

                         BOYLE.                        89
strikingly what may      be  done by industry, perse
verance, and such a method of life as never suffers
an hour of the day to run to waste.
   In this last particular, indeed, the example of Mr.
Boyle well deserves to be added to those of the other
great men we have already mentioned.         Of his time
he was, from his earliest years, the most rigid econo
mist, and he preserved that good habit to the last.
Dr. Dent, in a letter to Dr. Wotton, tells us that
" his brother, afterwards Lord Shannon
                                               (who ac
companied him on his continental tour with Mr.
Marcombes) used to say, that, even then, he would
never lose any vacant time ; for, if they were upon
the road, and walking down a hill, or in a rough
way, he would read all the way ; and when they
came, at night, to their inn, he would still be study
ing till supper, and frequently propose such difficul
ties as he met with in his reading to his governor."
The following naive statement, too, which we find in
an unfinished essay on a theological subject, which
he left behind him in manuscript, and of which Dr.
Birch, the editor of his collected works, has printed
a part, may serve to shew the diligence with which
he prosecuted his severer studies, even amidst all
sorts of interruptions.       " It is true," he writes,
"that a solid knowledge of that mysterious lan
guage" (it is his acquisition of the Hebrew tongue
to which he refers) " is somewhat difficult, but not so
difficult but that so slow a proficient as I, could, in
less than a year, of which not the least part was
usurped by frequent sicknesses and journeys, by fur
naces, and by (which is none of the modestest
thieves of time) the conversation of young ladies,
make a not inconsiderable progress towards the un
derstanding of both Testaments in both their ori
ginals." But the life of active and incessant occu
pation which he led, even in his declining years, is
                                           I 3

90          THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
best   depicted in another curious document which
Dr. Birch has preserved.        A few years before his
death he was urged to accept the office of President
of the Royal Society, of which he had so long
been one of the most active and valuable members,
and the Transactions of which he had enriched by
many papers of great interest ; but he declined the
honour on the score of his growing infirmities.
About this time he also published an advertisement,
addressed to his friends and acquaintances, in which
he begins by remarking " that he has, by some un
lucky accidents, had many of his writings corroded
here and there, or otherwise so maimed" (this is a
specimen of the pedantic mode of expression of
which Mr. Boyle was too fond), " that without he him
self fill up the lacunm out of his memory or inven
tion, they will not be intelligible."   He then goes on
to allege his age and his ill health as reasons for
immediately setting about the arrangement of his
papers, and to state that his physician and his best
friends have " pressingly advised him against speak
ing daily with so many persons as are wont to visit
him;" representing it as that which must "disable
him for holding out long."       He, therefore, intimates
that  he  means in future to reserve two days of the
week to himself, during which, " unless upon occa
sions very extraordinary,"       he must decline seeing
either his friends or strangers, "that he may have
some time both to recruit his spirits, to range his
papers, and fill up the lacunas of them, and to take
some care of his affairs in Ireland, which are very
much disordered, and have their face often changed
by the public disorders there." He at the same time
ordered a board to be placed over his door, giving
notice when he did and when he did not receive visits.
    Nothing can set in a stronger light than this the
celebrity and public importance to which he had

                          BOYLE.                      91
attained.      His  reputation, indeed, had spread over
 Europe ; and he was the principal object of attraction
to all scientific strangers who visited the English
metropolis.      Living, as it was his fortune to do, at
what may be called only the dawn of modern science,
Boyle perhaps made no discovery which the re
searches of succeeding investigators in the same
department have not long ere now gone far beyond.
But his experiments, and the immense number of
 facts which he collected and recorded, undoubtedly
 led the way to many of the most brilliant results by
which, since his day, the study of nature has been
crowned.       Above all, he deserves to be regarded as
one of the principal founders of our modern chemistry.
That science, before his time, was little better than a
collection of dogmas, addressing themselves rather
to the implicit faith of men than either to their expe
rience or their reason.      These venerable articles of
belief  he  shewed the necessity of examining, in refer
ence   to their agreement with the ascertained facts of
nature ; and, by bringing them to this test, exposed
the falsehood of many of them.       His successors have
only   had   to contribute each his share in building up
the new system ; he had also to overthrow the old
one.
    Mr. Boyle died, at the age of sixty-four, in 1691.
The experimental science of modern times never had
a more devoted follower ; and he claims to be recorded,
as having not only given us an illustrious example
of the ardent pursuit of philosophy in a man of
rank, but as having dedicated to its promotion the
whole advantages of which his station and fortune put
him in possession, with a zealous liberality that has
scarcely been surpassed or equalled. Other wealthy
patrons of literature and science have satisfied them
selves with giving merely their money, and the eclat
of their favourable regard to the cause which they

§2          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
professed to take under their protection ; but he
spent his life in the active service of philosophy, and
was not more the encourager and supporter of all
good works done in that name than a fellow-labourer
with those who performed them. For the long period
during which he was, in this country, the chief
patron of science, he was also and equally its chief
cultivator and extender.     He gave to it not only his
name, his influence, and his fortune, but his whole
time, faculties, and exertions.
   There is still one distinguished name connected
with the more recent history of physical science in
our own country, which we must not omit under our
present head ; — we mean that of the late Henry
Cavendish.      Mr. Cavendish was the son of Lord
Charles Cavendish, brother of the third Duke of
Devonshire, and was born in 1731.         He was sent,
when young, to a school, then of some celebrity, at
Hackney, and afterwards went to Cambridge ; but
it is believed that he derived his taste for science
chiefly from his father, who was not only in the habit
of amusing himself with philosophical experiments,
but was a good mathematician, and is the author of
some determinations with regard to the phenomena
of the barometer, of considerable value and import
ance.    Lord Charles Cavendish died at the age of
eighty, in the year 1783, at which time he was the
senior member of the Royal Society.        His son had
early shewn an attachment to scientific pursuits, to
which, indeed," he had resolved to dedicate his life, and
to sacrifice every other object of ambition, at a time
when he had but the prospect of a very moderate
patrimony.    It was only after he had passed his
fortieth year that he came into the possession of his
large fortune, which was unexpectedly left him by an
uncle.    He was admitted a Fellow of the Royal
Society in 1760, and very soon began to distinguish

                       CAVENDISH.                     93
himself as one of the most active members of that
learned body.      We cannot here attempt any detailed
analysis of the papers with which he continued to
enrich the Transactions for a period of nearly fifty
years ; suffice it to say, that they range over various
departments of natural philosophy and chemistry, and
are marked throughout by an accuracy, elegance, and
often an originality of investigation, which make them
models of scientific research and reasoning. Indeed,
there are but few names of the last or present age,
belonging to the departments which he cultivated,
that are entitled to take precedence of that of Mr.
Cavendish.      Not to mention his important contribu
tions to the theory of electricity, some of his experi
ments and determinations in pneumatic chemistry may
be fairly ranked among the most brilliant discoveries
of modern times. What is there, for example, more
calculated to interest and astonish even the unscienti
fic mind than his discovery of the composition of
water — so long regarded by all as a perfectly simple
element, if there was any such in nature?           The
manner,    too,  in which he made this discovery affords
us a beautiful and instructive example of the right
 method of examining nature, — of that cautious and
scrutinizing observation by which alone truth is to
be detected.     The experiments which led to it were
made in the year 1781.       Before this, the celebrated
 Swedish chemist, Scheele, had found that on mixing
together and setting on fire certain proportions of
 oxygen gas, or that which forms the principal part of
 the atmosphere, and hydrogen, or, as it was then
 called, inflammable air, an explosion was produced,
in which, as he imagined, the two elements were
 dissipated.    Cavendish, however, in repeating the
 experiment, took care to provide himself with the
 means     of watching the phenomena with more
 precision.     For this purpose he ascertained the

94         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
weight of his two gases previous to their combina
tion, and set them on fire in a close vessel, which
was perfectly dry. The result was, that, after the
explosion, a deposit remained in the vessel, which
was found on examination to be water, and to be
exactly equal in weight to the two gases. This expe
riment has since been repeated on a larger scale, with
the same result ; and water, on the other hand, has
been decomposed into oxygen and hydrogen.
   The great caution with which Mr. Cavendish con
ducted his inquiries was one of the most distinguish
ing characteristics of his method of procedure. To
whatever subject he gave his attention, he examined
it thoroughly.    What we have just stated is well cal
culated to shew the value of such a habit in philoso
phy ; for this great discovery, of itself enough to
immortalize his name, would have eluded him as it
had done Scheele, if he had not watched the experi
ment which revealed it more narrowly than that
chemist.    But it was not in this case only that the
result of his investigations richly rewarded the care
and circumspection with which they had been pro
secuted.   The patience with which he used to review
and weigh all the circumstances of the case to be
resolved, has given a perfection to whatever he has
done, from which as much benefit has resulted to
the interests of science as to his own fame ; for, in
stead of merely vague and imperfect indications, or
hypotheses consisting half of truth and half of error,
he has in this way bequeathed to philosophy, either
completed discoveries, or investigations in which, so
far as they go at least, there is no fallacy. He never,
it has been remarked, advanced anything in any of
his papers which he had afterwards to retract.
    Although experimental science was Mr. Cavendish's
favourite pursuit, and that on his success in which
his fame rests, his stores of information upon other

                      CAVENDISH.                      95
subjects were known to his friends to be various and
extensive.   Indeed, he spent his life, if any man ever
did, in the pursuit of knowledge, making it his only
amusement, as well as his only business. The simple
and inexpensive habits of life which he had formed
in his earlier years underwent no change on his
coming into possession of his large fortune. He had
accustomed himself from his youth to the utmost
regularity in all his movements ; and his practice in
this respect, to his last days, nothing was ever suffi
cient to derange. What might be called his public
scene was the Royal Society, the meetings of which
he attended punctually as long as his strength per
mitted. With this exception, he was but little seen
abroad ; and, perhaps, the seclusion in which he
lived made his name less popularly known in his
own country than it would otherwise have been, not
withstanding his eminent merits.       His fame, how
                               —
ever, was more than British it was European.         On
the Continent, where he was regarded without refer
ence to his private habits, and only as the author of
many admirable scientific disquisitions and of some
great discoveries, his name stood very high.        The
chief men of science in France gave the strongest
proof of the estimation in which they.held him, when,
in 1803, they elected him one of the eight Foreign
Associates of the Institute.
   One valuable service which Mr. Cavendish's
wealth enabled him to render to the students of sci
ence and literature of his time, was the establishment
of an extensive library, which, with great liberality
and public spirit, he threw open for the accommoda
tion both of his friends and of all other persons
engaged in intellectual pursuits who were properly
recommended to him — allowing them not only to
consult the books, but to carry them home.        In the
 use of this privilege he made no distinction between

96         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
himself and the others whom he admitted to share it
with him. When he wanted a book for his own
perusal, the same application for it was made to the
librarian, and the same receipt given for          it,
                                                     as  if
                                                          it
had been borrowed by any other reader. Towards the
close of his life, after the death of the person who had
been accustomed to take charge of the collection, he
even used to attend himself on a certain day of every
week to give out the books to applicants.
    This eminent person died in 1810, full of years
and honours. Even in his last moments something
 of his love of watching and scrutinizing the pheno
 mena of nature shewed itself he insisted upon being
                                ;
 left to die alone, apparently that he might be able to
 observe the symptoms of approaching dissolution
 with the more undisturbed attention. Accordingly,
 when his servant, whom he had sent out of the room,
 returned sooner than he had desired, he immediately
 ordered him again to retire and when the man came
                              ;
 back the second time, he found that his master had
  breathed his last.     In his attachment to philosophy,
  Mr. Cavendish was all his life so independent of other
  sources of pleasure, that his fortune, rather possessed
  than enjoyed, and not expended in the mainten
  ance of any of the shew and luxury in which a large
  revenue usually dissipates itself, had accumulated
  so greatly, that at the time of his death           said to
                                               it
                                               is
  have amounted to twelve hundred thousand pounds.
  He may well be described, therefore, to have been, as
a    French writer has quaintly expressed    it,  the richest
  of all the learned of his time, as well as probably the
  most learned of all the rich*.
           *    M. Biot,
                       in  Biographie Univ.ni. 456.

                            Chapter V.
Other Individuals of rank distinguished in Literature and Science — Mar
   quis of Worcester, &c. Self-educated cultivators of Science — Farkes ;
   Davy.
The preceding          notices     are abundantly sufficient to
prove both how frequently men of wealth and rank
have resisted all other allurements, to devote them
selves to intellectual pursuits, and how many impor
tant contributions such persons have been enabled to
make to literature, science, and the arts.                      Yet it
would be very easy to add to the list we have given,
from a very cursory survey of the history of improve
ments and discoveries. Thus, to confine ourselves to
the arts and sciences only, we might mention, among
our own countrymen, the celebrated Marquis of Wor
cester, author of the Hundred Inventions, among
which we find the first suggestion of the steam
engine ; his contemporary, Viscount Brouncker, the
first President of the Royal Society, and noted as
the perfecter of the theory of fractional arithme
tic ; the Earl of Macclesfield, to whom we are prin
cipally indebted for the reformation of the calendar,
and the introduction of the new style in England ;
the late Lord Stanhope, the inventor of the printing
press known by his name, as well as of many other
most ingenious and valuable contrivances ; — and
various others, all memorable either as inventors, or
as the authors of some decided step in the progress of
improvement.           Among foreigners, too, Prince Ru
pert, as already noticed, has been considered the dis
coverer of the art of mezzotinto engraving.                     Baron
    VOL.    II,                                           K

 98         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  Hermelin, a nobleman of Sweden, who died in 1820,
 was the father of the modern and greatly improved
 system of working the mines of that country, which
 he expended many years of exertion and large sums
 of money in introducing and establishing. The mo
 dern art of fortification is the creation of the French
  Marshal Vauban, a man of rank and wealth, who,
  although he spent his life as a soldier, found leisure
 to write numerous works, which have been printed,
 as well as twelve large volumes in manuscript
 which he left behind him, entitled " Mes Oisivetes,"
 — My Idle Hours. The most elaborate and splendid,
 though not the most correct work on Natural His
 tory that was ever written, and the one which, with
all its errors, has, perhaps, more than any other, con
tributed to spread a taste for that science, was the
production of another French nobleman, the cele
brated Count de Buffon.         A German nobleman, the
Baron von Canstein, is noted for having discovered
and practised at Halle, in the beginning of the last cen
tury, a new mode of printing, which appears to have
been the same with that now called stereotype.      This
invention is singular for its vicissitudes of notoriety
and oblivion. The Chinese have had a long ac
quaintance with the art of printing from blocks or
plates, instead of moveable types, and among them it
is to this day the only method in use. It was probably
also the first form which the art of printing assumed
in Europe, — was then forgotten for many years till it
was revived in the middle of the sixteenth century at
Augsburg, where some of the plates that were used
for the purpose are still preserved, — was again intro
duced at Leyden about half a century later, — was a
few years after re-invented by Canstein, — was practised
at Edinburgh in 1744 by William Ged, who was
 quite ignorant of what had been done by his prede
 cessors, — and lastly, after his attempts had ceased to

                STEREOTYPE    PRINTING.               99
be remembered, was taken up anew by the late in
 genious Dr. Alexander Tilloch and Fowlis, the
Glasgow printer, who, however, did little more than
merely take out a patent for what they deemed their
discovery.   And even now, after it has been prac
tised on a larger scale than ever, it does not appear
to be gaining ground in general estimation, princi
pally from its inapplicability to works which require
improvement in successive editions.       If such works
are largely corrected, the saving in the plates is in a
great degree lost.     If that saving is principally re
garded, and antiquated opinions or positive errors
are multiplied through a paltry economy, the inven
tion is a positive incumbrance to learning, and is
therefore of little worth. Unquestionably the proper
range of its application is very limited.
   It ought to be observed, that the several block
or plate-printers we have mentioned did not all
pursue the same method. Faust, for instance, on the
invention of printing, employed merely wooden blocks,
such as are used by the Chinese, on which the cha
racters were cut out, as is done still in wood-engrav
ing ; the Augsburg printers appear to have set up
their types in the usual manner, and then to have
converted them into a solid plate by pouring melted
metal upon the back of the congeries ; and the pre
sent method, as is well known, is, after having set up
the types, to take an impression from them in plaster
of Paris, or some other composition, and to cast or
found the plate in this as a mould. It does not very
clearly appear what was the plan which Canstein fol
lowed ; but it is known that he printed a great many
volumes, and sold them very cheap.         A copy of the
New Testament, for instance, he used to sell for
fourpence ; but, as he was very pious, it is not im
probable that he distributed the Scriptures at less
even than the eost price* which his fortune enabled

100        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
him to do.    It is said that it was while endeavouring
to devise a cheap method of multiplying copies of the
Bible for the use of the poor, that the notion of his
invention suggested itself to him.
   Most of the individuals we have here mentioned,
who, born to rank and affluence, have devoted them
selves to scientific pursuits, were enabled to accom
plish what they did, in a great measure, from the pe
culiar advantages of their position, which afforded
them both leisure for the prosecution and maturing
of their several schemes, and money to expend on the
necessary apparatus and experiments.        This proves
to how much profit the rich man may turn his for
tunate external circumstances, even in the pursuit of
knowledge, if he can only rouse himself to enter with
earnestness upon that enterprize.     But still the am
bition of aspiring minds, left to struggle unassisted
by such external aids, has achieved, after all, quite
as great things as all the resources and immunities of
what might be deemed the happiest worldly lot have
ever given birth to.     We now return to accompany,
for a while, the onward steps of a few more of those
courageous adventurers who have begun and carried
on the work of mental cultivation, without heeding
any combination of worldly disadvantages against
which they might have to contend. We shall begin
with the cases of one or two individuals so situated,
who have distinguished themselves in that same
field of experimental science in which we have just
seen what Boyle and Cavendish achieved in their
very opposite circumstances.
   The first name we shall mention is that of one
who has no claim, we believe, to any important dis
covery in the department which he cultivated, but
whose literary works, nevertheless, as well as his his
tory, abundantly testify him to have been a most in
 genious and meritorious man. We speak of the late

                        pArkes.                       101
Mr. SabSuel Parses,      the well-known author of the
"  Chemical Catechism." Mr. Parkes, as we learn from
a communication with which we have been favoured
by his surviving daughter, was born in 1781, at Stour
bridge, in Worcestershire, where his father was a
small grocer.    At five years of age he was sent to a
preparatory school in his native town ; and it is re
membered that during the time of his attendance at this
infant seminary, Mr. Kemble's company of itinerant
players having visited Stourbridge and remained there
for some months, that gentleman placed his daughter
at the same school, the child who became afterwards
the celebrated Mrs. Siddons.       When ten years old,
Parkes was sent to another school at Market-Har-
borough ; but, after remaining here only a very short
time, he was taken away and apprenticed to a grocer
at Ross, in Herefordshire.     This person happened to
be  a man  of some  education,  and to be possessed of a
few books, which he very kindly lent to his
and endeavoured to give him a taste for i
could not, it is said, gain much of his at    .
does not appear how long young Parkes continued
in this situation ; but at last his master failed, and he
returned home to his father. We now hear no more
of him till he had reached his thirty-second year, up
to which time, it seems, he remained at home, assist
 ing his father in the shop. It is probable, from the
resources he afterwards displayed, that the foundation
of many of his acquirements was laid during this in
terval.   Perhaps he had also saved a little money ;
for he now went to Stoke-upon-Trent, began business
on his own account as a soap-boiler, and married.
The new line upon which he entered shews that he
had been already directing his attention to practical
chemistry.     But, after persevering for ten years in
this business, he met with so little success
obliged to give it up ; and at the age of
                                           K 3

102       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
he came up to London with no property in the world
except ten pounds, which had been lent him by his
father.   It was hard enough to be obliged, as it were,
to begin the world again at this time of life ; but
there was no help for  it, and he set to work resolutely.
Some friends whom he had made lent him a little as
sistance, and he began manufacturing muriatic acid for
the use of dyers.   It is  very evident, that, although
he had come to town without much money in his
pocket, he had brought with him some useful know
ledge — one fruit, at least, of the labours of his pre
vious life, of which fortune had not been able to
despoil him. This he now turned to excellent
account.    To his muriatic acid he soon added other
chemical preparations, his skill in manufacturing
which was not long in being generally appreciated,
and eventually procured him a large trade and a
high reputation.
   Although Mr. Parkes had probably given consider
able attention to some of the practical parts of che
mistry before he came up to London,        it  was only
after he had established himself in this last-mentioned
line of business that he began to study the subject
scientifically. At this time, as we have seen, he was
above forty years of age — so that he may be quoted
as another most encouraging example for those who
have been prevented by any cause from commencing
their studies till late in life. Notwithstanding the
time he had lost, Mr. Parkes became eventually a
most accomplished chemist, and gave to the world a
succession of works relating to that science which,
ever since their publication, have held the rank of
text-books of high authority. The earliest of these
was his " Chemical Catechism," which first appeared
in 1805, and of which twelve very large impressions
 have since been sold.   It was translated, soon after
its publication, into the German, French, Spanish,

                  ELEMENTARY WORKS.                     103
  and Russian languages ; and in Spain and Germany
  it is the standard manual of instruction in the public
  schools.    By the sale of this work alone the author
  realized 5000/. The Catechism was followed by
  another work, " The Rudiments of Chemistry ;" and
  that by the " Chemical Essays," in five volumes.
  This last, in particular, of which a new edition has
  lately appeared,    is an excellent performance, and
  strikingly shews the author's extensive acquaintance
 with his subject.      Like their precursor, these two
 works were also translated into the principal conti
  nental languages, and obtained great popularity
 abroad, as well as in this country. Among other
  gratifying testimonies which the author received of
 the sense entertained of his labours, was a splendid
 ring presented to him, for his services to science, by
 the Emperor of Russia.
     One of the chief merits of the elementary works
published by Mr. Parkes, and what must doubtless
 more than anything else have helped to make them
popular, lies in this ; that in all his explanations the
 author begins at the beginning, and nowhere assumes
any information necessary for understanding the sub
ject to exist in the mind of the reader beyond what
he has himself communicated.          It might seem, at
first sight, as if this were a part of the art of teaching
of no very difficult attainment. Yet, the fact is, that
it is a secret of which very few writers have made
themselves masters.        In general, the person who
resorts to a professedly elementary treatise, in order
to study any branch of science of which he previously
knows nothing, finds himself stopped before he has
 gone very far, by the author paying him the very
inconvenient compliment of addressing him as if he
 were familiar with many things of which he is quite
 ignorant.     Hence, more than on any other account,
 the uselessness, or at least the insufficiency, of the

104          THE PURSUIT Of KNOWLEDGE.
greater number of such works for the end which they
are intended to serve.     They almost always suppose
the reader to know, before he opens them, no incon
siderable part of the very mystery which they pro
fess to teach.    It sometimes, no doubt, happens that
the reader does accidentally possess this requisite pre
liminary information ; and then (though no thanks to
the author) he will make his way through the book
without being inconvenienced by its deficiencies.     In
other cases he may have sufficient ingenuity to deduce
from what is stated some conjecture more or less
vague as to what is passed over, and in this way may
be enabled to proceed in his perusal without finding
himself absolutely in the dark. But his progress; sb
conducted, is not only slow, unsatisfactory, and pain
ful, compared to what it might be, but is likely
besides to leave him at last only half-informed or
misinformed as to many things which he supposes
himself to know.      Perhaps, the best way of employ
ing books of the description to which we allude —
When HO better are to be had — is for the student to
provide himself with twb Or more at the same time
upon the subject of which he wishes to make himself
master > so that when he finds one deficient or un
intelligible, he may have a chance of finding an inter
preter in another.      This is a method which has
sometimes been successfully followed by persons who
have been obliged to be their owri instructors, after
every attempt to understand the science, or other
branch of education, Which it was desired to learn,
by the assistance of a single author, had proved
 a failure ; arid We recommend it to others similarly
 situated.   The probability is, that of two writers,
 each of whorn at times expresses himself obscurely,
the one will not always or usually fall into that fault
in regard to exactly the same matters at the other ;
 and, therefore, though either alone might be an ina

                 ELEMENTARY WORKS.                   105
dequate instructor, the two together may shed suffi
cient light on the subject. Besides, of two or more
ways of presenting or illustrating the same truth, one
mind is most readily reached by one, and another by
another ; so that, even when no absolute insufficiency
can fairly be complained of in either treatise, the two
are still better than one.   The force of this last con
sideration has induced some popular writers of ele
mentary works to state the more difficult parts of
their subject in a variety of ways, for the sake of more
surely impressing them upon the various minds, or
moods of mind, they may chance to address; and the
practice, when followed judiciously, and so as not to
overload the book with unnecessary repetitions, a
course which only fatigues the reader and distracts
his attention, is one which may be made greatly to
contribute to the clear and effective exposition of
the author's meaning.
    It may seem strange that so many writers should
have failed in the observance of a rule of elementary
explanation apparently so simple and easy as that in
question. What less difficult, it may be said, or even
more natural, than, in expounding any subject to a
mind which is supposed to be ignorant of its first
principles, to state every thing with a recollection of,
and in accommodation to, that ignorance ? It is only,
in the first place, to draw forth the introductory state
ments from sufficiently familiar instances, and then,
in pursuing the line of deduction or demonstration,
to advance from one thing to another by sufficiently
short steps. But even to do this requires no common
degree of attention, patience, and skill. It is true that
all science, even the highest and most recondite, is
 deducible from the facts or feelings of ordinary life ;
 but it often happens that a proficient in a particular
 science has never viewed it in this connexion. The
 manner in which he was himself taught it did not lead

 106        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 him to do so. He was probably carried through what
 were called its principles, by an exercise of his faith
 rather than of his reason ; and left to gather a full
 understanding of them, not so much from what he
knew of their foundations before as from what he was
to see of their application afterwards. He was like a
man entering a half-darkened apartment, to whom
everything is at first invisible, and who is indebted
for the measure of discernment which at last enables
him in some sort to distinguish objects, not to any
additional light which is thrown upon them from
without, but to the expansion of eye which the dim
ness itself occasions. It may happen that, in the pro
gress of his studies, his partial acquaintance with one
part of the subject has so much aided his partial
acquaintance with another part, that he has at last
attained to a tolerably clear notion of the whole. But
still it remains in his head an insulated system of
propositions, altogether withdrawn and separated
from those truths of ordinary experience out of which,
nevertheless, it has wholly sprung.     When a person,
therefore, who has acquired his knowledge in this
manner, sits down to write an elementary book, he
will be very apt to overlook that connexion between
scientific and common truths to which his own atten
tion has never been called.     He will begin his trea
tise, not by a reference to something which is under
stood by every body, but by an announcement so far
ahead of everything of this kind, that its meaning is
likely to be nearly imperceptible to all except those
who have already some acquaintance with the still
more remote matters to which it is intended to lead.
And his subsequent deductions will all be apt to be
characterised by the same absence of the simple and
the natural, proceeding as they do from a mind which
did not acquire its own knowledge of the subject from

                 ELEMENTARY WORKS.                   107
contemplating     it in its simplest and most natural
aspect.
   Now, a self-educated       man, when he attempts to
explain to others what he has himself learned, is much
less likely to fall into this error of manner. His own
earliest acquaintance with science was probably made
by the aid of that unscientific knowledge which
common observation teaches every man ; and having
no master to supply the deficiencies of his books, he
must have felt painfully the inconvenience of their
omissions and obscurities. Hence, in his own per
formances, springs a method and style of address in all
respects better suited to readers circumstanced as he
himself was. He knows, from his own experience,
what the difficulties of such readers are, and is there
fore both the more solicitous and the better qualified
to provide against them.         In making his first ap
proach to the science, he does it through the avenue
of certain common and simple facts, calculated to
carry with them the apprehension and assent of all ;
his references are frequent throughout the work to
considerations of this class, which are always a valua
ble excitement and help to the mind; and his pro
gress from one statement to another is marked by a
happy skill in so selecting and arranging the interme
diate points of notice, or, as we may express it,
choosing his steps, as to arrive at the ultimate object
at once by the easiest and the shortest road.      For it
is of importance to remark, that the secret of this art
of perspicuous explanation does not lie so much in an
exuberant minuteness of detail, which leaves no par
ticular whatever unstated, as in bringing out from
the group, and fixing the chief attention on, those
comparatively few particulars which, being themselves
apprehended, suggest and supply the rest. A prolix
and undiscriminating enumeration of all the items of

108        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
the case is rather adverse to a clear and effective ex
position, tending as it does both to weary and con
fuse the mind.       To make the description what it
should be, nothing needful should be omitted, and
there should be nothing superfluous.
   The elementary treatises of Mr. Parkes possess,
as we have said, a good deal of this sort of merit, and
owe to that circumstance much of their popularity
and usefulness.      Those of Fergusson, another self-
educated individual, display the same excellence in a
still greater degree, and have always, accordingly,
been favourites of those students of science who, like
the writer, have been their own instructors. We may
here observe, however, that the advantages of the
                                                 " Che
question and answer method pursued in the
                   "
mical Catechism may reasonably be doubted. Where
the composition assumes the form of a dialogue or
conversation, in which two or more speakers are
made, as it were, to examine or discuss the subject,
one proposing his doubts or difficulties, which another
meets and solves by the proper reasons and explana
tions, as well exemplified, for instance, in some of
Mrs. Marcet's treatises, the meaning and conve
nience of so breaking down the statements are suffi
ciently obvious. The attention of young readers
especially is, perhaps, better kept alive by such an
intermixture of the dramatic ; and the artifice is also
an ingenious       one for enabling the author to
notice and   correct,  in the most natural manner, the
various misapprehensions into which the mind is apt
to fall on first attempting to make acquaintance with
a new subject.      But neither of these purposes seems
to be, in any degree, answered by merely introducing
every sentence or short paragraph throughout the
work with a formal interrogatory. Even in a mere
school-book, the pupil's ingenuity is best exercised,
and his understanding of what he reads most effee

                         PAR ICES.                     109
tually ensured, by the questions he should be able to
answer being left to be put to him by his teacher, and
the answers themselves to be given in his own words.
The    other plan would seem to be calculated only to
assist the pupil in learning his task by rote.
    Mr. Parkes, in his latter and more prosperous
days, used often to dwell with pleasure on his strug
gles in early life, and naturally felt proud of relating
the hardships he had surmounted by his own indus
try.   The success of the different works he pub
lished gave him, as might be supposed, the highest
gratification.   In addition to the literary perform
ances which we have already mentioned, we ought
to notice two pamphlets which he gave to the public
in the years 1817 and 1819, in support of the attempt
then making, and which was eventually successful, to
obtain a repeal of the salt duties.       He was one of
the most active of the persons who stirred in this
matter, anticipating, as it has been already noticed
that the celebrated inventor of the Logarithms ap
pears to have done, great advantages to agriculture
from the use of salt as a manure.        Engaged, as he
was, in the management of an extensive chemical
manufactory, which required unremitting attention,
his hours of literary labour were those which he stole
from repose or from the time which most men give
to relaxation and amusement.         Yet, besides the dif
ferent books which, in the course of a few years, he
published in his own name, he wrote also numerous
papers for the different scientific periodical works of the
day.    As another evidence, too, of his punctuality
and indefatigable industry, it may be mentioned that
he had, from an early age, been in the habit of keep
ing a regular diary of every action of his life, and
never retired to bed till he had committed to writing
the events of the day.     This, and all his other indus
trious habits, he kept up to the last ; and, even up to
    VOL. II.                                    L

 110        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 within a few days of his death, although he had
 long been suffering under a painful disease, his at
 tention to business, and especially to his scientific
 pursuits, continued unrelaxed.      He closed his valu
 able and active life on the 23rd of December, 1825,
 in the sixty-fifth year of his age.
    Neither the acquisition of knowledge, nor that of
 wealth, then, need be despaired of even by those
 who have not succeeded in accumulating much of
 either after a large portion of life has been spent,
provided they still resolve to exercise industry and
perseverance during the remainder of it.           These
virtues seldom fail to obtain their natural recom
pense at last; although, in some cases, they may have
to struggle for a long time with circumstances very
unfavourable to success.        A man is sometimes so
unfortunately      placed, so jammed in and hand-
bound by the pressure of an unpropitious lot, that,
with his best efforts, it is long before he can ex
tricate himself and obtain even a fair opportunity
of exerting what powers he may possess.              This
seems to have been the case with Parkes for the first
forty years of his life.        In the popular phrase,
fortune was set against him ; he either had no
means of engaging in any likely line of well-doing,
or whatever he attempted turned out unsuccessful.
But, in such a shifting scene as this world is, it can
rarely happen that a man shall, during the whole of
his life-time, have the blast against him. As the
poet expresses it,
                      " there is a tide in the affairs of
men," — an ebbing and flowing of the unstable ele
ment on which they are borne, — and if this be only
" taken at the flood," the "full sea" is gained on
which " the voyage of their life" may be made with
ease and the prospect of a happy issue.       It is only
those, however, who are constantly on the watch for

                          DAVY.                     Ill
 when it comes   ; in other words, nothing but the cul
 tivation and continued exercise of habits of industry
 and perseverance, even while they bring but small
 or no immediate return, will enable a man to benefit
 by the most favourable opportunities when they at
 last present themselves.    To the habitually indolent
 and thoughtless it is the same as if the tide never
 were at flood at all — for they are sure to miss it
 when it is.    Parkes spent nearly two-thirds of his
 life in contending with difficulties, which baffled all
 his attempts to overcome them ; and others may,
 sometimes, be for as long a period equally unfortu
 nate. Let such be taught, by his history, that their
 sky may yet brighten ; and, by his example, how to
 take advantage of it when it does.        The space of
 life that remained to him after his more prosperous
 career began was comparatively short: but it was
long enough to enable him, while he gave the most
assiduous attention to business, not only to acquire
 much knowledge himself, but also to contribute
largely to its diffusion in his own and other coun
tries ; and to secure, by his literary works, a highly
respectable place among the scientific writers of the
time.
     But the annals of modern Chemistry supply us
with a much more splendid name among the self-
taught cultivators of the science.      The discoveries
of all his predecessors have been, in our own day,
surpassed in brilliancy by those of Sir Humphrey
Davy. Davy was born in 1778, at Penzance, in
Cornwall.     His father followed the profession of a
carver in wood in that town, where many of his
performances are still to be seen in the houses of the
inhabitants.    All that we are told of Davy's school
education is, that he was taught the rudiments of
classical learning at a seminary in Truro. He was
then placed by his father with an apothecary and

 112        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
surgeon in his native place.        But, instead of attend
ing to his profession, he spent his time either in
rambling about the country or in experimenting in
his master's garret, sometimes to the no small
danger of the whole establishment ; and the doctor
and he at last agreed to part.          About his fifteenth
year he was placed as pupil with another surgeon
residing in Penzance ; but it does not appear that his
second master had much more success than his first
in attempting to give him a liking for the medical
profession.      The future philosopher, however, had
already begun to devote himself, of his own accord,
to those sciences in which he afterwards so greatly
distinguished himself ; and proceeding upon a plan
of study which he had laid down for himself, he had,
by the time he was eighteen, obtained a thorough
knowledge of the rudiments of natural philosophy
and chemistry, as well as made some proficiency in
botany, anatomy, and geometry.              The subject of
metaphysics, it is stated, was also embraced in his
reading at this period.
    But chemistry was the science to which, of all
others, he gave himself with the greatest ardour;
and, even in this early stage of his researches, he
seems to have looked forward to fame from his
labours in this department.            The writer of the
memoir of Sir Humphrey to which we are indebted
for these particulars*, quotes an exclamation which
broke from him one day in after-life, when contem
plating, along with a friend, a picture of one of the
mines of his native district, which shews what were
the visions of his solitary rambles.
                                                " How often,
when a boy," said he, " have             I  wandered about
those rocks in search after new minerals, and, when
tired, sat down upon those crags, and exercised
my fancy in anticipations of future renown ! "
     * Originally published in the " Spectator" newspaper.

                            DAVY.                       113
 The peculiar     features  of this part of the country
 doubtless contributed not a little to give his genius
 the direction it took.    The mineral riches concealed
 under the soil formed alone a world of curious in
 vestigation. The rocky coast presented a geological
 study of inexhaustible interest.      Even the various
 productions cast ashore by the sea were continually
 affording new materials of examination to his inqui
 sitive and reflecting mind.       The first original ex
 periment, it is related, in which he engaged, had
 for its object to ascertain the nature of the air con
 tained in the bladders of sea-weed.      At this time he
 had no other laboratory than what he contrived to
 furnish for himself, by the assistance of his master's
 phials and gallipots, the pots and pans used in the
 kitchen, and such other utensils as accident threw
in his way.     These he converted, with great inge
nuity, to his own purposes.       On one occasion, how
ever, he accounted himself particularly fortunate in
a prize which he made.        This was a case of surgical
instruments with which he was presented by the
surgeon of a French vessel that had been wrecked
on the coast, to whom he had done some kind offices.
Examining his treasure with eagerness,         Davy soon
perceived the valuable aid he might derive in his
philosophical experiments from some of the articles ;
and one of the principal of them was, in no long
time, converted into a tolerable air-pump.             The
proper    use  of  the  instruments  was,  of  course,   as
little thought of by their new possessor as that of
his master's gallipots was wont to be when he had got
them up to his garret.       Davy's subsequent success
as an experimentalist, it is well remarked by the
writer to whom we have referred above, was probably
owing, in no small degree, to the necessity he was
placed under in his earliest researches of exercising
his skill and ingenuity in this fashion.
                                              " Had he,"
                                            l3

114         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
                           " in the commencement of
proceeds his biographer,
his career, been furnished with all those appliances
which he enjoyed at a later period, it is more than
 probable that he might never have acquired that
 wonderful tact of manipulation, that ability of sug
 gesting expedients, and of contriving apparatus so
 as to meet and surmount the difficulties which must
 constantly arise during the progress of the philoso
 pher through the unbeaten tracks and unexplored
 regions of science. In this art Davy certainly stands
 unrivalled ; and, like his prototype, Scheele, he was
 unquestionably indebted for his address to the cir
 cumstances which have been alluded to : there never,
 perhaps, was a more striking exemplification of the
 adage, that necessity is the parent of invention."
     A curious catalogue might be made of the shifts to
 which ingenious students in different departments of
 art have resorted, when, like Davy, they have wanted
  the proper instruments for carrying on their inquiries
  or experiments.   His is not the first case in which
  the stores of an apothecary's shop are recorded to
  have fed the enthusiasm and materially assisted the
  labours of the young cultivator of natural science.
  The German chemist, Scheele, who has just been
  mentioned, and whose name ranks in his own de
  partment with the greatest of his time, was, as well
  as Davy, apprenticed in early life to an apothecary.
  While living in his master's house he used secretly to
  prosecute the study of his favourite science by em
  ploying often half the night in reading the works that
  treated of it, or making experiments with instru
   ments fabricated, as Davy's were, by himself, and
  out of equally simple materials. Like the young
  British philosopher, too, Scheele is recorded to have
  sometimes alarmed the whole household by his deto
  nations; — an incident which always brought down
  upon him the severe anger of his master, and heavy

                         DAVY.                       115
menaces intended to deter him from ever again ap
plying himself to such dangerous studies, which,
however, he did not long regard. It was at an apo
thecary's house, as has been noticed in a former
page, that Boyle and his Oxford friends first held
their scientific meetings, induced, as we are expressly
told, by the opportunity they would thus have of
obtaining drugs wherewith to make their experi
ments. Newton lodged with an apothecary, while at
school, in the town of Grantham ; and as, even at
that early age, he is known to have been ardently
devoted to scientific contrivances and experiments,
and to have been in the habit of converting all sorts
of articles into auxiliaries in his favourite pursuits, it
is not probable that the various strange preparations
which filled the shelves and boxes of his landlord's
shop would escape his curious examination. Although
Newton's glory chiefly depends upon his discoveries
in abstract and mechanical science, some of his spe
culations, and especially some of his writings on the
subjects of light and colour, shew that the internal
constitution of matter and its chemical properties
had also much occupied his thoughts.          Thus, too,
in other departments, genius has found its sufficient
materials and instruments in the humblest and most
common articles, and the simplest contrivances.
Fergusson observed the places of the stars by means
of a thread with a few beads strung on     it,
                                          and Tycho
Brahe did the same thing with     pair of compasses.
                                  a
The self-taught American philosopher, Rittenhouse,
being, when a young man, employed as an agricul
tural labourer, used to draw geometrical diagrams on
his plough, and study them as he turned up the
furrow.   Pascal, when a mere boy, made himself
master of many of the elementary propositions of
geometry, without the assistance of any master, by
tracing the figures on the floor of his room with a

  116          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  bit of coal.     This, or a stick burned at the end, has
  often been the young painter's first pencil, while the
  smoothest and whitest wall he could find supplied the
  place of a canvas.       Such, for example, were the com
 mencing essays of the early Tuscan artist, Andrea
 del Castagno, who employed his leisure in this
 manner when he was a little boy tending cattle, till
 his performances at last attracted the notice of one
 of the Medici family, who placed him under a proper
 master. The famous Salvator Rosa first displayed
 his genius for design in the same manner.               To these
 instances may be added that of the late English
 musical composer Mr. John Davy, who is said, when
 only six years old, to have begun the study and
 practice of his art by imitating the chimes of a
 neighbouring church with eight horse-shoes, which he
 suspended by strings from the ceiling of a room in
 such a manner as to form an octave*.
     But to return to the subject of our notice. Davy
first pursued his chemical studies, without teacher or
guide, in the manner that has been described, and
aided only by the scantiest and rudest apparatus.
When still a lad, however, he was fortunate in
making the acquaintance of Mr. Gregory Watt, the
son of the celebrated James Watt.               This gentleman,
having come to reside at Penzance for the recovery
of his health, lodged with Mrs. Davy, and soon dis
covered the talent of her son.             The scientific know
ledge of Mr. Watt gave an accurate direction to the
   * There  is an excellent little work by a German writer, Campe,
entitled The New Robinson, which, in an account of the various
expedients supposed to be resorted to by a young seaman cast
ashore on an uninhabited island, and obliged to provide for him
self sustenance and shelter by the aid merely of such implements
as he could fashion by his own ingenuity, presents a very interest
ing picture of the manner in which many of the ordinary pro
cesses of mechanical art might be performed without the ordinary
tools.   The work has been translated into English.

                          DAVY.                    117
studies of the young chemist, and excited him to
a systematic perseverance in his favourite pursuit.
Chance attracted to him the notice of Mr. Davies
Giddy (now Mr. Gilbert, and President of the
Royal Society), which the discovery of his merits
soon improved into patronage and friendship.      The
boy, we are told, was leaning on the gate of his
father's house when Mr. Gilbert passed accompanied
by some friends, one of whom remarked that there
was young Davy, who was so much attached to che
mistry.   The mention of chemistry immediately fixed
Mr. Gilbert's attention ; he entered into conversation
with the young man, and, speedily becoming con
vinced of his extraordinary talents and acquirements,
offered him the use of his library, and whatever
other assistance he might require for the pursuit of
his studies. Mr. Gilbert and Mr. Watt soon after this
introduced Davy to the celebrated Dr. Beddoes, who
had just established at Bristol what he called his
Pneumatic Institution, for investigating the medical
properties of the different gases. Davy, who was now
in his nineteenth year, had for some time been think
ing of proceeding to Edinburgh, in order to pursue a
regular course of medical education; but Dr. Beddoes,
who had been greatly struck by different proofs he
had given of his talents, and especially by an essay
in which he propounded an original theory of light
and heat, having offered him the superintendence of
his new institution, he at once closed with that pro
posal.
   The young philosopher was now fairly entered on
his proper path, and, from this period, we may con
sider him as having escaped from the disadvantages of
his early lot. But it was while yet poor and unknown
that he had made those acquirements which both
obtained for him the notice of his present patrons,
and fitted him for the situation in which they placed

 118        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
him.     His having attracted the attention of Mr.
 Gilbert, as he stood at his father's gate, may be
called a fortunate incident ; but it was one that never
would have happened had it not been for the pro
ficiency he had already made in science by his own
endeavours.      Chance may be said to have offered
this opportunity of emerging from obscurity ; but,
had he not previously laboured in the cultivation of
his mind as he had done, it would to him have been
no opportunity at all.
    The experiments conducted by Davy, and under
his direction, at the Bristol Institution, were soon re
warded by important results ; and of these, Davy,
when he had just completed his twenty-first year,
                                            "
published an account, under the title of Researches,
Chemical and Philosophical, chiefly concerning Ni
trous Oxide, and its respiration."      In this publica
tion the singularly intoxicating effects produced by
the breathing of nitrous oxide were first announced,
and it excited a considerable sensation in the scien
tific world, and at once made Davy generally known,
as a most ingenious and philosophic experimentalist.
He was, in consequence, soon after its appearance,
invited to fill the chemical chair of the Royal Insti
tution, then newly established.         When he com
menced    his lectures  here, he was scarcely twenty-two
years of age ;   but   never was success in such an at
tempt more decided and brilliant.       He soon saw his
lecture-rooms crowded, day after day, by all that was
most distinguished in the rank and intellect of the
metropolis ; and his striking and beautiful elucida
tions of every subject that came under his review,
rivetted, often even to breathlessness, the attention of
his splendid auditory.        The year after his appoint
ment to this situation he was elected also Professor
of Chemistry to the Board of Agriculture ; and he
greatly distinguished himself by the lectures which,

                           DAW,                       119
 for ten successive sessions, he delivered in this cha
 racter. They were published in 1813 at the request
 of  the Board.    In 1803,   when only in his twenty-
 fifth year, Davy was elected a Fellow      of the Royal
  Society, and his contributions to the Transactions,
 from this time till his death, were frequent, and of the
 highest value.     In 1806 he was chosen to deliver
 the Bakerian lecture before the Society ; and he per
 formed the same task for several successive years.
 Many of his most brilliant discoveries were an
 nounced in these discourses. In 1812 he received
 the honour of knighthood from the Prince Regent,
 being the first person on whom his Royal Highness
 conferred that dignity : and two days after he mar
 ried a lady who brought him a considerable fortune.
 Next year he was elected a corresponding member
 of the French Institute.     He was created a baronet
 in 1818.    In 1820 he was chosen a foreign asso
 ciate of the Royal Academy of Sciences at Paris, on
the death of the illustrious Watt.      He had been for
 some time secretary to the Royal Society; and in
 1820, on the death of Sir Joseph Banks, he was, by
a unanimous vote, raised to the Presidency of that
learned body — an office which he held till he was
obliged to retire, from ill health, in 1827, when his
friend and first patron, the present President, was
chosen to succeed him. Little, we may suppose, did
either of the two anticipate, when they first met,
thirty years before, at the gate of Davy's father's
house, that they would thus stand successively, and
in this order, at the head of the most distinguished
scientific association in England.
    It is impossible for us in this place to attempt any
thing more than the most general sketch of Sir
 Humphrey Davy's numerous and most important
discoveries in chemical science.       Even his earliest
publication, the title of which we have already tran

120         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
scribed, was regarded as, for the first time, intro
ducing light and order into an interesting depart
ment of the science, — the theory of the various com
binations of oxygen and nitrogen, the two gases
which, mixed together in certain proportions, form
our common atmospheric air, but in other propor
tions produce compounds of an altogether dissimilar
character.    The first memoir by Davy which was
read before the Royal Society was presented by him
in 1801, before he was a member.         It announced
a new theory, which is now generally received, of
the galvanic influence, or the extraordinary effect
produced by two metals in contact with each other,
when applied to the muscle even of a dead animal,
which the Italian professor, Galvani, had some years
before accidentally discovered.      It was supposed,
both by Galvani and his countryman Volta, who also
distinguished himself in the investigation of this
curious subject, that the effect in question was an
electrical phenomenon — whence galvanism used to
be called animal electricity ; but Davy shewed, by
many ingenious experiments, that, in order to pro
duce  it,  the metals in fact underwent certain che
mical changes.     Indeed, he proved that the effect
followed when only one metal was employed, pro
vided the requisite chemical change was        by   any
means brought about on     it, as, for example, by the
interposition between two plates of  it, of a fluid cal
culated to act upon its surface in a certain manner.
In his Bakerian lecture for 1806, he carried the ex
amination of this subject to a much greater length,
and astonished the scientific world by the announce
ment of a multitude of the most extraordinary results,
from the application of the galvanic energy to the
composition and decomposition of various chemical
substances.    From these experiments he arrived at
the conclusion, that the power called chemical affi

                         DAVY.
nity was, in truth, identical with that of electricity.
Hence the creation of a new science, now commonly
known by the name of Electro-Chemistry, being
that which regards the supposed action of electricity
in the production of chemical changes.         The dis
course in which these discoveries were unfolded was
crowned by the French Institute with their first prize,
by a decision which reflects immortal honour upon
that illustrious body ; who thus forgot not only all
feelings of national jealousy, but even the peculiar
and extraordinary hostility produced by the war
which then raged between the two countries, in their
admiration of genius and their zeal for the interests
of philosophy.
    But the results which this great chemist had already
obtained only formed, in his hands, the source of new
discoveries. In the interesting and extraordinary
nature of its announcements, the Bakerian lecture of
1807 was as splendid a production as that of the
former year. There are certain substances, as the
reader is aware, known in chemistry by the name of
alkalis, of which potash and soda are the principal.
These substances, chemists had hitherto in vain ex
hausted their ingenuity, and the resources of their
art, in endeavouring to decompose.        The only sub
stance possessing alkaline properties, the composi
tion of which had been ascertained, was ammonia,
which is a gas, and is therefore called volatile alkali ;
and this having been found to be a compound of
certain proportions of hydrogen and nitrogen, an
opinion generally prevailed that hydrogen would be
found to be also a chief ingredient of the fixed alkalis.
Davy determined, if possible, to ascertain this point,
 and engaged in the investigation with great hopes of
 success, from the surpassing powers of decomposi
 tion which he had found to belong to his new
 agent, the galvanic influence. The manner in which
    VOL. II.                                 M

F22        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
he pursued this object is one of the most beautiful
specimens of scientific investigation on record.    One
of the most important of      the  laws of galvanic de
composition, which      he  had   previously discovered,
was, that, when any substance was subjected to
this species of action, its oxygen (an ingredient
which nearly all substances contain) was developed
at what is called the positive end or pole of the
current of electricity, while, whenever any hydro
gen or inflammable matter was present, it uni
formly appeared at the opposite or negative pole.
Proceeding upon this principle, therefore, Davy set
to work with a fixed alkali ; and at first submitted it
dissolved in water to the galvanic action. The re
sult, however, was, that the water alone was decom
posed, nothing being disengaged by the experiment
but oxygen and hydrogen, the ingredients of that
fluid, which passed off as usual, the former at the
positive, the latter at the negative pole.   In his sub
sequent experiments, therefore, Davy proceeded
without water, employing potash in a state of fusion ;
and, having guarded the process from every other
disturbing cause that presented itself, by a variety of
ingenious arrangements, he had at last the satisfac
tion of seeing the oxygen gas developed, as before,
at the positively electrified surface of the alkali,
while at the same time, on the other side, small glo
bules of matter were disengaged, having all the
appearances of a metal.      The long agitated question
was now determined ; the base of the fixed alkalis
was clearly metallic. To ascertain the qualities
of the metallic residue which he had thus obtained
from the potash, was Davy's next object.       From its
 great attraction for oxygen, it almost immediately,
 when exposed to the atmosphere, became an alkali
again, by uniting with that ingredient; and at first
it seemed on this account hardly possible to obtain a

                         DAVY.                       123
sufficient quantity of it for examination.       But at
last Davy thought of pouring over it a thin coating
of the mineral fluid called naphtha, which both pre
served it from communication with the air, and, be
ing transparent, allowed it to be examined.
   We have thus rapidly sketched the course of these
brilliant and successful experiments, because they
form a most interesting and instructive exemplifica
tion of the manner in which knowledge is pursued,
and the secrets of nature extorted from her by well-
directed interrogation.   The business of philosophic
experiment, it may be well to observe, is not a mere
random expenditure of tests and applications. The
true disciple of the inductive philosophy, on the con
trary, has always in his contemplation, while conduct
ing his experiments, an idea or end which he aims at
realizing, and which, in fact, directs him to every
experiment to which he resorts. Thus, in the present
instance, the idea in Davy's mind was, that the alkali
was compounded of two ingredients which had seve
rally an attraction for the two opposite poles of the
electric current. This idea he never lost sight of
throughout the whole course of his experiments,
though he repeatedly shifted his ground in regard to
the contrivances by which he sought its proof and
manifestation.    To proceed in any other way would
not be to philosophize, but merely, as it were, to dip
the hand into the bag of chance in quest of a disco
very, as men draw prizes at a lottery.        It is true
that, until the experiment has confirmed or refuted
his expectations, this guiding idea upon which the
experimenter proceeds must be regarded merely as a
conjecture.   But such a conjecture or hypothesis he
must have in his mind, or he is in no condition to set
about the inquisition of nature. What progress would
the conductor of a trial in a court of justice be likely
                                         M 2

124         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
vious notion of the truth which the evidence was likely
to establish ?   He might waste the whole day in
putting questions and receiving answers, and at last
have ascertained nothing. Just as unprofitably would
the interrogator of nature spend his time, if he had
no directing anticipation in every case, according to
which to order his experiments. Accident might, it
is possible, throw a discovery in his way ; but his own
occupation would be evidently as idle and as little
that of a philosopher as the rattling of a dice-box.
Whenever, indeed, a discovery is made without being
anticipated, we say that it has been made by chance.
On the other hand, the history of all discoveries that
have been arrived at by what can with any propriety
be called philosophical investigation and induction,
attests that necessity which has been asserted of the
experimenter proceeding in the institution and ma
nagement of his experiments upon a previous idea of
the truth to be evolved. This previous idea is what is
properly called a hypothesis, which means something
placed under as a foundation or platform on which to
institute and carry on the process of investigation.
A theory is a completed view of a harmonious system
of truths, evolved and proved by calculation or induc
tion.   As the latter is the necessary completion of
every philosophical inquiry, so the former is its equally
indispensable beginning.      It is the aim in the mind
of the philosopher, without which he cannot philoso
phize. It makes, in short, the main difference be
tween the experiments of the philosopher in his labora
tory, and those of the child among his play-things.
Of course, however, every hypothesis must give way
before an experiment the result of which cannot be
reconciled with it. Newton*, in proceeding to inves
tigate the system of the heavens, set out on the hypo
thesis that the same power of gravitation which made
                      * See vol. i. p. 4.

                            DAVY.                          125
a stone fall to the ground would be found to retain
the moon and the planets in their orbits around the
earth and the sun. The result of his first calculation
was unfavourable to this supposition, and he at once
abandoned it. We have here an example both of the
use of an hypothesis, and of the proper limits of reli
ance on it. The grand discovery which eventually
resulted from Newton's investigations affords us,
again, an illustration of the manner in which an
hypothesis serves to lead to, and originate a theory *.
   The metal which Sir Humphrey Davy obtained
from potash he called Potassium ; and from soda he
also, by a similar process, obtained another, which he
called Sodium.     Both these new metals he found to
possess several curious properties, which, however,
we cannot here stop to enumerate.       He afterwards
decomposed also the different earths, and shewed
them to be all, as well as the alkalis, compounds of
oxygen with a metallic base. But these important
discoveries, which may be said to have revolutionized
the science of chemistry, were not the only results
which he obtained from his galvanic and electrical
experiments. The interesting subject of the connexion
between electricity and magnetism received consider
able elucidation from his researches.      For an ac
count of his contributions to this branch of science,
we must refer to the able memoir we have already
mentioned, or to his papers on the magnetic pheno
mena produced by electricity, in the Philosophical
Transactions t-
   Meanwhile his attention had been attracted to
another subject of the greatest practical importance —
the possibility of preventing the destructive explosions
  *  See this subject admirably treated in the Preliminary Dis
course to the Encyclopedia Metropolilana.
  'j-
     Philosophical Transactions for 1819.
                                              M   3

126         THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
in coal-mines occasioned by the fire-damp, or inflam
mable gas, which is found in many parts of them. By
a series of experiments, Davy found that this dan
gerous gas, which was known to be nothing more
than the hydrogen of the chemists, had its explosive
tendencies very much restrained by being mixed with
a small quantity of carbonic acid and nitrogen, (the
ingredient which, along with oxygen, forms atmo
spheric air) ; and that, moreover, if it did explode
when so mixed, the explosion would not pass through
apertures less than one-seventh of an inch in diame
ter.    Proceeding, therefore, upon these ascertained
facts, he contrived his celebrated Safety Lamp.        It
consists of a small light, fixed in a cylindrical vessel,
which is every where air-tight, except in the bottom,
which is formed of fine wire gauze ; and in the upper
part, where there is a chimney for carrying off the foul
air. The air admitted through the gauze suffices to
keep up the flame ; which, in its combustion, produces
enough of carbonie acid and nitrogen to prevent the
fire-damp, when inflamed within the cylinder, from
communicating the explosion to what is without. The
heretofore destructive element, thus caught and de
tained, is therefore not only rendered harmless, but
actually itself helps to furnish the miner with light,
the whole of the interior of the cylinder being filled
 with a steady green flame, arising from the com
 bustion of the hydrogen, which has been admitted to
 contact with the heat, but cannot carry back the in
flammation it has received to the general volume
without.      Armed with this admirable protection,
 therefore, the miner advances without risk, and with
 sufficient light to enable him to work, into recesses
 which formerly he could not have dared to enter.
 The safety lamp has already been the means of
 saving many lives, and has enabled extensive mines,

                           DAVY.
 or portions of mines, to be wrought, which but for its
 assistance must have remained unproductive*.          The
 coal-owners of the northern districts invited Sir Hum
 phrey, in 1817, to a public dinner, and presented him
 with a service of plate of the value of 2000Z., in tes
 timony of what they felt to be the merit of this inven
 tion.
    We will mention only another of this eminent in
 dividual's ingenious practical applications of those
 scientific truths with which he enriched the philosophy
 of his age. About the year 1823, the attention of the
 Commissioners of the Navy was so strongly excited
to the fact of the rapid decay of the copper sheathings
of ships when exposed to the action of the salt-water,
that they applied to the Royal Society to take the
subject into consideration, and endeavour to devise a
remedy for the evil.      On this occasion, Davy again
had recourse to those principles of electro-chemistry,
of which he had himself been the discoverer, and by
the application of which he had already obtained so
many brilliant results.     One of the laws of electrical
agency which he considered himself to have ascer
tained, was that two substances can only combine by
what is called chemical affinity or attraction when
they are in opposite electrical states, — that is to say,
when the one is positively, and the other negatively,
electrified. The copper and the water, therefore, he
concluded, were naturally in these circumstances ;
and all that would be required, consequently, to pre
vent the action of the one upon the other, would be
to change the electrical condition of that one of them,
namely the copper, which it was possible to submit
to the necessary treatment.       He thought of various
ways of effecting this object; but, at last, he deter
mined to try the effect of merely placing a quantity of
   * See Report of Committee of the House of Commons on the
Coal Trade (.1829).

 128        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
zinc or iron in contact with the copper      ; the former
metals being more positive than the latter, and there
fore fitted by induction to repel a portion of its elec
tricity, and so to render it negative like the water *.
The result surpassed his expectations.         So power
fully did the one metal act in reversing the electrical
state of the other, that a bit of zinc or iron, no larger
than a pea, was found sufficient to protect from corro
sion forty or fifty square inches of copper. Nothing,
therefore, could be more perfect than the success of
this contrivance for the particular purpose it was in
tended to serve.      But, unfortunately, it has been
found by experience, that, although Davy's method
completely answers for preventing the wasting of the
copper, the sea-weeds and marine insects accumulate
in such quantities upon the bottoms of ships so pro
tected, that they become, after a short time, scarcely
navigable.     For the present, therefore, the use of the
zinc and iron is of necessity abandoned.       It is by no
means improbable, however, that some expedient may
be contrived for counteracting this consequence of the
application of Davy's invention —in which case it will
be entitled to rank as one of the most valuable disco
veries ever made.
    We have thus, guided chiefly by the Memoir of
which mention has been made above, pursued the
principal triumphs of Sir Humphry's splendid career,
and described what he achieved, although cursorily
and briefly, in such a manner, we trust, as to put
even the unscientific reader in possession of a tolerably
just view of the great discoveries on which his fame
rests.    In 1827, as we have already mentioned, his
health had become so bad, that he found it necessary
to resign the presidency of the Royal Society.         Im
mediately after this he proceeded to the Continent.
During his absence from England, he still continued
                     * See vol. i. p. 253.

                         DAVY.                     129
to prosecute his chemical researches, the results of
which he communicated in several papers to the
Royal Society. He also, notwithstanding his in
creasing weakness and sufferings, employed his lei
sure in literary composition on other subjects, an
evidence of which appeared in his " Salmonia," a
treatise on fly-fishing, which he published in 1828.
This little book is full of just and pleasing descrip
tions of some of the phenomena of nature, and is
i mbued with an amiable and contented spirit.      His
active mind, indeed, continued, it would seem, to
exert itself to the last almost with as unwearied
ardour as ever. Beside the volume we have just
mentioned, another work, entitled " The Last Days
of a Philosopher," which he also wrote during this
period, has been given to the world since his death.
He died at Geneva on the 30th of May 1829. He
had only arrived in that city the day before ; and
having been attacked by apoplexy after he had gone
to bed, expired at an early hour in the morning.
   No better evidence can be desired than that we have
in the history of Davy, that a long life is not neces
sary to enable an individual to make extraordinary
advances in any intellectual pursuit to which he will
devote himself with all his heart and strength.   This
eminent person was, indeed, early in the arena where
he won his distinction ; and the fact, as we have
already remarked, is a proof how diligently he must
have exercised his mental faculties during the few
years that elapsed between his boyhood and his first
appearance before the public, although, during this
time, he had scarcely any one to guide his studies, or
even to cheer him onward. Yet, notwithstanding that,
he had taken his place, as we have seen, among the
known chemists of the age almost before he was
 twenty-one, the whole of his brilliant career in that
 character, embracing so many experiments, so many

130        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
literary productions, and so many splendid and valu
able discoveries, extended only over a space of not
quite thirty years.      He had not completed his fifty-
first year when he died. Nor was Davy merely a man
of science. His general acquirements were diversi
fied and extensive.      He was familiar with the princi
pal continental languages, and wrote his own with an
eloquence not usually found in scientific works.       All
his writings,    indeed,  shew the scholar, and the lover
of elegant    literature,  as well as the ingenious and
accomplished philosopher. It not unfrequently hap
pens that able men, who have been their own instruc
tors, and have chosen for themselves some one field
of exertion in which the world acknowledges, and
they themselves feel, their eminence, both disregard
and despise all other sorts of knowledge and acquire
ment. This is pedantry in its most vulgar and offen
sive form ; for it is not merely ignorant, but intole
rant. It speaks highly in favour of the right consti
tution and the native power of Davy's understanding,
that, educated as he was, he escaped every taint of
this species of illiberality ; and that while, like almost
all those who have greatly distinguished themselves
in the world of intellect, he selected and persevered
in his one favourite path, he nevertheless revered
wisdom and genius in all their manifestations.

                             Chapter VI.
   Diversities of Intellectual Excellence : — Painters — Benjamin West.
The    ambition of intellectual excellence is, in truth,
the same passion, by whichsoever of the many roads
that lie open to it it may choose to pursue its object.
The thing that is interesting and valuable is the purity
and enduring strength of the passion.                    These are the
qualities that make          it both so inestimable in the pos
session, and so instructive in the exhibition.                       The
mere department of study in which it displays itself is
of inferior importance ; for, even if it should be con
tended that, of the various pursuits which demand
the highest degree of intellectual application and
devotion, one is yet better calculated than another to
promote by its results the general improvement or
happiness of mankind, it will scarcely be argued that
even those of inferior value in this respect should not
also have their followers. The arrangements of provi
dence, by forming men at first in different moulds,
and placing them afterwards in different circum
stances, regulate, doubtless with more wisdom and
success than could be attained by any artifice of
human polity, the distribution of taste, and talent,
and enterprize, over the varied field of philosophy
and art, no part of which is thus left altogether un
cultivated. One man, from his original endowments,
or his particular advantages of training or situation,
is more fit for one line of exertion, another for an
other ; and, although the pursuits to which they are
in this manner severally attracted may not, in the
largest view, be of equal importance, that is no reason

132         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
why we should regret       that there are labourers to
engage in each.     Indeed, the more truly enlightened
any mind is, the less ready will it be to look with a
feeling either of contempt or of slight respect upon any
pursuit which has had power to call forth in an emi
nent degree the resources of the human intellect. The
ground is holy wherever genius has won its triumphs.
The further the domain of science is explored, the
more, in all probability, will it be found to be per
vaded and connected, in all its parts, by a principle
of order, consistency, and unity ; and the more con
firmations shall we discover of what are almost already
universally admitted axioms of philosophy, that no
truth is without its worth, and no sort of knowledge
without some bearing upon every other.
    We are now about to notice the exertions made in
pursuit of knowledge by some individuals, whose
paths have been very different from those of the dis
tinguished discoverers and inventors with whom we
have just been engaged.       But we shall find that, in
every variety of intellectual enterprise, the same devo
tion and diligence have been exhibited by ardent
and generous spirits ; and that everywhere these qua
lities are the indispensable requisites for the attain
ment of excellence.      By no class of students, per
haps, has a greater love of their chosen pursuit been
displayed than by Painters.       We have already had
occasion, indeed, to mention many names from this
 department of biography, in illustration of the force
with which a passion for knowledge has often con
tended against the most depressing discouragements,
 and eventually subdued everything that would have
prevented its gratification.    In our former volume,
we noticed the early difficulties and subsequent emi
nence of Salvator Rosa, Claude Lorraine, the Cara-
vaggios, our own Opie, and many others.           We will
now proceed to sketch somewhat more in detail the

                             WEST.                      133
unpromising circumstances          of birth and original
situation through which some of the other most dis
tinguished names in the recent history of English art
have had to struggle into light.
   The first individual we shall mention was not,
indeed, strictly speaking, a native of this country,
though he was born a subject of the British crown ;
but, as an artist, he belongs, nevertheless, to Eng
land.    We speak of the late Benjamin West. He
was born at Springfield, near Philadelphia, in North
America, in the year 1738.              His parents were
Quakers,      and he was the youngest of a family of ten
children.      It is related, that his mother brought him
into the world immediately after being frightened
almost into convulsions by a sermon, in which the
preacher scarcely relieved the horrors of a description
which he gave of the coming destruction of the world
on this side of the Atlantic, by the assurance which he
added of the happy destiny in reserve for America,
where a new and better order of things was forthwith
to arise and be perpetuated, after all vice and evil
should have been swept from the earth by that visita
tion of vengeance.        This incident, seemingly of little
importance, afterwards exercised considerable influ
ence on the boy's history. The preacher, flattered by
what he probably deemed a proof of the powers of
his oratory, continued to regard the child with feel
ings both of pride and kindness ; and took pains to
persuade his father that, born in such extraordinary
circumstances, he would undoubtedly turn out no
common man. We shall find immediately that these
predictions were not thrown away either upon the
father or the son.
   Meanwhile, however, Benjamin, as might be sup
posed, grew up without anything marvellous appear
ing about him, till he had completed his sixth year.
 Soon after this, one of his sisters, who was married,
    VOL.  II.                                  N

134        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWELDGE.
came to pay a visit to her parents, and brought her
child with her. One day, Benjamin's mother having
taken her daughter out with her to the garden, they
left the child asleep in its cradle, and he was
appointed to watch it. As he sat looking at his little
niece, she happened to smile in her sleep ; and he
was so struck with the beauty of the infant, that, there
being some paper and pens on the table, with red and
black ink, he immediately attempted to make a draw
ing of her face. His effort, it would seem, was not
altogether unsuccessful; for when his mother and
sister returned, the former exclaimed at once, on
obtaining a sight of the paper, which he tried to con
ceal, "  I declare he has made a likeness of little
Sally." Re-assured by this, he was in an ecstasy of
delight with his new-found art, and immediately
offered to make drawings with his black and red ink
of the flowers his sister had brought from the garden.
So true and delicate a sensibility, thus early awakened,
to the beauty of mere expression, shewed the genius
of the future painter even more than any skill in
delineation he can well be supposed to have dis
played in this first attempt.      Perhaps the circum
stance of the boy having been nurtured among the
quiet and gentle affections of a Quaker family was
not unfavourable to the growth of so much of the
poetical feeling, at least, as he shewed on this occa
sion.
    When his father saw this drawing        he began   to
ponder more deeply than ever on the prophecies of
his friend the preacher, the fulfilment of which he,
doubtless, thought was already begun.          As for his
son, he went on making ink sketches of birds and
flowers, to his own great delight and the admiration
of the simple neighbours.      For a year he had no
other colour than ink, and only a pen for a pencil ;
nor, in all likelihood, was he aware that any better

                            WEST.                    135
 resources existed for the practice of his art : for so
 simple and primitive were the manners and domestic
 accommodations of the little society of Friends in
 which he had been brought up, that it is averred he
 had never at this time seen either a painting or an
 engraving.      At last a party of Indians came to visit
 Springfield, and were shewn some of the boy's per
 formances.      They were not very unlike the deli
 neations they themselves were in the habit of
 making ; and these children of the woods were de
 lighted with such evidences of a taste kindred to
 their own. But their greater experience had given
 them some advantages over the young prodigy.         In
 particular, they were possessed        of colours with
 which he had no acquaintance, being in the custom
 of using both a red and a yellow ochre. These,
 therefore, they taught him the method of preparing ;
and his mother, to complete his assortment of these
 new auxiliaries, presented him with a piece of
indigo.     Still he had no pencil ; but, having been
told by some one that pencils were made in Europe
 of camel's hair, his ingenuity soon found out a tole
 rable substitute for this material. Seizing upon a
black cat, which was kept in the house, he extracted
the requisite quantity of hairs from her tail for his
first brush, and afterwards pillaged her back for
others.
    About a year after this, a Mr. Pennington, a mer
chant of Philadelphia, chanced to pay old West a
visit, and Benjamin's pictures were shewn to him.
Pennington knew a little more of such matters than
the villagers of Springfield, and was so much struck
with the merit of the boy's performances, that he
promised to send him a box of paints as soon as he
got back to the city.        The box, accordingly, soon
made its appearance, and was opened with eager
expectation. To an assortment of colours, oils, and

 136         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 pencils, the care of the good merchant had added
 several pieces of canvas prepared for being painted
 upon, and half a dozen engravings.      Benjamin was
 perfectly enraptured.   The true nature of the prints
 he did not suspect at first, the existence of such an
 art as that of engraving never having entered his
 imagination.     But, of course, he thought them the
 finest things he had ever seen in his life. During
 the remainder of the evening he scarcely lifted his
 eye from his box and its contents.      Sometimes he
 almost doubted that he was actually master of so
 precious a treasure, and would take it in his hand
 merely to be assured that it was real.      Even after
 going   to sleep he awoke more   than once during the
 night, and anxiously put   out  his hand to the box,
 which he had placed by his bedside, half afraid that
 he might find his riches only a dream.     Next morn
ing he rose at break of day, and, carrying his colours
and canvas to the garret, proceeded to work. Every
thing else was now unheeded.       Even his attendance
 at school was given up.     As soon as he got out of
the sight of his father and mother he stole to his
garret, and there passed the hours in a world of his
own. At last, after he had been absent from school
some days, the master called at his father's house to
inquire what had become of him. This led to the
discovery of his secret occupation.       His mother,
proceeding to the garret, found the truant ; but so
much was she astonished and delighted by the
creation of his pencil which also met her view when
she entered the apartment, that, instead of rebuking
him, she could only take him in her arms, and kiss
him with transports of affection.     He had made a
new composition of his own out of two of the en
gravings, which he had coloured from his own feel
ing of the proper tints ; and so perfect did the per
formance already appear to his mother, that, although

                          WEST.                      137
half   the canvas yet remained uncovered, she would
not suffer him to add another touch to what he had
done.     Mr. Gait, West's biographer, saw the picture
in the state in which it had thus been left, sixty-seven
years afterwards ; and the artist himself used to ac
knowledge that in none of his subsequent efforts
had he been able to excel some of the touches of in
vention in this his first essay.
    Some time after this, Pennington paid them a
second visit at Springfield, and, pleased with the
progress the young painter had made since he had
provided him with the proper materials of his art,
took him with him to Philadelphia.      Here he met a
brother artist, a Mr. Williams, whose pictures, the
first he had seen except his own, moved him even to
tears.    Williams lent him, also, Fresnoy's Poem on
Painting, and Richardson's Essay ; and these works
contributed not a little to feed his enthusiasm.     He
returned to Springfield more in love with painting
than ever ; and so contagious was his ardour, that
even his schoolfellows, with hardly an exception,
began to follow his example, and no other amuse
ment was minded but drawing on the walls with
chalk and ochre. West used to assert that many of
the performances of these juvenile amateurs were
such as would have done no discredit to the stu
dents of an academy.      But no one of them, it would
seem, had the same deep-seated love of art as him
self; for, when the pastime had lasted its season, it
was forsaken and forgotten, he alone looking forward
to his present pursuit as the occupation of his life,
and being resolved to sacrifice everything else for its
sake.
   He had as yet, however, made no money by his
art, not so much even as to enable him to purchase
colours and canvas.      But one of the neighbours, a
cabinet-maker,    kindly gave him some smoothed
                                         N 3

138         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
boards, and on these he used to draw his sketches, with
ink, chalk, and charcoal.     A Mr. Wayne, another
neighbour, calling one day at his father's, was shewn
these performances, and admired them so much that
he took a few of them away with him to shew
to his family or his friends.  Next day he returned,
and, having resolved by this time to keep the pic
tures, gave the boy a dollar for each.       About the
same time a Dr. Jonathan Moris made him a present
of a few dollars to buy paints with. These encou
ragements were invaluable to him at the time ; and
West never afterwards forgot his first patrons.      It
does not appear that his father, either at this or any
other time, gave him any assistance to enable him to
pursue his favourite art, although the family seem to
have been rather in comfortable circumstances.   If the
old Quaker continued to look forward to his son
becoming a great man, as the preacher had foretold
he would, he seems to have trusted entirely to the
efficacy of his reverend friend's prediction to bring
about that result. Notwithstanding, however, the
pleasure he could not but feel in the evidences of
uncommon talent which the boy continued to give by
the productions of his pencil, he probably had con
siderable misgivings, arising from his peculiar reli
gious opinions, as to the lawfulness of the art itself,
and wished that the young prodigy would choose
another road to the distinction destined for him.
Not such were Benjamin's own notions. Ever since
reading Fresnoy and Richardson, the profession of a
painter had seemed to him the most honourable that
man could follow.      He had also already got pos
sessed by the prophecy that had been uttered in his
favour ; and was so persuaded of his future greatness
that, finding himself upon one occasion mounted, for
a holiday trip, on the same horse with a schoolfellow,
who was imprudent enough to confess, in the course

                         WEST.                       139
of their conversation, that his     father intended to
 make him a tailor, a trade      which, he added, he
 thought a very good one, West dismounted imme
diately, exclaiming that no one who meant to be a
tailor should ride with him, who was to be a painter,
— the companion, as he expressed       it,of kings and
emperors.      This conviction of his high destiny,
although  it  was only in his boyhood that     it occa
sioned such ebullitions as this, never forsook the
artist and, doubtless, contributed somewhat to carry
     ;
him buoyantly forward through the strange circum
stances of his commencing career.
   The peculiarity of his situation, indeed, consisted
chiefly in this, — that, young as he was, he was left
solely to the strength of his own enthusiasm to
prompt and sustain him in every effort he made
to advance himself in the line he had resolved
to pursue.    He had no sufferings to endure from
want of bread, or extreme poverty, in any of those
shapes in which  it  has so often pressed to the earth
the young aspirant after knowledge      ;  but, on the
other hand, he had no one to instruct him, or even
to urge him to seek instruction.    He had everything
to do for himself, and of himself.     The other boys,
we have seen, his companions, who also at one time
took a fancy to painting, had none of them steadi
ness or perseverance to pursue the art beyond    a  few
weeks or months.      He had no greater external ad
vantages than they had, yet he alone became a
painter.    He had that within himself which they
wanted   — that ardour and constancy in the prose
cution of his object which has sustained the exer
tions of all those whose names are to be reckoned
with his in the honourable catalogue of self-educated
and self-raised men, and without which, indeed,
there cannot be achieved anything great or anything
worthy.     West's history has been described         as

140        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
abounding' in fortunate incidents — in the casual oc
currence of circumstances favourable to the display
and successful operation of his merits ; and this
is quite true.    But, undoubtedly, the luck would
have been of no use, but for the desert which was
always ready to take advantage of it, This, indeed,
is, in many cases the true secret of what is called
good fortune ; it consists only in the being never
unprepared to seize a favourable opportunity when
it comes. West, as we shall see immediately, met
with a succession of friends to encourage and assist
him, as soon as his talents became known beyond
his native village ; but their aid would have been
valueless, and, indeed, they never would have sought
him out at all, if he had not cultivated those talents
 with the extraordinary zeal and industry which he
 did, when, in his father's house, he neither had
 nor needed any one to prompt his application,
 and found difficulty enough even in procuring
 the necessary implements of his art.     He had ar
 rived at his fifteenth year when he attracted the
 notice of a Mr. Flower, a gentleman of cultivated
 taste, who resided near the town of Lancaster, at
 some distance from Springfield.    Mr. Flower having
 seen some of his productions was delighted with
 the talent they displayed, and invited the young
 artist to spend a few weeks at his house.       West
 derived much benefit from this visit. An English
 lady, of superior accomplishments, resided in the
 house, as governess to Mr. Flower's children.     To
 this lady Benjamin was indebted for his first know
 ledge of even the existence of the ancient Greeks
 and Romans, the lives and characters of whose
  great men she used to make the frequent themes of
  her conversation. During his residence here he also
  got acquainted with another intelligent person, a
 Mr. Ross, who lived in Lancaster.        This gentle

                          WEST.                       141
 man's wife and daughters were remarkable for their
 beauty ; and it was arranged that West should draw
 their pictures.   He acquitted himself in this affair so
 much to the taste of the people of Lancaster, that
 numbers of other persons immediately presented
 themselves to sit to him, and, for some time, he had
 as much to do as he could manage.
    Whether or not Mrs. Ross and her daughters were
 the first persons whose portraits he had ever taken,
 is not stated ; but the following is expressly men
tioned as the occasion of his first historic painting.
 One of his Lancaster acquaintances was an individual
of the name of William Henry, who had made some
money as a gunsmith, and was a man of considerable
reading and reflection.     Conversing one day with
his friend, Henry remarked that he thought it a pity
talents of so superior an order should be expended
merely in taking likenesses of people whom nobody
but their own relations knew or cared about ; and sug
gested how much nobler a use the painter might make
of his pencil if he would take some one of the grand
scenes of history, and endeavour to transfer it to can
vas.    He mentioned, as a good subject, the death of
Socrates, the story of which he immediately read
from the animated page of Plutarch.          West liked
this idea, and, forthwith proceeding to sketch the com
position, in due time produced his first historical
picture.
   About this time, also, he fell into the hands of
Dr. Smith, Provost of the college of Philadelphia,
who undertook to put him in possession, by a sum
mary process, of as much classical knowledge as it
was thought a painter needed.      Dr. Smith is said to
have been himself a profound as well as an elegant
scholar — but he preferred a very superficial mode of
teaching in the case of his present pupil.      In fact,
the knowledge of Latin he communicated to West

  142         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  amounted scarcely to anything.         Yet it is probable
 that he may have derived some advantage from the les
  sons of his instructor in so far as regarded the enlarge
 ment of his acquaintance with the facts of classical
 history and mythology. In the midst of these studies
 he fell sick, and was confined, for a considerable time,
 to his bed — a circumstance which led to his display
 of a new species of ingenuity. After he had got over
 the worst of his attack, he one day not a little alarmed
 both his physician and the other persons in attend
 ance by insisting that he distinctly saw a procession
 of phantoms crossing the ceiling of the room, the
 figures being some of them men, some women, pigs,
 fowls, &c. Nobody else could discern anything of
 the kind, and they doubted, notwithstanding the ap
 pearances of recovery, whether his brain was not a
 little affected.   But the fact was, that, from having
 been so long shut up in the darkened apartment, his
 eyes had distended in accommodation to the dimi
 nished light, and had thus acquired a power of dis
 tinguishing what was invisible to others. The figures
on the ceiling were merely the pictures of objects
passing along the street, which were formed by the
rays reflected from them, and transmitted through a
round hole which happened to be in the window-
shutter. This West soon found, when, upon being left
alone, he rose from his bed and examined the room,
in the determination of discovering the cause of the
phenomenon. Having satisfied himself as to how
the matter stood, he immediately bethought him that
here was a principle of which a useful application
might be made ; and he soon constructed an appa
ratus, which, whenever the sun shone, procured him
a picture of any object or portion of the landscape to
which he chose to turn it. He had, in fact, invented
the Camera Obscura.          When he carried his box,
however, to his friend Williams at Philadelphia, that

                         WEST.                       143
gentleman shewed him a much more perfect instru
ment of the same description, which he had just
received from London ; so that West found that his
invention, though new to himself, would not be so
to the world in general.
    He now returned home to Springfield.       Hitherto,
whatever might have been his own views, his father
had probably looked upon the boy's picture-making
as merely an amusement for a few years of his youth,
and had not dreamed of it becoming his profession
for life. But even if he had reconciled himself to such
a destination for his son, there were the probable
scruples of his brethren to be overcome.    No Quaker
had ever before turned artist.   Yet, upon the matter
being talked over in the family, it soon appeared that
not only was the young man's own attachment to the
career upon which he had already entered too strong
to be shaken, but that his mother also had fixed her
affections upon the profession of a painter for her son.
In this emergency his father resolved to be guided
by the decision of his brethren.   The prophecy of the
preacher was not yet forgotten ; and he was as much
persuaded as his wife that their son would yet be
come a great man, although he did not perhaps so
clearly see how.    Accordingly he called together the
members of the society, and stated the circumstances
of the case. We must refer to the pages of Mr.
Gait for a description of the consultation.      Suffice
it to say, that it terminated in a unanimous resolu
tion to permit the young man to exercise the extraor
dinary talents with which God had endowed him, in
their proper occupation.     Benjamin was forthwith
called in, and set apart by something like a consecra
tion to his chosen pursuit. This strange proceeding
made an impression upon the mind of the painter,
which remained through life, and helped, along with
his faith in the announcements of future greatness

144          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
with which he had     been still more early familiar, to
strengthen and sustain the enthusiasm with which he
devoted himself to art, as the one object of his life.
   Not long after this his mother died, to whom he
was much attached; and when he had recovered
from this severe blow, he left his father's house, and,
proceeding to Philadelphia, set up there as a portrait
painter. This was in the end of August, 1756.         He
took up his residence in the house of a Mr. Clarkson,
his brother-in-law, and soon found sufficient employ
ment.     After painting all day, too, he used to spend
his evenings with his old friend Dr. Smith, who con
tinued his instructions to him on the beauties of the
classics, and other matters of taste. But he had long
felt that his professional education would be very in
complete till he had had an opportunity of seeing
works of art superior to any which America, at this
time, contained.     His cherished ambition, therefore,
was to visit Rome ; and every shilling he could spare
was carefully put aside, to enable him to accomplish
this object.   His terms were two guineas for a head,
and five guineas for a half-length.      He was obliged
to work hard to be able to save anything at these
prices ; but he had the advantage of gaining, at the
same time, a command of hand, and facility of exe
cution, which he could not have attained in the same
degree with less laborious practice, and which he
afterwards found of great service. He also employed
what time he could spare in the study of the higher
styles of art ; and, among other performances, made
a copy from a picture of great merit, which had fallen
into Governor Hamilton's hands, through the capture
of a Spanish vessel, a St. Ignatius, after Murillo.
Of the great superiority of this picture, however, to
anything he had yet seen, he was not, at this time,
aware ; but Dr. Smith was so much struck by West's
copy, that he insisted upon being drawn himself in

                         "WEST.                    145
the attitude of the Saint. While residing in this city,
 West also executed, for a Mr. Cox, a picture on the
 subject of the Trial of Susannah — his second histo
rical painting — of which he used afterwards to speak
in high terms.     It comprehended forty figures, all
of which were delineated from nature. From Phila
delphia he proceeded to New York, having now a
little money in his pocket.      Here his reputation
brought him many sitters, and, after some time, he
raised the price of his half-length portraits to ten
guineas.    A Flemish picture, which he saw in this
city, of a hermit praying before a lamp, inspired him
with the desire of painting, as a companion to     it,   a
man reading by candle-light.      He was much per
plexed, at first, as to how he should proceed, in order
to produce the effect of candle-light on a picture
which was, of course, to be seen during the day          ;
but at last he attained his object by making his land
lord sit looking upon an open book before a candle,
in a darkened closet, while he himself remained
painting in the day-light in the adjoining room, from
which he had view of his model through
                     a                        a narrow
passage.
  When he had been in New York about eleven
months, he heard that vessel was about to sail from
                         a
Philadelphia direct for Leghorn, with     a cargo of
wheat and flour, in consequence of the failure of the
harvest in Italy.   It immediately occurred to him
that here was a favourable opportunity of accom
plishing his long-projected visit to Rome.     In the
mean time the same thought had suggested itself to
Dr. Smith and he received a letter from that gentle
                 ;
man, inviting him to return to Philadelphia without
delay.   He was, at the moment, engaged in painting
a picture of a Mr. Kelly, a merchant of New York,
whose name deserves to be remembered for the con-
   VOL.    II.                            o

146        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
siderate generosity with which he behaved on this
occasion.   West, having finished the portrait, com
municated to him his intention of going to Italy;
upon which Kelly, after paying him his ten guineas,
said that he would give him also a letter to his agents
in Philadelphia, who might be serviceable in giving
him directions about his outfit.  On reaching Phila
delphia, and presenting this letter, the painter was
informed that it contained an order for the payment
to him of fifty guineas.    This was a most welcome
addition to his scanty funds, and sent him on board
with a light heart.
   After touching at Gibraltar and several ports on
the coast of Spain, West and his fellow passengers
reached Leghorn, from which the former lost no time
in setting out for Rome, after receiving letters of
introduction to several of the principal persons in
that capital, from Messrs. Jackson and Rutherford,
the correspondents of his friend Mr. Allen, of Phila
delphia, to whom the vessel and its cargo belonged.
He reached Rome on the 10th of July, 1760, in
charge of a French courier, with whom he had been
provided by his friends at Leghorn, being at this time
quite ignorant of the language of the country, and
indeed of every language but his own.      When a re
port was spread that a young American had come
to study the works of the great masters, the learned
of Rome did not know very well what to think of
it. Lord Grantham (then Mr. Robinson), having
sought him out, took him to an evening party, where
most of the persons were to be assembled to whom
 he had letters of introduction ; and, of course, as
 soon as he entered the room, most of the company
perceived that the trans-atlantic stranger, in point
of outward appearance at least, did not differ mate
rially from any one of themselves.      But there hap

                          WEST.                     147
pened to be present the celebrated virtuoso, Cardinal
Albani, now an old man and quite blind.           When
West was presented by Mr. Robinson to this person
age, as a young American who had come to Italy
to study the fine arts, his Eminence, who had no
notion that there were any other Americans except
the native savages, asked whether he was black or
white.    Having been set right as to this matter, how
ever, the Cardinal was led to form a very favour
able opinion of his new acquaintance — especially
after passing his hands over his head, which (being, it
would seem, even in those days, a sort of craniologist)
he remarked was very admirably formed.         Next day
West was taken to see some of the great works of
art ; and so curious were the fashionable world of
 Rome to observe the effect which these master
pieces would produce on the young Quaker, that he
was accompanied by no fewer than thirty of the prin
cipal equipages in the city. The first expressions of
his astonishment seemed to indicate rather a wild
taste to these Italian connoisseurs.     When he saw
the Apollo he is reported to have exclaimed,
                                                 " How
 like a young Mohawk."        All this notoriety made
poor West's ordeal rather a severe one, for, with all
 his natural talent, he was necessarily deficient in
 many things which only cultivation can bestow ; but,
 on the other hand, the notice he attracted was cal
 culated to operate greatly in his favour, if he should
 succeed in satisfying the expectations which were
 formed of him.
    Feeling the necessity, therefore, of doing some
 thing to prove himself more than a mere wonder,
 whose only claim to regard was that he happened to
 be the first of his countrymen, or of his sect, who
 had ever come to Rome to study the fine arts, he
 resolved to present to the Italians some evidence of
                                           o 2

 148        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
what he actually could perform with his self-taught
pencil. He accordingly asked Mr. Robinson to do
 him the favour of sitting to him for his portrait ; and
 that gentleman kindly complied with his request.
Mr. Robinson was at this time also sitting to the
celebrated Mengs, then the most eminent artist resi
dent in Rome ; and the circumstance was generally
known.      When West's picture was finished, Mr.
Robinson, concealing the name of the artist, sent it to
the house of his friend Mr. Crespigne, where a party
was to assemble in the evening.        Here it excited
great attention. It was generally regarded even by
the artists present as the work of Mengs ; although
some remarked that its colouring was superior to
that of most of his performances.     But Mr. Dance,
an Englishman, having examined it with a very scru
tinizing eye, pronounced that it was not by Mengs.
The colouring, he said, surpassed what was to be
found in the works of that artist ; but the drawing
did not equal his. Meanwhile all these remarks
were translated by Mr. Robinson to West, who sat
apart on a sofa, all anxiety and agitation. At last it
was announced by Mr. Crespigne, that the picture
was not painted by Mengs — that it was the work of
the young American.       The surprise of the Italians
was unbounded; but they congratulated the artist
warmly.     Mengs himself made his appearance soon
after, and, having examined the picture, expressed
himself, in regard to West's merits, in terms of the
most frank and generous commendation. He pro
ceeded to give him advice as to his future studies,
telling him he had no need to come to Rome to learn
to paint ; but that, after examining every thing in the
city deserving of an artist's attention, he should go
successively to Florence, Bologna, and Venice, and
having made himself familiar with the productions

                          WEST.                          149
of the great masters preserved in these cities, should
 then return to Rome, paint an historical picture, ex
 hibitit,   and, from the opinion expressed of     it,
                                                   decide
 on   the line of art he should follow.
     By this time West had been little more than a
 month in Rome: but such was the excitement he had
 undergone, that, as happened to Salvator Rosa, he
 was taken alarmingly   ill
                          ;    on which his medical at
 tendants insisted that he should go back to Leghorn.
 From Leghorn he some time after proceeded to Flo?
 rence, in order to consult an eminent surgeon of that
 city.    It was eleven months before he recovered
from this attack.       During the greater part of this
time he remained in   a    state of extreme weakness and
suffering.      But even in that condition he did not
neglect the study of his profession.       He had    table
                                                     a
constructed on which he would draw while he lay
in bed and whenever his strength permitted he had
       ;
his brush in his hand.
    Meanwhile, however, this long illness, during
which he was probably subjected to some additional
expenses, as well as prevented from making any
money, was exhausting his scanty funds, and he had
arrived at his last ten pounds before he was com
pletely recovered.      But at this crisis unexpected as
sistance arrived. One day, his old patrons in Phila
delphia, Mr. Allen and Governor Hamilton, were
dining together at the house of the former, when a
letter arrived from Allen's Leghorn correspondents,
in which, after the customary commercial advices, the
writer added   a      short account of the reception of
West's picture of Mr. Robinson at Rome.               De
lighted with this success of his countryman and pro
tege, Allen immediately declared, that he regarded
this youth as an honour to America, and that he
was determined he should not want the means of
                                           o   3

150         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
proceeding with his studies.        I
                                  " shall send him,"
 said the generous merchant,
                                  " whatever money he
may require."      The governor joined warmly in the
 same sentiments ; and insisted on sharing with Allen
the honour of supplying the necessities of the young
 artist.  The result of this conversation was, that
 when West went to his Florence banker to draw his
 last few pounds, that person, unfolding a letter, in
formed him that he was instructed to give him un
limited credit.
    From Florence, West proceeded to Bologna, and
 from thence to Venice, remaining some time at each
 city, in order to study the works of art which it con
tained.    He then returned to Rome ; and, according
 to the counsel he had received from Mengs, painted
two historical pictures, which he exhibited. They
were received with great applause.       Having now, as
 he conceived, accomplished every object for which
 he had been desirous of visiting Italy, he had no other
thought than to return to America ; when a letter
 arrived from his father, recommending to him, in the
 Philadelphian phraseology of that day, first to go for
 a short time home, meaning to England.        Although
 his heart at this time seems to have been still in
America, this proposal was not disagreeable to West ;
 and he prepared immediately for his journey to the
 land of his fathers. Leaving Rome, he proceeded
 to Parma, where they elected him a member of the
 academy, a similar honour having been previously
 bestowed upon him by the academies of Florence
 and Bologna. He then passed through France, and
 arrived in London on the 20th of August, 1763.
 Here he unexpectedly found his old American friends,
 Allen, Hamilton, and Smith ; and was, through their
 means, and some letters he had brought with him
 from Italy, speedily made known to Sir Joshua Rey

                          WEST.                    151
nolds and Wilson, the highest names in English art.
He soon after, not so much by the advice of his
friends, as in a well-founded dependance upon his
own talents, took apartments in Bedford street, Co-
vent Garden, and commenced the practice of his
profession. His sagacity had by this time discovered
that London afforded a somewhat more promising
field for a painter than Philadelphia; and he thought
no more of returning to America.       One of the first
things he did, in order to make himself generally
known, was to paint a picture (on one of the same
subjects which he had chosen at Rome), and to send
it to the exhibition which then took place annually
in Spring Gardens.      It appeared here, accordingly,
in 1764, and attracted considerable notice.    He was
some time after invited to dinner by Dr. Drummond,
the Archbishop of York, who was so much pleased
both with his conversation and the proofs of genius
which he conceived his paintings to exhibit, that he
contrived to have him introduced to George   III.  His
majesty's favour, which he immediately acquired,
placed the artist's rising fortunes upon a sure foun
dation, and leaves us nothing more to relate of his
struggles to escape from obscurity to distinction.
The self-taught boy had now won his way to the high
 est professional employment, and was soon numbered
among the best known painters of the age. It was
 not the patronage of royalty, however, to which he
was really indebted for this elevation.   That patron
age his own merits chiefly had acquired for him ;
for all that the happy accidents by which he was
assisted could have done for him would have been
merely nothing, had not his real talents and acquire
ments enabled him to take advantage of the favours
of fortune. But with these merits, had he never been
 noticed at court, he would undoubtedly have found

 152         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
in time a still more munificent patron in the public.
The chief benefit (if it was a benefit) which he de
rived from the favour of the king, was, that it secured
to him at once, and from the first, that independence
to which he probably would not otherwise have at
tained, except through the exertions of years.      On
the other  hand,  had  he  been obliged to trust merely
to the general appreciation of his merits, his success,
if not quite so sudden, might have been more per
manent ; for he lived, as is well known, to find, that
to rest his reliance, as he did, on the protection of a
single individual, however exalted, was after all but
to place himself at the mercy of the most common
accidents.    After having been chiefly employed for
more than thirty years of his life in executing com
missions for his majesty, during which time he
completed the eight pictures, illustrative of the reign
of Edward the third, in St. George's Hall, at Wind
sor, and the twenty-eight (out of thirty-six which
were designed) on subjects from the Old and New
Testaments, in the Royal Chapel — he suddenly re
ceived an intimation, on the king's illness, in 1809,
that the works on which he had been engaged were
ordered to be suspended, and he was never called
upon to resume his pencil. It was immediately after
this that he painted his celebrated picture of Christ
Healing the Sick, one of the noblest he ever pro
duced, which he first exhibited to the public, and
afterwards sold to the British Institution for three
thousand guineas, a much larger sum than he had
received for any of the pieces he had executed at
the royal command.        He afterwards painted many
other pictures on similar subjects ; continuing to
study and work with unabated industry, almost to
the very close of his long life.     He was always an
early riser ; and the way in which he spent his day

                          WEST.                        153
was nearly uniform.        The morning hours before
breakfast, and generally all the evening after dinner,
were given to the study of the subject he was pre
 paring to paint ; while, during the intermediate part of
 the day, from ten, namely, till four, he was employed
 without intermission at his easel. All this labour
and devotion to his art, besides the improved skill
and excellence which practice gives, enabled West to
produce an unusually great number of works.            His
pictures  in  oil amount to about four hundred many—
of them of extraordinary size, and containing nu
merous figures.      In 1791, on the death of Sir
Joshua Reynolds, West was appointed President of
the Royal Academy, which had been established in
1768. This honourable office (with the exception of
one year) he held till his death, on the 11th of March,
1820, in the eighty-second year of his age.
    One serious disadvantage, however, which West
brought upon himself, by the almost exclusive atten
tion he had given to painting from his earliest years,
was, that he remained to the end of his life a some
what illiterate man. It has been asserted, that to
spell his words correctly, when he had anything to
write, was a task of no little difficulty to the President
of the Royal Academy. This neglect and ignorance
of every thing not immediately appertaining to the
department of their own favourite study, has been,
perhaps, as frequently exemplified by painters, as by
any other class of self-educated men. The celebrated
Claude Lorraine could scarcely write his name. Our
own Hogarth, although, by the assistance of a friend,
he appeared on one occasion as an author, affected to
despise literature, and, indeed, every species of men
tal cultivation, except the knowledge of the art of
painting ; nor was it much exaggeration when he pro
fessed to have himself little or no acquaintance      with

 154       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
anything else.     It would be easy to mention other
instances of the same kind.    They ought to serve as
warnings to the individual who, with an ardent desire
for knowledge, has no one to guide him in its ac
quisition, of a risk to which he is peculiarly exposed.
Even the great artists we have named, with capacities
that might have compassed any attainments in litera
ture or philosophy, must be held, notwithstanding all
they did, to have neglected a duty they owed to them
selves, or, at least, to have followed a lamentably
mistaken course, in disregarding that general cultiva
tion, without which, excellence in any department of
art loses its most elevated rank as a liberal accom
plishment.

                            Chapter      VII.
 Other English Painters — Spencer ; Highmore ; Hannam ; Gilpin ; Gains
                     borough ; Barry ; Lawrence.
  Many others of our recent English                 painters have
  been almost as entirely their own instructors as West
  was. Jarvis Spencer, who was celebrated as a
  miniature painter in the latter part of the last cen
 tury, was originally a menial servant, and while in
 that condition used to amuse himself by attempting
 to draw, when no one suspected what he was about.
 At last, one of the family in whose service he lived
 having sat to an artist for a miniature, the perform
  ance, when it was finished, was seen by Spencer, who
 immediately remarked, very much to the surprise of
 everybody, that he thought he could make a copy of
 it.   He was allowed to try his skill, and succeeded
 to admiration.       His master, upon this discovery of
his servant's genius, very generously exerted him
 self to place him in his proper sphere, and to make
 him generally known ; and Spencer, as we have
said, rose eventually to great eminence in the depart
ment which he cultivated. Joseph Highmore, who
painted, among other well-known works, the Hagar
and Ishmael, in the Foundling Hospital, and long
enjoyed high reputation, both for his historical pic
tures and his portraits, taught himself the art which he
afterwards practised with so much success, while he
was serving his apprenticeship in a solicitor's office,
and was without any one to give him a lesson.
Highmore died in 1780. Another painter of that
day, of the name of Hannam, whose works, however,

15G        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
have not attracted much attention, was originally an
apprentice to a cabinet-maker; and, having acquired
some skill in painting by his own efforts, used to be
allowed by his master to spend as much of his time
as he chose in executing pictures for those who gave
him commissions, on condition of his handing over
the price to that person, who found that he made
more in this way than he could have done by keep
ing Hannam to his regular work. Richard Wright,
who about the same period was much celebrated
for his sea-pieces, rose from the condition of a house
and ship-painter, having taught himself to draw
while he followed that trade in his native town of
Liverpool. The late Royal Academician, Sawrey
Gilpin, so celebrated especially for his most faithful
and spirited delineations of animals, was also origi
nally apprenticed to a ship-painter.     He lodged in
Covent Garden, and there being a view of the mar
ket from the window of his apartment, Gilpin used
to amuse himself in making sketches of the horses
and carts, with their attendants, as they passed, or
formed themselves into picturesque groups in the
square. Gainsborough, the great landscape painter,
again, led by his different genius, used, while yet a
mere boy, to resort to the woods and pasture fields in
the neighbourhood of his native town of Sudbury,
and there to employ himself unweariedly, often from
morning till night, in sketching with his untutored
pencil the various objects that struck his fancy, from
a flock of sheep, or the shepherd's hut, to the stump
of an old tree. It was to these studies of his earliest
years, undoubtedly, that Gainsborough was indebted
both for that perfect truth and fidelity by which his
works are distinguished, and for that deep feeling
of the beautiful in nature which has thrown over
them so inexpressible a charm.      He learned also in
this way a habit of diligent, minute and accurate ob

                  GAINSBOROUGH.      BARRY.             157
   servation, which never left him ; and it is both inte
  resting and instructive to read the account which has
   been given, of the unrelaxed zeal with which he
   continued to pursue the study of his art even to the
   last.    " He was continually remarking," says Sir
  Joshua Reynolds, speaking of the habits of his more
  mature years, " to those who happened to be about
  him, whatever peculiarity of countenance, whatever
  accidental combination of figures, or happy effects of
  light and shadow occurred in prospects, in the sky,
  in walking the streets, or in company.          If in his
  walks he found a character that he liked, and whose
  attendance was to be obtained, he ordered him to
  his house ; and from the fields he brought into his
 painting-room, stumps of trees, weeds, and animals
 of various kinds ; and designed them, not from me
 mory, but immediately from the objects.          He even
 framed a kind of model of landscapes on his table,
 composed of broken stones, dried herbs, and pieces
 of looking-glass, which he magnified and improved
 into rocks, trees, and water ; all which exhibit the
 solicitude and extreme anxiety which he had about
 everything relative to his art ; that he wished to
 have his objects embodied, as it were, and dis
tinctly before him, neglecting nothing that contri
buted to keep his faculties alive, and deriving hints
from every sort of combination."        It is not, indeed,
generally, the highest genius which is least inclined
to avail itself of such assistance in its labours as
study and pains-taking may procure.
     Another of the most distinguished names in the
list of recent British artists, is that of James Barry.
Barry was born at Cork in 1741.           His father ap
pears to have been a somewhat unsettled character,
or at least to have shifted from one pursuit to an
other, probably without obtaining much success in
any.      It is commonly said that he was originally a
     VOL.  II.                                P

158           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 mason   ;   but some authorities state that he had been
 also a victualler.      At the time of Barry's birth, he
was the master of a small coasting vessel in which
he traded between England and Ireland.
    Barry is understood to have received a good edu
cation in the ordinary branches of scholarship.           At
an early age,     however,   his father took  him with  him
to sea, and made him do duty as a ship-boy.            This
occupation     he  detested.    The  love  of  painting had
already taken possession of him, and his greatest
pleasure was to cover the deck with sketches of ob
jects made with chalk or ochre.          His father, at last,
finding all his efforts to make him a sailor of no
avail, allowed him to remain at home, and to pursue
his studies in literature and art.       He now returned
to school, and distinguished himself by an ardour and
 diligence which left all his class-fellows behind him.
Even his play-hours were generally given to hard
 study.     Instead of associating with the other boys in
their amusements, his practice was to retire to his
room, and there to employ himself in reading or
 painting.      Whatever money he got, he spent in pur
 chasing    books,   or candles to enable him to read
 during the night. His enthusiasm was at this time
 (and indeed throughout his life) partly sustained
 also by certain notions of the virtue of ascetic ob
 servances, which he had derived from his mother,
 who was a Catholic, and had great influence over
 him.      In conformity with these opinions he was
 wont to sleep, when he did take rest, upon the
 hardest bed, and to wear the coarsest clothes he
 could procure. These theological prejudices were
 not calculated to have a salutary effect upon the
 growth of a character like that of Barry, whose mo
 rose and atrabilious temperament rather required
 an education calculated to bring the gentler affec
 tions of his nature more into play.

                        BARRY.                          159
  His   ardour in study, however, both at this and
every other part of his life, was admirable. He had
as yet but few books of his own, but he borrowed
from all who had any to lend, and sometimes learned
the passages which he liked by heart, (a practice of
which he soon found the advantage, in the growing
strength of his memory), and sometimes transcribed
them. It is said that transcripts of several entire
volumes, which he had made at this period, were
found after his death among his papers.          Among
the works which he especially delighted to study, it
is recorded, were many on controversial divinity—
unfortunately not the most wholesome sustenance
for an intellectual and moral organization like his.
   He was in his seventeenth year when he first at
tempted to paint in oil ; and for some years he
wrought with no one to encourage or to notice him.
Among the first performances which he produced,
were compositions on the escape of iEneas from
Troy, the story of Susannah and the Elders, and
that of Daniel in the Lion's Den.       These pictures
he hung up on the walls      of his father's house, and
there they remained long after the painter's fame
had spread over Europe.       At last, in his twentieth
or twenty-first year, he produced a work which ap
peared to himself such as he might exhibit in a more
public place.    This was a picture on the fine subject
of the baptism by St. Patrick of one of the kings of
Cashel, who stands unmoved while the ceremony is
performed, amidst a circle of wondering and horror-
struck spectators, although the saint, in setting down
his crozier, has, without perceiving  it, struck its iron
point through the royal foot. With this work he set
out for Dublin, and placed   it in the exhibition room
of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts. It was
universally admired.     But no one knew the artist, or
fancied that he was a native of the country         ; and
                                            p   2

 160        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
when Barry, who used frequently to come to the
room to observe the impression it made, dressed
in the same coarse attire which he wore in the coun
try, one day, overcome by emotions which he could
no longer conceal, announced himself the painter of
the picture, his avowal was received with an incre
dulous laugh. He burst into tears and left the room.
The patriotism of his countrymen, however, amply
recompensed him for this when they found that he,
an Irishman, was really the person who had pro
duced this admired performance.       The young ascetic
soon found himself the favourite of the gayest society
of his native metropolis. But perceiving that this new
course of life interrupted his studies, and seduced
him occasionally into worse follies, he became alarm
ed, and determined to withdraw himself from it be
fore it should have become a habit.      These feelings
came over him with so much force one night when
he was returning from a tavern where he had spent
the evening with a bacchanalian party, that he actu
ally threw what money he had in his pocket into the
river, cursing it as having betrayed him into the ex
cesses of which he had been guilty, and from that
day returned to his books and his easel.
   Meantime, however, he had also acquired some
worthier friends ; and, among others, had been in
troduced to the illustrious Edmund Burke, then
commencing his splendid political career as assistant
to the secretary of the Lord Lieutenant.        A story
has been told respecting Barry's first interview with
Burke, which would be interesting if it could be
received as true.     Having got into an argument
with each other, Barry is said to have quoted a pas
sage from the
                 " Essay on the Sublime and Beauti
ful" in support of his opinion ; on which Burke ex
pressed himself slightingly of that anonymous per
formance.     This insensibility to the merits of a work

                          BARRY.                     161
which was one of his especial favourites, fired Barry,
and, after vehemently eulogizing the book, he con
 cluded by declaring, that not having been able to
 purchase it when it first came into his hands, he had
 actually transcribed the whole of it. His surprise
 and delight were extreme, when, in reply to this
appeal, his friend told him that he was himself the
author of the work.     " And here," exclaimed
                                                  Barry,
taking a bundle of papers from his pocket,      " is the
very copy   I made of it with my own hand."     All the
truth that there probably is in this story is merely
that Barry quoted Burke's own essay in reply to
some of that gentleman's arguments.          He could
hardly have been ignorant that Burke was the author
of the work, which had been published so far back as
 1757, at least five or six years before the interview
in question is stated to have occurred.
    But Burke did not satisfy himself with merely
bestowing upon his young countryman the patronage
of his favourable regard. Although, at this time,
his income was an extremely limited one, he most
generously undertook to provide the means of send
ing Barry to Italy, and supporting him there while
he nourished and matured his genius by the study
of the works of the great masters.        Accordingly,
after he had been seven or eight months in Dublin,
the young artist proceeded, at Burke's invitation, to
London, where the latter now resided. For a short
time he was occupied in making copies of some
paintings in oil for James Stuart, the author of the
" Antiquities of Athens ; " an employment which
 Burke procured for him, and which was well calcu
lated to improve him in his art. In the end of the
year 1765 he left London for the continent, and,
passing through France, proceeded to Rome.           He
remained absent from England about six years in all,
during the whole of which time Burke, assisted by

162        THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
his two brothers, supplied the funds necessary for
his support.   During his residence at Rome Barry
was not idle  — that, with all his faults, he never was
at any time of his life— but his studies were not
always directed so wisely as they might have been to
the object which he ought to have had principally in
view ; and his unfortunate temper involved him in
continual quarrels with his brother students. He
received from Burke the best advice, administered in
the kindest manner; but all failed to have much
effect.
    He made his re-appearance in London in the be
ginning of the year 1771, and immediately pro
ceeded to give proof of his improved powers by
painting some pictures, which he exhibited.      But it
was not his fortune to meet with much applause.
All  his performances were characterized by certain
obvious defects of execution, which struck every
body, while their merits were frequently not of a
kind to be appreciated by the multitude. Among
other pictures he painted one, in 1776, on the death
of Wolfe, in which, as had been usual in such pieces,
the combatants were represented naked, it being in
those days held impossible to preserve any heroic effect
where modern costume was introduced.           But just
at this time West produced his noble picture on the
same subject, in which all the figures were painted
dressed as they had actually been ; and the force of
 nature and truth carried it over the scruples of criti
 cism. Barry's performance was found quite unequal
to sustain any competition, in point of attraction,
with its rival.     This and many other disappoint
ments he had to bear ; nor were those the least ot
 his vexations which he brought upon himself by his
 own absurd and ungovernable temper.            He had
been before this time chosen an Associate of the
Royal Academy, but he had already quarrelled with

                         BARRY.                     163
 the Council.    His wayward and ungrateful conduct
 at length well nigh tired out even the friendship of
 Burke. To add to all this, his pencil, his only re
 source, brought him but the scantiest returns ; and
 his days were darkened by the miseries of severe
 poverty.
    Yet all did not crush his spirit. While struggling
with these complicated distresses, he continued to
worship his art with as warm an enthusiasm as ever.
In a letter, written when he was in Italy, to his
friend Dr. Hugh, he had said, " My hopes are
grounded in a most unwearied, intense application ;
I   every day centre more and more in my art ;        I
give myself totally to it ; and, except honour and
conscience, am determined to renounce everything
else."    In addressing himself, about the same time,
to another friend, he exclaims, in touching antici
pation of the fate that awaited him,
                                       " O, I could be
happy, on my going home, to find some corner
where   I  could sit down in the middle of my studies,
books, and casts after the antique, to paint this work
and others, where I might have models of nature
when necessary, bread and soup, and a coat to cover
me."     He had now hardly the prospect of securing
even these humble accommodations, when he never
theless determined, for the honour of historic paint
ing, to devote himself to the accomplishment of a
great work, requiring much time and labour, and
holding out to him at the best only a scanty, distant,
and precarious remuneration.       He proposed to the
Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Manufac
tures, and Commerce, to adorn their great room in
the Adelphi with a series of compositions on some
appropriate subject by his own hand, on condition
only of being allowed to choose his subject, and of
being provided with the necessary canvas, paints,
and models. This was in the year 1777.         He had

;i64         THE PORSl'lT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 just before published an elaborate work in refutation
 of the theories of some continental critics, who had
 maintained the impossibility of the higher style of
 art ever flourishing in England, on account of the
 climate being too northerly and cold ; and he now
 thought himself bound, he informs us, to follow up
  his argumentative vindication of the national genius
 by a proof of what it could produce,
                                                " in duty,"
             " to the country, to art, and to my own
  says he,
 character." He calculated that this work would cost
  him the constant labour of two years, and he knew
 that he must, during all that time, procure himself
 the means of existence by additional toil in hours
 stolen from sleep.     But the prospect of these things
had no power to deter him.        With only sixteen shil
lings in his pocket he entered upon his undertaking,
determined, if only life should be granted him, to
accomplish it upon the terms he had proposed.
    And he would probably have been able to keep to
the letter of his engagement, if the work had cost
him no longer time than he originally contemplated.
But, although he laboured diligently and unceasingly,
he found it impossible to finish it in less than six
 years, instead of the two which he had thought
 would be sufficient. The subject which he chose
  was the Progress of Human Improvement, which he
  represented in a series of six pictures.      Of these he
  intended the first to be emblematical of the savage
  state, or rather of the earliest dawn of civilization,
  when the chase was the only employment of men,
  and their rude natures were just beginning to be
  attempered to the influences of religion, law, and
  music ; the second, of the age of agriculture ; the
  third, of the establishment of civil polity, and the reign
  of literature, science, and the arts ; the fourth, of the
  modern triumphs of navigation ; the fifth, of the
  age of manufactures and commerce ; and the last,

                         BARRY.                      165
of Elysium, or   the immortal    happiness of the great
 and good in a future state of existence. The con
 ception of these different compositions displays con
 siderable learning and ingenuity ; but the subject
attempted to be illustrated scarcely lies, perhaps,
within the legitimate province of painting.      At any
rate it has been generally felt that Barry's allusive
 groups and figures often shadow forth but very
dimly and imperfectly what he means them to repre
sent ; and, indeed, that without his own printed ex
planations they would be sometimes nearly unintel
ligible. If, however, he overrated his own powers,
or those of his art, in undertaking this task, the
manner in which he prosecuted and accomplished it
(in so far as he found its accomplishment possible)
must be allowed to form as fine a display of zeal,
disinterestedness, self-denial, and heroic perseverance
as is anywhere to be found on record. During the
six years which he was employed in the execution of
these pictures, the enthusiastic artist led, voluntarily
and contentedly, a life of incessant toil and privation.
Wearing, as usual, the coarsest clothes, and living
 upon the humblest fare, his limited personal expenses
still compelled him, not unfrequently, after working
ten hours at the Adelphi, to sit up half the night
painting or engraving something for the booksellers,
with the price of which he might purchase bread for
the following day.    At last, however, he was obliged
to make an application to the Society of Arts for
some assistance to enable him to continue his labours,
and, after some delay, they voted him a hundred
guineas.    They also presented him with two hundred
guineas more on the conclusion of his undertaking,
 and permitted him to exhibit the pictures to the
 public, by which he realized about five hundred
 pounds.    These sums, together with about two hun
 dred and fifty pounds more, which he derived from

  166        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 the admiration of a few affluent individuals, formed
 all the remuneration he received for his six years'
 labours ; but, inadequate as it was, it was more than
 he had counted upon.     It deserves to be mentioned
 to the credit of Barry's prudence, that, as soon as
 he obtained this money, he placed it in the funds,
not having, it would appear, even during the long
period he had existed almost without any income at
 all, incurred any debts which it was now necessary
for him to discharge. He thus secured an income
for the rest of his life, which, although small, was
an independence     to a person of his economical
habits ; and, indeed, added to the fruits of his daily
industry, it enabled him afterwards to save money.
    Barry lived for many years after the completion of
these paintings at the Adelphi, during which he con
tinued his studies and his professional labours as
assiduously as ever, and, although not much encou
raged by popular favour, produced numerous works
of various degrees of merit. While yet engaged with
his great undertaking which has just been described,
he was elected Professor of Painting to the Royal
Academy ; and, as soon as he had finished the pic
tures, he commenced his lectures.     He also, in the
course of his life, published various literary works,
which, together with his Lecturesand Correspondence,
have been collected since his death, and form two
volumes quarto. He died in February, 1806, having
been suddenly attacked by a pleuritic fever, which
carried him off in a few days, in the sixty-fifth year
of his age.
    The biographies of many men are as instruc
tive from the details which they present of the un
happy consequences that have flowed from errors of
conduct or constitutional failings, as those of others
are from their pictures of success won by merit.   To
the young and inexperienced, lessons of warning are

                          BARRY,                     167
as necessary as lessons of encouragement. It often
happens that great excellences are combined in the
same individual with great defects ; and it is exceed
ingly requisite that, while he is taught and made to
feel what may be accomplished by a due application
of the one, it should also be deeply impressed upon
him that the other, if indulged or allowed to remain
uncorrected, may render the best abilities, and even
the most arduous exertions, useless.       The utter in
sufficiency of mere talent, indeed, to attain either in
dependence or honourable distinction, when unaccom
panied by habits of industry and perseverance, has
been too often exemplified to make it necessary that
we should cite any instances in proof of it. Even
the highest powers unemployed must remain unpro
ductive. But the history of Barry illustrates another
case which also sometimes occurs — that of a person
who, uniting great capacity and unwearied applica
tion, still fails in obtaining the success he might have
expected, from the want of other qualities.          The
deficiencies and mistakes of this able man were
chiefly such as are peculiarly apt to mark the temper
and conduct of persons who, in early life, have been
entirely or principally their own instructors.      Such
persons, before entering the real world, in which they
must mix with their fellow-men, have commonly
created, as it were, around themselves a world of
their own, to which all their notions and habits are
accommodated, having been there, in fact, formed
and learned. Their associates in ordinary life have
not hitherto acquired any of their respect, by having
guided or assisted, or even participated with them in
 those studies which they have pursued with so much
 ardour.     They have here had to do everything for
themselves, and have found themselves sufficient for
everything.       From all this naturally springs some
weakness, as well as much strength. On the one

168         THE PURSUIT    OK KNOWLEDGE.
hand proceed an independence and self-reliance, both
moral and intellectual, begetting generally a manner
of thinking unusually manly and unprejudiced, and
sometimes considerable originality of view. But, on
the other, arise an ignorance of the actual world and
of mankind, an undue impatience of and contempt
for the ordinary conventional forms and arrange
ments of society (which are all founded upon the
principle of mutual concession among many variously
fashioned or variously feeling minds), a bigotry in
favour of certain peculiar notions which will brook
neither contradiction nor advice ; in one word, such
an excess of the spirit of confidence and aver
sion to control, as amounts sometimes to positive
perversity and wilfulness.    The character of Barry
exhibited, in strong relief, both the good and the
bad qualities we have mentioned. The love of his
art was with him a passion.     He pursued, through
out his life, the study and the practice of it with a
zeal and a laborious application which no difficulties
and no discouragements could abate.      He possessed
in sufficient measure that trust in his own powers,
without which nothing great can be either achieved
or attempted.    And he both thought and wrote with
a force and decision which shewed a mind unenervated
by the habit of taking its opinions from others, and
capable of stamping its own impress upon whatever
subject it investigated.    But this masculine energy
and hardihood of nature, from having been allowed
to grow up undisciplined, very early degenerated into
a species of recklessness and ferocity, which proved
the blight of his genius and the curse of his existence.
 His arrogance and infirmity of temper, as well as
his imprudence and his extraordinary ignorance of
the world, shewed themselves almost in the very com
mencement of his career. Scarcely had he set his foot
in Rome, when he discovered (to his own satisfaction)

                          BARRY.                    169
that all the principles and maxims there recognized
with regard to the art he came to study were stupidly
 wrong, and he forthwith not only denounced them as
 such, but quarrelled with every body who chose to
 stand up in their defence. It is possible that he may
 have been right in this judgment; but somewhat more
 of forbearance in the expression of it,   and of tolera
tion for the opposite opinion, would have savoured
 both of charity and of wisdom. From something
 of the same spirit of opposition and contumacy, he
would not, while here, pursue the same method of
study as his brother artists;   but, instead of employ
ing himself in making drawings of the works of the
great masters with his hand, he satisfied himself with
taking fac-similies of them by an instrument. He
even spent much of his time, as we have already men
tioned, in the investigation of subjects hardly con
nected at all with his proper occupation. All this
while he had, in his friend Burke, an invaluable
monitor, whose counsels continued to be tendered to
the last with a frankness, and, at the same time, a
delicacy in the manner, only equalled by the admirable
wisdom of the matter.        But, although he felt the
kindness, and, at times, even the good sense of the
advice he received,  it   certainly produced no effect
upon his conduct.      On his return to England, as we
have seen, he acted in the same manner as he had
done at Rome — attacking and quarrelling with every
body, insisting upon having his own way in every
thing, too often apparently out of a spirit of selfish
ness, or the mere love of dispute and opposition, and,
in short, in his whole conduct regarding nothing
save his own humours and impetuous impulses.          To
deport himself after this fashion, he seems to have
thought was    a  privilege he possessed as a man of
genius  —  a weak mistake, which,  if   his genius had
been of the highest kind, he never would have fallen
  VOL.   II.                               Q

170       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
into. How much truer a wisdom than that which
his own ill-regulated temper and childish notions of
dignity suggested to him, might he have found in a
few sentences of one of the letters addressed to him by
Burke, a short time before he returned from Italy :
" Believe me, my dear Barry," writes this considerate
friend, " that the arms with which the ill disposi
tions of the world are to be combated, and the quali
ties by which it is to be reconciled to us, and we
reconciled to  it,are moderation, gentleness, a little
indulgence to others, and a great deal of distrust of
ourselves ;  which are not qualities of a mean spirit,
as some may possibly think them, but virtues of a
great and noble kind, and such as dignify our nature
as much as they contribute to our repose and fortune;
for nothing can be so unworthy of     a   well-composed
soul as to pass away life in bickerings and litigations;
in snarling and scuffling with every one about us.
Again and again, my dear Barry, we must be at
peace with our species, if  not for their sakes, yet very
much for our own."
    We have recently lost    a    distinguished painter,
whose name    it will be expected that we should notice
here, as being that of one who, like the others we
 have mentioned, also acquired his art without an in
 structor — we mean the late Sir Thomas Lawrence.
 The boyhood of this great artist exhibited almost as
remarkable an instance of the precocious developement
 of talent as any on record. He was born in 1769,
 being the youngest of a family of sixteen children.
 His father had been bred an attorney, but had after
 wards become an excise officer, and when his son
 Thomas was born was an innkeeper at Bristol which
                                                ;
city, however, being unsuccessful in his business, he
left  a few years subsequent to this event, and esta
 blished himself in the same capacity at Devizes. He
 appears to have been a strange character, as, indeed,

                        LAWRENCE.                     171
 this outline of his history would itself lead us to sup
 pose. His ruling passion, it seems, was a love of
 poetry ; and this he carried so far as not only to
 spend much of his own time in writing verses, but
 often to insist that his guests also should postpone
 all other affairs to listen to his effusions.    How he
found this sort of treatment to answer in attracting
 or attaching customers to his house, may be easily
 conceived.    All who did not prefer such intellectual
banquets to more substantial fare, gradually deserted
this rhyming innkeeper, by whom, of course, many
matters of considerable, though merely terrestrial, im
portance, were apt to be neglected, while he was
employed in the service of the muses.          The conse
 quence was, that in six or seven years this second
 speculation also failed, and old Lawrence was once
more ready for a change of residence, if not of pro
 fession.
    Long before this, however, his son Thomas had
become famous in the neighbourhood as a little pro
digy.     He was a very beautiful boy, and had been
remarkable from infancy for his sprightly and winning
manners.      His father, whose favourite he was, had
early taught him to recite poetry ; and when the
child was only four or five years old, it was common
for him to be presented by his partial parent to all
strangers who visited the house, to exhibit to them
his proficiency in this accomplishment. But, even at
this very early age, he had acquired considerable mas
tery in an art more difficult than that of spouting
verses. He was able already to use his pencil, and to
take likenesses.    This art he had acquired entirely
            —
of himself if we should not rather say that, appear
ing as it did with the very commencing developement
of his intellectual powers, it was more a faculty born
with him than an art which he had to learn.            It
was several years after he began to draw before he

172        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
had an opportunity of seeing a good painting.        He
had not only,     therefore,  to form himself merely by
copying nature, but to invent the mechanical pro
cesses of his art by his own ingenuity, without either
a master or a model.         Yet the portraits which he
sketched even so early as his fifth year, are affirmed
to have been generally happy likenesses ; and one of
Lady Kenyon, which he executed at this period, is
particularly recorded as having been at once recog
nized when shewn to a friend of her ladyship
twenty-five years after.
   At the age of six he was sent to school, but he
was only allowed to remain two years ; and this, with
the exception of a few lessons in Latin and French
some time afterwards, was all the education he ever
received.   The uncommon talents he had displayed
had now made him generally known ; and one gen
tleman generously offered to defray the expense of
maintaining him for some years in Italy, that such
extraordinary natural powers might not be deprived
of the advantages of the best possible cultivation.
But his father had very absurdly taken it into his head
that instruction would only cramp and weaken his
son's genius ; or, at least, he chose to say that such
was his opinion : and, upon this pretext, he not only
refused to permit him to go to Rome, but would not
even hear of his taking lessons from a master in his
own country. He allowed him, however, to visit the
houses of some of the neighbouring gentry, where he
saw some good pictures ; and these first gave him
an idea of historical painting.       He copied various
pieces of this class, and at last produced several origi
nal compositions of his own.
   His father had, probably for some time before
leaving Devizes, resolved to make an attempt to turn
his son's singular talents to some account ; and it
may have been partly with this view that he declined

                       LAWRENCE.                     173
 allowing any lessons to be given to the boy.        He
 considered, of course, that he would attract more
 wonder by being presented to the public as an entirely
 self-taught genius, than if it should have to be ac
 knowledged that he had derived any part of his skill
 from the instructions of others.     When Mr. Law
 rence gave up his inn at Devizes, Thomas was about
ten years of age.    The whole family immediately pro
 ceeded   to Oxford.   As soon as they arrived in this
city the boy's qualifications were announced ; and
 numbers soon thronged to him to have their like
 nesses taken.    The commencement of the specula
tion was thus sufficiently successful. From Oxford
they removed to Salisbury, and thence to Wey
mouth ; and at both places the talents of the young
artist reaped a considerable harvest.      At last, in
 1782, Mr. Lawrence proceeded with his son, and the
rest of his family, to Bath, where he proposed to fix
his future residence.     Thomas was at this time in
 his thirteenth year.
    On his arrival in Bath he found the persons of
 distinction assembled in that fashionable place of re
 sort familiar with his name and his extraordinary
abilities ; and sitters soon came to him in such num
bers, that he raised the price of his crayon portraits
from a guinea to a guinea and a half.      Some of the
persons by whom he was noticed,        also,  possessed
valuable collections of pictures, — and these he used
to employ much of his time in studying and copying.
Among other copies which he made was one of the
Transfiguration by Raphael.     This he sent to the So
ciety of Arts ; and although, in consequence of an
informality, it was found not to be admissible as a
competitor for any of the regular prizes, the Society
were so much struck by its merits that they bestowed
upon the young artist their large silver palette, gilt,
and five guineas in money.

  174        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
     He remained at Bath about six years; and, during
  the whole of this time, young as he was, he was
  the sole support of his father and the rest of the fa
  mily.   He is said to have worked regularly in paint
  ing portraits at least four hours every day, — besides
  which, he spent much time in studies and voluntary
  exercises connected with his art.     At last his father,
 to whom he had so long brought a considerable in
 come, either thinking that his labours might be made
 still more profitable in a larger field, or perhaps pre
 vailed upon by the remonstrances of the young man
 himself, determined to remove his establishment to
 London. The family arrived here in 1787, when
 Thomas was in his eighteenth year.        His coming to
 London at this time was undoubtedly a fortunate
 event in every way for the artist.    The folly, or more
 interested views, of his father had hitherto withheld
 from him all the ordinary means of improvement in
 his profession ; but he himself, it is understood, with
 more good sense, felt anxiously desirous to be able to
 avail himself of better opportunities of study than he
 could enjoy in the country. When he found himself
 in London, accordingly, he hastened to procure ad
 mission as a student at the Royal Academy.            He
 also got himself introduced to Sir Joshua Reynolds,
 to whom, then in the height of his fame, his father
 would seem to have intended that he should at once
 set up as a rival, — having, in the first instance, esta
 blished him in an expensive suite of apartments in
 Leicester square, in the immediate neighbourhood of
 the rooms of the great painter.     In this matter also,
 however, his son acted more modestly, and more
 wisely. He sought access to Sir Joshua's study with
one of his performances in his hand — submitted the
 picture to his inspection — and listened to his remarks
 with the attention and deference of one who both
 knew their value and how to profit by them. He

                             LAWRENCE.                         175
  also very soon removed from Leicester square to
  less splendid lodgings in Tavistock street, Covent
  Garden.
      Such was the early history of Sir Thomas Law
  rence *. His subsequent career, as all know, was one
  of great brilliancy. He was elected a Royal Associate
  in 1791. On the death of Sir Joshua Reynolds, the
 following year, he was appointed his successor in the
 offices of painter to his Majesty and to the Dilettanti
  Society. From this time his reputation grew steadily,
 till he came to be generally acknowledged the first
 portrait-painter of the age.          In 1815, the honour of
 knighthood was bestowed upon him by the Prince
 Regent.        The preceding year, on the visit of the
 foreign Sovereigns to this country, he had received
 his Royal Highness's commands to take the like
 nesses of these personages, and some of the more
 distinguished individuals in their suite ; and, during
their stay, he finished the portraits of the King of
 Prussia, Field-marshal Blucher, and the Hetman
Platoff.     Four years afterwards, on occasion of the
 Congress at Aix-la-Chapelle, he repaired to that city,
where he painted the Emperor Alexander ; and, pro
ceeding from thence to Vienna, he there completed
portraits of the Emperor of Austria, the Archdukes,
Prince Metternich, and other distinguished persons
belonging to that court.           From Vienna he went to
Rome, where he arrived in May 1819. Here he
painted the Pope, Pius VII., and Cardinal Gon-
salvi. He remained in Rome for several months,
during which he received the most gratifying testi
monies of respect and admiration from his brother
artists there, and it was the month of April 1820
    * For a more    detailed account of the youth and subsequent
progress   of  this  eminent painter, we must refer the reader to
the first volume of the Juvenile Library, which contains the
fullest narrative of his life that has yet appeared.

176         THE PURSUIT    OF KNOWLEDGE.
before he returned to England. The very day before
he arrived in town he had been unanimously elected
to the Presidency of the Royal Academy, as succes
sor to Mr. West. This distinguished office he con
tinued to hold till his sudden and lamented death, on
the 7th of January, 1830.      Only the day before this
event happened, he had worked for some time in his
study, as usual ; and even a few minutes before he
 expired, he had been conversing cheerfully with
some friends who had spent the evening with him,
on the art which he loved, and which it was then
little thought by any of them he would so soon cease
to adorn.
    Gifted as he was with such an extraordinary na
tural capacity for his art as to have been in reality a
miracle of precocity, Sir Thomas Lawrence does not
furnish us with an example so valuable as many
others we have quoted, with reference to the peculiar
object of the present work.     His first acquisitions in
the line in which he afterwards so greatly distin
guished himself, were not made either through la
borious application, or in the face of any uncommon
difficulties ; but rather by a happy innate skill and
facility, which enabled him to paint and draw like
nesses almost as soon as his hand could hold a pen
cil, and with something approaching to the same un
consciousness and absence of effort, with which in
other men the limbs obey the impulse of volition in
their most ordinary movements.      But still his history
is not altogether uninstructive, even as a lesson on
the subject of the pursuit of knowledge.       Although
in his earliest efforts he met with no opposition, but
on the contrary, with abundance of encouragement
and applause, from his father, we have seen the re
sistance which that person afterwards offered to every
plan which was proposed for his son's improvement ;
and it is to be taken, therefore, as an evidence both

                       LAWRENCE.                    177
 of  great good sense and no ordinary firmness on the
 part of the son, that, not intoxicated either by the
flatteries which had been lavished upon him, or by
 the decided success which had crowned even his yet
 imperfect performances, he felt, what his parent did
 not, how useful study and instruction might be to
 him, and, as soon as it was in his power, took mea
 sures of his own accord to secure both.      Had this
 eminent artist, indeed, not possessed many other
 superior qualities beside his talent as a painter, the
education which he received in his boyhood, suited
as it was to force out his genius into brilliant but
premature display, would, in other respects, have
been productive of very unfortunate effects on both
his professional and his general character.   He must
have been very active in availing himself of such op
portunities as his after life presented for repairing
the injuries of his early training.    He is one of a
very few of our great English painters (Gainsborough
was another) who have attained to eminence in their
art, without having enjoyed the advantage of an early
residence in the country which contains the principal
works of the great masters.      Sir Thomas Lawrence
never visited Italy till he went there, as we have
mentioned, on his return from Vienna, in 1819,
when he was fifty years of age. This was one mis
fortune which he owed entirely to the obstinacy of his
father. Considering the very scanty education, too,
which he received in the ordinary branches of learn
ing, the respectable measure of literary information
of which he afterwards made himself master de
serves to be mentioned to his credit.    Although not
what is commonly called a scholar, he was well ac
quainted, we are told, with the best English authors ;
and had taken great pains to obtain a knowledge of
classical and foreign works, in so far as they were
accessible to him through translations.    Finally, the

  178        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 sober and rational equability of temper and conduct,
 so opposite both to the low excesses of Morland and
 the morbid cynicism of Barry, which this distinguished
artist preserved throughout his life, notwithstanding
 his early exposure to so many influences well calcu
lated to corrupt both his understanding and his heart,
forms another ground on account of which his ex
ample is exceedingly worthy of being held up to the
imitation of all, and especially of such as may have
to tread a path so perilous as his, in the commence
ment of life.

                          Chapter       VIII.
Foreign Painters — Giotto ; Grenze j Ehret  ;   Solario. — Other fultivators
                  of the Fine Arts — Canova   ; Bewick.
If we    were to go over the long catalogue of foreign
painters, we should find many names to add to those
we have already enumerated of individuals who have
attained the highest distinction after acquiring their
art originally without a teacher, or practising it for a
considerable time in unnoticed obscurity. Giotto, for
instance, one of the great revivers of the art in the
beginning of the fourteenth century, was the son of a
peasant in the village of Vespignano, near Florence,
and was employed, when a boy, in tending sheep.
While in this condition, he was one day found by
Cimabue drawing the figure of one of his flock on a
large stone which lay on the ground ; and that
master (the first who practised anything deserving to
be called painting in modern Europe) was so much
pleased with this attempt, that he took the boy with
him to Florence, and carefully instructed him in his
art, in as far as he knew it himself.                     Giotto after
wards greatly surpassed his master, and, indeed,
had no equal in his own age, either as a painter or a
sculptor.     Or to descend to much later times, Batoni,
the principal artist whom Italy produced in the last
century, taught himself painting while working with
his father as a goldsmith ; and, although he after
ward s went to study at Rome (being sent there by some
admirers of his genius, who subscribed to defray the
expense of his residence) he merely availed himself
of this opportunity to copy some of the works of the
great masters, and to pursue the acquisition of his

 180         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
art under the direction of his own taste and judg
ment. His contemporary, Greuze, whom the French
reckon their most eminent portrait-painter of that
day, and     who obtained besides great fame for his
compositions from humble life, was likewise a self-
taught artist. Having begun at a very early age, we
are told, to cover the walls and furniture of the house
with his sketches, he was strictly forbidden by his
father to continue that amusement.       But the bias of
his genius was too strong for the paternal interdic
tion ; and he was again and again found with his
chalk or charcoal in his hand, and busy at his old
employment. At last, one day, when his father had
been scolding him on this account, a painter of the
name of Grandon, from Lyons, happened to pay
them a visit (they lived in the town of Tournus
in Burgundy, at no great distance from that city) ;
and it was agreed by all parties that young Greuze
should be taken home by him to Lyons, and regularly
instructed in the art to which he had shewn so strong
an attachment.      It is affirmed, however, that he was
already nearly as good a painter as the master to
whom he was thus consigned, and that in his subse
quent progress also he was chiefly his own instructor.
Another artist of the same period, distinguished in
a different line, George Dionysius Ehret, whose
admirable drawings of botanical objects are so well
 known from the engravings in the Hortus Cliffbrti-
unus and other splendid works, was the son of a
 working-gardener, employed in the gardens of one of
 the minor German princes, and, when a boy, acquired
 his skill in delineating flowers so entirely by his own
 efforts, and, it may be even added, with so little
 consciousness of the progress he was making, that he
 had formed a valuable collection of the productions of
 his pencil before he was aware that his labours were
 worth anything. Dr. Trew, a physician of Nurem

                         EHRET.                     181
berg, had accidentally heard of him ; and, having
desired to see his drawings, found that he had
already executed representations of about five hundred
plants in a style of extraordinary excellence.   These
paintings had been merely the amusement of the
young and self-taught artist ; and his surprise may
be conceived when Dr. Trew offered to purchase
them from him for four thousand florins, or above
two hundred and fifty pounds sterling. Even the
money was not so welcome as the assurance thus
given him of the value of a talent which he had
hitherto rated so lightly.   Ehret, who from this mo
ment determined upon making botanical drawing
his profession, eventually, as we have mentioned,
earned the highest distinction in this line of art—
especially after the intimate acquaintance he formed
with the celebrated Linnaeus, who directed his atten
tion to the importance of minute fidelity in deli
neating some of the details of vegetable nature, which
he had been accustomed too much to overlook.
After having resided in different parts of the Conti
nent, he came to England in 1740, when he was
about thirty years of age, and remained in this coun
try till his death, in 1770.  He had educated himself
diligently in other branches of literature and science,
as well as in those immediately connected with his
profession, and had been a Fellow of the Royal
Society many years before his death.
    To these instances we may add the strange and
romantic story of the Italian painter, Antonio de So-
 lario, commonly called II Zingaro, or The Gipsey, to
which, after it had been long almost forgotten, atten
tion has very recently been recalled, in consequence
 of the discovery of one of the artist's paintings at
Venice. On this painting, which was purchased from
a dealer by the Abbe Louis Celottiof that city, Sola-
 rio designates himself a Venetian; and the circum-
    VOL.  II.                                it

  182         THE PCRSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
  stance appears to have been received as matter of no
  small gratification and triumph by those who consi
 der themselves as hence entitled to claim him as their
 countryman.       A Signor Moschini has published a
 small pamphlet* upon the subject, which he dedi
 cates to the Abbt5 Celotti, and in which he details
 the particulars of Solario's history, as they are given
 in Bernardo Dominici's " Lives of the Neapolitan
 Painters," one of the few writers by whom even his
 name had heretofore been noticed. Dominici, how
 ever, represents him as having been a native of the
 province     of Abruzzo,     in Naples    ;   and Moschini
 therefore addresses himself, in the first place, to
 refute this error, as he conceives it to be, and to
 maintain the claim of Venice to the honour of having
been the Gipsey's birth-place.         His argument upon
 this point, though rather long, issues, after all, merely
in a reference to the inscription upon the Abbe"
 Celotti's picture, which, in the absence of all other
direct evidence, he contends ought to settle the ques
tion. But, wherever he may have been born, it is
 agreed on all hands that Solario was originally a
gipsey, or wandering tinker, and that it was in this
character he first made his appearance at Naples in
the beginning of the fifteenth century.           He was, at
this time, in the twenty-seventh year of his age,
having been born, it is said, although about this date
there is some doubt, in the year 1382.            While here,
he chanced to be employed to do some work in the
way of his craft by a painter of the name of Colan-
tonio del Fiore.      This painter had a very beautiful
daughter ; the young lady was seen by Solario ; and
the tinker at once felt deeply in love with her.                It
was taking a bold step, certainly, and one not very
likely to be successful; but, impelled by his passion,
    * Memorie della Vita di Antonio de Solario, detto" il Zingaro,
Pittore Viniziauo.  Venezia, 1828.

                         SOLARIO.                    183
the enamoured Solario determined to ask the lady
from her father in marriage. His application was
 treated with ridicule by Colantonio ; who, by way of
 effectually extinguishing the poor gipsey's hopes, told
 him that he meant to bestow his daughter only upon
 some one who was as good a painter as himself.
 Then will you accept of me, said Solario, for your
son-in-law, if after a certain time      I shall present
myself to you with that qualification   ?  Will you give
me ten years      to  learn to paint, and so to entitle
myself to the hand of your daughter? Colantonio
thought that he would not hazard much by assenting
to this proposal, by which he would at least rid
himself for the present, and for a considerable time to
come, of his importunate suitor, whose pertinacity
and earnestness began somewhat to alarm him ; and
so, not greatly apprehending that he should ever
hear more of him, he assured the tinker, that, if he
came back within the period in question transformed
into a painter, the young lady should be his. Before
this, the story relates, Solario had, by some means or
other, obtained the attention and favour of the King's
sister ; and he now insisted that Colantonio should
go with him to that princess, and, in her presence,
renew his covenant. Somewhat more favourably im
pressed towards his proposed son-in-law, probably, by
being made aware of the interest he had at court, the
painter agreed to this also ; and the princess accord
ingly became the witness of the solemn ratification of
his engagement. Having settled the matter thus far,
Solario immediately left Naples, for Colantonio had
stipulated that he should remove to a distance while
acquiring his new accomplishments ; and, in the first
instance, he proceeded directly to Rome. Here, how
ever, he could not find an instructor to his mind ; but
he heard much talk of Lippo Dalmasi, who resided at
 Bologna, and thither therefore he determined to
                                           R 2

184        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
betake   himself.   On finding Lippo, and telling him
his object, he received at first from that person only
an urgent exhortation to think no more of so wild a
plan, and to trust to the efficacy of time and absence
to cure his passion ; but Solario continued to press
his application so perseveringly, employing even tears
to aid his entreaties, that the reluctant painter was at
last prevailed upon to admit him as his pupil. To
the ardent Solario it now seemed as if all his difficul
ties were over. From the moment in which he began
to receive Lippo's instructions, his application was
unceasing. Awkward as he was at first, he soon
became the admiration and envy of his fellow-stu
dents ; and even his master himself now advised him
to persevere in his new career, as earnestly as he had
formerly endeavoured to dissuade him from entering
upon it. He remained six or seven years with Lippo,
and then left Bologna to visit the other principal
towns of Italy, with the view of improving himself in
his art by studying        the various styles of other
 painters.   In this peregrination he spent nearly
three years, during which he visited, among other
places, Florence, Ferrara, and Venice; and then
returned once more to Naples, after an absence of
 nine years and some months.         He first presented
 himself to one of the gentlemen attached to the court,
 whose picture he drew, and by his means he was in
 troduced to the presence of his old friend, the princess,
 who would seem by this time to have ascended the
 throne. Changed as he was in outward appearance,
 as in everything else, he was not recognized by his
 former patroness ; but a Madonna and Child, of his
 own drawing, which he offered to her, was graciously
 accepted.    When her majesty had expressed her
 approbation of this picture, the painter threw himself
 at her feet, and ventured to ask her if she did not
 recollect the wandering gipsey, who ten years before

                         SOLARIO.                    185
 had had the honour of being admitted to her pre
sence,  and   in whose fortune she had then been
pleased to take an interest. After recognizing him, the
queen, at first, would scarcely believe that he had
really painted the picture he had given her ; but, on
his executing in her presence a portrait of herself,
she no longer doubted the truth of his pretensions.
She then sent for Colantonio, and, having submitted
the pictures to his inspection, desired him to tell her
what he thought of them. Colantonio extolled them
both to the skies.     On this her majesty asked him
whether he would not rather give his daughter to
the artist whose productions were now before him,
than wait any longer for the return of the gipsey, of
whom he had heard nothing for so many years ?
Too glad of such an opportunity of escaping from
his engagement, the Neapolitan painter eagerly ex
pressed his assent to this proposal ; when her
majesty, calling to Solario to step forward from his
place of concealment behind a curtain, where he had
heard all that passed, at once solved the mystery.
We need scarcely add the conclusion of the story.
Solario received his well-earned bride ; the father,
as he put her hand in his, remarking that, if not his
ancestry, at least his art deserved her.    Solario was
soon after this appointed painter to the Neapolitan
Court. During the remainder of his life he executed
many works, which placed him in the very first rank
of the painters of that age. In particular his series
of pictures in fresco, illustrative of the life of St.
Benedict, in the church of the convent of St. Seve-
rinus, at Naples, long excited universal admiration ;
and, even in the half-defaced state in which they at
present exist, testify the extraordinary powers of the
artist. These frescos, however, he left unfinished at
his death, in 1455.      The picture by Solario which
the Abbe Celotti has lately recovered, and of which
                                        r3

186          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
an engraving is given in Signor Moschini's pamphlet,
is considered as fully sustaining the artist's tradition
ary fame.     As for the history which we have just
detailed, it is not improbably indebted to the popular
love of the marvellous for some portion of the shape
in which it has come down to us ; but there can be
little doubt that it is, in the main, founded upon fact.
The reader will remark its similarity to that of
 Matsys, the Flemish painter, whom we mentioned in
 our former volume* ; and, if both relations be true,
 seldom, certainly, has love had to boast of a greater
 or worthier triumph than those it achieved in the
 cases of the Italian tinker and the blacksmith of
 Antwerp.
     But we cannot afford to notice any more of the
 numerous instances, suitable to our purpose, which
 the biography of painters would supply.         We shall
 mention only one name from a kindred department of
 art— that of the eminent sculptor, Canova. He was
 also, in great part, a self-taught artist.   Canova was
 born, in 1757, at a small village situated in the
 Venetian territory.      His father was a stone-cutter,
 and died when      Antonio,     who was his only child,
 was in his third year. His mother, in a few months,
 married again, and, removing to another village, left
 the child, who was of a very delicate frame of body,
 with his paternal grandfather and grandmother.      This
 turned   out by no means the most unfortunate thing
 that could have happened to Antonio ; for his grand
 father, whose name was Pasino, although only a
 stone-cutter, was a man of very great intelligence
 and ingenuity, and, by all accounts, much better
 qualified at least to kindle to its first love of art the
 genius of the future sculptor than his own father,
 had he lived, would probably have been.          Pasino's
 wife Catherina, too, took the most tender care of her
                        * Vol. i. p. 57.

                       CANOVA.                     187
little grandson. He was, indeed, the delight of the
good old people ; and while he was yet almost a
child, Pasino, who, as we have just said, was accom
plished much beyond the generality of his class, had
taught him the elements of drawing, and had even
set him to model in clay, and to shape little frag
ments of marble into the figures of the more simple
and easy inanimate objects.     The young artist, on
his part, had no delight anywhere but in his grand
father's workshop, unless it was, after the hours of
labour, to listen to the tales and ballads recited to
him by his grandmother.        So early as his ninth
year, indeed, Pasino employed him as a regular
workman, and he continued to be so employed till
he was twelve.     During these three years he had
been often in the habit of accompanying his grand
father to execute repairs at the houses of the neigh
bouring proprietors, several of whom were Venetian
noblemen, who had their country residences in this
district.   Among these was the Signor Giovanni
Falieri, a gentleman of cultivated taste, who, after
having frequently seen the boy, was so much pleased
with his manners as well as the evidences of inge
 nuity which he already displayed, that he at last
resolved to take him into his house, in order that he
 might enjoy some of those advantages of educa
tion which his grandfathers humble means could
not afford him. A story has been told of Canova
having first attracted the attention of the Falieri
family by his having on one occasion, when some
ornament was unexpectedly wanted for the Signor's
table, modelled for the purpose a lion in butter,
which excited such admiration that the artist was
immediately inquired after, and orders given that he
should be brought forward.      But it appears certain
that this anecdote is a fable, in so far at least as it
attributes the introduction of the sculptor to his

 188        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 early patron to the circumstance in question. Pasino,
 as we have said, had been long known to Signor
 Falieri, who had also had many occasions of remark
 ing the promising talents of his grandson before he
 took him into his house *. That step, however, he
 appears to have adopted with no higher views, at
first, than merely that the boy's general faculties
might receive such cultivation as should enable him
to follow the trade of his father and grandfather
 with superior advantages.     Nor did he probably en
 tertain any other intentions with regard to the future
destination of his protege, when, after some time,
he sent him to receive some instructions in the rudi
ments of sculpture from an artist of considerable
eminence who then happened to be residing in the
neighbourhood, Giuseppe Bernardi, or Toretto, as
he was otherwise called.        In Toretto's workshop,
however, Canova soon learned more than it was ever
intended that he should acquire. After he had been
there somewhat above a year, he one day took an
opportunity, in his master's absence, to make models
of two angels in clay. When Toretto, on his return
home, saw these figures, he could scarcely believe
that they had been executed by his pupil, who had
hitherto, in fact, received lessons merely in some of
the mechanical processes of the art.         Canova re
mained with Toretto about three years, and then
returned to his native village and his original occu
pation.    But, fortunately, Signor Falieri, who now
resided in Venice, seized probably by some mis
givings as to the fitness of the humble sphere to
which he had consigned the talents of his young
friend, after a short time again sent him an invi
tation to come to him.         To Venice, accordingly,
Canova repaired, being now in his sixteenth year.
   * Vide Memoirs of Antonio Canova, by J. S. Memes, A.M,
Edin. 1825, pp. 153, &c.

                         CANOVA.                    189
From this date it may be considered that it had
been fixed that he should become an artist.         He
therefore applied himself assiduously to all the neces
sary studies.    In order, at the same time, that he
might not be entirely dependent on his patron,
although he lived in his palace, he formed an en
gagement to give his services during the afternoon
to a sculptor in the city, although he got very little
for his work. " laboured," says he, in one of his
                   I
letters*, "for a mere pittance, but it was sufficient.
It was the fruit of my own resolution ; and, as        I
then flattered myself, the foretaste of more honour
able rewards, — for  I never thought of wealth."    His
day, therefore, was thus divided ; the morning was
given to study in the academy or the galleries, the
afternoon was spent in the workshop, and the even
ing was devoted to the improvement of his mind in
general knowledge.        The first commission which
Canova ever obtained was from one of the Venetian
noblemen, for two baskets containing fruits and
flowers. This, his earliest performance, is still to be
seen at Venice ; but it is not thought to give much
promise of the excellence which he afterwards at
tained. After this he proceeded to the execution of
a groupe on the subject of Orpheus and Eurydice,
for Signor Falieri ; but this he did not finish till
many years afterwards.        Meantime he determined
to set up in business for himself ; and the first work
shop of this great sculptor was a small ground cell
in the Monastery of the Augustine Friars, the use
of which he obtained by a grant from the brother
hood.     In this humble and obscure apartment
Canova wrought for four years.        But although not
much noticed by the world during this period, his
mind was all the while making rapid progress in the
study and mastery of his art. It was at this time
              * Memoirs by Memes, p. 188.

 190        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
that, left entirely in the pursuit of excellence to the
 guidance of his own reflections, he first began to
perceive the necessity of founding the study of art
upon the study of nature, in opposition to the notion
which then prevailed that certain assumed princi
ples and rules of operation were alone to be attended
to.    As soon as this new view dawned upon his
mind he hastened to regulate his studies in con
formity to it. Instead of merely examining and
copying the works of other sculptors, he resorted for
every part of his art to the works of nature.       He
studied anatomy.      He attended the public spectacles
and the theatres, that he might catch the finest atti
tudes of the human figure from the living exhibition.
In walking the streets, in like manner, his eye was
constantly on the watch to catch new forms of grace
and power from the moving life around him.         His
art now became more than ever the sole object for
which he lived. He laid down a rule for himself,
which he strictly observed, never to pass a day with
out making some progress, or to retire to rest till he
had produced some design.        In the mean time he
also pursued with ardour his studies in general know
ledge, especially in those branches which he con
ceived to be most important to him in his profession,
such as poetry, antiquities, history, and the Greek
and Roman classics, which, however, he could only
read through the medium of translations.        He also
studied the French and Spanish languages. All this
time, however, as we have mentioned, he was very
little known.    The first performance by which he
attracted the notice of his fellow-citizens was his
finished groupe of Orpheus and Eurydice, which he
exhibited in 1776.       Immediately after this orders
began to flow in upon him, and he soon removed
to a better workshop.      In 1780 the Venetian senate
bestowed upon him a pension of 300 ducats (about

                          BEWICK.                     191
  601), in order that he might have it in his power to
  go to finish his studies at Rome.      From this time
  the ecclesiastical capital became his chief residence.
  On his first arrival there, however, his novel princi
 ples of art revolted all the established authorities in
  such matters ; and for a long time his works were
 the ridicule both of connoisseurs and of his brother
  sculptors.   It was not till about the year 1800 that
  Canova's merits were fully and generally recognized.
 From this time, however, till his death, in 1822, he
 stood in universal estimation without a rival, and re
 ceived all the honours that the admiration of the
 world could bestow upon him, as one of the greatest
 sculptors that had appeared not only in his own but
 in any age.
    The last person we shall mention under this head
is our late countryman, Thomas Bewick, so deserv
 edly celebrated for his admirable performances in
 wood-engraving, an art of which he may be said to
 have been not so much the improver as the reviver,
 or re-inventor.     Bewick was born in the year 1753,
 at a village called Cherryburn, in Northumberland.
 From his earliest years he delighted above all things
in observing the habits of animals ; and it was his
fondness for this study that gave rise, while he was
yet a boy, to his first attempts in drawing.      Long
before he had ever received any instruction in that
art, he used to delineate his favorites of the lower
creation with great accuracy and spirit.      His intro
duction to the regular study of his future profession
was occasioned by an accident similar to that which
has been mentioned in a former page as having
happened in the case of the French painter Greuze.
Bewick also was in the habit of exercising his
genius by covering the walls and doors of the houses
in his native village with his sketches in chalk.
Some of these performances one day chanced to at

192         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
tract the attention of a Mr. Bielby, a copper-plate
engraver, of Newcastle, as he was passing through
Cherryburn ; and he was so much struck, it is said,
with the talent they displayed, that he immediately
sought out the young artist, and obtained his father's
consent to take him with him to be his apprentice.
Mr. Bielby had not had his young pupil long under
his charge, when the late Dr. Hutton, of Woolwich,
happened to apply to him to furnish a set of copper
plate engravings for a mathematical work                  (his
Treatise on Navigation) which he was then preparing
for the press.    Bielby, however, who was a very          in
telligent man, suggested to the Doctor that, instead
of having his diagrams engraved on copper, in
which case they could only be given on separate
plates, to be stitched into the volume, it would be
much better to have them cut in wood, when they
might be printed along with the letter-press, each on
the same page with the matter which it referred to
or was intended to illustrate.      This, indeed, is one
of the chief advantages of wood-engraving.              In a
copper-plate, as may be known to most of our
readers, the parts which are intended to leave an
impression upon the paper are cut into the copper,
so that, after the ink is spread over the engraving,
it has to be rubbed from all the prominent or
uncut portion of the surface, in order that it may
remain only in these hollows.       Several disadvantages
result from this. In the first place the plate is very soon
worn, or the fineness of the lines impaired, by this con
tinual abrasion to which it is subjected*.        Secondly,
from the method of inking being so different from
that which is used in printing letter-press, where the
parts of the type that make the impression are the
prominences and not the hollows, and the ink, there
fore, is allowed to remain where it naturally adheres
* Engraving on steel has very much remedied this disadvantage.

                          WOOD-ENGRAVING.                             193
 on being applied by the ball or roller, the copper
 plate engraving must always be printed by itself, and
 generally on a separate page from the letter-press.
 The only way of giving both on the same page is to
 subject the paper to two successive impressions.which,
 beside the inconvenience of the operation, almost
 always produces an unpleasant effect from the differ
ence of colour in the two inkings, and the difficulty of
adjustment. A wood-cut has none of these disadvan
tages. As the impression is to be made by the promi
nent parts of the wood, these, which receive the ink
directly from the roller, are allowed to retain      just       it,
as in the case of ordinary types and there   ; therefore   is
nothing of that process of rubbing at every impression,
which so soon wears out a copper-plate. The conse
quence is, that while rarely more than two thousand
impressions can be taken from a copper-engraving
before requires to be retouched, a wood-cut will yield
           it
perhaps fifty thousand. Then the latter, from the man
ner in which        to be inked, admits of being set up,
                    it   is
if necessary, just like any of the other types, in the
midst of common page, and so of being printed
                a
both in the most convenient place and without any
 separate process.    The block must, of course, for
this purpose be made very exactly of the same thick
ness or depth as the other types along with which                     it
is placed.    In the early days of wood-engraving the
pear-tree or apple-tree was the wood most commonly
used   but box-wood
       ;                now generally employed, as
                                   is
being of a still firmer and more compact grain.
The surface of the block      first shaved very even
                                        is
and smooth and upon this the figure
                    ;                      then tracedis
in pencilling as    to be finally cut out in relief.
                         it   is
   Dr. Hutton followed Bielby's advice with regard
to the diagrams for his book, and       was arranged
                                                 it
that they should be cut in wood.       Many of them,
accordingly, were put by his master into young
  VOL.     II.                                             s

194        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Bewick's hands.      The boy executed     them with so
much accuracy, and a finish so greatly beyond what
had usually been attained in that species of work,
that Mr. Bielby earnestly advised him to give his
chief attention henceforward to wood-engraving, and
to make it his profession.    At this time the art in
question had fallen into the lowest repute.       Yet it
had by no means been always so. In former times
it had both counted several distinguished names
among its cultivators, and had reached a very striking
degree of effect in some of its productions.      About
the end of the fifteenth century, the celebrated painter
Albert Durer, who was also eminent as a copper
plate engraver, practised cutting in wood.        When
the art was first introduced it was employed chiefly
to furnish ornamental borders for the title-pages of
books ; and these decorations were in general merely
broad stripes of black, enlivened by a few simple
figures, such as circles or hearts, which were left
white upon the dark ground, by being, not raised,
but scooped out in the wood.      In the same manner,
when any object, the shape of a human or of any
other being, for instance, was to be represented, it
was the practice merely to cut away the block ac
cording to the requisite outline, leaving all the
space within untouched, so that when inked and
applied to the paper, it left its impression in a
blot of unrelieved and uniform blackness through
out.   The picture of the devil, in particular, used
often to be exhibited in this sable, and, as many no
doubt deemed it in this case, peculiarly suitable
guise.   It soon, however, became usual to introduce
white lines, effected, of course, by the easy process
of merely cutting grooves in the wood, to mark the
shades at the knees, shoulders, and other parts of
the figure ; and this improvement made the repre
sentation both less sombre and more natural.       At a

                   WOOD-ENGRAVING.                  195
still later period the outline alone and the shaded
parts were left prominent. This may be considered
to have been the commencement of the existing
style of the art. But the period during which wood-
engraving was carried to the greatest perfection was
about the beginning of the sixteenth century, when
a method was followed by some of the more eminent
artists, which gave to their performances an effect un-
attained by their predecessors, and which the best
productions     of succeeding times have perhaps
scarcely surpassed.    This was the method of cross-
hatching, or the cutting of the wood into a conge
ries of squares or lozenges by two series of promi
nent lines running transversely to each other.      By
this means they produced not only shading, but gra
dations of shading, with as much perfection as is
done in copperplate engraving ; for the different
parts of the picture had only to be hatched more or
less closely, according as they were intended to be
dark or light. The difficulty, however, of carving
these crossing lines upon the wood must have been
exceedingly great ; and, indeed, it has been supposed
by some that the effect in question was produced by
the paper being impressed, not upon one, but upon
two blocks successively.      The method of cross-
hatching in wood has, at all events, been long aban
doned ; but some attempts that have been made in
very recent times have shewn that it is perfectly
practicable to produce the same effect as in the
works of the old masters by a single block, although
at the expense of extraordinary labour and skill.
If  the old method had consisted in any such half-
mechanical process as the application of successive
blocks, it probably would not have fallen so com
pletely into oblivion.  The extraordinary pains it cost
and the time it consumed occasioned its disuse.
                                          s 2

 196        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
doned, however, wood-engraving may be said to
have ceased to be cultivated as an art.         In this
country in particular it was seldom resorted to
except to furnish a few of the simple ornaments
used in common printing, such as a border for the
title-page, a tail-piece, or a coarse cut to put at the
head of a street ballad. From this state of contempt
it was raised again to the rank of one of the fine
arts, by the genius and perseverance of the individual
the mention of whose name has given occasion to
this brief sketch of its history, and who, by his
labours in its cultivation and improvement, raised
himself also from obscurity to distinction.    Accord
ing to Mr. Bielby's advice, Bewick probably conti
nued to give much of his attention to cutting in
wood during the remainder of his apprenticeship.
As soon as it was over he repaired to London, where
he went into the employment of a person who prac
tised this trade, such as it then existed, somewhere
in the neighbourhood of Hatton Garden.        It is pro
bable, however, that he soon found he was not likely
to learn much from his new master ; for, in a very
short time, he returned to the country. With his
taste, too, for rural scenery and enjoyments, and the
observation of nature, he found little in London in
which he took much interest.         When Mr. Bielby,
therefore, now offered to take him into partnership,
he at once resolved to retrace his steps to Newcastle.
Nor even after he had obtained his highest celebrity,
did he ever again think of establishing himself in
the metropolis.     He spent the remainder of his life
in his native district.
    The first specimen of his talents by which Bewick
made himself publicly known was a cut of an old
hound, which, being laid before the Society of Arts,
obtained a prize which they had that year offered
for the best wood-engraving.        This was in 1775.

                          BEWICK.                      197
 The block had been cut for an edition of Gay's
 Fables, which had been projected some time before by
  Mr. Thomas Saint, the printer of the Newcastle
  Courant. The work itself appeared in 1779, and im
  mediately   attracted general attention by the striking
  superiority of its embellishments, which were all from
 wood-cuts executed by Bewick and his younger
 brother John, who, when Bielby and he entered into
 partnership, had become their apprentice.         From
 this time the reputation of the artist went on increas
 ing steadily, and he produced a succession of works
 which very soon gave altogether a new character to
 his art itself.
    The work, however, which established his fame
 was his History of Quadrupeds, which appeared in
 1790.     He had been employed many years in pre
 paring this publication, all the cuts in which were
 not only engraved by himself or his brother, but
 were all copied from his own drawings.          He had
 continued to cultivate his early talent for the de
 lineation of animals with unwearied industry, having
 been in the habit of taking sketches of all the striking
 specimens that came under his notice ; while, in order
to obtain accurate representations of those of greater
variety, he never failed to visit whatever menageries
came to Newcastle, and there to draw them from
the life.       His assiduous studies from nature no
doubt greatly contributed to the excellence of the
cuts in the History of Quadrupeds.          Many of the
vignettes also, with which this publication was
adorned, had uncommon merit as original sketches ;
for Bewick did not confine his attempts with his
pencil to the mere delineation of animals.
    But Bewick was principally indebted for the great
superiority of his productions over those of his pre
decessors, to an entirely new mode of operation,
which he introduced into the art. The secret of the
                                           s'3.

198         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
old method of cross-hatching, as we have mentioned,
had been long lost ; or, at least it had been entirely
abandoned from the extraordinary difficulty of the
only known manner of practising it.           But Bewick
produced nearly the same effects by          another, and
much simpler contrivance.        Till his time, the block,
when prepared for the press, presented only two va
rieties of surface, the parts which were intended to
receive the ink and make the impression being left in
relief; while all the rest of the wood was cut away to
 so great a depth, as entirely to prevent it from touch
ing the paper. The consequence was, that the dark
portions of the engraving were all of one shade,
 while the only other colour introduced was the pure
 white of the paper.     But Bewick effected a variety
 of tints, and thereby a much truer and more natural
 perspective,   by leaving certain parts of his blocks
 not quite so prominent as those that were intended
 to produce the darkest lines, while at the same time
 he did not lower them so much as altogether to pre
 vent them from coming in contact with the paper
 when applied to take off the cut.        The portions of
 the surface which were left in this state communi
 cated an impression varying in depth of shade ac
  cording to the degree in which the wood was scooped
  away ; and the cut thus exhibited upon the paper all
 the gradations to be found in a copper-plate engraving.
  It is said that this improvement was first suggested
  to Bewick by his friend, the late Mr. W. Bulmer
  (afterwards the eminent London printer), who was
  a native of Northumberland as well as himself, and,
  serving his apprenticeship in Newcastle at the same
  time, used always to take off the proofs of Bewick's
  cuts.    To the skill and contrivance of the artist him
   self, however, we are doubtless to ascribe the first
   application and practical demonstration of the new
   method, as well as the subsequent improvements by

                          BEWICK.                     199
 which he eventually gave to it probably all the per
 fection of which it is susceptible.
     It would be out of place in a sketch like this to
 follow up what has been said by a catalogue of the
 various works which Mr. Bewick gave to the world,
 after the period in his history at which we are now
 arrived, or which made their appearance illustrated
 by his embellishments.        We have traced the steps
 by which he rose, through the force of his own
 talents and industry, to the head of his profession ;
 and it is not necessary that we should pursue his
 career farther.   Suffice it to say, that he amply sus
tained throughout the remainder of his long life
the promise of his early progress.          No man was
ever more devoted to his profession.          Its labours
were as much his enjoyment as his business. He
was always an early riser; and from the hour at
which he got out of bed till evening, he was gene
 rally to be found at work, and whistling merrily all
 the while.     For what are called the pleasures of
 society he cared very little ; his social hours were
 passed in the midst of his family, or occasionally
 among a small number of select friends when the
task of the day was done.        Everything in the least
degree savouring of effeminate indulgence he de
 spised.   His ordinary exercise was walking ; but he
was fond of all the manly and invigorating sports of
the country, and desired no better relaxation from the
toils of the workshop than an occasional participation
in such cheap and simple amusements.          The whole
economy of his life was regulated upon a principle of
rigid temperance, as well as of the most steady and
persevering exertion. He was remarkable at all times
for the moderation with which he ate and drank ; and
in respect to other matters he shewed such a contempt
for luxury, that he generally slept, even in the depth
of winter, with the windows of his chamber open,
though in consequence he sometimes, on awaking,

200           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
found      the   snow lying on his bed-clothes.                For
money, which       men    in general prize    so  highly, Bewick
had    all   the   indifference   of   a    philosopher.       The
number of       works    which   his   unwearied      application
produced      was,   as  might  be  expected, extraordinarily
great.      But   he  did   not confine    his studies and per
formances merely to the art in which he has chiefly
earned his fame.            He made himself competently
acquainted with various branches of knowledge ; and
with natural history in particular he was intimately
conversant.        He also engraved occasionally on
copper as well as on wood.             Even the greater lei
sure which he was obliged          to   allow himself during
the few last years of his life, when the infirmities of
old age compelled him partially to relinquish his pro
fessional labours, was not given up to mere idleness.
He availed himself of this release from his ordinary
occupations to write a memoir of his own life, which
is said to be composed with much minuteness of
detail, and to be of considerable extent*.             But to the
very last hour of his existence his art continued to
occupy his thoughts.            His last undertaking —di
rected, like most of those by which it had been pre
ceded, mainly by an anxiety for the diffusion of sound
knowledge and morality — was the preparation of a
series of cuts for the labouring part of the population,
which might supplant the tasteless and often cor
rupting prints usually found among the embellish
ments of the cottage ; and a proof impression of the
first of this intended collection, a cut of an old horse,
heading an address against cruelty to animals, was
brought to him only two or three days before his
death.      This eminent artist and excellent man died
on the 8th of November, 1828, in the 76th year of
his age.
   * In the account of Bewick in vol. xiv. of the Annual Biography,
to which we have been particularly indebted for the materials    of
this sketch.

                             Chapter.       IX.
Usefulness   of such encouragements as the examples here given are calcu
   lated to afford to youthful genius in every department of study.  Self.
   educated Poets : John Taylor Antonio
                                  ;         Bianchi ; Ramsay ; Bloomneld.
The      individuals with whom our last three chapters
have been occupied have not earned their distinction
by the cultivation of any branch of what is properly
called science or literature ; but their lives do not
on that account furnish us with less suitable illustra
tions of the subject of the present work.                   Our object
is to inculcate the importance, to demonstrate the
practicability, and to point out the method, of intel
lectual improvement generally;                     and especially to
make the young reader understand and feel, by an
array of examples taken from every condition of
society and every walk of mental exertion, that, in
the pursuit of any description of knowledge, no diffi
culties arising from external circumstances can
eventually resist a steady determination to excel ; so
that a man's success or failure in such an attempt
 depends, in fact, more upon himself than upon any
 circumstances in which he may be placed. Where-
ever, therefore, we have been able to find a case of
extraordinary attainments made in despite of such
obstacles as usually repress all endeavour after intel
lectual cultivation, we have not hesitated to bring it
forward, whether it was that of an individual who
had distinguished himself in philosophy, in scholar
ship, or in art. What we have wished to establish and
make evident is, the power which every man really de
sirous of education has, in the absence of all aid from
others, to educate himself ; and that this power is not

202         THE PURSUIT       OF KNOWLEDGE.
confined to the case of any particular sort of acquire
ment, but exists in nearly an equal degree in regard
to every species of knowledge or skill, of which any
one may be ambitious to possess himself.               And
one moment's consideration will shew the vast
importance of such a truth being generally diffused
and felt in all its universality.     How much appre
hension and despondency would even those of the
children of poverty and neglect/who have been even
tually most successful in their efforts to educate them
selves, been saved from, had they all possessed such
an assurance as these examples are calculated to
afford, that many others had triumphed in the same
or a harder struggle before them?              Would not
this of itself have helped to smooth the roughest
of their difficulties, and carried them forward on their
way with new strength, even when their hearts were
most ready to fail them? Nay, how many might not
such an assurance have led to high attainments, and
perhaps to achievements beneficial to themselves and
to mankind, in some one of the various paths of in
tellectual enterprize, who, frightened by the appre
hended arduousness of the task, have either never
made an attempt to emancipate themselves from the
ignorance in which they were reared ; or, having
begun the pursuit of knowledge, have stopt in their
career ere they had made any considerable progress?
Nor let it be said that the mere force of talent, where
it really exists, will of itself be sufficient to overcome
everything that may tend to repress it.        Even genius
of the highest order is often diffident, and easily dis
mayed ; its quickness of sensibility makes it appre
hensive, and prone both to exaggerate difficulties
where they do exist, and to create them where they
do not.    On these accounts it frequently needs en
couragement where a coarser nature, and faculties
of immeasurably less real power, might safely be

                SELF-EDUCATED       POETS.             203
 left to make their way without any pains being
 taken to invigorate or sustain their possessor's con
 fidence of success.   We cannot then doubt the use
 fulness of diversifying our illustrations as much
 as possible by selecting them from all the diffe
 rent departments of biography.       We would offer to
 every aspirant, in every line of intellectual pursuit, an
 example by which he may at least learn that he is
 setting out upon no impracticable or hitherto un
 accomplished journey, but that a road as difficult as
 his own, if not the very same, has been travelled by
 another before him.    Whether, therefore, it be litera
 ture or science, or any branch of art, in which it
 is his desire to accomplish himself, let him be as
 destitute at the commencement of his career of all
the ordinary means of instruction as he may, here is
his assurance that the way is still open to him, not
only to mediocrity of attainment in his chosen pur
 suit, but even, it may be, to the highest distinction.
    We propose now to notice a few of the more
 remarkable instances, not already adverted to, in
which a genius for another of the fine arts, Poetry,
which is, however, at the same time, a department of
literature also, has burst through all the impediments
of an unfavourable worldly lot, and prompted its pos
sessor to the successful pursuit of that education
which here, as everywhere else, can alone enable even
the most extraordinary native powers of mind to pro
duce anything of much value.        For it is certainly a
very unfounded, though by no means an uncommon
notion, that the case of poetic talent forms an excep
tion to this general rule, and that to be a great poet
a man has only to be born such. There is no instance
on record of an individual either securing or deserving
any considerable or permanent distinction by his
poetical productions, who had not stored his mind
with much and various knowledge, — in other words,

204        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
who had not educated himself well, although never,
it may be, matriculated in any university. The germ
of a genius for poetry has no doubt sometimes made
its appearance in individuals nearly altogether un
educated ; but where is to be found the case of this
description in which the seed, so buried in an uncul
tivated soil, has ever grown to anything worth the
gathering?     It is indeed very much to be appre
hended that this mistaken notion in regard to the
uselessness of education to a poet, which is some
times carried so far as to amount to a belief that a
poet is actually spoiled by being educated, has not
unfrequently had the effect of preventing persons who
felt, or supposed, themselves to be gifted with poetic
powers.f rom exerting themselves with so much ardour
and perseverance as they otherwise might have done
in the general cultivation of their faculties, or even,
in some cases, from making any such attempt at all.
 Some poets of the humbler class, at any rate, might
probably be mentioned, who would have written
better if they had taken more pains to add other
acquirements to their talent for versifying. We had
in this country, in the seventeenth century, a famous
popular writer, named John Taylor, but who was
generally called the Water Poet, from the occupation
by which he won his livelihood, which was that of a
waterman. Taylor, whose parents were poor people,
had learned a very little Latin at a school in the city
of Gloucester, where he was born ; but this, which
was in truth merely a few pages of the rudiments
very imperfectly conned, he soon forgot, and he
never attempted to recover it.    Yet he shewed con
siderable industry in tagging rhymes,       both while
engaged in the laborious employment we have men
tioned, and at an after period, when he kept a vic
tualling-house at Oxford.    During the civil wars he
published a great many effusions on the royalist side

                          BIANCHI.                       205
 of   the question, some of which shew considerable
 powers of humour, and give ground for believing
 that, with more study and a larger acquaintance with
 literature, the author would have produced excellent
 compositions.      The mention of Taylor reminds us
 of another    water-poet, Antonio Bianchi, a common
 Venetian gondolier, whose epic, entitled " David,
 King of Israel," in twelve cantos, made its appear
 ance at Venice about the middle of the last century.
From the accounts, however, given of this poem,
which is written in the Venetian dialect, it appears to
be, notwithstanding the provincial and unclassical cha
racter of the language, a work of a very superior order
to anything that the English waterman ever produced,
both in genius and in the evidence which it affords
of the author's reading and information. Bianchi
afterwards published a critical tract, which was
deemed to display considerable             ability. But an
acquaintance even with the most classic poetical pro
ductions of their country is, or was, far from un
common among the Venetian gondoliers. The writer
of the notes to the fourth canto of ' Childe Harold's
               '
Pilgrimage tells us that many portions of Tasso's
' Jerusalem ' used to be familiar to most of them,
and that editions of the entire poem, translated into
the Venetian dialect, were formerly in general circu
lation. On one occasion, in January, 1817, he men
tions that he himself, accompanied by Lord Byron
and another Englishman, went to an island a short
way from the city in a boat rowed by two men, one
of whom was a carpenter and the other a gondolier,
the former of whom placed himself at the prow, the
latter at the stern.      " A little after leaving the quay
of the Piazzetta," continues the writer, " they began
to sing, and continued their exercise until we arrived
at the island.      They gave us, among other essays,
the death of Clorinda, and the palace of Armida;
     VOL.  II.                                     T

 206        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
 and did not sing the Venetian, but the Tuscan verses.
 The carpenter, however, who was the cleverer of the
 two, and was frequently obliged to prompt his com
 panion, told us that he could translate the original.
 He added, that he could sing almost three hundred
 stanzas, but had not spirits (morbin was the word
he used) to learn any more, or to sing what he
already knew : a man must have idle time on his
hands to acquire, or to repeat, and, said the poor
fellow, ' look at my clothes and at me ;    I am starv
      " Bianchi, we
ing.'                   ought to add, was also the
author of a second poem, of considerable extent, enti
tled " Solomon, or the Temple," as well as of seve
ral minor productions.
    In our own country we have had many writers of
verse who have arisen among the ranks of the labour
ing population, but, with the exception of Burns, no
great poet.   Perhaps the name that should be placed
next to that of Burns is that of his countryman,
Allan Ramsay, the author of the Gentle Shepherd,
certainly one of the most natural, if not most poetical,
pastorals to be found in any language. Ramsay was
the son of one of the common workmen in the lead-
mines belonging to the Earl of Hopetoun, in the south
of Scotland; and, as soon as his strength permitted,
he was himself employed in the mines as a washer of
ore. What education he had he must have obtained
at the village school, and it probably extended little
beyond the elements of reading and writing. Having
come to Edinburgh about the year 1700, when he was
fifteen years of age, he entered upon his apprentice
ship to a barber ; and this profession he afterwards
exercised in that city for many years.      Like John
Folcz, of Nuremberg, who was mentioned in our
former volume *, and the still more famous Bur-
chiello, of Florence, whose sonnets, written in the
                     « Vol.i. p. 45.

                         EAMSAY.                      207
fifteenth century, are still admired in Italy for the
purity of their style, Ramsay did not find the busi
ness he had chosen so unfavourable as might be
 supposed to intellectual cultivation.        During the
 day he had abundant opportunities for thought in
 his sedentary occupation of making wigs ; and he
used to spend the leisure of his evenings in com
posing songs and other short poetical pieces in his
native dialect, with no higher aim at first than that of
adding to the entertainment of the social parties in
which he was wont occasionably to mix. These com
positions, however, were often written with so much
spirit, that, in a short time, they brought the author
into general notice, and, humble as his condition was,
he began to be sought after by the most distinguished
wits of the northern capital. The connexions which
he thus formed enabled him at length to escape from
his original trade ; and he commenced business in the
more appropriate vocation of a bookseller. After this,
Ramsay wrote and edited various works, and took his
rank in all respects as one of the literary characters of
the day.    He lived till the year 1758, when he died
at the age of seventy-three. The fancy of this poet is
not very brilliant, but he had the art of writing his
native Doric mellifluously, and his humour, though
sometimes coarse, has a genial vigour about it which
is very effective. In many of his effusions, too,
and especially in his principal work, ' The Gentle
Shepherd,' there is a natural simplicity and faith
fulness of delineation, which all hearts, even the least
poetical, are sure to feel and appreciate. These quali
ties accordingly have secured to him a popularity
which, instead of having suffered diminution with the
lapse of years, is probably greater now than it was in
his life-time ; for his writings, it is likely, were then
scarcely, if at all, known out of Scotland, whereas
his Pastoral is now familiar, by reputation at least, to
                                            t  2

208        THE PURSUIT      OF KNOWLEDGE.
many English readers.       As the immediate predeces
sor of Fergusson and Burns, Ramsay has every claim
to be considered the father of modern Scottish
poetry.
    One of the most respectable names among the
humbly-born and self-educated poets of the southern
part of the island, is that of the late Robert Bloom-
field, the author of the Farmer's Boy. Bloomfield
was born in 1766, at a small village in Suffolk.
His father, who was a tailor, died before the infant
was a year old, leaving his widow with the charge of
five other children besides Robert      In these circum
stances, in order to obtain a maintenance for herself
and her family, she opened a school, and, of course,
taught her own children the elements of reading
along with those of her neighbours. The only school
education which Robert ever received, in addition to
what his mother gave him, was two or three months'
instruction in writing at a school in the town of
Ixworth. At the time when he was sent to this
seminary, he was in his seventh year ; and he was
taken away so soon in consequence of his mother
marrying a second husband, who probably did not
choose to be at any expense in educating the offspring
of his predecessor, especially as his wife, in due time,
brought him a family of his own.
   We have no account of how the boy spent his
time from his seventh to his eleventh year ; but at
this age he was taken into the service of a brother
of his mother, a Mr. Austin, who was a respect
able farmer on the lands of the Duke of Grafton.
His uncle treated him exactly as he did his other
servants, but that was kindly, and just as he treated
his own sons.     Robert, like all the rest of the house
hold, laboured as hard as he was able ; but, on the
other hand, he was comfortably fed and lodged,
although his board seems to have been all he re

                       BLOOMFIELD.                      209
 ceived for his work.      His mother undertook to pro
 vide him with the few clothes he needed; "and
 this," says Mr. Capel Lofft, " was more than she well
 knew how to do."        Indeed she found so much diffi
 culty in fulfilling her engagement, that she at length
 wrote to two of her elder sons, who were employed
 in London as shoemakers, requesting them to assist
 her by trying to do something for their brother, who
 " was so small of his age," she added, " that Mr.
Austin said he was not likely to be able to get his
 living by hard labour."      To this application her son
 George wrote in reply, that if she would let Robert
 come to town he would teach him to make shoes,
 and his other brother, Nat, would clothe him.         The
 anxious and affectionate mother of the future poet
assented to this proposal ; but she could not be satis
fied without accompanying her son to the metropolis,
and putting him herself into his brother's hands.
" She charged me," writes Mr. George Bloomfield,
in giving an account of the incident, " as valued I
a mother's blessing, to watch over him, to set good
examples for him, and never to forget that he had
lost his father."
    When Bloomfield came to London he was in his
fifteenth year.       What acquaintance he had with
books at this time is not stated, but it must have
been extremely scanty.       We find no notice, indeed,
of his having been in the habit of reading any at all
while he was with Mr. Austin. Yet it would appear
from the sequel of his brother's account that he had
at least contrived to retain so much of what he had
learned in his younger days as still to be able to
read tolerably.     The place in which the boy was re
ceived by his two brothers was a garret in a court
in Bell Alley, Coleman Street, where they had two
turn-up beds, and five of them worked together.
*' As we were all                                " lodgers
                    single men," says George,

 210         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 at a shilling per week each, our beds were coarse,
 and all things far from being clean and snug, like
 what Robert had left at Sapiston.    Robert was our
 man to fetch all things to hand. At noon he fetched
 our dinners from the cook's shop ; and any one of
 our fellow-workmen that wanted to have anything
 fetched in would send him, and assist in his work,
 and teach him, for a recompense for his trouble.
 Every day when the boy from the public-house came
for the pewter pots, and to hear what porter was
 wanted, he always brought the yesterday's news
paper.     The reading of the paper we had been used
to take by turns ; but, after Robert came, he mostly
read for us, because his time was of least value."
The writer goes on to state that in this his occu
 pation of reader of the newspapers, Robert fre
quently met with words which were new to him, and
which he did not understand, a circumstance of
which he often complained. So one day his brother,
happening to see on a book-stall a small English
dictionary, which had been very ill used, bought it
for him for fourpence.   This volume was to Robert
a valuable treasure ; and by consulting and studying
it he soon learned to comprehend perfectly what
ever he read.      The pronunciation of some of the
hard words, however, still puzzled him a good deal ;
but by a fortunate accident he was at length put in
the way of having his difficulties here also consider
ably    diminished.   One Sunday evening, after a
whole day's stroll in the country, he and his brother
chanced to walk into a dissenting meeting-house in
the Old Jewry, where a preacher of extraordinary
abilities and great popularity was delivering a dis
course.     This was Mr. Fawcet, whose sermons,
which have been printed, are very powerful com
positions. Fawcet's manner was highly rhetorical,
and "his language," says Mr. George Bloornfield,

                       BLOOMFIELD.                    211
  "  was  just such as the Rambler        is written in."
  Robert was so much struck by his oratory that,
  from this time, he made a point of regularly at
  tending the chapel every Sunday evening. In ad
  dition to the higher improvement of Mr. Fawcet's
  discourses, he learnt from him the proper accentua
  tion of difficult words ; which he had little chance
  of hearing pronounced elsewhere.      He also accom
 panied his brother sometimes, but not often, to a
 debating society, which was held at Coachmaker's
 Hall, and a few times to Coven t Garden theatre.
 Beside the newspapers, too, he at this time read
 aloud to his brothers and their fellow-workmen
 several books of considerable extent — a History of
 England, British Traveller, and a Geography, a
 sixpenny number of each of which, in folio, they
 took in every week.      But these " he always read,"
 says his brother, "as a task, or to oblige us who
bought them."       He calculates that Robert spent in
this way about as many hours every week in reading
 as boys generally do in play.
     These studies, however, even although somewhat
reluctantly applied to, doubtless had considerable
effect in augmenting the boy's knowledge and other
wise enlarging his mind.      But it was a work of a
different description from any of those that have
been mentioned which may be said to have first
awakened his literary genius.         I
                                    " at that time,"
                                     " read the London
continues Mr. George Bloomfield,
Magazine ; and, in that work, about two sheets were
set apart for a Review.    Robert seemed always eager
to read this Review.       Here he could see what the
literary men were doing, and learn how to judge of
the merits of the works that came out.       And   I ob
                                         '
served that he always looked at the poet's corner.'
And one day he repeated a song which he composed
to an old tune.       I  was much surprised that he

212          THE PURSUIT      OF KNOWLEDGE.
                                          I
should make so smooth verses ; so persuaded him
to try whether the editor of our paper would give
them a place in poet's corner.        He succeeded, and
they were printed."       This is the way in which many
a young literary aspirant has first tried his strength.
Thus, as we noticed in our former volume, the
Ladies' Diary was the repository of Thomas Simp
son's earliest mathematical speculations ; and it was
in the columns of a Philadelphia newspaper that
Franklin commenced his career as an author.              A
Bristol journal, in like     manner,  received the earliest
antiquarian lucubrations of      Chatterton,  then only a
boy of   fifteen,  while much about     the same time the
first of his Rowleian forgeries appeared in the Town
and Country Magazine.
    After this Bloomfield contributed other pieces to
the same publication into which his first verses had
been admitted ; and under the impulse of its newly
kindled ambition his mind would appear to have
suddenly made a start forwards which could not
escape the observation of his associates.
                                                 " Indeed,
at this time," says his brother, " myself and fellow-
workmen in the garret began to get instructions
from him."        Shortly after, upon removing to other
 odgings, they found themselves in the same apart
ment with a singular character, a person named
James Kay, a native of Dundee. " He was a
middle-aged man," says Mr. George Bloomfield,
" of a good understanding, and yet a furious Cal-
vinist. He had many books, and some which he did
not value ; such as the Seasons, Paradise Lost, and
some novels.       These books he lent to Robert, who
spent all his leisure hours in reading the Seasons,
which he was now capable of reading.               I never
heard him give so much praise to any book as to
that."
   It was the reading of the Seasons, in all proba

                      BLOOMFIELD.                   213
bility, which first inspired him with the thought of
composing a long poem on rural subjects.           The
design was also in some degree favoured by a visit
of two months which he was induced to pay about
this time to his native district, in order to escape
from the annoyance with which he was threatened,
owing to a dispute that had taken place in the trade
to which he belonged between those workmen who
had and those who had not served a regular appren
ticeship. As Bloomfield belonged to the latter class,
the others, who had formed themselves into an asso
ciation, talked of prosecuting his master for employ
ing him ; and he begged to be suffered to retire till
the storm should blow over.      On this occasion his
old master, Mr. Austin, kindly invited him to make
his house his home ; and the opportunity he thus
had of reviewing, with a more informed eye, the scenes
in which he had spent his early years, could hardly
fail to act with a powerful effect in exciting his ima
gination.    It was at last arranged that he should be
taken as apprentice by his brother's landlord, who
was a freeman of the city ; and he returned to town.
He was at this time eighteen years of age. It was
not intended that his master should ever avail himself
of the power which the indentures gave him, and he
behaved in regard to this matter very honourably.
George, therfeore, remained with his brother for
about two years longer, by which time he had taught
him to work as expertly as himself.
    For some years after this, Robert's literary per
formances seem to have amounted merely to a few
effusions in verse, which he used generally to trans
mit in letters to his brother, who had now gone to
live at Bury St. Edmunds, in his native county.
Meantime he studied music, and became a good
player on the violin. In his twenty-fifth year he mar
ried, when " he told me in a letter," says his brother,

214         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
"   that he had sold his fiddle, and got a wife.   Like
most poor men, he got a wife first, and had to get
household stuff afterward. It took him some time to
get out   of ready furnished lodgings.   At length, by
hard working, &c. he acquired a bed of his own, and
hired the room up one pair of stairs, at 14, Bell Alley,
Coleman Street. The landlord kindly gave him leave
to sit and work in the light garret, two pair of stairs
higher."
    The frequency of the developement of literary talent
among shoemakers has often been remarked.         Their
occupation, being a sedentary and comparatively
noiseless one, may be considered as more favourable
than some others to meditation ; but, perhaps, its
literary productiveness has arisen quite as much from
the circumstance of its being a trade of light labour,
and therefore resorted to, in preference to most others,
by persons in humble life who are conscious of more
mental talent than bodily strength. Partly for a simi
lar reason literary tailors have been numerous.      We
have mentioned in our former volume the Italian
writer Gelli, our learned countrymen Hill and
Wild, &c. ; and to these we might add many others,
as, for example, George Ballard, author of ' Memoirs
of Learned British Ladies,' and who made himself
a good Saxon scholar while practising his trade, —
the antiquaries, Stow and Speed, who both flourished
in the sixteenth century, the former the author of
'
   The Survey of London,' and other very elaborate
works, and the latter of a valuable History of Great
Britain, — and the late celebrated mathematician, Jean
Henri Lambert, who, when young, after working all
day with his father, who was a tailor, used often to
spend the greater part of the night in reading, and
in this manner, by the assistance of an old work which
came by chance into his possession, instructed him
self in the elements of mathematical science. Of lite

                      BLOOMFIELD.                    215
 fary shoemakers    again, or persons who have con
 trived to make considerable progress in book-learn
 ing, while exercising that handicraft, we have already
 noticed,   among others, Benedict Baudouin, An
 thony Purver, Joseph Pendrell, Gifford, and Hol-
 croft.   We may add to the list that extraordinary
 character Jacob B eh men, the German mystic, of
 whose works we have an English translation in two
 volumes quarto, and who continued a shoemaker all
 his life. But Bloomfield, before entering upon the
 exercise of this trade, had had the education of his
 faculties begun while following the equally contem
 plative and much more poetical occupation of a keeper
 of sheep — a condition, the leisure and rural enjoy
 ment of which had fed the early genius of the
painter Giotto, the logician Ramus, the mechani
cian Ferguson, the linguist Murray, and many
others of the lights of modern literature and art, as
in the ancient world it is said to have done that of
the poet Hesiod.    Bloomfield's literary acquirements,
 however, with the exception of his acquaintance with
the mere elements of reading and writing, appear to
have been all made during the time he was learning
the business of a shoemaker, and afterwards while he
worked at the same business as a journeyman.
    It was while he sat plying his trade in his garret
in Bell Alley, with six or seven other workmen
around him, that Bloomfield composed the work
which first made his talents generally known, and
for which principally he continues to be remembered,
his ' Farmer's Boy.' It is a curious fact, that, not
withstanding the many elements of disturbance and
interruption in the midst of which the author must in
such a situation have had to proceed through his task,
nearly the half of this poem was completed before he
committed a line of it to paper.    This is an instance
of no common powers, both of memory and of self-

216         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
abstraction.   But these faculties will generally exist
in considerable strength when the mind feels a strong
interest in its employment.      They are faculties also
which practice is of great use in strengthening.
Bloomfield's feat, on this occasion, appears to have
amounted to the composing and recollecting of nearly
six hundred lines without the aid of any record ; and
the production of all this poetry, in the circumstances
that have been mentioned, perhaps deserves to be
accounted a still more wonderful achievement than
its retention.   Like his prototype, Thomson, whose
general scheme he also followed, Bloomfield seems to
have commenced his poem with the division relating
to winter.
   When the Farmer's Boy was' finished, which it
appears to have been in April, 1798, it was sub
mitted to several booksellers and other persons in
London, none of whom, however, probably took the
trouble of even examining the unrecommended pro
duction. At last, in November of the same year, it
was forwarded by Mr. George Bloomfield to the late Mr.
Capel Lofil, who then resided on his estate in the im
mediate neighbourhood of the poet's birthplace. The
poem was accompanied bya letter containing the narra
tive of the author's life, from which we have extracted
the particulars given above.      Induced probably, in
part, to look into the manuscript by the circumstance
of its being the production of a native of Suffolk,
Mr. Lofft soon found the work to be well deserving
of attention on its own account. He immediately
entered into a correspondence with the author ; and
the result was the publication of the poem, after a
few provincialisms and grammatical errors by which
it was disfigured had been corrected, in the month of
March, 1800. It immediately produced a consider
able sensation ; and although a portion of the in
terest which was felt in regard to it is doubtless to be

                        BLOOMFIELD.                     217
attributed to the extraordinary circumstances in
which it was announced to have been written, it yet
owed much of its popularity also to iUi intrinsic
merits.    Within the first three years after its appear
ance, seven editions, comprising in all twenty-six
thousand copies, had been printed; and new impres
sions have since been repeatedly called for. It was
early translated into French and Italian, and part of
it even into Latin, which last circumstance drew from
the poet a few verses printed among his minor pro
ductions.
    The publication of the Farmer's Boy at once
called forth the author from obscurity to a fair pros
pect both of fame, and what to him must have been
hitherto unhoped for fortune.          The change which
had taken place in his condition and expectations is
well and graphically described in the simple lan
guage of his brother, whose exertions in his behalf
had so large a share in bringing about what had
now taken place.          I
                       " have him," he writes to Mr.
Lofft, in reference to Robert's first appearance in
London, " in my mind's eye, a little boy ; not bigger
than boys generally are at twelve years old. When          I
met him and his mother at thdTVfti, he strutted before
us, dressed just as he came from keeping sheep,
hogs, &c. — his shoes filled full of stumps in the
heels.    He, looking about him, slipped up : his
nails were unused to a flat pavement.           I  remember
viewing him as he scampered up: — how small he
was.    I  little thought that little fatherless boy would
be one day known and esteemed by the most learned,
the most respected, the wisest, and the best men of
the kingdom."        It is gratifying to know that those
excellent and affectionate relations, his mother and
brother, both lived to witness the prosperity of him
who in other days had been to each the object of so
much anxious care. It was the dearest of the poet's
    VOL. II.                                      u

218         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
gratifications, when his book was printed, to present
a copy of it to his mother, to whom upon that occa
sion he had it in his power, for the first time, to pay
a visit, after twelve years absence from his native
village.
    Bloomfield published several volumes of poetry
after the Farmer's Boy — among others a small vo
lume entitled ' Rural Tales, Ballads, and Songs,'
which were written, he tells us, during the interval
between the completion of the composition of his first
work, and its appearance in a printed form.        Soon
after this, however, his health, which had never been
very vigorous, began to give way ; and he was
obliged to resign an appointment in the Seal Office
which had been given to him by the Duke of
Grafton, and on receiving which he had relinquished
his original trade.    He now found his musical turn
a resource  —  and realized a small income by manu
facturing -Aeolian harps.     But his health gradually
grew so much worse, that he was at last obliged to
leave London altogether, upon which he retired to
Shefford in Bedfordshire.        Here he remained till
his death, on the 19th of August, 1823, in the fifty-
eighth year of his age.
    Although he was an extraordinary instance of what
the force of native talent will sometimes accomplish,
where education has been nearly altogether withheld,
yet Bloomfield gave plentiful evidence, especially in
his first production, of the disadvantages under which
he laboured from the want of early cultivation.       A
better education in his youth would have saved his
homely genius from being misled into affectations
uncongenial to its true spirit; and his want of a
competent director in his studies exposed his taste to
 be corrupted by bad examples.       It is probably, in
 deed, a mistake to suppose that the circumstance of
 an individual having been what is called self-taught,

                          DUCK.                        219
is generally favourable to the originality of his literary
productions. There is more reason for suspecting,
that even those self-taught writers who have displayed
most of this highest element of power, would have
exhibited it in still greater abundance if they had
enjoyed, in addition to their rare gifts of nature, the
advantages of a regular education. It is certain, at
any rate, that the literary performances of men who
have been their own teachers, have not, except in
a few extraordinary cases, been in any degree pecu
liarly distinguished by this quality. Of the numerous
tribe of self-taught verse-makers, especially, the great
majority have been the merest imitators. A fair speci
men of this race, the individuals of which, although
they sometimes excite a temporary attention, generally
drop very speedily into oblivion, we have in a writer
named Stephen Duck, who flourished in the early
part of the last century. Duck was born about the year
1700, at the village of Charlton, in Wiltshire. He
was at school for a short time in his boyhood, when
he learned a little reading, writing, and arithmetic.
When about fourteen, however, he was sent to work
as an agricultural labourer ; and, being employed for
several years in the lowest rural occupations, without
ever opening a book, he soon forgot what little learn
ing he had ever possessed.      Still, as he used after
wards to tell, even at this time his thoughts were
often engaged on subjects very foreign to his daily
employments. At last he began to read a little, and
this gradually inspired him with a desire to recover
his lost knowledge, scanty as it had been. At this time
he was about twenty-four years of age, with a wife
and family to support ; and, being engaged in hard
work all day, he had but very little time for study.
He was also without books, and had no money to
buy any.     Yet such was his ardour to obtain the
means of instructing himself, that for some time,
                                           u2

220        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
whenever he had an hour's release from his regular
employment, he devoted it to extra work ; and in
this way he saved money enough to purchase, first, a
treatise on vulgar fractions, then one on decimal frac
tions, and lastly, one on land-surveying.     All these
works he made himself master of, by studying them
during the night, when every body about him was
asleep.   Soon after this, he became intimately ac
quainted with a person in the same condition of life
as himself, but who had passed some years in service
in London, whence he had brought down a few dozens
of books with him to the country.       Of these some
were treatises on arithmetic ; among the others were
the Bible, Paradise Lost, the Spectator, Seneca's
Morals, Telemachus, an English Dictionary and
Grammar, Ovid, Josephus, seven plays by Shak-
speare, and a few more by other writers ; Dryden's
Virgil, Hudibras, and the works of Waller and Prior.
Duck had, it seems, been always fond of poetry
and music ; though hitherto the best specimens of
either which he had had an opportunity of enjoying
had been only a few rustic ballads.     But his perusal
of some of the above works inspired him with new
enthusiasm, and in no long time he began to attempt
writing verses himself. The first poetical work by
which he was greatly struck, was Paradise Lost. Yet
he read it through twice or thrice, with the aid of his
dictionary, before he understood it. The new beau
ties he was continually discovering, however, made all
this labour delightful.   He studied the book, we are
told, as a student of Greek or Latin would do one of
the ancient classics, and making all the while as much
use of his dictionary and grammar as if it had been
written in a foreign language. These literary labours
were still generally pursued during the night. Some
times, however, he used to take a book with him in
his pocket when he went out to his daily work in the

                          DUCK.                        221
 fields ; and if by working with more activity than
 usual he could get through what he had to do in less
 than the usual time, he would devote the few pre
 cious moments he had gained to the perusal of his
 book.
   Even while at work he often employed himself in
 composing verses. It was some time before he
 thought of committing any of his compositions to
 paper ; but at last he was induced to address a letter
 in verse to a gentleman, who, having heard of his
 acquirements, had sought him out, and made his
 acquaintance ; and this effusion having been shewn
 to several other persons, was generally regarded as a
 very surprising performance for one in his circum
 stances.    Some clergymen, in particular, to whom it
 was submitted, were so much pleased with        it, that
 they rewarded the author with          a small gratuity.
 From this time his talents began to be generally
 talked of; and, encouraged        by  the praise he re
 ceived, he did not suffer his poetical faculty to lie
 dormant.     The consequence was, that in a short
time he had accumulated a respectable store of verse.
It seems to have been not long before the year 1730,
that Duck attracted the notice of the Reverend Mr.
 Spence, already mentioned as the patron of Robert
 Hill, the learned tailor, and the blind poet Black-
lock.    Spence, who did himself great credit     by  the
interest  he  took in these cases of indigent merit,  im
mediately   conceived   the  idea of bringing the claims
of his protege before the public in the most effective
manner, through the press     ;    and, accordingly, as
many of his poems were collected as formed a quarto
volume, which made its appearance in that year.
Besides the general reputation which the author ac
quired   by  this publication,it  procured for him the
particular favour and patronage of Queen Caroline,
who immediately settled upon him pension of thirty
                                        a

222         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
pounds a-year.      In 1733 he was made one of the
Yeomen of the Guard. He now applied himself to the
study of the Latin language — in which, having made
some progress, he was admitted into holy orders. On
this the queen appointed him, in the first instance,
keeper of her library at Richmond, and in a short
time after he was preferred to the living of Byfleet, in
Surrey. Meanwhile, a second edition of his poems had
appeared in 1736, to which we find the names of the
queen and other members of the royal family prefixed
as subscribers.     Duck became much beloved and
respected by the people of Byfleet in his capacity of
pastor, and lived there happily for many years.
But the termination of his history is very melancholy.
He at last fell into low spirits, and drowned himself
in the Thames, near Reading, in the year 1756. His
poems have now long been forgotten.          They had
little merit, except considerable smoothness of versi
fication, which even in those days the example of
Pope had rendered a common quality.

                       Chapter X.
       H. K. Whiles Hawkesworth; Goldsmith; Mendelsohn.
In  selecting our examples from the class at present
under review of those who, in the midst of unfavour
able circumstances, have distinguished themselves by
their ardour in the pursuit of knowledge, there is one
name not to be omitted, that of the late gifted and
amiable Henry Kirke White.              As it is probable,
however, that most of our readers are acquainted
with the narrative of his life which has been so
delightfully written by Mr. Southey, we shall confine
ourselves to a short notice of its leading incidents.
He was born in 1785, at Nottingham, where his
father followed the business of a butcher.             He was
sent to school at three years of age, and soon became
so fond of reading, that, when he had got his book in
his hand, it was difficult to get him even to leave it for
a few minutes, that he might take his meals.            When
no more than seven, he began to attempt to express
his ideas on paper; his first composition being a
tale, which, ashamed to shew it to any one else, he
communicated to the servant, to whom he had for
some time been secretly giving instructions in writ
ing.     His school acquisitions before the age of
eleven, in addition to reading and writing, were
arithmetic and French ; in both of which studies he
had already distinguished himself above all his school
fellows.     Soon after this he also began to write
verse.
   His   father, however, who was anxious to bring
him up to his own business, although very much
 against both his own wish and that of his mother, now

 224        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 insisted that he should be employed one whole day
 in the week, and during his leisure hours on others,
 in carrying the butcher's basket. But he expressed so
 much dislike to this occupation, that it was at last
 arranged that he should be sent to learn the hosiery
 trade ; and at the age of fourteen, accordingly, he
 began to work as a stocking- weaver.        To a heart
 like his, full of the love of literature, and all whose
 young visions were already those of a student, this
 destination was a very cheerless one. Yet he hardly
 dared to complain, for he knew that his family could
 scarcely afford to educate him to any higher employ
 ment.    His mother, however, moved by his evident
 wretchedness, contrived, after he had been about a
 year at the loom, to prevail upon his father to allow
 him to be placed in the office of Messrs. Coldham
and Enfield, attorneys in Nottingham, who agreed
to take him without a premium, on condition of his
 serving two years before being articled.
    He now felt himself in something like his proper
 sphere, and his whole mind assumed new alacrity.
Although nearly the whole day was necessarily given
to the study of his profession, for he attended in the
office, as he informs us himself in one of his letters,
from eight in the morning till eight at night, he still
found time to apply himself to the Greek and Latin
languages ; in the latter of which, with very little
assistance, he enabled himself, in ten months, to read
 Horace with tolerable ease. This progress, however,
was obtained at the cost of almost incessant applica
tion.    He read during his walks, and at his meals ;
and not a moment indeed of his leisure was given to
anything except the improvement of his mind.          In
this manner it was surprising how much he accom
plished. The papers he left behind him shewed, Mr.
Southey tells us, that he had applied himself to his
legal studies with extraordinary industry. Besides the

                         WHITE.
 knowledge which he acquired of Greek and Latin,
he also made considerable progress at this time in
 Italian, Spanish, and Portuguese.       Chemistry, elec
 tricity, astronomy, all shared largely in his attention.
 While pursuing these severer studies, he contrived to
accomplish himself to a considerable extent in draw
ing and music ; and he found an occasional amuse
ment in practical mechanics, in which he shewed
 much ingenuity and neatness of hand.        Another ac
complishment which he wished to acquire was the art
of extempore speaking ; and with this view he got
himself elected a member of a debating society,
which then existed at Nottingham.          Here he very
soon distanced all his competitors.
    But this was not the only mode in which he had
already begun to seek distinction.       So early as the
first year after his emancipation from the stocking-
loom, he had sent a translation from Horace to a
                                                '
periodical work then existing, called the         Monthly
Preceptor,' the proprietors of which were in the habit
of offering prizes for the best contributions on subjects
which they proposed ; and a silver medal had been
awarded to him for his performance. This honour
seems to have kindled his literary ambition to greater
fervour than ever.      He began to sigh for the ad
vantages of a University education.         After having
thus frequently tried his powers in the ' Preceptor,'
he became a correspondent to another magazine
called the ' Monthly Mirror.'       Some of the essays
which he sent to this publication were of distin
guished merit, and attracted considerable notice.
Among other persons whose attention they excited
was Mr. Capel Lofft, whose patronage of Bloom-
field we recorded a few pages back ; and the encou
ragement of this gentleman, whose exertions had
recently been so fortunate in the case of another poet,
determined Henry to commit a volume of his verses

 226         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 to the press.     This was about the close of the year
  1802.
    The volume made its appearance        in the end of
  1803, or beginning of 1804.      It was published by
 subscription, and dedicated by permission to the
 Duchess of Devonshire.       What pecuniary return it
 brought the author is not stated ; but the sale pro
 bably did not do a great deal more than defray the
 expenses of the publication.      Although favourably
 noticed in several of the periodical works of the day,
 it was made the subject of a very harsh article in the
 ' Monthly Review.'       This so stung the sensibility
 of the young poet, that he sent a remonstrance to
 the editors, which produced from them, in their next
 number, an expression of their regret, that Mr.
 White should have been so much hurt by the severity
 of their criticism ; but no acknowledgment was paid
 of the poetical merit of the publication they had
 condemned.       This treatment distressed Henry ex
 ceedingly.     In one of his letters he says, " This
 Review goes before me wherever      I turn my steps ; it
 haunts me incessantly ; and    I am persuaded it is an
 instrument in the hands of Satan to drive me to dis
traction.     I must leave Nottingham."     Fortunately,
however, the poems had fallen into the hands of Mr.
 Southey, who, bringing to their perusal both a better
judgment and a kinder heart than the writer in the
Monthly Review, considered them " to discover
strong marks of genius."       On afterwards seeing the
Review, this gentleman's indignation was so strongly
excited by what he deemed its cruelty and injustice,
that he immediately wrote to Henry a letter of encou
ragement and advice, with an offer to do anything in
his power to forward his views.      This generous and
seasonable interference contributed greatly to heal the
poet's wounded feelings ; and enabled him in a short
time to forget the sneers of his anonymous critic.

                           WHITE.
      No prospect, however, had   yet opened   of his desire
  of going    to the University being gratified ; while
  the desire itself was every day growing stronger. The
  reading of some religious works about this time had
  made a great impression upon him ; and his feelings
  had become ardently devotional.       He determined to
  give up his life to the preaching of Christianity. His
  friends exerted themselves in vain to shake his reso
  lution ; he had made up his mind, if he could not
 obtain admission at Oxford or Cambridge, to join
  some dissenting communion, and to endeavour to
 find the means of pursuing his studies at an academy,
 or at one of the Scottish Universities.     But we must
 refer to Mr. Southey's interesting narrative for a
 detail of the alternating hopes and disappointments
 by which both his mind and frame were racked,
 before he at last secured the object of his fond ambi
 tion. At one time he had given up all hopes of ever
 being able to escape from his present profession ; and
 the view which he took of the line of conduct which
 it became him to pursue in these circumstances, is in
 the highest degree creditable to his sense of propriety
 and duty. '* All my hopes," says he, in a letter to
 his mother, " of getting to the University are now
 blasted ; in preparing myself for it   I have lost time
 in my profession ;    I have much ground to get up,
 and, as   I am determined not to be a mediocre attor
 ney,   I                                    I
          must endeavour to recover what have lost."
 He immediately set about a course of more severe
application than ever, allowing himself rarely more
than two or three hours of sleep during the night,
and often never going to bed at all. This excessive
application, after some time, brought on an alarming
illness, from which his friends thought that he never
entirely recovered.
     But at last, through the influence of the Reverend
Mr. Simeon, of King's College, Cambridge, to whom

  228         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 he had been recommended,          a sizarship was procured
 for him at St. John's. His mother, who had for some
 years kept a boarding-school, and his elder brother,
 engaged each to allow him fifteen or twenty pounds
 yearly; and Mr. Simeon generously undertook to
  afford him thirty pounds more, with the aid of a
 friend, who is stated to have been Mr. Wilberforce *, a
 name made venerable by a life spent in doing good.
 Accordingly, in October 1804, he quitted his em
 ployers at Nottingham, who had most kindly agreed
 to give him up the remainder of his time, al
 though his services were every day becoming more
 valuable to them.         He did not, however, imme
 diately proceed to Cambridge, but, by Mr. Simeon's
 advice, placed himself for the first year in the house
 of the Rev. Mr. Grainger, of Winteringham, in Lin
 colnshire.     While residing with this gentleman, he
 applied himself to classical learning with an ardour
 to which every thing gave way, devoting often four
 teen hours a-day to hard study ; and though his un
 remitting toils soon laid him once more on a sick bed,
 convalescence came only to send him back to his
 books with as much zeal as ever.            When he went to
 Cambridge, to use Mr. Southey's words,
                                                       " the seeds
 of death were in him, and the place to which he had
 so long looked on with hope, served unhappily as a
 hot house to ripen them."
     The exertions of this extraordinary young man at
 the University were such as might have been ex
pected     from    his previous career.          A scholarship
having become vacant during his first term, he was
advised to offer himself as a competitor for it ; but
after having studied for this purpose with his usual
immoderate application till within a fortnight of the
close of the term, he found himself so ill, that he
was obliged to decline coming forward.                 To add to
        * Gorton's Biographical Dictionary, vol. ii, p. 1181.

                       WHITE.                      229
his misfortune, he had now the general college exa
mination before him ; and, although far from well,
he was urged, if it was at all possible, to persevere
in preparing himself for this occasion. He followed
this counsel, and having by the aid of strong me
dicines been enabled to hold out during the six
days of the examination, he was at its close declared
the first man of his year.    Immediately after this
he went to London, with the view of benefiting
his health by a temporary relaxation from study.
But he did not make much progress in recovering
his strength during this short excursion.         Still,
when he returned to Cambridge, his application
continued unabated.     It is mentioned as an in
stance of the manner in which he used to turn
every moment to account — in his own phrase, to coin
time — that he committed to memory a whole tragedy
of Euripides, during his walks. At the end of this
term he was again pronounced first man, and also
one of the three best theme-writers. By exhibitions,
too, which were procured for him, he was now
enabled to live without the assistance of his friends.
At the end of the term, a tutor in mathematics for
the long vacation was provided for him by his col
lege ; but this unfortunately only induced him to
continue his studies at a time when relaxation was
become absolutely necessary to preserve his life.
Finding himself very ill, he again proceeded to Lon
don ; where, however, as before, he got no better.
He returned to the University worn out both in body
and in mind, and, after a short attack of delirium,
died on Sunday the 19th of October, 1806.
   A monument has been erected to the memory of
Kirke White, in the Church of All Saints, Cambridge,
at the expense of Mr. Boott, a native of the United
States of America.     This gentleman, on visiting
Cambridge, was disappointed in finding no tablet
   VOL. II.                               x

230         THE PURSUIT OV KNOWLEDGE.
recording the talents and virtues of the young poet ;
and he resolved to do what England had left un
done.    This circumstance is highly creditable to the
American character ; and is one amongst many evi
dences of the triumph of right feelings over those
mutual jealousies which have too often separated
nations sharing the same blood, and speaking the
same language.
    We shall conclude this chapter by the mention of
one or two other individuals, from the list of the cul
tivators of elegant literature, whose rise to eminence
has been in like manner impeded for a time by an
untoward fortune.      Dr. Hawkesworth, one of the
most popular writers of the last century, and whose
                         '
periodical work, the       Adventurer,' entitles him to
a high place among English essayists, was originally
a watchmaker, and afterwards became clerk to a
writing stationer, in which situation it was that he
commenced his career as an author, by some com
munications which he sent to the ' Gentleman's
Magazine.' From this beginning he made his way,
by the persevering exertion of his talents, both to
distinction and to considerable wealth.         Hawkes
worth must have been indebted for his literary
acquirements almost entirely to himself.        Together
with his name may be quoted that of his much
more distinguished contemporary, Dr. Goldsmith,
who was, however, more regularly educated.         Gold
smith was one of nine children of a very poorly en
 dowed clergyman of the Church of Ireland, in
which country he was born in the year 1728.           Of
 academical instruction he had his full share ; for he
 attended successively the Universities of Dublin,
 Edinburgh, and Leyden.         At the two last men
 tioned places he studied medicine, which he had
 chosen as his profession, after having been ori
 ginally intended for trade, and then successively for

                      GOLDSMITH.                    231
the church and the law.       His eccentric, imprudent,
and reckless habits, however, which had been con
stantly involving him in one difficulty or other from
his boyhood, acquired strength with his years ; and
he had not been long at Leyden when he found
himself reduced by his thoughtlessness and extrava
gance to a state of destitution, as bad as that which
a short time before had forced him to take flight from
Edinburgh.      On this he left the University, and set
out to travel over the Continent, possessed of no
thing in the world but the clothes he wore and his
flute.   It was on the latter he depended for his sup
port, his practice being, when, after walking all day,
he arrived at a village in the evening, to assemble the
inhabitants around him to dance to his music, in
return for which they generally gave him lodgings for
the night and wherewithal to procure him food for
the next day. In this manner he walked over a
great part of Flanders, the south of France, Ger
many, Switzerland, and Italy. At last he arrived
in London with, it is said, only a few pence in
his pocket.     In this emergency he was fortunate
enough to meet with his countryman and college
acquaintance, Dr. Sleigh, who had been one of
Barry's first patrons when he came up to Dublin ;
and by the aid of this gentleman he obtained the
situation of assistant teacher in a school at Peckham.
Soon afterwards he offered his services to an apothe
cary in the metropolis, and with him he lived for
some time.     It was while in this situation that he
first turned his thoughts to literary labour as a means
of support. He began by writing for the Monthly
Review and the Public Ledger, to which last he
contributed the series of essays in the form of
letters from a Chinese residing in England to his
friends in China, which were afterwards collected
and published under the title of the ' Citizen of the
                                           x2

232          THE PURSUIT OK KNOWLEDGE.
 World.'     He had been employed in this manner for
 several   years, gaining only a scanty and precarious
 livelihood, when, in 1765, he published his celebrated
         '
 poem      The Traveller.'   This immediately brought
 him into notice, and placed him among the first
 writers of the day.       He had now better employ
 ment, and as much as he could undertake; but,
his improvidence continuing as great as before, his
difficulties were not much diminished.         The very
year following that in which the Traveller appear
ed, Dr. Johnson found him unable to leave his
lodgings in consequence of a debt he had con
tracted, and to pay which his kind friend disposed
of the manuscript of his ' Vicar of Wakefield.' That
 exquisitely beautiful tale accordingly appeared in
                                             '
 17 66 ; and soon after was published his History of
England,' in a series of letters from a nobleman to
his son, which immediately excited great attention and
became extremely popular.       From this time till his
 death, Goldsmith gave to the world a succession of
 works which prove that with all his faults a want of
 industry cannot be laid to his charge. His comedy of
 the Good-natured Man, a History of Rome, and an
 other History of England, in four volumes, the poem
 of the Deserted Village, the comedy of She stoops
  to Conquer, a History of Greece, and his four vo
  lumes entitled a History of Animated Nature, beside
  abridgments of his different historical works, and
  numerous minor pieces in prose and verse, all pro
  ceeded from his pen between the years 1768 and
   1774, in the latter of which he died at the early age
  of forty-six. Nor are even those of the works we
  have enumerated, which partake most of the character
  of mere compilations, unmarked by many traces of
  the author's genius.     Goldsmith, as Johnson has
  said of him on his monument in Westminster Abbey,
  touched no subject which he did not adorn.         The

                      GOLDSMITH.                      233
purity and elegance of his style, and the chastity, in
all respects, of his manner as a writer, form a re
markable contrast to what we are told of his general
conduct and demeanour.          The dissimilarity is said
to have been equally great between the wit, spirit,
and good sense of his literary productions, and the
eccentricity of his conversation, which is described
as sometimes approaching to childishness.            But
Goldsmith was an extraordinary instance how perfect
the reflective or meditative powers of the mind will
sometimes be, while those which fit a man for the
business of active life are weak or wanting.      A mere
child as he seemed when called upon to exert the
latter, in the ease with which he wielded the former
he had few equals and no superior. As his friend
Johnson used to say of him, with his pen in his hand
he was a sage, without it a fool.         Most of Gold
smith's follies, however, were the results of a sim
plicity and good nature, which did no dishonour
to his heart, however they may have impeded his
advancement in the world.         From the time he rose
into notice as a writer, till his death, he was the prey
of his poorer brethren of the quill, who, when he had
received any money for his works, borrowed or begged
from him his last sixpence. Nay, he was often wont,
it is said, to borrow money in order to satisfy these
plunderers. The consequence was, that he was always
in difficulties, which he certainly needed not to have
been if he could have taken better care of his gains ;
for he was both one of the most successful and, as
we have seen, one of the most industrious literary la
bourers of the day. Considering, indeed, the idle and
wandering life he had so long led, Goldsmith's com
paratively steady application in the latter years of his
life, as testified by what he actually accomplished,
deserves to be accounted not a little remarkable.      It
                                            x3

234          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
cultivation of mind which he displayed even in his
first literary works, that he must long have been a
more diligent student, than we should be inclined to
think from the general sketch that has been handed
down to us of his early history.
   At the same period with Goldsmith flourished the
celebrated Moses Mendelsohn.          Mendelsohn was
born at Dessau, the capital of the small princi
pality of Anhalt, in 1729, the same year which gave
birth to Heyne and Lessing.         The copies of the
Pentateuch which are used in the Jewish Synagogues
are, as is well known, all in manuscript; and to
transcribe these was the chief occupation of Men
delsohn's father.    He also kept a day-school for the
children of his Hebrew brethren. Nevertheless, with
all his labours his gains were extremely scanty ; and
his son was accustomed from his earliest years to
poverty and privation.
   After being taught the elements of Hebrew scho
larship by his father, Moses was sent at an early age
to a public seminary, where the other young Jews of
the place who were intended for a learned profession
were educated.     The system pursued at this esta
blishment, however, was little calculated to nurture
or strengthen the more important mental faculties —
the chief or rather almost the only exercise of the
pupils being to get by heart portions of the rabbinical
commentaries which they could not understand.        It
is said that when no more than seven years old Men
delsohn began to discern the absurdity of this me
thod of study, and applied himself of his own ac
cord to the obtaining of a correct acquaintance with
the grammar of the sacred tongue as an indispensable
preliminary to his further progress.   So early as his
tenth year he had begun to write verses in Hebrew.
 He was fortunate soon after this in obtaining the in

                       MENDELSOHN.                        235
 learning, who was then chief Rabbi at Dessau, and
 whom the young student greatly attached to himself
 by his application and his thirst for knowledge.          By
 Frankel's assistance and his own industry, the boy
  soon acquired a knowledge of the scriptures and
  their principal commentaries, rare at that time, even
 among the more learned classes of his nation.
     The ardour with which he pursued his studies at
 this early age was too great for a frame which never
 had been very strong; and it brought on ere long a
 nervous disorder, the consequences of which remained
 with him during his life. It produced in particular
 a deformity of the spine, which was found to be in
 curable.    The work which he had been most eagerly
 engaged in studying, when attacked with this illness,
 was the More Nevochim, or Guide for the perplexed,
of the great Moses Maimonides, the learned Span
ish Jew of the twelfth century ; and in allusion to
this circumstance Mendelsohn would long afterwards
remark that it was Maimonides who had spoilt his
figure and ruined his constitution.
                                         " But still," he
would add,     "I  doat on him for many hours of delight
he has afforded me ; and, if he has unwittingly
weakened my body, has he not made me ample
amends by invigorating my mind * ?"
    When Mendelsohn was about fourteen years of
age, his friend and instructor Frankel left Dessau for
Berlin, and he was now almost without an associate.
It was time, besides, that he should think of doing
something to gain his own subsistence.         His father,
accordingly, who was tenderly attached to him, and
would willingly have kept him longer under his hum
ble roof, was at last prevailed upon by his earnest en
treaties to permit him to proceed to Berlin, in the
hope that through Frankel's assistance he might
procure some employment in that large city. The
good Rabbi was scarcely able to do anything for him
   * See Memoir of Mendelsohn, by M. Samuels. Lond. 1825.

238        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
from his own resources ; but he recommended him
to a benevolent friend, who gave him an attic-room
in his house to sleep and study in, and allowed him
two days' board every week.       The only resource he
possessed for a long time, in addition to this, was a
little employment as a transcriber, which Frankel
procured for him. With the proceeds of this he
contrived to exist and to pursue his studies ; but his
privations were often very great. It was his custom
at this time, as he used afterwards to relate, when
he bought a loaf, to notch it into portions that
might last him till he counted upon obtaining his
next supply of money; and, however hungry, he
would never eat more at a meal than he had thus
allowed himself.
    It was not at this period the practice among the
Jews to study the classic languages ; but Mendelsohn,
inquisitive after all knowledge, and reading with
avidity every accessible work which promised him
 any information, soon discovered that without an ac
quaintance with Greek and Latin his literary re
searches    must remain extremely bounded.            He
therefore resolved to acquire these languages.       But
how he was to take the first step in this pursuit it
was not very easy to understand.      The Hebrew and
the German were the only languages he knew, and
there was no Greek or Latin grammar, as far as he
was aware, written in either.       In this difficulty a
fortunate chance brought him acquainted with a
brother Jew, a person of the name of Kish, from
 Prague, who was a medical practitioner, and knew
something of Latin.       Mendelsohn prevailed upon
this man to give him gratuitously a quarter of an
hour's instruction every day, till he had made himself
 master of the Latin nouns and verbs.     When he had
 advanced thus far, he dispensed with his instructor.
 Having purchased for a trifle an old dictionary
which had been very ill used, he considered himself

                     MENDELSOHN.                   237
to be in possession of all the necessary aid for com
mencing the work of translation ; which accordingly
he forthwith essayed on the first Latin book he
could obtain.     This, it is related, happened to be
no other than a Latin [translation of Locke on the
 Human Understanding — the whole of which he
toiled through.     After this achievement he applied
himself to the Roman classics, and found that he
could read them in general with ease and pleasure.
    Mendelsohn's classical studies had probably al
ready begun to subject him to unpleasant suspicions
and imputations from the more bigotted among his
Israelitish brethren.   This may have been partly the
reason that led him to attach himself about this time
to a Polish Jew of the name of Israel Moses, who
had come to reside in Berlin, having been obliged to
leave his native country in consequence of being sup
posed to hold opinions too liberal for the taste of the
great majority of his nation. This person, among
his other acquirements, was a proficient in the ma
thematics — a branch of learning of which as yet
Mendelsohn knew nothing.          On the other hand,
Israel Moses was altogether ignorant of Latin. It
was agreed therefore that the two friends should be
come each other's instructors.    The Pole accordingly
carried Mendelsohn through the elements of geo
metry by means of a Hebrew translation of Euclid ;
and in return received lessons from the latter in
Latin and German. Such was the manner in which
this ardent student availed himself of every chance
opportunity of making a new acquisition in useful or
 liberal knowledge — rarely having it in his power to
 travel towards his object by the most direct and
 usual road, but not deterred on that account from
 seeking it by any by-path, however circuitous, that
 lay open to him.
    During the time he remained at Berlin in obscurity
 and indigence, Mendelsohn's studies extended to

238          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 many other     subjects  beside those we have men
tioned.    In  particular he made himself familiar with
 both the French and English languages.       But after
 several years had passed away without improving his
 worldly circumstances, a rich Jew of the name of
 Bernard, who resided in the city, fortunately heard of
 his talents and his worth, and, being at the time in
 want of a tutor for his children, determined to employ
 him in that capacity.    To poor Mendelsohn this was
 at that time an elevation that satisfied his highest
 ambition.     He had now not only a comfortable
 home, but a salary which enabled him to buy books,
 and to take lessons in those branches of scholarship
 of which he was yet ignorant. It was after this that
 he began the study of the Greek language, to which
 he had not ventured to apply himself, so long as he
 was unable to obtain the assistance of a master. The
 duties of his situation allowed him considerable lei
 sure, which he devoted with his wonted ardour,
 both to various new departments of science and lite
 rature and to the farther prosecution of those upon
 which he had already entered.       He thus extended
 his mathematical acquirements to algebra and flux
 ions ; while natural philosophy, natural history, ge
 neral history, and metaphysics, all came in for a
 share of his attention.
    Among his other accomplishments were a re
markably beautiful hand-writing, and great skill in
accounts.     Trivial as these acquirements may be
deemed, it so turned out that to them, principally,
 Mendelsohn was indebted for the prosperity of his
future life.   His diligence in the performance of his
regular   duties,  and his excellent general conduct,
soon raised him high in the favour of his employer ;
but that gentleman was particularly struck with the
talent he displayed in the arts we have just men
tioned.    He at last resolved to remove him from the
school-room to the counting-room, and to employ him

                      MENDELSOHN.                     239
 as one of his clerks.      From this situation he after
wards promoted him to a higher place in his esta
blishment, which was a large silk-manufactory; and at
 last he appointed him manager of the whole concern.
    Mendelsohn was now in the enjoyment of a hand
 some income ; but neither this nor the laborious
 duties of his place relaxed his diligence as a student.
 His evenings, and a great portion of the night, were
 still regularly given to literature and philosophy. He
 had long looked with anxious and compassionate in
 terest upon the general ignorance of his Hebrew bre
thren; and the desire of diffusing among them the
light of modern literature and science had become, as
it continued to be throughout his life, the first wish of
his heart. With this view he projected, in conjunction
 with a friend, a Hebrew periodical work, to consist of
 short essays on such parts of science and morals as
could most easily be made popular and interesting,
to be entitled 'The Moral Preacher.'        Of this work,
however, the first in which Mendelsohn tried his
powers as a public writer, only two numbers ap
peared ; when he felt it prudent to discontinue it in
consequence of the outcry raised against it by his
more bigotted brethren, to whom such an attempt to
displace their ancient rabbinical manuals of instruc
tion seemed fraught both with presumption and pro
fanity.    But Mendelsohn, though turned from his
course for the moment, was not thus to be driven
to relinquish finally what he deemed to be as much
the path of his duty as it was of his ambition.
    About the year 1754, an event took place which
greatly influenced Mendelsohn's future career; we
mean his introduction toGotthold Ephraim Lessing,
afterwards so celebrated among the literary orna
ments of his country, but who was then, like his new
friend, only a young man of twenty-five, and only
beginning to be known as a writer. Mendelsohn is
said to have been first made known to Lessing by a

240       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Jewish medical practitioner of the name of Gum-
pertz, by whom he had been assisted in learning
some of the modern languages.          They had also oc
casionally played at chess together; and it was as a
proficient in this game that the young Jewish philo
sopher was first recommended to the acquaintance of
the future author of ' Nathan the Wise.'      But these
two congenial minds soon turned their intercourse to
higher ends. To Mendelsohn this connexion was
especially important, inasmuch as it speedily in
troduced him to various other literary men then
residing in Berlin, to whose society, from their differ
ence of religious creed, he would not otherwise have
had access.     In this manner he became the intimate
associate of Nicolai, Abbt, and others, who afterwards
greatly distinguished themselves in the regenera
tion of the literature of their country.   These young
men were the principal supporters of various pe
riodical works which then existed at Berlin ; and
 Mendelsohn now joined his contributions to theirs.
 He had not yet, however, published any work in his
 own name ; when one day his friend Lessing brought
 him a philosophical treatise which had just been pub
 lished, and requested him to read it and give his
 opinion of it. On returning the book some days
 afterwards, Mendelsohn observed that he thought he
 could without much difficulty refute the author's po
 sitions. Encouraged by his friend, he accordingly
 sat down to the composition of his reply.      When he
 had finished it, he brought the manuscript to Lessing,
 and requested him to be kind enough to read           it,
 which the latter promised to do as soon as he should
 be at leisure.     At their next interview, however,
 somewhat to Mendelsohn's surprise, the matter was
 never mentioned by Lessing       ; and Mendelsohn was
 too modest to introduce     it  himself. This happened
  several times —  till at last the anxious author ven
 tured to ask his friendif   he had found time to look to

                     MENDELSOHN.                      24]
the manuscript. Lessing again complained of want
of leisure ; but promised him that he should certainly
contrive to find time to read it immediately. " In
the mean time,'' he added, " here is a small volume
on the same subject, which has just appeared; take
it home with you, and let me know what you think
of it." Mendelsohn's surprise may be conceived
when on opening this volume he found it to be his
own work already in print— his ' Philosophical Dia
logues,' as he had entitled it.      " Put it into your
pocket," said Lessing, enjoying his amazement, " and
this Mammon along with it ; it is what     I  got for the
copy-right."
   From this time Mendelsohn took his place in the
very front rank of the literary men of Germany.
It does not, however, belong to this rapid sketch
even to enumerate the long succession of works by
which, during almost every year of his remaining life,
he sustained and added to his fame.        For the clas
sical elegance of his German style he was considered
as almost without a rival among his contemporaries.
His treatise, in particular, on the immortality of the
soul, entitled ' Phaedon,' attracted, immediately on its
appearance, universal attention, and being translated
into English, French, Dutch, Italian, Danish, and
 Hebrew, spread the fame of the author over all
Europe. But the great effort of his life still con
tinued to be the moral and intellectual improvement
of his brethren of the house of Israel. For this pur
pose he brought all the resources of his learning and
genius to the illustration of the Hebrew scriptures ;
and his translations of the Books of Moses and the
Psalms, the latter in verse, are reckoned among his
very greatest performances. The incessant literary
labours of this illustrious man were often carried on
under the pressure of ill-health, and always amidst
the interruptions of business or of society.          He
   VOL. II.                                  Y

242         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
eventually became the partner of Mr. Bernard in his
silk-manufacturing establishment, and lived in the
enjoyment of opulence.        In his thirty-third year he
married, and had the happiness before his death of
seeing his family growing up around him. One of
 his publications, which he entitles ' Morning Hours,'
consists of a series of lectures on natural philosophy,
which he was for some years in the habit of deli
vering to his children every morning for two or
three hours after sunrise.      His habits of living were
extremely simple and abstemious.
                                          " It was incon
ceivable," says Mr. Samuels *, to whose Memoir
we have been principally indebted for the above
facts, " that the quantity of food to which he re
stricted himself, could sustain a human being ; and
at the same time it was affecting to see him press
his guests, good humouredly, to partake of viands
and liquors, which himself, though ever so desirous,
durst not venture to taste. * * * He was very fond
of company, and never courted solitude, except from
four or five o'clock in the morning, till about eight
or nine, when he adjourned to his counting-house, and
remained there till noon.       After dinner he generally
attended to business again, till about four in the
afternoon.     About this hour his friends and pupils
used to meet at his house ; and, on his return, he
usually found a numerous assembly in his room, who
anxiously awaited his appearance.        There were theo
logians, literati, philosophers, public functionaries,
merchants, natives, foreigners, old and young, in
promiscuous groups, with whom he conversed till
eight o'clock, on various topics."      Mendelsohn died,
in consequence of a cold which he caught in returning
one morning from the synagogue (in his attendance
on which he was always extremely regular), on the
4th of January, 1786, in the fifty-eighth year of his age.
                   * Memoir, p. 139—140.

                       Chapter        XI.
                 John of Salisbury ; Roger Bacon.
The   persons with whom we have been occupied in
the chapters immediately preceding the present have
all belonged to what may almost be called our own
times ; or, at least, their pursuits have been such as
indicate an advanced state of literature, philosophy,
and civilization generally. It is only within the last
two or three centuries that anything like a spirit of
independent speculation has formed a pervading cha
racteristic of the literature of modern Europe.       Up
to that period    the intellect of our forefathers may be
said, in most of its efforts, to have walked in leading-
strings.   The peculiar circumstances in which litera
ture sprung up a second time in western Europe after
the subversion of the Roman empire, sufficiently ex
plain why it remained so long in a state of pupillage.
But the extended period in modern history called the
Dark Ages was only the night of the human mind,
and by no means its sleep, as it has sometimes been
described. The numbers of those who then dedicated
themselves to literary pursuits were very great, and
their zeal and industry in many cases such as has
never been surpassed. As an evidence of the assiduity
with which it was customary for men to apply them
selves to the studies then in fashion, we may quote
the account which our countryman John of Salis
bury, who flourished in the twelfth century, gives us
of the education he had received. " He says," (we
quote the version of the original Latin which Mr.
Turner has given in his History of England *,)
" that in the
               year after Henry I. died, he went to the
                        * Vol. i. p. 507.
                                                  y 2

244          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Peripatetic School at Paris,* on the Mount of St.
Genevieve, and there studied logic ; he afterwards
adhered to Master Alberic, as opinatissimus dialectus
(a dialectician in the highest repute), and an acer-
rimus impugnator (most keen impugner) of the
nominal sect.        He was two years with him and
Robert Metridensis, an Englishman, both men aeuti
ingenii and studii pervicacis (of acute genius and
resolute studiousness).            He then for three years
transferred himself to William de Conchin, to imbibe
his grammatical knowledge.               After this he followed
Richard called the Bishop, retracing with him all he
had learned from others, and the Quadriviumt ; and
also heard the German Harduin.                      He restudied
rhetoric, which he had learned from Master Theo-
doric, and more completely from Father Helias.
Being poor, he supported himself by teaching the
children of the noble, and contracted an intimate ac
quaintance with Master Adam, an Englishman, and
a stout Aristotelian.          He prosecuted afterwards the
study of logic with William of Soissons.                 Returning
at the end of three years, he heard Master Gilbert
on logic and on divine subjects ; then Robert Pullen,
and also Simon Periacensis, a faithful reader, but a
heavy disputer.          These two last were his only
teachers in theology. Thus, he adds, I passed twelve
years, occupied by these various studies."
    One of the most extraordinary individuals that
appeared during the dark ages was our countryman
   *  So translated by Mr. Turner ; but the phrase in the original
is Ad Peripateticum Palatinum, which means " to the Peripatetic
of Palais"    the common name by which the celebrated Abelard
was known in that age, from his place of birth, Palais, in Bretagne.
    f In the middle ages all the branches of elementary education
were considered as comprehended in the two great divisions called
the Trivium and the Quadrivium; the former of which embraced
 grammar, logic, and rhetoric ; and the latter arithmetic, astronomy,
geometry, and music.

                      ROGER BACON.                    245
 Roger Bacon;       and his history affords us so ad
 mirable an example of the successful pursuit of
 knowledge in the midst of all sorts of difficulties and
 discouragements, that we shall devote a few pages
 to present it with some fullness of detail.       Bacon
 was born at Ilchester, in Somersetshire, in the
 year 1214.      After remaining for some years at
 the University of Oxford, he went to finish his
 education at that of Paris, then the most distin
 guished seat of learning in Europe.         Here he re
 ceived his doctor's degree ; after which he returned to
 his own country, and, entering himself a brother of
 the Franciscan order, again took up his residence at
 Oxford. At this time all the four orders of mendi
 cant friars had establishments both at Oxford and
 Cambridge ; and their members were, in truth, es
 pecially the Franciscans, the great support and orna
 ments of both Universities.     At the period, however,
 when Bacon commenced his career, the Aristotelian
 metaphysics and logic, although they had already
 begun to be studied, had not acquired in this country
 that extraordinary ascendancy of which we find them
 only a few years after in possession.        He, at all
events, applied himself from the first chiefly to the
 mathematical and natural sciences, the principal of
which, as cultivated at this time, may be enumerated
under the heads of chemistry or alchemy, astronomy
or astrology, medicine, and mechanics.         To these
may be added, as having engaged a considerable
 share of Bacon's attention, the minor departments of
geography, music, and optics ; which last especially
was one of his favourite studies, and that in which
he displayed, more perhaps than in any other, his
brilliant and inventive genius.        Nearly all these
sciences were as yet mixed up with the wildest
errors and follies, which were, however, universally
looked upon as their most fundamental and unques-
                                           y 3

246          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 tionable principles, and were accordingly steadily
 kept in view by all who taught or studied either the
 theory or the practical applications of any of them.
 The grand object of chemistry, at the time to which
 we refer, was the discovery of the philosopher's
 stone, or the secret of manufacturing gold ; but the
 experiments which were constantly making with a
 view to this end had incidentally given birth to some
 real discoveries, especially in regard to the fusibility,
 malleability, and other properties of the different
 metals.    Of these we may just state, that lead and
 copper were the two which the most persevering'
efforts were made to convert into gold, the former
exciting the hope of a favourable result by its great
weight, and the latter by its colour ; no bad ex
ample of the purely imaginary grounds which formed
the whole theory and foundation of this art.                Me
dicine was      in  much the same condition with che
mistry, being      studied,   also, chiefly in the writings
of the Arabian       doctors,   who had taken a particular
pleasure in mystifying this science with all manner
of occult speculation, and bedizening it with their
frivolous fancies and inventions. Its natural alliance
with chemistry, in the first place, subjected it to be
corrupted by all the absurdities of the Hermetic phi
losophy *. But as these had originated chiefly in
one of men's strongest passions, the love of wealth,
so another passion still stronger, the fear of disease
and death, operated in the case of medicine to give
birth to a variety of other delusions, which retained
    * The science occupied with the pursuit of the philosopher's
 stone was so called in memory of the Egyptian philosopher
 Hermes, styled also Trismegistus, or the thrice-great (supposed
by some to be the same personage with the heathen god Mer
 cury), who, it was pretended, had first cultivated it about two
 thousand years before the birth of Christ, and to whom several
 existing works upon the subject were ascribed, although, it is
 almost needless to say, without any foundation.

                       ROGER BACON.                       247
their hold upon the public credulity with even yet
more invincible obstinacy.       In the unphilosophical
times to which we now refer it was little more than a
heap of quackeries and superstitions ; or at least the
truths which it taught were so mixed up with the
merest dreams and imaginations, and these latter
were held to be so much the more important and
essential part of    it,that,   not the very vainest and
                               if
falsest of all the sciences of the period, there certainly
was no other, even as then studied, which was dis
figured upon the whole by more frivolity and non
sense. As the chemists thought of nothing but their
elixir, or universal solvent, of the metals, so the phy
sicians had their elixir vitae, or universal medicine,
which was to cure all diseases, and,       not altogether
                                           if
to put an end to the custom of dying, at least to pro
tract life to more than antediluvian longevity. Then,
the Arabian writers, in whose works the science was
principally studied, had introduced into         cloud of
                                                ita
mystical and metaphysical notions from those other
departments of inquiry to which they were almost all
of them attached. One of the greatest of the Arabian
physicians, Avicenna, was one of the most devoted
admirers that ever lived of the metaphysical works ot
Aristotle which, however, he ingenuously confesses
             ;
he had perused no fewer than forty times before he
understood them.        Another of these doctors, Aver-
roes, had written so many commentaries on the
 Greek philosopher, that he obtained the name of the
most Peripatetic* of the Arabians.            Another of
them, called Alcendi, or Alchindus, had           strange
                                                  a
theory with regard to the virtues of medicines, main
taining that they could only be properly mixed ac
cording to the principles of music — notion which
                                            a
   * The philosophy of Aristotle
                               was called the Peripaielic, from
a Greek word signifying to walk about, because its founder was
wont to walk about while he conversed with and instructed his
disciples.

248        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
seems intended to defy either explanation or compre
hension. But it was the intimate connexion it had
formed with the philosophy of the stars, as then re
ceived, which gave to the medical science of the
thirteenth and some succeeding centuries, the greater
part of its weakness and absurdity.       Medicine, in
truth, was for a long time considered as only one of
the branches of astronomy or astrology, terms which
in those days were synonimous. One of Roger
Bacon's own expressions is, that the most important
department of astronomy is the science of medicine.
Operations, accordingly, used to be performed, and
remedies administered, not so much in conformity to
the appearance or nature of the disease, as according
to the aspect of the constellations.    For it was the
study of    the influence which the heavenly bodies
were supposed to exert over human affairs and the
fortunes of individuals, that constituted the favourite
astronomy of the times ; or rather no part of astro
nomy was studied at all, except with a view prin
cipally to the observation and detection of this ima
ginary sympathy between the stars and men.           In
those days this was not the belief merely of a few
of the most ignorant and credulous of the vulgar,
but the nearly universal creed even of the learned.
The science of judicial astrology, as it was called,
from the judgments        with respect to the future
which its professors pretended by means of it to
draw from the stars, was imported into Europe
much about the same time with that of alchemy,
and from the same Arabian school. The Arabian
writers, however, had found it in the works of
their predecessors,    the disciples of the Greek
school of Alexandria ; and especially in their com
mentaries on a celebrated work by the geographer
Ptolemy, now commonly known by the name of his
Almagestum, or Almagest, although that is only an
Arabic term, signifying The Great Work, which was

                    ROGER BACON.                    249
bestowed upon the book as a complimentary title by
those who translated it into that language.        The
Almagest of Ptolemy may therefore be considered as
the grand source of all the astrological superstitions
both of the East and of modern Europe.
    Bacon himself informs us in one of his works that,
notwithstanding the state of unreclaimed barbarism
in which all the more important departments of
learning still remained, there never had been known
such an intellectual excitement as had arisen in his
time.    We have a gratifying proof of the zeal now
felt in behalf of philosophy, and the honour in
which it was held, in the reception Bacon is re
corded to have met with on his return from France
to his own country, to which he was welcomed as
one of the glories of the age ; while a sum of money
was immediately collected and given to him to
enable him to prosecute those scientific investiga
tions by which he had already acquired so much
celebrity. He tells us himself that in the course
of twenty years he had been enabled by this libe
rality of his friends to expend, in collecting books,
performing experiments, and constructing instru
ments, no less than two thousand pounds, — a much
larger sum in those days than in our own.        Thus
encouraged and supported he pursued his researches
in natural science for some time without interrup
tion, and with a zeal and indefatigable application
to which the works he has left us furnish abundant
testimony.    Unfortunately, however, for his peace,
though nothing that is recorded of him is more
honourable to the purity and intrepidity of his mo
ral character, he could not remain a silent witness
of the disgraceful ignorance and profligacy of the
 generality of his ecclesiastical brethren; and his de
 nunciations upon this subject became at last so loud
 and unguarded that they reached the ears of those

250        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE."
who were most certain both to feel their justice and
never to forgive them.     Immediately he felt what it
was to have provoked the hostility of so all-powerful
a community as the church then was, and to stand
as a mark for both the open fury and concealed ran
cour of a body of men, kept united and powerful by
their common interests and common fears, and having
in their hands, not only many of the terrors of civil
authority, but the whole of that still more formidable
power which belonged to an absolute supremacy
over the creed, the consciences, and the passions of
the people.     The life of the philosopher becomes
now, with little intermission, only a tale of persecution
and cruel suffering.       The ignorance and stupid
bigotry of the times made it unhappily too easy a
matter for his enemies to find the means of amply
avenging themselves.      It was little more than a cen
tury since the Pope himself had experienced how pe
rilous a task he attempted when he set about reform
ing the corruptions of the clergy. Gregory VII.
had, about the time to which we refer, signalized
his accession to the chair of St. Peter by some
strenuous endeavours to repress the abounding ir
regularities which had long pervaded all ranks of
the priesthood ; when both the inferior clergy and
many of the bishops themselves openly and indig
nantly repelled his interference, sarcastically replying
to his exhortations and threatenings, by asking him
if he expected they were to live like angels. Nor
was this all. The superior virtue and learning of the
Pontiff served only to expose him to the blackest im
putations. The first was represented as a mere shew
of austerity, artfully kept up to cover a life of real
dissoluteness. Of the other, advantage was taken
to point him out to popular horror as a magician or
necromancer, a charge under which his memory long
laboured, in common with that of some of the

                     ROGER BACON.                    251
greatest men who were unfortunate enough to have
lived in those dark times.      And this last was the
very calumny of which the enemies of Bacon availed
themselves in order to destroy him.      His great repu
tation as a master of the secrets of natural science,
and the fame of his many ingenious experiments and
contrivances, easily enabled them, in that ignorant
age, to represent him both to the people and to the
court of Rome, as working his wonders by super
natural means, and as actually in league with the
devil. Nothing more was necessary to effect his
ruin. An order arrived from the Pope, in the first
instance, to restrain him from teaching, as he had
been in the habit of doing, in the University; and, a
short time after, he was put in confinement, se
cluded from all intercourse with his friends, and, as
we find him complaining himself, subjected to such
cruel privations that he was often near perishing of
hunger.      In this state he remained probably for
some years.     Luckily, however, in the year 1264, the
excellent and learned Cardinal Fulcodi, who had
previously been Papal Legate in England, where he
had known or heard of Bacon, became Pope under
the title of Clement IV. ; and he, immediately on his
accession, not only ordered the release of the philo
sopher, but took him under his especial protection.
It was at the request of this Pontiff that Bacon made
that collection of his principal writings known by the
title of his Opus Majus, or Greater Work, which,
after remaining in manuscript for nearly five hundred
years, was printed in London in the earlier part of
 last century.   It consists, in fact, of a discourse on
 the various subjects to which the author's studies
 had been directed, written in the form of a letter to
 the Pope ; and while it repeats, as was to be ex
 pected, many things to be found in his other works,
 may be considered as the most complete and con

 252        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
nected    account of his whole system of philosophy
which has come down to us.        But Clement reigned
only about three years and a half ; and with him ex
pired Bacon's only security against the malevolence
of his enemies. It does not appear that he was po
sitively molested for some time ; but, soon after the
accession of Nicholas III., the General of his order,
Jerome de Ascoli, ventured again to interdict the
reading of his works, and to consign him to a prison,
by a sentence which was confirmed by that Pontiff.
Bacon was at this time in the sixty-fourth year of his
age, and he remained in confinement for ten years. At
last Jerome de Ascoli became himself Pope, under the
title of Nicholas IV., and the persecuted old man, in
the hope of being permitted to spend his few remaining
days in freedom, stooped to appeal to the magnani
mity of his former enemy, by addressing to him a
treatise which he had composed in his prison on the
means of avoiding the infirmities of Old Age, as a
sample of the speculations to which he was wont to
devote himself, and an evidence of the innocence and
usefulness of those studies which had been so much
calumniated. Whether the vanity or better feelings of
Nicholas were actually touched by this submission to
his judgment and compassion does not very dis
tinctly appear.    It has been affirmed that the appeal
was powerfully backed by the intercession of some
of Bacon's most distinguished countrymen ; but it is
certain, at all events, that he soon after regained his
liberty, and returned to his old residence at Oxford.
Nor was he yet so completely worn out by age, hard
study, and the cruelty of his oppressors, that he was
ready only to lay himself down and die.          On the
contrary, it is ascertained that he lived about six
years after his deliverance, in the course of which he
composed and published his work entitled A Com
                                               '
pendium of Theology,' which still exists in manu

                       ROGER BACON.                    253
 script in the King's Library.        He died in the year
 1294, at the age of eighty.
    For the age in which he flourished Bacon was a
 miracle, and altogether deserving of the title by which
 his contemporaries distinguished him — the Wonder
ful Doctor. In his genius and intellectual character,
 indeed, he did not belong to his age.         He scarcely
 participated in its prevailing tastes, or gave himself
 at all to its favourite studies.    He complains, in one
 of his treatises, of the futile speculations which passed
 under the name of learning and philosophy in his
 time ; when the Roman law was the sole object of at
 tention among secular scholars, and those of his
 own order occupied themselves about nothing ex
 cept the most perplexed subtleties of theology.      Ele
 gant literature and true science were alike neglected
 on all hands. Even those, he tells us, who professed
 the warmest admiration and most earnest study of
 the works of Aristotle had no acquaintance with that
 philosopher except through the medium of transla
 tions, so wretched that they seldom conveyed the
 meaning of their originals nor any other meaning. He
 asserts, in another place, that there were not above
four scholars in Christendom who knew even the ru
diments of either Greek or Hebrew, much less of
Arabic ; while the Latin itself was so imperfectly un
derstood that there was scarce one living writer who
expressed himself in it with any degree of elegance or
purity.    Nor was the number of even tolerable ma
thematicians greater.       Of those who applied them
selves to that study, most stopped, he says, at the
fifth proposition of Euclid.       Hence this proposition
used to be called the Pons Asininus, or Asses' Bridge,
a name by which it is still known.
    His own attainments, even as a scholar, to say
nothing of his discoveries, were most extraordinary.
He had travelled, indeed, the whole circle of lite-
    VOL. II.                                   z

254         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE
rature and the sciences, in so far as it had been
extended in those days, and surpassed his contem
poraries as much in the depth and accuracy as
in the universality of his knowledge.        His Latin
style, though by no means perfectly classical, is
distinguished by an ease, neatness, and perspicuity,
which we look for in vain in almost any other writer
of those days.      He was distinguished besides for
his knowledge of both the Greek and Hebrew lan
guages, of the former of which he wrote a Grammar,
which still exists in manuscript. It is remarkable for
a curious passage it contains, in which it is gravely
proposed, as a piece of ecclesiastical reform, that
every bishop, in consecrating a church, should be
obliged to write the characters of the Greek alphabet
on the floor with the end of his pastoral staff, or, if
that were too much for his scholarship, at least the
three marks which were employed by the Greeks, in
addition to their alphabetical characters, in the nota
tion of numbers. The study of languages was one,
indeed, to which Bacon had given a great deal of
attention.    It forms the subject of the third book of
his Opus Majlis, and its importance is there vin
dicated by much ingenious and philosophical rea
soning.
   Ethics, theology, logic, and metaphysics, enjoyed
each of them its share of the attention of this uni
versal genius, as we learn either from those of his
works that still exist, or from others, now lost, that
are recorded to have been written by him.      But it is
his scientific researches and discoveries that make
the most brilliant part of his fame.
   Some have gone so far as to consider Bacon the
greatest mechanical genius that has appeared since
the days of Archimedes.     It is evident, from the tes
timony of his own writings, that he had at least spe
culated profoundly as to what might be done by

                    ROGER BACON.                    255
mechanic power, and meditated many curious con
trivances, some of which we can hardly doubt that he
had actually executed, from the terms in which he
speaks of them.      In a little work, which he calls his
'
   Discovery of the Miracles of Art and Nature, and of
the Nullity of Magic,' and which has been translated
into English, he has a chapter on ' Admirable Arti
ficial Instruments,' which, in reference to this point,
is in the highest degree interesting. Among other
machines which he speaks of here, although he does
not describe their construction, are a ship which
might be managed by one man as well as one of the
 common construction could by a whole crew ; a
 chariot which ran with inconceivable swiftness en
tirely by machinery ; an apparatus for flying ; and an
 engine for depressing or elevating the greatest weights
 by the application of a very small force, which he de
 scribes as only three fingers high and four broad.
 Another instrument, he says, may be easily made
 whereby one man may, in despite of all opposition,
 draw a thousand men to himself, or any other thing
 that is tractable.   A contrivance to serve the same
 purpose as the modern diving-bell is also men
 tioned.    " Such engines as these," he remarks,
 " were of old, and are made even in our days." All
 of them, he tells us, he has himself seen, " except
 ing only," he adds,
                          " that instrument of flying,"
  (we use the words of the old English transla
 tion), " which I   never saw, or know any who hath
 seen  it,  though I   am exceedingly acquainted with
 a very prudent man who hath invented the whole
  artifice.
     The errors into which this great man occasionally
 falls, read usa    valuable lesson in the right method
 of philosophizing.     He was, to an extent very re
 markable, when we consider the age in which he
                                          z
                                          2

 256         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 lived, an experimental philosopher* ; but still he had
 not learned by any means the whole importance of
 that diligent inquisition of nature which was, some
 centuries later, demonstrated by his illustrious name
 sake, to be the one sure foundation of philosophy.
  There is one thing, accordingly, with which we can
 not fail to be struck in following his speculations.
 His experiments are almost all directed, not to the
 ascertainment of principles, but only to their ex
 emplification.       It may sometimes have chanced
 that he did in this way discover, or rather obtain a
hint of, a new truth in science, or a hitherto unsus
pected property in the substances or instruments he
was employing ; but this was always merely an acci
dental result, and never the direct object of his exa
mination of them.         Hence, although he made some
important additions to the truths of philosophy, he
effected no diminution in the long list of errors and
falsehoods by which it was in his time encumbered.
With him, as with all his contemporaries, all was true
that was generally believed, or that was to be found
in any of those works which it was customary to
regard as authorities.        It is abundantly plain that he
had no clear conception of the true grounds of belief
in philosophy.        With all the ingenious and original
views, accordingly, in which his writings abound,
they contain at the same time, it must be admitted,
not a little of both hasty and extravagant inference.
For not only does it never enter his imagination to
doubt the correctness of anything that has been stated
by his predecessors, or to examine nature with a view
to ascertain the reality of those properties which they
    * " Whoever,"   says Mr. Hallam,
                                          " reads the sixth part of
     '
the    Opus Majus,' upon experimental science, must be struck
by it as the prototype, in spirit, of the Novum Organon."— His
tory of the Middle Ages, ii. § 81.

                         ROGER BACON.                           257
 have imputed to her, but, with a corresponding igno
rance, or disregard of the true laws of evidence as to
 such matters, he continually advances to his general
 conclusions from much too limited an induction of
particulars, and without anything like a sufficient
 consideration of the whole circumstances, even of the
cases to which his attention is directed.            Thus, there
can be little doubt that some even of the mechanical
designs we have just mentioned were merely his
imaginations of what might be accomplished by the
most perfect combinations of certain natural powers,
which, however, he had never actually applied, so as
to produce such effects, nor contemplated very atten
tively in any case with reference to all the conditions
of his supposed invention. It is with the same loose
ness that we find him in another place asserting the
possibility of making lamps that would burn for ever,
and talking, on the authority of Pliny, of a certain
stone which attracts gold, silver, and all other metals,
" the consideration whereof," he remarks with some
simplicity,
               " makes me think there is not anything,
whether in divine or outward matters, too difficult
for my faith." And, indeed, it appears to be so; for
many of the stories which he quotes, especially those
from Aristotle's Secretum Secretorum *, which is one
of his greatest authorities, are such as one should
think could hardly have failed to prove too mon
strous for his belief, if it had not been of this infinite
capacity.
   The influence of this sanguine and over credulous
disposition is very discernible in his optical speculations.
He was here blinded and misled in the most extraor
dinary manner by certain notions he had imbibed
from the prevailing philosophy, upon the subject of
   * Literally The Secret
                          of Secrets, —a spurious production, attri
buted to Aristotle, in high favour in the dark ages, and filled with
the most ridiculous marvels and absurdities.
                                                   z3

258         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
what were called the species of objects, which were
certain shadows, or images of themselves, which
bodies of all kinds were imagined to be continually
throwing off, and which, when received into the
mind, constituted the ideas of the things from which
they had come.     In conformity with this singularly
absurd theory, Bacon contends, that any object may
reflect upon another the species or image of whatever
power or quality is inherent in itself ; that a man, for
example, may, by means of words spoken under
strong emotion, transmit to another object, no matter
whether sentient or not, such an emanation of the
passion under which he labours, that a certain effect
which he desires to operate on that object shall be
thereby immediately produced.      If  such a phenome
non as this has never been actually exhibited, he con
ceives that it is owing solely to the emotion never
having existed in sufficient intensity when the experi
ment was attempted.     After this we need not wonder
at what he says about the reflective powers of mir
rors.   Glasses, he assures us, " may be framed to
send forth species, and poisonous infectious influ
ences, whither a man pleaseth ; and this invention
Aristotle shewed Alexander, by which he erected the
poison of a basilisk upon the wall of a city, &c. &c."
In another place we are informed, in a jargon which
will scarcely bear translation, " that all things are to
be known by the science of Perspective, since all the
doings of nature take place through the multiplica
tion of species and virtues from the agents of this
world into the patients." And many other passages
might be quoted in the same style.
    These were the prejudices of education, which even
such a mind as that of Bacon was not powerful
enough altogether to escape from. They were in
part, too, the natural produce of that sanguine tem
perament which appertained to him as a man of

                     ROGER BACON.                   259
inventive genius, and one given rather to look for
ward to the future than back upon the past. The
minds that have enlarged the bounds of science by
positive discoveries, seem to be of a different order
from those to which we are indebted for the demoli
tion of ancient systems of imposture or delusion.
Lord Bacon, who first overthrew the despotism of
Aristotle, and rid philosophy of the standard super
stition by which it had so long been encumbered and
overshadowed, achieved nothing beyond the old
border-line of the territory which he had thus cleared.
Newton, on the other hand, whose conquests were
all on the outer side of this hitherto untraversed
bourn, might, possibly, had he lived in another age,
have failed to detect those consecrated errors in the
method of philosophizing which were so happily ex
posed by Lord Bacon.
   Astronomy is another of the departments of mathe
matical physics, in which Friar Bacon had made
wonderful proficiency for his age. As a proof of
this, we may mention, that he is recorded to have
suggested, in a letter to his patron, Clement IV., the
same reformation of the Calendar which was intro
duced three hundred years afterwards by Pope Gre
gory XIII., and which has been long adopted by
nearly all Christendom, our own government having
formally recognised and enacted it in the year 1752 ;
and Russia being now the only country in which the
old reckoning prevails.     Geography and chronology
were also favourite studies of Bacon's ; and both are
ably and learnedly treated of among those of his works
which still exist.
   We have already mentioned the extraordinary
imaginations which in those days formed so im
portant a part of physical science ; and, in regard
to most of these, this great man had not risen above

 260          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
in all the wild pretensions both of astrology and
alchemy.      Of the latter art, indeed, he was one of
the earliest disciples among the Latins, as the Chris
tian inhabitants of Europe used then to be called in
contradistinction to the Jews and Saracens, by whom
it had been cultivated for several centuries before.
But it is unnecessary to refer more particularly
to any of his unintelligible disquisitions on these
subjects, which, couched as they generally are in a
most peculiar and mystical style, seem in truth
hardly intended to convey any meaning even in the
original, and certainly were never meant to be trans
lated.    It is sufficent to remark, that the influence of
the stars upon human affairs is one of the fundamental
laws of his astronomy ; and that he has no doubt of
the existence of a universal menstruum, or solvent,
having the power both of converting all other metals
into gold, and of purifying the human body from all
its corruptions, and prolonging life through many
ages.
   In  his pursuit   of the philosopher's stone, however,
Bacon      had undoubtedly       acquired a considerable
knowledge of the properties of various natural sub
stances, and made several real discoveries in che
mistry.     Of these, the most remarkable of which his
works give us any notice, is his discovery of gun
powder. We have no account from himself of the
manner in which he arrived at this discovery ; but
nothing can be more probable than the statement of
another old writer that he was indebted for it merely
to the accident of a vessel, in which the different in
gredients of the composition happened to be mixed,
exploding on being heated.          The way in which he
himself mentions the matter is exceedingly curious,
and very characteristic of the philosophy of the times.
He describes the wonderful properties of his secret
mixture in various parts of his works. For example,

                    ROGER BACON.                        261
in his Treatise on the Miracles of Art and Nature,
he enumerates,     among
                            " his strange experiments,"
"the making of thunder and lightning in the air;
yea, with a greater advantage of horror than those
which are only produced by nature ; for a very com
petent quantity of matter, rightly prepared (the big
ness of one's thumb) will make a most hideous noise
 and coruscation."     In another place he ventures so
far as as to intimate, that the preparation in question
is a compound of " nitre, or saltpetre, and other
ingredients,"    In one passage only, however, and
that in a chapter thrown in by way of appendix at
the end of one of his works, does he actually record
the names of these other ingredients.       And even on
this occasion, instead of declaring them plainly, and
at once, he wraps them up in a mysterious anagram,
or series of syllables formed by an intricate trans
position of the letters of which the words meant to be
understood, are composed.        " The substance is pre
pared," says he, " from the luru mope can ubre, of
saltpetre, and of sulphur."     The sentence, of course,
is in Latin ; and the letters in italics, when restored to
their proper order, make exactly the words pulvere
carbonum, in English, the powder of charcoal ; so
that the meaning of the whole is, that the composi
tion is formed by mixing together the powder of
charcoal, of saltpetre, and of sulphur, the very three
ingredients, as is well known, from which gunpowder
is generally made.      This curious passage proves in-
contestably Bacon's possession of the secret ; but it is
not at all probable that it is to him or his writings
that the world at large has been indebted for the
knowledge of it ; for it is singular enough, that the
barbarous syllables to which he thus confided            it,
retained their trust so faithfully, that they continued
an unexplained riddle for nearly five hundred years,
when their meaning was at last discovered          by  the

262        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ingenious    author of the article we have already
referred to in the Biographia Britannica.         It may
be added, that this mode of recording scientific dis
coveries was common long after the time of Bacon,
as might be proved by many examples which it would
be easy to cite.      Newton himself first announced
an important portion of his doctrine of fluxions by an
anagram.
    Bacon's renown as a mighty magician, however,
was the part of his fame that lived longest in the po
pular memory.      It is entirely in this character that
he figures in a very curious production which ap
pears to have been a great favourite with our ances
tors, about the beginning of the seventeenth century,
entitled ' The famous History of Friar Bacon, con
taining the wonderful things that he did in his life ;
with the lives and deaths of the two conjurers, Bun-
gey and Vandermast ; very pleasant and delightful
to be read.'    This veracious chronicle gives a most
minute account of his fabrication of the marvellous
brazen head, of which we read so much in all the
old histories of the philosopher and his inventions.
This fabrication of a brazen head, we may re
mark, is a feat which we find attributed to most of
the few other individuals who were distinguished as
cultivators of science in those times.       William of
Malmesbury, among the other wonders he relates of
the famous Gerbert, who became Pope under the
title of Sylvester II., in the year 999, mentions such
an image of his constructing, which was in the habit
of answering many difficult questions. The same
story is told of another very remarkable man,
William of Paris, or of Auvergne, as he is sometimes
called, who was born some years before Bacon, and
has probably a better claim than the English philoso
pher to be accounted the father of alchemy among
the Latins, while he is at the same time honour

                     ROGER BACON.                    263
 ably   known    as  a  most profound and original
 thinker on moral and metaphysical subjects, in an
 age when these departments of philosophy were es
 pecially under the control of routine and authority.
 We read, too, of a brazen head made by one of
 Bacon's patrons and most intimate friends, the cele
 brated Robert Grostete, or Greathead, Bishop of
 Lincoln, a prelate of great genius and learning, but
 who had made himself obnoxious by his independent
 conduct, not only to the general body of the clergy,
 of whose corrupt manners he was a severe censor,
 but to the reigning Pope Innocent IV. himself, some
 of whose impositions he had resisted with a boldness
 that might surprise those who have so read the his
 tory of the Roman Catholic Church as to have ga
thered no other notions with regard to it except that
of the unlimited authority of its head, and the uniform
and unquestioning obedience of its inferior members.
 Bishop Greathead, often called Robert of Lincoln,
wrote several works, which still exist, both in theo
logy and science ; and was distinguished, like his
friend Bacon, for his philosophical as well as his
mathematical knowledge.       Lastly, we may mention
the complete man of brass made by the famous
Albertus Magnus, or Albert the Great, of which it
is recorded that it was so fond oftalking that Thomas
Aquinas, while a pupil of Albert's, one day knocked
it to pieces as a disturber of his studies. Albert was
a contemporary of Friar Bacon's, and like him long
enjoyed the reputation of profound skill in the art of
magic.     He was undoubtedly a very extraordinary
man. The extent and variety of his attainments
seem to have been wonderful, for the age in which
he flourished ; and his industry and fertility as a
writer must be regarded as almost unparalleled if he
really composed the whole of that immense mass
which was printed at Lyons in the middle of the

264         THE PURSUIT     OP KNOWLEDGE.
seventeenth    century, under the title of his collected
Works, in twenty-one volumes folio. A large por
tion of these consists of Commentaries on Aristotle,
whose works, however, he knew only through the me
dium of the wretched Latin translations then existing.
    Attached as Friar Bacon was to those vain spe
culations, known under the names of the sciences of
astrology and alchemy, he was so far from ever pre
tending to operate by supernatural means, that one
of his works, his ' Treatise on the Miracles of Art
and Nature,' to which we have already referred, is
written principally for the purpose of proving the
nullity or absurdity of what was called the Art of
Magic, and exposing the tricks of its professors.     In
the beginning of this little work, after enumerating
the various methods by which these impostors pre
tended to perform their wonders, he affirms, that " no
true philosopher did ever regard to work by any of
these ways."     And immediately after, nothing can be
 more sensible than the manner in which he expresses
 himself on the subject of charms, spells, &c.
                                               " Without
 doubt," says he, " there is nothing in these days of
 this kind, but what is either deceitful, dubious, or ir
 rational, which philosophers formerly invented to hide
 their secret operations of nature and art from the eyes
 of an unworthy generation." The domination which
 he imagined the heavenly bodies to possess over hu
 man affairs, was certainly an absurd dream ; and so
 was his other favourite fancy about the tincture which
 possessed the power of curing all diseases, and turn
 ing everything into gold : but neither of them pro
 ceeded upon the idea of anything like supernatural or
 magical agency. The moral influence which he attri
 buted to the stars, he conceived to be as truly a law
 of nature as that which directed their motions, or
 retained them in their orbits ; and one, the operation
  and effects of which equally admitted of being made

                      ROGER BACON.                   265
matter of calculation and science.    In the same man
ner, his universal solvent was merely one of the yet
undiscovered essences or compounds of natural che
mistry, the expectation of ever finding which might
be wild and unwarrantable enough, and the proper
ties ascribed to it such, in fact, as nothing existing
did actually possess : but still there was not neces
sarily anything magical, either about the supposed
nature of the substance itself, or the manner in
which it was to be applied, or even the processes and
experiments by which it was sought to be discovered.
It is quite true that some of the other cultivators of
 these visionary sciences professed to avail themselves
 of the aid of spells or spirits, or other supernatural
 means, in prosecuting their researches ; but Bacon
 never did. The worst that can be said of him is,
that his language, when he is speaking of the sub
ject, is occasionally somewhat mystical —which arises,
in a great part, it is but fair to observe, merely from
his employment of the peculiar and technical phrase
 ology of which the sciences in question, as well as
 all others, have their share.      Nothing, therefore,
 could be more undeserved than the opprobrium to
 which he was exposed as a student of necromancy,
 or as one who ever even professed to work enchant
 ments.      It has been said that this calumny only
 arose many years after his death, and that he himself
 never was annoyed by it ; but both his history and
 his writings, we cannot help thinking, prove the con
 trary.    In his book on Old Age, he distinctly com
 plains of being hindered from making such experi
 ments as he would have wished, by " the rumours of
 the vulgar." And in various other passages we find
 him alluding to the difficulties and dangers which
  philosophy had to encounter from the same cause. It
  is gratifying, however, to observe, that in what
  ever spirit this accusation may have been originally
     VOL.  II.                              2 A

266       THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
brought     against him, and with however much af
fected horror his name may have long been regarded
by his brother churchmen, who used to nail his
books, we are told, to the shelves of their libraries, and
to allow them to remain in that state covered with dust,
 and a prey to the moths and worms, he seems even,
in his character of a magician, to have been a favourite
with the people in general.     In " The Famous His
tory of Friar Bacon," instead of being represented as
 in league with the powers of evil, we find him, on
 various occasions, opposing and foiling them in a
 style that would do honour to any legendary saint in
the calendar ; and when his fellow conjurers, Bungey
and Vandermast, are consigned, at the close of their
career, to the usual fate of persons of their craft, he
is, by an extraordinary piece of indulgence on the
part of the chronicler, released from the dreadful
penalty by being made, in a fit of repentance, to burn
his books of magic, to turn anchorite, and to study
 divinity.   Everything that is told of him, too, speaks
 in favour of the kind and generous manner in which
he used to dispense his enchantments ; and, upon
 the whole, he is represented to us, in point of moral
 character, very much in the same light in which his
 own writings, so evidently the produce of a simple,
 benevolent, and philosophic spirit, would lead us to
 regard him. He was, indeed, a genuine lover of
 knowledge and philosophy, for which he was ever
 ready to suffer all things, — preferring them infinitely
 to all things.    He unfolds to us, in short, very
 clearly, what manner of man he must have been, by
  a single remark : when speaking of one of his pro
 jects or contrivances, he calls  it, with delightful en
  thusiasm,   " an invention of more satisfaction to a
  discreet head, thana   king's crown."

                            Chapter       XII.
Professors of Optical Discovery. — Dollond; Ramsden ; Herschel ; Thomas
             Phelps and John Bartlett ; Fraunhofer; Palitzch.
The truth,        as we have already remarked, with re
gard to many of the inventions mentioned by Friar
Bacon, probably is, that he had rather deduced them
as possibilities from the philosophical principles in
which he believed, than actually realised them expe
rimentally.         Among others, certain optical instru
ments to which he attributes very wonderful powers
existed merely, there can be little doubt, as con
 ceptions of his mind, and had never been either
 fashioned or handled by him.
    The invention of spectacles, however, may be consi
 dered as having been traced, on evidence of unusual
clearness in such matters, to about the time of the death
of Bacon. By the testimony of more than one contem
porary writer this useful contrivance is assigned to a
Florentine named Salvini degl' Armati ; although he,
it is said, would have kept the secret to himself, had
it not been for another subject of the same state,
Father Alexander de Spina, who, having found it out
by the exertion of his own ingenuity and penetration,
was too generous to withhold from the world so use
ful a discovery. This was about the close of the
twelfth century.             From this time magnifying, or
burning, lenses continued to be made of various
sizes.       But nearly three hundred years more elapsed
before any additional discovery of much importance
was made in optical science ; although in the early
part of the sixteenth century Mamolicus of Messina,
                                                     2   a2

268        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
to direct attention to its principles by their writings
and experiments.     The latter is said to have first
performed the experiment of producing a picture of
external objects on the wall of a darkened chamber,
by the admission of the light through a lens fixed in
a small circular aperture of the window-shutter, the
origin of the modern Camera Obscura ; and the
former made an imperfect attempt to explain the
phenomenon of the rainbow. The fortune of ascer
taining the true principles of this phenomenon, how
ever, was reserved for Antonio de Dominis, Arch
bishop of Spalatro, who published his exposition of
them in the year 1611.
   It appears to have been about this time, also, or
not long before, that the telescope was invented ;
although the accounts that have come down to us
regarding this matter are extremely contradictory.
As magnifying lenses had been long known, and
were commonly in use, nothing is more probable
than that, as has been suggested, more than one
person may, ere this, have accidentally placed two
lenses in such a position as to form a sort of rude
telescope; and this may account for various evi
dence that has been adduced of something resem
bling this invention having been in use at an earlier
period. But what is certain is, that the discovery of
the telescope which made it generally known took
place only about the close of the sixteenth century.
It seems also to be generally agreed, that it was in
the town of Middleburg, in the Netherlands, that the
discovery in question was made ; and moreover, that
it was made by chance, although the accounts vary as
to who was the fortunate author of it.       The story
commonly told is, that the children of a spectacle-
maker, while playing in their father's shop, having
 got possession of two lenses, happened accidentally
to hold them up at the proper distance from each

                               OPTICS.                        269
 other, and to look through them at the weather-cock
 on the top of the steeple ; when, surprised at seeing it
 apparently so much nearer and larger than usual,
 they called to their father to come and witness the
 phenomenon ; after observing which he was not long
 in fabricating the first telescope. The wonderful
 powers of the new instrument were soon rumoured
 over Holland and other countries, and the account
 excited everywhere the greatest interest and curiosity.
At last, as we have mentioned in our former volume,
it reached Galileo at Venice ; and he re-invented the
 instrument by the application of his own sagacity
 and scientific skill*.
    The microscope was also discovered about this
time — but by whom is equally uncertain. These in
 struments, however, contributed greatly to revive a
taste for optical investigations ; and some of the
 greatest philosophers of the time, especially Kepler
and Des Cartes, successively distinguished them
selves in this branch of science, so that some of its
most important principles were, ere long, much more
accurately ascertained than they had hitherto been,
and the phenomena depending upon them more cor
rectly explained. The early part of the seventeenth
century, indeed, exhibits one of the busiest periods
in the whole history of optical discovery ; nor did the
almost constant advance of the science stop, till the
publication of the Dioptrics of Des Cartes in 1637.
    Its next distinguished cultivator was James Gre
gory, whose Optics appeared in 1663.               It was he, as
is   well-known,      who first proposed the reflecting
telescope  —   which, on that account, is often called by
his name, although he did not succeed in actually
constructing such an instrument.                 This was first
accomplished a few years afterwards, by Sir Isaac
Newton, whose investigations on the subject of light,
  * See the Life of Galileo, in the Library of Useful Knowledge.
                                                2 a 3

270        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
in its whole extent, were destined to create, in     re
gard to that department of physics, nearly as com
plete a change in the opinions of the age as that
which he subsequently effected, by the publication
of his ' Principia,' in regard to the mechanism of
the heavens.    By his celebrated experiment of inter
posing a prism, or triangular bar of glass, in the way
of the solar beam, admitted through a small hole into
an otherwise darkened chamber, he had made it
produce on the wall, not a white circle, as it would
have done if allowed to pass on without interruption,
but an elongated image, or spectrum, as he called     it,
displaying a series of seven different colours, namely,
red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet,
— hence often spoken of as the seven prismatic
colours. This phenonenon proved the hitherto un
suspected facts, — first, that white or common light is,
in reality, composed of seven different species of
rays  ;and, secondly, that each of these several rays
is refrangible in a different degree from the others,
that  isto say, on passing into a new medium, they
do not proceed together in one direction, but each
starting from the common point of entrance, takes a
separate course of its own, so that the beam spreads
out into the resemblance of fan. This
                            a              iscalled the
divergence, or dispersion of the rays of light and
                                                 ;
from some other experiments which Newton made,
he was induced to believe that whatever transparent
substances or media refracted a beam of light in the
same degree, or, in other words, changed in the
same degree its general direction, were also equal in
their dispersive powers, or made the different rays se
parate from one another to the same extent.       From
this followed  a  very important consequence.       The
magnifying powers of the common telescope de
pended entirely upon the refraction of the light in its
passage through the several lenses  ; but  itcould not

                       DOLLOND.                       271
undergo this operation without the rays being at the
same time dispersed ; and this necessarily threw a
certain indistinctness over the image which such te
lescopes presented to the eye.      Here, therefore, was
a defect in the refracting telescope, which admitted
of no cure ; for the dispersive bearing the same re
lation in all substances to the refractive power, you
could not obtain the requisite refraction without its
inseparable companion, the same amount of disper
sion. It was this consideration which made Newton
give up all thoughts of improving the refracting
telescope, and apply himself, as Gregory had done,
to the construction of one which should present its
image, not by refracting, but by reflecting, the light
from the object.
    This rapid sketch of the progress made in the im
 provement of the telescope up to the beginning of the
eighteenth century, will be sufficient to enable the
unscientific reader to understand the general nature
and importance of a very happy discovery, which,
 since that time, has so greatly improved that instru
 ment, and of the author of which, one of the most
 remarkable examples of self-educated men, we are
now about to give some account.
    John Dollond was born in Spitalfields, on the
 10th of June, 1706.      His parents had come to this
country from Normandy, on the revocation of the Edict
 of Nantes, in 1685 ; and, along with many thou
 sands more of their countrymen, had established
 themselves in the above-named district of the English
 metropolis, in their original business of silk-weavers.
 Dollond's earliest years, also, were spent at the loom ;
 and it had become the more necessary that he should
 apply himself to his occupation with his utmost in
  dustry, in consequence of his father having died
  while he was yet an infant.     Even during his boy
  hood, however, we are told, he began to shew an in

272         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
clination   for the study of the mathematics ; and
before he was fifteen, he used to amuse himself,
 during what little leisure he could command, in con
 structing sun-dials and solving geometrical problems,
although at this time he had scarcely had an oppor
tunity of looking into any book on these subjects.
These early habits of study he continued as he grew
up towards manhood ; so that, notwithstanding the
disadvantages under which he laboured, he had, ere
long, accumulated a considerable store of learning
on his favourite subjects of inquiry.      He married
early, and an increasing family forced him to make
still more unremitted exertions for their support,
— so that, although he seems now to have be
come a master manufacturer, he had still less time
for private study than ever.     But the leisure which
business deprived him of during the day, he pro
cured for himself, as many other ardent students
have done, by stealing it from the hours usually al
lotted to sleep.   In this manner he continued to im
prove himself in geometry and algebra; after which
he applied himself to different branches of natural
philosophy, and with especial ardour, it is recorded,
to the kindred departments of astronomy and optics.
But Dollond's studies at this time were not confined
even to what is commonly called science.      He found
time to attain a competent knowledge of anatomy,
 to read a great deal of divinity, and even without
 any instructor to make himself so far master of the
 Greek and Latin languages as to enable himself to
 translate the New Testament from the one into the
other.
    Such a man was destined for something above the
 handicraft to which he had been bred.         Dollond,
 however, pursuing all the while his solitary studies,
continued in his original business, even for some years
after his eldest son Peter was come to an age to join

                      DOLLOND.                      273
him in it.   But Peter had also been his father's   as
sociate in his philosophical inquiries and experiments ;
and the tastes, as well as the knowledge, which he had
thus acquired, naturally made him feel ambitious of
entering upon some other line of exertion, in which
his talents and attainments might find a more appro
priate employment than his father's business af
forded. So, after having been for some time in
partnership with his father, he determined to set up
on his own account as an optician. He was at this
time only about twenty years of age, and does not
appear to have received any other instructions in the
art he had resolved to follow than those which his
father had given him. But his ingenuity, skill, and
diligence, were speedily crowned with the success
they deserved.      So great was the encouragement he
received, indeed, that after a short while it was ar
ranged that his father should join him ; and accord
ingly, in the year 1752, John Dollond gave up his
old business of a silk-manufacturer, and entered
again into partnership with his son as an optician.
    Being now free to devote his whole attention to the
 art, and the sciences connected with  it, which had for
 so many years occupied his scanty leisure, he was not
long in displaying the powers of his cultivated and
 inventive genius, by various improvements on the
 instruments which he fabricated. Of these, how
 ever, we can only afford space to notice the one from
 which his name derives its chief distinction.
    We have stated above the conclusion to which
 Newton had arrived in regard to the dispersive power
 of different substances, namely, that always bore
                                         it
 a certain relation to the refractive power and the
                                              ;
 inference which he thence drew as to the impos
 sibility of improving the common or refracting tele
scope.   In consequence of this decision of Newton,
the attention of the students of optical science was,

B74        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 for a considerable time after, principally directed to
 the simplification of the reflecting telescope.     But
 this instrument, especially when constructed of a large
 size, was attended with many inconveniences in the
 management, and, from the difficulty of keeping the
 mirrors clean, was extremely liable to get out of
 order. The reflected light, besides, was never so
 strong as that obtained by refraction.       Notwith
 standing, therefore, the coloured fringe in the
 image formed by the refracting telescope, that in
 strument still continued to be generally used for
 ordinary purposes.      At length the distinguished
 mathematician, Euler, undiscouraged by the cir
 cumstance which had made Newton give up the
 same task in despair, resolved once more to make
 some attempt to correct the peculiar imperfection
 which had hitherto attached to it. He began his ex
 periments about the year 1747; but, after continuing
them for several years, he failed in obtaining any
 success.    He published, however, several specula
tions upon the subject in the Berlin Memoirs, which
excited very general interest in the scientific world.
In these papers he announced and proceeded upon
a certain law with regard to the relation between the
refractive and dispersive powers ; and it was on the
subject of this assumed principle of calculation that
he was first opposed by Dollond.           The ground
which the English optician took was, that Euler's
asserted law was irreconcileable with one of the ex
periments recorded by Newton — as in truth it was ;
but the experiment in question, and Dollond's in
ference from  it,  Euler attempted to shew were alike
inadmissible, on considerations which appeared to
him to demonstrate the self-contradiction to which
they led.     Dollond's paper, with Euler's reply, ap
peared    in the Philosophical Transactions for 1752 ;
so that the controversy must have been commenced

                        DOLLOND.                       275
 by Dollond some time before he set up as a regular
 optician.
    It was some years after this that the Swedish ma
 thematician, Klingenstierna, in a paper which he
 sent to the French Academy of Sciences, demon
 strated on purely geometrical considerations the in
 admissibility of the law which Dollond had deduced
 from the experiment made by Newton.             Dollond,
 who had not been convinced by Euler's calculations,
 could not resist this new proof of the incorrectness
 of the principle which he had hitherto advocated ;
 but as it was a direct consequence, and acknow
 ledged by all to be so, of what Newton had stated
 as the result of his experiment, it followed, of course,
 that this great observer had, for once, deceived him
 self ; and that the only way to determine the point
was to have recourse again to the fountain-head of
 all philosophy, the testimony of nature.         It is a
 striking evidence of the habitual reverence felt for
 Newton's accuracy, that, during all the time this dis
 pute had been carried on, no one had till now ad
 ventured upon the task of following his footsteps over
this intricate ground, and so tracing out where he had
erred.     This, however, Dollond at last determined to
do ; and having begun his experiments in the year
 1757, he prosecuted them in the spirit, as he says him
self, of " a resolute perseverance ;" till at length, after
he had devoted nearly all his time to that one object
for about a year and a half, in June 1758, he found
himself in a condition to lay before the Royal Society,
as the result of his investigations, a new discovery of
the most interesting nature. The experiments which
he had made, had refuted, not only the law which he
had himself advanced with regard to the relation be
tween the refr active and dispersive powers, but also,
and as completely, that which had been propounded
by his opponent. Both these deductions had been

276        THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
equally founded on the assumption, sanctioned by
the authority of Newton, that these two powers ac
tually did always bear a certain relation to each
other ; but Dollond had now discovered that the
amount of the one was, in fact, altogether indepen
dent of that of the other— that where two substances,
in other words, had the same, or nearly the same,
refracting power, their powers of dispersion might
nevertheless be widely different ; and conversely.
Crown-glass and flint-glass, for instance, he found
to differ very slightly in their power of refracting, or
turning aside from its original course the entire
beam of light which entered them from another me
dium ; while, in dispersing the several rays of which
it was composed, or, to repeat the figure we have
already used, spreading them out into a fan, the
former produced only two-thirds of the effect pro
duced by the latter, so that, when the rays were al
lowed to arrange themselves in a coloured spectrum,
that image was, in the one case, a third longer than
it was in the other.
   The discovery of this hitherto unsuspected prin
ciple gave a new aspect to the whole subject of re
fraction, and at once pointed out the method to be
adopted in order to remedy the great defect of the
refracting telescope.    To retain the requisite degree
of refraction, and at the same time to get rid of the
dispersion of the rays, it was necessary only to form
the lens of two different glasses, or other transparent
substances, so arranged, that the dispersive powers
of the one should counteract those of the other, while
the refraction, or at least a sufficient amount of it,
remained undestroyed. There were many experi
ments, it is true, to be made, before the idea thus
suggested could be practically realized ; but the per
severance and ingenuity of the same mind which had
discovered the principle, at length succeeded also in

                       DOLLOND.                     277
triumphing over the difficulties that lay in the way of
its application. Dollond was not long in producing
refracting telescopes which presented images re
taining scarcely a perceptible remnant of that colour
ed border always existing in the old instruments.
When the successful result of his attempts was first
reported abroad, many of the continental mathema
ticians refused for some time to give credit to his al
leged discovery ; and Euler, in particular, was still
so prepossessed in favour of his own hypothesis,
which the new doctrine overthrew, that he continued
for several years to hold that the greater distinctness
of the image in Dollond's telescopes arose from
some other cause than the correction of the unequal
refrangibility of the rays.   This illustrious philoso
pher, however, at last became convinced of his error,
and frankly acknowledged it.
   For this great discovery the Royal Society pre
sented Dollond with the Copley Medal.          The new
telescope, to which the name of Achromatic, or
 Colourless, has been given, was afterwards consi
derably improved by its inventor ; and has, since his
time, been brought by others to still greater perfec
tion. Meantime it spread the fame of the English
optician over Europe, and gave him at once a high
rank among the philosophers of his age. In 1761
he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, and
appointed optician to his Majesty.      But he did not
live long to enjoy these honours.       On the 30th of
November, in the same year, while perusing a newly
published mathematical disquisition, on which he
had been engaged for a considerable time, he was
suddenly struck with apoplexy, and died in a few
hours.     His son, who had been so long associated
with him, carried on the business for many years, in
such a manner as fully to sustain the reputation of
the establishment, and died only about ten years ago.
    VOL. II.                               2 B

278        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
   The mention of Dollond naturally recalls the name
of another of the most eminent of our English opti
cians, the late Mr. Jesse Ramsden, who in like
manner was not originally bred to the profession
which he followed with such distinguished success.
Ramsden was born in 1735, at Salterhebble, near
Halifax, where his father kept an inn. The educa
tion he received in his boyhood embraced both a little
Latin and the elements of geometry and algebra.
But when he was of the usual age for being put to a
business, his father took him from school, and bound
him apprentice to a clothier in Halifax ; and in this
line he continued till he reached his twentieth year,
when he came up to London, and obtained employ
ment as a clerk in a wholesale warehouse.     He held
this situation for about two years and a half ; but in
the mean time he had industriously availed himself of
what leisure he could command to renew and extend
his acquaintance with science ; and so enamoured did
he gradually become of these pursuits, that he at last
resolved to make an effort to establish himself in
some line more closely connected with his favourite
studies than that which he had heretofore followed.
With this view, notwithstanding that he was now so
far beyond the age at which the learning of a business
is usually begun, he bound himself apprentice for
four years to Mr. Burton, of Denmark-court, a mathe
matical instrument maker. On the expiration of this
term, he and a fellow-workman of the name of Cole
entered into business together, Ramsden serving the
other as journeyman at a salary of twelve shillings
per week.     This connection, however, did not last
long; and on its termination Ramsden opened a
shop of his own.      His chief employment for some
time consisted in repairing optical and other mathe
matical instruments which had got out of order ; and
in this the industry and ability he displayed soon

                       HAMSDEN.
brought him into notice, and procured him a rapidly
increasing business.     But he did not rest satisfied
with merely performing in a superior manner such
work as he undertook of this description ; the dif
ferent instruments which passed through his hands
forcibly attracted his attention to the imperfections
by which each happened to be characterised, and
called his powers of contrivance into exercise in
devising how they might be improved. In order to
accomplish himself the more completely for this task,
he laboured assiduously till he acquired, entirely by
his own application, the art of grinding glass, and of
handling the file, the lathe, and the other instruments
used by opticians.   Thus furnished with the practical
skill and dexterity requisite to enable him to apply his
ingenuity and mathematical knowledge, he proceeded
to enter upon a regular and comprehensive examina
tion of all the different optical instruments in use,
with a view to the remedying of their several defects.
   This resolution, and the perseverance with which
it was followed up, eventually made Ramsden one of
the greatest optical mechanicians that the world has
ever produced. The list of the instruments which
are indebted to him for the most ingenious and valu
able improvements, embraces nearly all those of
greatest importance and most common use in astro
nomy, and the connected Sciences.       Hadley's quad
rant, the sextant, the theodolite, the barometer, the
transit instrument, and many others too numerous to
specify, all came out of his hands, it might almost be
said, with new powers, and certainly, at all events,
with much more in every case than they before pos
sessed, both of manageableness        and of accuracy.
In this last respect, especially, the instruments
constructed by him far surpassed any that had
before been produced ; and they were indebted for
                                        2 b 2

280             THE PURSUIT        OP KNOWLEDGE.
much of their superiority to a new dividing or gra
duating engine which he had contrived, the principle
of which was extremely ingenious.                   It consisted
essentially of a marker moved forward by the turning
of a very fine-threaded screw. It is easy to make a
screw with a hundred turns of the thread in an inch ;
 and by attaching to it a handle or index of sufficient
length, so that the extremity may be over a properly
divided circle of considerable magnitude, the move
ment of such a screw may be regulated with perfect
precision to the thousandth part of one of its entire
revolutions. Now, as by such a revolution it would
only advance the marker the hundredth part of an
inch, it is evident that, by being turned only the thou
sandth part of an entire revolution every time the
marker is allowed to descend and make an impres
sion upon the plate of metal or other surface to be
divided, a hundred thousand equidistant lines may
actually be drawn upon every inch of that surface.
 For this most useful contrivance the Board of Lon
 gitude awarded him a premium of 6152. ; and in re
turn he engaged to graduate whatever sextants were
put into his hands for that purpose, at the rate of three
 shillings a-piece. His engine, indeed, enabled him
to perform the operation in about twenty minutes,
whereas it had been wont to occupy many hours*. But
the additional accuracy which was given to the instru
ment to which it was applied by the new method,
was of still greater importance than its comparative
expedition and cheapness.              Hadley's quadrant, for
 instance, used to be so coarsely divided, and in other
respects so defectively made, before it received Rams-
   * See   a letter, dated London, 1st September, 1788, from Pro
fessor Piazzi of Palermo, to M. de Lalande, containing an account
of Ramsden, in the Journal des Savant, for November of that
year.    There is a translation of this letter, with a few notes, in
 vol. xri. of Tilloch's Philosophical Magazine.

                      EAMSDEN.
den's improvements, that, in endeavouring to ascer
tain the longitude by it, the observation might in some
cases lead to an error of fifty leagues but Ramsden
                                       ;
constructed it   in so superior a manner, that even his
commonest instruments did not admit of an error
being fallen into of more than the tenth part of that
amount, and with those of a more expensive descrip
tion accuracy was ensured in all cases to within      a
single league.
   Soon after he commenced business, Ramsden mar
ried Miss Dollond, daughter of the inventor of the
achromatic telescope, part of the patent for which
came in this way into his possession.       In 1786 he
was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society, having
been proposed by his friends without his knowledge,
after his diffidence in his claims to such a distinction
had made him long withhold his consent to their
taking that step. In 1794 he was chosen a member
of the Imperial Academy of Sciences at Petersburg     ;
and in 1795 the Royal Society awarded him the gold
medal annually bestowed      by   them for eminence in
science.
     The Reverend Lewis Dutens, the author of the
    Researches on the Origin of Discoveries,' who
'
was intimately acquainted with Ramsden, has given
us an account of his friend, which contains some
interesting particulars of his character and habits.
After noticing his great activity, the uncommon
force of his reasoning powers, and the accurate and
retentive memory with which he was endowed, the
writer proceeds to remark, that perhaps, after all, the
most distinguishing quality of his mind was a certain
elegance, and taste for precision and high finish,
which appeared not more in the instruments he ma
nufactured than in every thing he did. " This feel
ing for perfection," Mr. Dutens goes on to say, " led
him, in the most minute and insignificant parts of
                                       2   B   3

 282        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
his instruments, to a polish and grace, which some
times tempted those to smile who did not perceive
that the same principle which enabled him to carry
the essential parts of his instruments to a degree of
perfection unknown, and considered as impossible
before his time, induced him to be dissatisfied if a
blemish of any sort, even the most trifling, appeared
to his exquisite eye.     To these uncommonly strong
natural endowments he added all that the most con
stant and intense study could bestow.     Temperate to
abstemiousness in his diet, satisfied with an extremely
small portion of sleep, unacquainted with dissipation
or amusement, and giving but very little time even
to the society of his friends, the whole of those hours
which he could spare from the duties of his profession
were devoted either to meditation on further improve
ments of philosophical instruments, or to the perusal
of books of science, particularly those mathematical
works of the most sublime writers which had any con
nection with the subjects of his own pursuits.      Mr.
Ramsden's only relaxation from these constant and
severe studies was the occasional perusal of the best
authors both in prose and verse; and when it is
recollected that at an advanced age he made himself
so completely master of the French language as to
read with peculiar pleasure the works of Boileau and
Moliere, he will not be accused of trifling even in
his lighter hours. Short and temperate as were his
repasts, a book or a pen were the constant com
panions of his meals, and not seldom brought on a
forgetfulness of hunger ; and when illness broke his
sleep, a lamp and a book were ever in readiness to
beguile the sense of pain, and make bodily sickness
minister to the progress of his mind. Of the extent
of his mathematical knowledge he was always from
innate modesty averse to speak, although         I have
heard him say that he never was at a loss when his

                        RAMSDEN.
  profession required the application of geometry. His
  knowledge in the science of optics is well known to
 have been perfect ; and when we add that the works
 of Bouguer and the great Leonard Euler were his
 favourite study, we shall not lightly rate his profi
 ciency in mathematics.     Of his skill in mechanics it
 is unnecessary to speak.    Nor let it be supposed that
 his science in his profession was limited to the higher
 branch of invention and direction of the labours of
others. It is a well known fact, that such was his
own manual dexterity, that there was not any one
tool, in any of the numerous branches of his profes
 sion, which he could not use with a degree of perfec
tion at least equal to that of the very best workman
in that particular branch ; and it is no exaggeration
to assert that he could with his own hands have
begun and finished every single part of his most com
plicated instruments. It may not be foreign to this
part of his character to observe that his drawings
were singularly neat and accurate, and his hand
writing so beautiful that when he chose to exert his
skill few writing-masters could equal it."
    In order to ensure that perfect accuracy which
it was his object to give to every instrument he
sold, Ramsden had all the parts of the work done
under his own inspection ; and for this purpose he
kept men of every necessary branch of trade in his
establishment. He availed himself also to the utmost
of the advantages to be derived from the division of
labour — allotting to every workman his particular
department, from which he was never called away to
another.    He employed about sixty men in all ; but
such was his reputation over all Europe, and so
numerous were the orders he received, that even
with this large establishment he found it impossible
to execute them with the requisite expedition. About
this, indeed, he did not give himself much trouble ;

284       THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
what alone he csned for was, that every instrument
which bore his name should be worthy of his reputa
tion, no matter what time or pains it should cost to
make it so. No man was ever more nobly indifferent
to the mere pecuniary gains of his art.        If he had
been anxious to enrich    himself, he might have easily
accumulated a large fortune ; but for that object he
would have had to enlarge his already extensive esta
blishment so much further, that his personal super
intendence of every part of it would have been im
possible.    So far was he from being influenced by
any views of this kind, that it is asserted he never
executed any one of the many great works for which
he received commissions from public bodies, both in
his own and other countries, without being a loser
by it as a tradesman.     When an instrument did not
answer his expectations, he never hesitated to take it
to pieces, or to destroy     it,whatever had been the
cost bestowed upon its construction.       Admirable as
all his instruments were, too, for their accuracy, their
high finish, their durability, and all the other qua
 lities that make up the excellence of such produc
tions, he generally put a less price upon them — in
some cases a much less price — than was charged for
 inferior works of the same kind by other artists.
     Mr. Ramsden died on the 5th of November, 1800,
 at Brighton, to which place he had gone a short
 time before with the view of recovering his health,
 which, never vigorous,  l  ad latterly been greatly im
 paired by his unremitting exertions.      He died pos
 sessed of only a small fortune    ; and, in the spirit in
 which he had lived, he left the greater part of it to be
 divided among his workmen, in proportion to their
 merits and their length of service.
     One of the very greatest names in the modern
 history of astronomical discovery     isthat of the late
 illustrious Sir William Herschel           and he also
                                            ;

                       HERSCHEL.
  was self-instructed in the science in which he earned
  his high reputation.   Herschel was born at Hanover,
 in 1738, and was the son of a musician in humble
 circumstances. Brought up, as well as his three
brothers, to his father's profession, for which it has
been said that he qualified himself without much
 teaching, he was placed, at the age of fourteen, in
the band of the Hanoverian Guards.        A detachmen
of this regiment having been ordered to England, in
the year 1757 (or, according to another account, in
 1759), he and his father accompanied it; but the
latter returned to Germany in the course of a few
months, and left his son, in conformity with his own
wish, to try his fortune in London. For a long time
the young man had to struggle with many difficulties ;
and he passed several years principally in giving
lessons in music to private pupils in the different
towns of the north of England. At last, in 1765,
through the interest of a gentleman to whom his
merits had become known, he obtained the situation
of organist at Halifax ; and next year, having gone
to fulfil a short engagement at Bath, he gave so
much satisfaction by his performances, that he was
appointed to the same office in the Octagon Chapel
of that city, upon which he went to reside there.
The place which he now held was one of some
value ; and, from the opportunities which he enjoyed,
besides, of adding to its emoluments by engagements
 at the rooms, the theatre, and private concerts, as
well as by taking pupils, he had the certain prospect
 of deriving a good income from his profession, if he
 had made that his only or his chief object.
     But long before this his active and aspiring mind
 had begun to direct its attention to other pursuits
  offering a wider scope for the exercise of its talents.
  While yet only an itinerant teacher of his art in
  country towns, Herschel had assiduously devoted

 286       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  his leisure, not only to the making himself more com
 pletely master of the language of his adopted country,
 but also to the acquiring of a knowledge of the Italian,
 the Latin, and even the elements of the Greek.        At
 this time, probably, he looked to these attainments
 principally with a view to the advantage he might de
 rive from them in the prosecution of his professional
 studies ; and it was no doubt with this view also that
 he afterwards applied himself to the perusal of Dr.
 Robert Smith's ' Treatise on Harmonics,' one of the
 most profound works on the science of music which
 then existed in the English language.           But the
 acquaintance he formed with this work was destined
 ere long to change altogether the character of his
 pursuits.     He soon found that it was necessary to
 make himself a mathematician, before he could make
 much progress in following Dr. Smith's demonstra
 tions.    He now, therefore, turned with his character
 istic alacrity and resolution to the new study to which
 his attention was thus directed ; and it was not long
before he became so attached to      it,  that almost all
the other pursuits of his leisure hours were laid aside
for its sake.
     During his residence at Bath, although greatly
 occupied with professional engagements, the time
he devoted to his mathematical studies was rather
increased than diminished.          Often, we are told,
after a fatiguing day's work of fourteen or six
teen hours among his pupils, he would, on return
ing home at night, repair for relaxation to what
many would deem these severer exercises.              In
this manner, in course of time, he attained a compe
tent knowledge of geometry, and found himself in
a condition to proceed to the study of the different
branches of physical science which depend upon the
mathematics.      Among the first of these latter that
attracted his attention were the kindred departments

                           HERSCHEL.                            287
  of astronomy and        optics.     It has been stated * that
  Herschel's first attempts in the fabrication of mag-
  nifying-glasses      were occasioned by his reading
  something upon that subject in a copy of Smith's
  Optics, which accidentally fell in his way ; but this
  story is perhaps nothing more than a version of
 the fact already mentioned, that his acquaintance
  with the mathematics began in his study of the
  '
    Treatise on Harmonics,' by the writer in question.
  Another account of the matter, which has been
  given t is, that having in the course of his philoso
 phical studies, applied himself to the sciences of
 optics and astronomy, he became desirous of behold
 ing with his own eyes those wonders of the hea
 vens, of which he read so much, and for that pur
pose he borrowed from an acquaintance a two-feet
 Gregorian telescope. This instrument interested him
 so greatly, that he determined to procure one of his
 own, and commissioned a friend in London to
purchase one for him, of a somewhat larger size.
 But he found the price was beyond what he could
afford. To make up for this disappointment he re
solved to attempt to construct a telescope for him
self ; and after encountering innumerable difficulties
in the progress of his task, he at last succeeded, in
the year 1774, in completing a five-feet Newtonian
reflector. This was the beginning of a long and
brilliant course of triumphs in the same walk of art,
and also in that of astronomical discovery.
     Herschel now became so much more ardently
attached to his philosophical pursuits, that, regard
less of the sacrifice of emolument he was making,
he began gradually to limit his professional engage
ments and the number of his pupils.                   Meanwhile
    * By Lalande, in his continuation   of Montucla's  Histoire det
Mathematiques, iii. 502.
    f See Annual  Biography, vol. vii.

288          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
lie continued to employ his leisure in the fabrica .
tion of still more powerful instruments than the
one he had first constructed ; and in no long time
he produced telescopes of seven, ten, and even
twenty feet focal distance.     In fashioning the mir
rors for these instruments his perseverance was
indefatigable. For his seven-feet reflector, it is as
serted that he actually finished and made trial of no
fewer than two hundred mirrors before he found
one that satisfied him.      When he sat down to pre
pare a mirror, his practice was to work at it for
twelve or fourteen hours, without quitting his occu
pation for a moment.        He would not even take his
hand from what he was about, to help himself to
food ; and the little that he ate on such occasions,
was put into his mouth by his sister.        He gave the
 mirror its proper shape, more by a certain natural
tact than by rule ; and when his hand was once in,
 as the phrase is, he was afraid that the perfection of
 the finish might be impaired by the least intermis
 sion of his labours.
     It was on the 13th of March, 1781, that Herschel
 made the discovery to which he owes, perhaps, most
 of his popular reputation.       He had been engaged
 for nearly a year and a half in making a regular sur
 vey of the heavens, when, on the evening of the day
 that has been mentioned, having turned his telescope
  (an excellent seven-feet reflector, of his own con
  structing) to a particular part of the sky, he observed
  among the other stars one which seemed to shine
  with a more steady radiance than those around it ;
  and, on account of that and some other peculiarities
  in its appearance, which excited his suspicions, he
  determined to observe it more narrowly.          On re
  verting to it after some hours he was a good deal
  surprised to find that it had perceptibly changed its
  place — a fact which, the next day, became still more in

                        HERSCHEL.                       289
disputable. At first he was somewhat in doubt
whether or not it was the same star which he had
seen on these different occasions ; but, after conti
nuing his observations for a few days longer, all un
certainty upon that head vanished.         He now com
municated what he had observed to the Astronomer
Royal, Dr. Maskelyne, who concluded that the
luminary could be nothing else than a new comet.
Continued observation of        it,however, for a few
months dissipated this error and;         became evident
                                          it
that it was, in reality, a hitherto undiscovered planet.
This new world, so unexpectedly found to form               a
part of the system to which our own belongs, re
ceived from Herschel the name of the Georgium
Sidus, or Georgian Star, in honour of the King of
England    ; but by continental astronomers        it has
been more generally called either Herschel, after its
discoverer, or Uranus.         Subsequent observations,
made chiefly by Herschel himself, have ascertained
many particulars regarding           some of which are
                                    it,
well calculated to fill us with astonishment at the
powers of the sublime science which can wing its
way so far into the immensity of space, and bring us
back information so precise and various. In the first
place, the diameter of this new globe has been found
to be nearly four and a half times larger than that of
 our own. Its size altogether about eighty times that
                                is
of our earth. Its year as long as eighty-three of ours.
                        is
 Its distance from the sun nearly eighteen hundred
                               is
 millions of miles, or more than nineteen times that of
the earth. Its density, as compared with that of the
earth,     nearly as twenty-two to one hundred
          is                                            ;so
 that its entire weight   is not far from eighteen times
that of our planet.      Finally, the force of gravitation
 near its surface  is  such, that falling bodies descend
 only through fourteen feet during the first second,
 instead of thirty-two feet, as with us.         Herschel
   VOL.    II.                                 2
                                               c

290      THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
afterwards discovered,     successively, no fewer than
six satellites, or moons, belonging to his new planet.
   The announcement of the discovery of the Geor-
gium Sidus at once made Herschel's name uni
versally known.     In the course of a few months the
king bestowed upon him a pension of three hundred
a year, that he might be enabled entirely to relinquish
his engagements at Bath ; and upon this he came to
reside at Slough, near Windsor. He now devoted
himself entirely to science ; and the constructing of
telescopes, and the observation of the heavens, con
tinued to form the occupations of the remainder of
his life. Astronomy is indebted to him for many
other most interesting discoveries beside the cele
brated one of which we have just given an account,
as well as for a variety of speculations of the most in
genious original, and profound character.        But of
these we cannot here attempt any detail.        He also
introduced some important improvements into the
construction of the reflecting telescope — beside con
tinuing to fabricate that instrument of dimensions
greatly exceeding any that had been formerly at
tempted, and with powers surpassing, in nearly a
corresponding degree, what had ever before been
obtained.    The largest telescope which he ever
made, was his famous one of forty feet long, which
he erected at Slough, for the king.      It was begun
about the end of the year 1785, and on the 28th of
August, 1789, the enormous tube was poised on the
complicated, but ingeniously contrived       mechanism
by which its movements were to be regulated, and
ready for use. On the same day a new satellite of
Saturn was detected by   it, being the sixth which had
been observed attendant upon that planet. A seventh
was afterwards discovered      by
                                means of the same in
strument. This telescope has recently been taken
down, and replaced by another of only half the

                       HERSCHEL.                     291
length, constructed by Mr. J. Herschel, the distin
guished son of the subject of our present sketch.
Herschel himself eventually became convinced that
no telescope could surpass in magnifying power one
of from twenty to twenty-five feet in length. The
French astronomer, Lalande, in his continuation
of Montucla's History of the Mathematics, states,
that he was informed by George III. himself, that it
was at his desire that Herschel was induced to make
the telescope at Slough of the extraordinary length
he did, his own wish being that it should not be more
than thirty feet long.
   So extraordinary was the ardour of this great as
tronomer in the study of his favourite science, that
for many years, it has been asserted, he never was in
bed at any hour during which the stars were visible.
And he made almost all his observations, whatever
was the season of the year, not under cover, but in
his garden, and in the open air — and generally with
out an attendant.      There was much that was alto
gether peculiar to himself, not only in the process by
which he fabricated his telescopes, but also in his
manner of using them.        One of the attendants in
the king's observatory at Richmond, who had for
merly been a workman in Ramsden's establishment,
was forcibly reminded, on seeing Herschel take an
observation, of a remark which his old master had
made.     Having just completed one of his best tele
scopes, Ramsden, addressing himself to his workmen,
said, " This,  I believe, is the highest degree of per
fection that we opticians by profession will ever arrive
at; if any improvement of importance shall ever
after this be introduced in the making of telescopes,
it will be by some one who has not been taught his
art by us."
   Some years before his death the degree of Doctor
                                         2 c 2

292        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
versity of Oxford ; and in 1816, his late Majesty, then
Prince Regent, bestowed upon him the Hanoverian
and Guelphic Order of Knighthood. He died on
the 23rd of August, 1822, when he was within a
few months of having completed his eighty-fourth
year.
   To this distinguished   name, and those of Dollond
and Ramsden, it would be easy, if our space per
mitted, to add those of many other self-taught culti
vators of the same departments of science.      Among
more recent opticians, no one has attained a higher
eminence, either as an artist or as a scientific experi
mentalist and speculator, than Fraunhofer, the late
superintendent of the establishment for the manufac
ture of optical glasses at Munich, who rose from the
condition of a common workman.        Of astronomical
observers, again, some might also be mentioned who
have been of very humble station. There is a print
— a copy of which may be seen in the rooms of the
Astronomical Society — of two very remarkable in
dividuals who were employed during a considerable
part of the last century in the Earl of Macclesfield's
observatory at Sherburn.     The elder of these, as the
inscription below the engraving informs us, was named
Thomas Phelps, and he, it is stated, " from being
a stable-boy in the year 1718, to the then Lord Chief
Justice Parker, afterwards Earl of Macclesfield, rose
by his merit to the upper employments in the family,
and at last, for his uncommon genius, was promoted
to be Observer in the observatory at Sherburn Castle.''
Phelps, it is added, was born at Chalgrove, in Ox
fordshire, in January 1694, and was in his eighty-
second year when his portrait was taken.            The
other, John Bartlett, is described as having been
 " originally a shepherd, in which station he, by
books and observation, acquired such a knowledge
in computation, and of the heavenly bodies, as in-

                          PALITZCH.                    293
  duced the late George, Earl of Macclesfield, to ap
  point him Assistant Observer in his observatory at
  Sherburn Castle."      Bartlett was born at Stoke Tal-
  mage, in   Oxfordshire,  August 22nd, 1721, old style,
  and was in his fifty-fourth year at the time his pic
  ture was taken.     In the print, Phelps is represented
  as standing and looking through a telescope, while
  Bartlett is sitting by him with his tablets, or a sheet
  of paper, in the one hand, and a pen in the other,
 ready, seemingly, to note down what his associate
 may announce. There is a penetrating eagerness
 and sagacity in the eye and general aspect of the old
 man ; and that of the other is also a striking head,
 with a less keen and vivacious physiognomy than
 Phelps, but more massive, and indicating, perhaps,
 more a meditative and calculating mind.            In a
 manuscript note on the back of the copy of this
 print, which belongs to the Astronomical Society, it
 is stated that " Phelps was the person who, on the
 23rd of December, 1743, discovered the great comet,
and made the first observation of it ; an account of
which is contained in the Philosophical Transactions,
but not the name of the observer." The comet of
1758, so famous in consequence of its return having
been predicted more than half a century before by
the great astronomer Halley, was also, it may be
remarked, first perceived by an observer in a
humble rank of life.       It was on the 25th of De
cember in that year that the luminary in question
was detected with only the naked eye, at Prohlis,
near Dresden, by a Saxon peasant of the name of
Palitzch, at a time when all the greatest astrono
mers in Europe were seeking for it in vain with their
telescopes.     Nor did Palitzch owe his discovery
merely to his superior powers of vision.     This Saxon
peasant was really an astronomer.
                                          " George Pa
                                         2 c 3

294         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
tion of a common labourer, had succeeded both in
finding happiness in his humble lot, and in acquiring
various branches of knowledge which are rarely
found possessed by men of higher stations who have
had the advantage of a careful education.         More
in the way of being struck with the spectacle of
the heavens than if he had lived in a town, he had by
his own efforts studied and made himself master of
 astronomy, as well as those parts of geometry, such
 as plane and spherical trigonometry, upon which it
depends. By the exertion of a meritorious economy,
he had formed for himself an observatory, furnished
with the instruments most important for the pursuit
 of his favourite study. Few opportunities of making
interesting observations escaped him ; and notwith
 standing this his occupations as an agriculturist were
 duly attended to. Natural History and Botany were
 also among the studies in which he took great
 delight ; and he had a very well-arranged cabinet of
 natural productions, as well as a garden full of rare
 plants, which he carefully cultivated.   He was dis
 tinguished by such exceeding modesty, that he always
 refused even to give any details of his life, not
 withstanding they must have been so full of interest.
 Such was the astronomer and philosopher Palitzch,
 to whom was reserved the honour of being the first
 of all the astronomers of Europe in the discovery
 of the return of this anxiously expected comet"
 Palitzch, we may add, who was born in 1723, con
 tinued to cultivate astronomy, as well as his garden
 and his fields, for many years after this event — and
 died at last in his native village in 1788.    He had
 been for some time a corresponding member both of
 the Royal Society of London and of the Imperial
 Academy of St. Petersburgh.

                         Chapter     XIII.
    Discovery and Improvement of the Steam Engine— James Watt.
All the inventions and improvements of recent times,
if measured      by their effects upon the condition of
society,    sink into insignificance, when compared
with the extraordinary results which have followed
the employment of steam as a mechanical agent.
To one individual, the illustrious Jambs Watt, the
merit and honour of having first rendered it exten
sively available for that purpose are pre-eminently
due. The force of steam, now so important an agent
in mechanics, was nearly altogether overlooked until
within the two last centuries.            The only application
of it which appears to have been made by the ancients,
was in the construction of the instrument which they
called the jEolipile, that is, the Ball of iEolus.           The
iEolipile consisted of a hollow globe of metal, with a
long neck, terminating in a very small orifice, which,
being filled with water and placed on a fire, exhibited
the steam, as it was generated by the heat, rushing
 with apparently great force through the narrow
opening.       A common teakettle, in fact, is a sort of
iEolipile. The only use which the ancients pro
posed to make of this contrivance was, to apply the
current of steam, as it issued from the spout, by way
 of a moving force — to propel, for instance, the vans
of a mill, or, by acting immediately upon the air, to
 generate a movement opposite to its own direction.
 But it was impossible that they should have effected
 any useful purpose by such methods of employing
 steam. Steam depends so entirely for its existence in
 the state of vapour upon the presence of a large
 quantity of heat, that it is reduced to a mist or a
 fluid almost immediately on coming into contact

296         THE PURSUIT          OF KNOWLEDGE.
either with the atmosphere, or anything else which is
colder than itself ; and in this condition its expansive
force is gone.     The only way of employing steam
with much effect, therefore, is to make it act in a close
vessel.    The first known writer who alludes to the
prodigious energy which it exerts when thus con
fined, is the French engineer Solomon de Caus,
who flourished in the beginning of the seventeenth
century.     This ingenious person, who came to Eng
land in 1612, in the train of the Elector Palatine,
afterwards the son-in-law of James I., and resided
here for some years, published a folio volume at
Paris, in 1623, on moving forces ; in which he states,
that if water be sufficiently heated in a close ball of
copper, the air or steam arising from it will at last
burst the ball, with a noise like the going off of a
petard.     In another place, he actually describes a
method of raising water, as he expresses               it,
                                                  by the
aid of fire, which consists in the insertion, in the
containing vessel, of     perpendicular tube, reaching
                            a
nearly to its bottom, through which, he says, all the
water will rise, when sufficiently heated.     The agent
here   isthe steam produced from part of the water by
the heat, which, acting by its expansive force upon
 the rest of the water, forces to make its escape in a
                                  it
jet through the tube*. The supply of the water                    is
 kept up through a cock in the side of the vessel.
 Forty years after the publication of the work of De
 Caus appeared the Marquis of Worcester's famous
'
   Century of Inventions.'      Of the hundred new
    * Inthe same work De Caus proposes another apparatus for
raising water, simply  by   the pressure upon its surface in  aclose
vessel, of the air rarified by  the  heat of the sun.  This  process
may be often observed taking place on    a    small scalein  what is
called the Fountain Inkglass, in which, in warm day or
                                          a                  aheated
room, the liquid will be forced up sometimes to the very lip of
the spout,  by  the expansion of the superjacent air within the
vessel.

                       STEAM.                             297
discoveries here enumerated, the sixty-eighth is en
titled ' An admirable and most forcible way to drive
up water by fire.' As far as may be judged from
the vague description which the Marquis gives us of
his apparatus, it appears to have been constructed
upon the same principle with that formerly proposed
by De Caus ; but his account of the effect produced
is considerably more precise than what we find in
the work of his predecessor.              I
                                 " have seen the
water run," says he, " like a constant fountain-
stream forty feet high ; one vessel of water rarified
by fire, driveth up forty of cold water."     This lan
guage would imply that the Marquis had actually
reduced his idea to practice ; and        if,
                                       as he seems to
intimate, he made use of cannon for his boiler, the
                             a
experiment was probably upon        considerable scale.
                                      a
It with some justice, therefore, that notwithstand
   is
ing the earlier announcements in the work of the
French engineer, he     isgenerally regarded as the
first person who really constructed a steam-engine.
    About twenty years after this, namely, in the year
 1683, another of our countrymen, Sir Samuel
Morland, appears to have presented         work to the
                                                a
French King, containing, among other projects, a
method of employing steam as         mechanic power,
                                      a
which he expressly says he      had  himself invented
the preceding year. The manuscript of this work             is
 now in the British Museum but   ;        itremarkable
                                                is
 that when the work, which      in French, was after
                                 is
 wards published by its author at Paris, in 1685, the
 passage about the steam-engine was omitted.         Sir
 Samuel Morland's invention, as we find       described
                                                     it
 in his manuscript treatise, appears to have been
 merely a repetition of those of his predecessors, De
 Caus and the Marquis of Worcester       but his state
                                           ;
 ment   is curious as being the first in which the
 immense difference between the space occupied by

298            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
water in its natural state and that which it occupies
in the state of steam is numerically designated.     The
 latter, he says, is about two thousand times as great
 as the former ; which is not far from a correct account
of the expansive force that steam exerts under the
 ordinary pressure of the atmosphere.       One measure
 of water, it is found, in such circumstances, will pro
 duce about seventeen hundred measures of steam.
     The next person whose name occurs in the history
 of the steam-engine, is Denis Papin, a native of
 France, but who spent the part of his life during
 which he made his principal pneumatic experiments
 in England.      Up to this time, the reader will ob
 serve, the steam had been applied directly to the sur
face of the water, to raise which, in the form of a jet,
by such pressure, appears to have been almost the
 only object contemplated by the employment of the
 newly discovered power.       It was Papin who first
introduced a piston into the tube or cylinder which
 rose from the boiler.    This contrivance, which forms
an essential part of the common sucking pump, is
 merely, as the reader probably knows, a block
 fitted to any tube or longitudinal cavity, so as to
move freely up and down in           it,
                                  yet without permitting
the passage of any other substance between itself
and the sides of the tube.       To this block a rod               is
generally fixed    ; and    may also have
                             it              hole driven
                                                    a
through    it, to be guarded by      valve, opening up
                                           a
wards or downwards, according to the object in
view  *.   Long before the time of Papin        had been it
proposed to raise weights, or heavy bodies of any
kind, by suspending them to one extremity of a
handle or cross-beam attached at its other end to the
rod of a piston moving in this manner in          hollow       a
cylinder, and the descent of which, in order to pro
duce the elevation of the weights, was to be effected
           *   See an explanation of the valve at   p.   82,

                  THE STEAM ENGINE.
by the pressure    of  the superincumbent atmosphere
 after the counterbalancing air had been by some
 means or other withdrawn from below it. Otto Gue-
 ricke used to exhaust the lower part of the cylinder,
 in such an apparatus, by means of an air-pump. It
 appeared to Papin that some other method might be
 found of effecting this end more expeditiously and
with less labour. First he tried to produce the re
quisite vacuum by the explosion of a small quantity of
gunpowder in the bottom of the cylinder, the mo
mentary flame occasioned by which he thought
would expel the air through a valve opening up
wards in the piston, while the immediate fall of the
valve, on the action of the flame being spent, would
 prevent its re-intrusion.   But he never was able to
effect a very complete vacuum by this method.        He
then, about the year 1690, bethought him of making
use of steam for that purpose. This vapour, De Caus
had long ago remarked, was recondensed and restored
to the state of water by cold ; but up to this time the
attention of no person seems to have been awakened
to the important advantage that might be taken of
this one of its properties.    Papin for the first time
availed himself of it in his lifting machine, to pro
duce the vacuum he wanted.        Introducing a small
quantity of water into the bottom of his cylinder, he
heated it by a fire underneath, till it boiled and gave
forth steam, which, by its powerful expansion, raised
the piston from its original position in contact with
the water, to a considerable height above   it,  even in
opposition to the pressure of the atmosphere on its
other side. This done, he then removed the fire, on
which the steam again became condensed into water,
and, occupying now about the seventeen hundredth
part of its former dimensions, left a vacant space
through which the piston was carried down by its
own gravitation and the pressure of the atmosphere.

300          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
    The machine thus proposed by Papin was abun
dantly defective in the subordinate parts of its me
chanism, and, unimproved, could not have operated
with much effect.       But, imperfect as it was, it ex
emplified two new principles of the highest import
ance, neither of which appears to have been thought
of, in the application of the power of steam, before
his time.      The first is the communication of the
moving force of that agent to bodies upon which it
cannot conveniently act directly, by means of the
piston and its rod. The second is the deriving of
the moving force desired, not from the expansion of
steam, but from its other equally valuable property
of condensibility by mere exposure to cold. Papin,
however, it is curious enough, afterwards abandoned
his piston and method of condensation, and reverted
to the old plan of making the steam act directly by
its expansive force upon the water to be raised. It
is doubtful, however, whether he ever actually
erected any working engine upon either of these
constructions.      Indeed, the improvement of the
steam-engine could scarcely be said to have been the
principal object of those experiments of his which,
 nevertheless, contributed so greatly to that result.
 It was, in fact, as we have seen, with the view of
perfecting a machine contrived originally without
 any reference to the application of steam, that he was
 first induced to have recourse to the powers of that
 agent. The moving force with which he set out
 was the pressure of the atmosphere; and he em
 ployed steam merely as a means of enabling that
 other power to act. Even by such a seemingly
 subordinate application, however, of the new ele
 ment, he happily discovered and bequeathed to his
 successors the secret of some of its most valuable
 capabilities.
     We may      here  conveniently  notice  another in

                THE STEAM ENGINE.                    301
genious contrivance, of essential service in the steam-
engine, for which we are also indebted to Papin —
we mean the safety-valve.      This is merely a lid or
stopper, closing an aperture in the boiler, and so
loaded as to resist the expansive force of the steam
up to a certain point, while, at the same time, it
must give way and allow free vent to the pent-up
element, long before it can have acquired sufficient
strength to burst the boiler.   The safety-valve, how
ever, was not introduced into the steam-engine either
by Papin, or for some years after his time.      It was
employed by him only in the apparatus still known
by the name of his digester, a contrivance for pro
ducing a very powerful heat in cookery and che
mical preparations, by means of highly concentrated
steam.
   We now come to the engine invented by Captain
Savery in 1698.       This gentleman, we are told,
having one day drank a flask of Florence wine at a
tavern, afterwards threw the empty flask upon the
fire, when he was struck by perceiving that the small
quantity of liquid still left in it very soon filled it
with steam, under the influence of the heat. Taking
it up again while thus full of vapour, he now plunged
it, with the mouth downwards, into a basin of cold
water, which happened to be on the table ; by which
means the steam being instantly concentrated, a
vacuum was produced within the flask, into which the
water immediately rushed up from the basin. Ac
cording to another version of the story, it was the
accidental circumstance of his immersing a heated
tobacco-pipe into water, and perceiving the water
immediately rush up through the tube, on the con
centration by the cold of the warm and thin air,
that first suggested to Savery the important use that
might be made of steam, or any other gas expanded
by heat, as a means of creating a vacuum.       He did
    VOL. II.                              2 D

302         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
not, however, employ steam for this purpose in the
same manner that Papin had done.                  Instead of a
piston moving under the pressure of the atmosphere
through the vacuum produced by the concentration
of the steam, he availed himself of such a vacuum
merely to permit the rise of the water into it from the
well or mine below, exactly as in the common suck
ing-pump *. Having thus raised the water to the
level of the boiler, he afterwards allowed it to flow
into another vessel, from whence he sent it to a
greater height by the same method which had been
many years before employed by the Marquis of Wor
cester, — namely, by making the expansive force of
the steam act upon it directly, and so force it up in
opposition to its own gravity and the resistance of
the atmosphere.
     Savery shewed much ingenuity and practical skill
in contriving means of facilitating and improving
the working of the apparatus which he had devised
 upon these principles ; and many of his engines were
 erected for supplying gentlemen's houses with water
 and other purposes, in different parts of the country.
 The machine also received many improvements after
 the death of the original inventor.          It was consider
 ably simplified, in particular, by Dr. Desaguliers,
 about the year 1718; and this gentleman also con
 trived a method of concentrating the steam by the
 injection of a small current of cold water into the
 receiver, instead of the old method employed by
  Savery, of dashing the water over the outside of the
  vessel, which cooled it to an unnecessary degree, and
  occasioned, therefore, a wasteful expenditure of fuel.
  It was Desaguliers who first introduced the safety-
  valve into the steam-engine, although Papin had
  previously suggested such an application of the con
  trivance. Engines upon Savery's principle have con-
          * See Pursuit of Knowledge, vol. i.  p. 10 — 13.

                  THE STEAM ENGINE.
tinued to be constructed,    down to our own times ;
and, as they can be made at a comparatively small
expense, they are found to answer very well in si
tuations where water has to be raised only a short
way. This engine is, in fact, merely a combination
of the common sucking-pump (except that the re
quisite vacuum is produced by the condensation of
steam and without the aid of a piston) with the con
trivance proposed by De Caus and the Marquis of
Worcester for the application of the expansive force
of steam ; and, wherever the machine can be econo
mically employed, the former part of it is that which
operates with by far the most effect.
    Not long after Savery had invented his engine,
Thomas Newcomen, an ironmonger, and John
Calley, a glazier, both of Dartmouth, in Devon
 shire, began also to direct their attention to the em
ployment of steam as a mechanic power.        Their first
engine was constructed about the year 1711.        This
contrivance, which is commonly known by the name
of Newcomen's engine, proceeded mainly upon
the principle formerly adopted by Papin, but sub
sequently abandoned both by him and those who
immediately followed him in the cultivation of this
department of mechanics, of making the moving
power of the machinery the weight of the atmo
sphere acting upon a piston, so as to carry it down
through a vacuum created by the condensation of the
steam.    Newcomen's apparatus is, on this account,
often distinguished by the name of the Atmospheric
engine.    Its inventors, however, instead of adopting
Papin's clumsy method of cooling his steam by the
removal of the fire, employed, in the first instance,
the expedient of pouring cold water on the containing
vessel, as Savery had done before them, though
without being aware, it is said, of his prior claim to
the improvement.      They afterwards exchanged this

304         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
for the still better method, already described as in
troduced by Desaguliers into Savery's engine, of
injecting a stream of water into the cylinder, which
is said to have been suggested to them by the acci
dent of some water having found admission to the
steam through a hole which happened to have worn
itself in the piston. This engine of Newcomen,
which in the course of a very few years after its in
vention was brought to as high a state of perfection
as the principle seems to admit of, afforded the first
important exemplification of the value of steam in
mechanics.     Savery's, the only other practical con
trivance which had been proposed, had been found
quite inadequate to the raising of water from any
considerable depth, its principal power, as we have
already remarked, lying, in fact, in the part of it
which acted as a sucking-pump, and by which, as
such, water could only be raised till its column was
of equal weight with a column of the atmosphere of
the same base *.     It was nearly useless, therefore, as
an apparatus for pumping up water from mines;
the grand object for which a moving force of extra
ordinary power was at this time in demand.           But
here Newcomen's engine proved of essential service.
Many mines that had long remained unwrought,
were, immediately after its invention, again rendered
accessible, and gradually excavated to great depths ;
 while others were opened, and their treasures sought
 after with equal success, which but for its assistance
could never have been attempted.           It was applied
 also to various other important purposes.
    Newcomen's engine, however, notwithstanding its
 usefulness, especially in cases where no other known
 power could be applied, was still in some respects a
 very defective contrivance, and by no means adapted
 to secure the complete command of the energies of
                      * See toI. i. p. 12.

                   THE STEAM ENGINE.                        305
steam.   The great waste of fuel, in particular, which
was still occasioned by the degree to which the cy
linder was cooled after every stroke of the piston,
 from the cold water injected into      it, rendered         it
 scarcely any saving of expense to employ this engine
 in circumstances where animal power was available.
 Its whole force too, the reader will observe, as a
 moving power, was limited to what could be ob
 tained by atmospheric pressure alone, which, even
 could the vacuum under the piston have been ren
 dered quite perfect, and all obstructions from friction
annihilated, could only have amounted to about fif
teen pounds for every square-inch of the surface of
the piston. The expansive force of steam was not,
 in fact, at all employed in this contrivance as a
moving power could the vacuum necessary to permit
               ;
the descent of the piston have been as expeditiously
and conveniently produced by any other agency,
that of steam might have been dispensed with alto
gether. An air-pump, for instance, attached to the
lower part of the cylinder, as originally proposed by
Otto Guericke, might have rendered all the service
which steam was here called upon to perform         and;
in that case, this element, with the fuel         by
                                                  which
it  was generated, might have been dispensed with,
and the machine would not have been a steam-engine
at all.   This view of the matter may, in some degree,
account for the complete neglect of steam as moving
                                                  a
power which so long prevailed after Newcomen's
engine was brought into use, notwithstanding the
proofs of its capabilities in that character which had
been afforded by the attempts of the earlier specula
tors.    It was now regarded simply as affording the
easiest means of obtaining a ready vacuum, in con
sequence of its property of rapid condensation on the
application of cold  :  its other property of extraor
dinary expansion, which had first attracted to       the
                                                       it
                                      2
                                      d       3

306          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
attention of mechanicians, and presented in reality
a much more obvious application of it as a mecha
nical agent, had been entirely neglected.             The
only improvements of the engine which were at
tempted or thought of were such as referred to what
may be called its subordinate mechanism, that is to
say, the contrivances for facilitating the alternate sup
plies of the steam and the water on which its action
depended ; and after Mr. Beighton had, about the
year 1718, made the machine itself shut               and
open   the cocks  by   which  these  supplies were  regu
lated, instead of having that service performed as
at first by an attendant, there remained little more
to be done even in this department.            The steam
might be applied     with  more ease and readiness, but
not with any augmentation of effect ; the power of
the engine could be increased only by a more plenti
ful application of atmospheric pressure.       It was with
propriety,  therefore,  that Newcomen's invention was
called, not a steam, but an atmospheric, engine.
   For half a century, accordingly, after the improve
ments introduced by Beighton, who may be consi
dered as the perfecter of this engine, no further pro
gress worth mentioning was made in the application
of steam as an agent in mechanics. The engine
itself was more and more extensively employed, not
withstanding its defects ; but no better method was
proposed of calling into exercise the stupendous
powers of the element, which, by means of only one
of its remarkable properties, was here shewn to be
capable of rendering such valuable service.           Our
knowledge of what might be done by steam was in
this state when the subject at last happily attracted
the attention of Mr. Watt.
   James Watt was born at Greenock on the 19th of
January, 1736. His father was a merchant, and also
 one of the magistrates of that town.         He received


'
  JAMES WATT.

        „, aim iu iauour in the general cultivation ot
his mind, with extraordinary ardour and perseve
rance.  Here also he enjoyed the friendship and inti
macy of several distinguished persons who were then


                          WATT.                      307
the rudiments    of his education in his native place ;
but his health being even then extremely delicate, as
it continued to be to the end of his life, his attend
ance at school was not always very regular.          He
amply made up, however, for what he lost in this
way by the diligence with which he pursued his
studies at home, where without any assistance he
succeeded at a very early age in making considerable
proficiency in various branches of knowledge.      Even
at this time his favourite study is said to have been
mechanical science, to a love of which he was pro
bably in some degree led by the example of his
grandfather and his uncle, both of whom had been
teachers of the mathematics, and had left a consider
able reputation for learning and ability in that de
partment.    You        att, however, was not indebted
to any instructions     theirs for his own acquirements
in science, the former having died two years before,
and the latter the year after, he was born. At the
age of eighteen he was sent to London to be appren
ticed to a maker of mathematical instruments ; but in
little more than a year the state of his health forced
him to return to Scotland ; and he never received
any further instruction in his profession. A year or
two after this, however, a visit which he paid to some
relations in Glasgow suggested to him the plan of
attempting to establish himself in that city in the
line for which he had been educated.       In 1757, ac
cordingly, he removed thither, and was immediately
appointed mathematical       instrument maker to the
College. In this situation he remained for some
years, during which, notwithstanding almost con
stant ill health, he continued both to prosecute his
profession, and to labour in the general cultivation of
his mind, with extraordinary ardour and perseve
rance. Here also he enjoyed the friendship and inti
macy of several distinguished persons who were then

308         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
members of the University, especially of the cele
brated Dr. Black, the discoverer of the principle of
latent heat, and Mr. (afterwards Dr.) John Robison,
 so well known by his treatises on mechanical science,
who was then a student and about the same age with
 himself.   Honourable, however, as his present ap
 pointment was, and important as were many of the
 advantages to which it introduced him, he probably
did not find it a very lucrative one ; and therefore, in
 1763, when about to marry, he removed from his
apartments in the University to a house in the city, and
entered upon the profession of a general engineer.
    For this his genius and scientific attainments ad
mirably qualified him. Accordingly, he soon ac
quired a high reputation, and was extensively em
ployed in making surveys and estimates for canals,
harbours, bridges, and other public works.           His
advice and assistance indeed were sought for in
almost all the important improvements of this de
scription which were now undertaken or proposed in
his native country.   But another pursuit, in which he
had been for some time privately engaged, was des
tined ere long to withdraw him from this line of ex
ertion, and to occupy his whole mind with an object
still more worthy of its extraordinary powers.
    While yet residing in the College his attention had
been directed to the employment of steam as a me
chanical agent by some speculations of his friend Mr.
Robison, with regard to the practicability of applying
it to the movement of wheel-carriages; and he had
also himself made some experiments with Papin's
digester, with the view of ascertaining its expansive
force.    He had not prosecuted the inquiry, however,
so far as to have arrived at any determinate result,
when, in the winter of 1763-4, a small model of
Newcomen's engine was sent to him by the Professor
 of Natural Philosophy to be repaired, and fitted for

                         WATT.                       309
exhibition in the class.     The examination of this
model set Watt upon thinking anew, and with more
interest than ever, on the powers of steam.
   The first thing that attracted his attention about
the machine before him, the cylinder of which was
only of two inches diameter, while the piston de
scended through six inches, was the insufficiency of
the boiler, although proportionably a good deal larger
than in the working engines, to supply the requisite
quantity of steam for the creation of the vacuum. In
order to remedy this defect he was obliged, in re
pairing the model, to diminish the column of water
to be raised ; in other words, to give the piston less
to do, in compensation for its having to descend, not
through a perfect vacuum, but in opposition to a con
siderable residue of undisplaced air.      He also soon
discovered the reason why in this instance the steam
sent up from the boiler was not sufficient to fill the
cylinder.    In the first place, this containing vessel,
being made, not of cast-iron, as in the larger engines,
but of brass, abstracted more of the heat from the
steam, and so weakened its expansion ; and second
ly, it exposed a much larger surface to the steam,
in proportion to its capacity, than the cylinders of
the larger engines did, and this operated still more
strongly to produce the same effect. Led by the
former of these considerations he made some experi
ments in the first instance with the view of discovering
some other material whereof to form the cylinder of
the engine which should be less objectionable than
either brass or cast-iron ; and he proposed to substi
tute wood, soaked in oil, and baked dry. But his
speculations soon took a much wider scope ; and,
struck with the radical imperfections of the atmospheric
engine, he began to turn in his mind the possibility
of employing steam in mechanics, in some new man
ner which should enable it to operate with much

310        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
more powerful effect.    This idea having got posses
sion of him, he engaged in an extensive course of
experiments, for the purpose of ascertaining as many
facts as possible with regard to the properties of
steam ; and the pains he took in this investigation
were rewarded with several valuable discoveries. The
rapidity with which water evaporates, he found, for
instance, depended simply upon the quantity of heat
which was made to enter it ; and this again on the
extent of the surface exposed to the fire.      He also
ascertained the quantity of coals necessary for the eva
poration of any given quantity of water, the heat at
which water boils under various pressures, and many
other particulars of a similar kind which had never
before been accurately determined.
   Thus prepared by a complete knowledge of the
properties of the agent with which he had to work,
he next proceeded to take into consideration, with
a view to their amendment, what he deemed the two
grand defects of Newcomen's engine. The first of
these was the necessity arising from the method
employed to concentrate the steam, of cooling the
cylinder, before every stroke of the piston, by the
water injected into it.    On this account, a much
more powerful application of heat than would other
wise have been requisite was demanded for the
purpose of again heating that vessel when it was to
be refilled with steam.     In fact, Watt ascertained
that there was thus occasioned, in the feeding of the
machine, a waste of not less than three-fourths of the
whole fuel employed.      If the cylinder, instead of
being thus cooled for every stroke of the piston, could
be kept permanently hot, a fourth part of the heat
which had been hitherto applied would be found to
be sufficient to produce steam enough to fill it.
How, then, was this desideratum to be attained?
De Caus had proposed to effect the condensation of

                          WATT.                     311
the steam by actually removing the furnace from
 under the boiler before every stroke of the piston ;
but this, in a working engine, evidently would have
been found quite impracticable.        Savery, the first
who really constructed a working engine, and whose
arrangements, as we have already remarked, all
shewed a very superior ingenuity, employed the me
thod of throwing cold water over the outside of the
vessel containing his steam — a perfectly manageable
process, but at the same time a very wasteful one ; in
asmuch as, every time it was repeated, it cooled not
only the steam, but the vessel also, which, therefore,
had again to be heated, by a large expenditure of fuel,
before the steam could be reproduced. Newcomen's
method of injecting the water into the cylinder was a
considerable improvement on this ; but it was still
objectionable on the same ground, though not to the
same degree ; it still cooled not only the steam, on
which it was desired to produce that effect, but also
the cylinder itself, which, as the vessel in which
more steam was to be immediately manufactured, it
was so important to keep hot. It was also a very
serious objection to this last mentioned plan, that the
injected water itself, from the heat of the place into
which it was thrown, was very apt to be partly con
verted into steam ; and the more cold water was
used, the more considerable did this creation of new
 steam become.      In fact, in the best of Newcomen's
engines, the perfection of the vacuum was so greatly
impaired from this cause, that the resistance experi
 enced by the piston in its descent was found to
 amount to about a fourth part of the whole atmo
 spheric pressure by which it was carried down, or, in
other words, the working power of the machine was
thereby diminished one fourth.
    After reflecting for some time upon all this, it at
last occurred to Watt to consider whether it might

312           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
not be possible, instead of continuing to condense
the steam in the cylinder, to contrive a method of
drawing it off, to undergo that operation in some
other vessel.      This fortunate idea having presented
itself to his thoughts, it was not very long before his
ingenuity also suggested to him the means of realizing
it. In the course of one or two days, according to
his own account, he had all the necessary apparatus
arranged in his mind. The plan which he devised,
indeed, was an extremely simple one, and on that
account the more beautiful. He proposed to esta
blish a communication by an open pipe between the
cylinder and another vessel, the consequence of which
evidently would be, that when the steam was admitted
into the former, it would flow into the latter so as to
fill it also.   If  then the portion in this latter vessel
only should be subjected to a condensing process, by
being brought into contact with cold water, or any
other convenient means, what would follow? Why, a
vacuum would be produced here — into that, as a vent,
more steam would immediately rush from the cylinder
— that likewise would be condensed — and so the pro
cess would go on till all the steam had left the cylin
der, and a perfect vacuum had been effected in that
vessel, without so much as a drop of cold water having
touched or entered it. The separate vessel alone,
or the Condenser, as Watt called it, would be cooled
by the water used to condense the steam — and that,
instead of being an evil, manifestly tended to promote
and quicken the condensation. When Watt reduced
these views to the test of experiment, he found the
result to answer his most sanguine expectations.
The cylinder, although emptied of its steam for every
stroke of the piston as before, was now constantly
kept at the same temperature with the steam (or 212°
Fahrenheit) ; and the consequence was, that one

                         WATT.                      313
engine. But besides this most important saving in
the expense of maintaining the engine, its power was
greatly increased by the more perfect vacuum pro
duced by the new construction, in which the con
densing water, being no longer admitted within the
cylinder, could not, as before, create new steam there
while displacing the old. The first method which
Watt adopted of cooling the steam in the condenser,
was to keep that vessel surrounded by cold water —
considering it as an objection to the admission of the
water into its interior, that it might be difficult in
that case to convey it away as fast as it would accu
mulate. But he found that the condensation was
not effected in this manner with so much rapidity as
was desirable.   It was necessary for him, too, at any
rate to employ a pump attached to the condenser, in
order to draw off both the small quantity of water
deposited by the cooled steam, and the air unavoidably
introduced by the same element — either of which, if
allowed to accumulate, would have impaired the per
fect vacuum necessary to attract the steam from the
cylinder.    He therefore determined eventually to
admit also the additional quantity of water required
for the business of condensation, and merely to em
ploy a larger and more powerful pump to carry off
the whole.
    Such, then, was the remedy by which the genius
of this great inventor effectually cured the first and
most serious defect of the old apparatus.     In carry
ing his ideas into execution, he encountered, as was
to be expected, many difficulties, arising principally
from the impossibility of realizing theoretical perfec
tion of structure with such materials as human art is
obliged to work with ; but his ingenuity and perse
verance overcame every obstacle.      One of the things
which cost him the greatest trouble was, how to fit
the piston so exactly to the cylinder as without affect-
   VOL. II.                               2 E

314         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ing the freedom of its motion, to prevent the passage
of the air between the two. In the old engine this
end had been attained by covering the piston with a
small quantity of water, the dripping down of which
into the space below, where it merely mixed with the
stream introduced to effect the condensation, was of
little or no consequence.    But in the new construc
tion, the superiority of which consisted in keeping
this receptacle for the steam always both hot and dry,
such an effusion of moisture, although only in very
small quantities, would have occasioned material
inconvenience. The air alone, besides, which in the
old engine followed the piston in its descent, acted
with considerable effect in cooling the lower part of
the cylinder. His attempts to overcome this difficulty,
while they succeeded in that object, conducted Watt
also to another improvement, which effected the com
plete removal of what we have called the second
radical imperfection of Newcomen's engine, namely,
its non-employment, for a moving power, of the
expansive force of the steam. The effectual way, it
occurred to him, of preventing any air from escaping
into the part of the cylinder below the piston, would
be to dispense with the use of that element above the
piston, and to substitute there likewise the same con
trivance as below, of alternate steam and a vacuum.
This was of course to be accomplished by merely
opening communications from the upper part of the
cylinder to the boiler on the one hand, and the con
denser on the other, and forming it at the same time
into an air-tight chamber, by means of a cover, with
only a hole in it to admit the rod or shank of the
piston, which might, besides, without impeding its
freedom of action, be padded with hemp, the more
completely to exclude the air. It was so contrived,
accordingly, by a proper arrangement of the cocks
and the machinery connected with them, that, while

                          WATT.                     315
there was a vacuum in one end of the cylinder, there
should be an admission of steam into the other ; and
the steam so admitted now served, not only, by its
susceptibility of sudden condensation, to create the
vacuum, but also, by its expansive force, to impel the
piston. Steam, in fact, was now restored to be, what
it had been in the early attempts to use it as a me
chanical agent, the moving power of the engine; but
its efficiency in this capacity was for the first time
both taken full advantage of, by means of contrivances
properly arranged for that end, and combined with,
and aided by, its other equally valuable property
which had alone been called into action in the more
recent machines.
   These were the great improvements which Watt
introduced in what may be called the principle of the
steam-engine, or, in other words, in the manner of
using and applying the steam. They constitute,
therefore, the grounds of his claim to be regarded as
the true author of the conquest that has at last been
obtained by man over this powerful element.        But
original and comprehensive as were the views out
of which these fundamental inventions arose, the
exquisite and inexhaustible ingenuity which the
engine, as finally perfected by him, displays in every
part of its subordinate mechanism, is calculated to
strike us perhaps with scarcely less admiration.     It
forms undoubtedly the best exemplification that has
ever been afforded of the number and diversity of
services which a piece of machinery may be made to
render to itself by means solely of the various appli
cation of its first moving power, when that has once
been called into action.   Of these contrivances, how
ever, we can only notice one or two, by way of
specimen.     Perhaps the most singular is that called
the governor.     This consists of an upright spindle,
which is kept constantly turning, by being connected

316         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
with a certain part of the machinery, and from which
two balls are suspended in opposite directions by
rods, attached by joints, somewhat in the manner of
the legs of a pair of tongs.    As long as the motion
of the engine is uniform, that of the spindle is so like
wise, and the balls continue steadily revolving at the
same distance from each other.       But as soon as any
alteration in the action of the piston takes place, the
balls, if it has become more rapid, fly farther apart
under the influence of the increased centrifugal force
which actuates them — or approach nearer to each
other in the opposite circumstances. This alone would
have served to indicate the state of matters to the
eye ; but Watt was not to be so satisfied.      He con
nected the rods with a valve in the tube by which the
steam is admitted to the cylinder from the boiler, in
such a way, that as they retreat from each other, they
gradually narrow the opening which is so guarded,
or enlarge it as they tend to collapse ; thus diminish
ing the supply of steam when the engine is going
too fast, and, when it is not going fast enough, ena
bling it to regain its proper speed by allowing it an
increase of aliment.      Again, the constant supply
of a sufficiency of water to the boiler is secured by an
equally simple provision, namely, by a Jloat resting on
the surface of the water, which, as soon as it is car
ried down by the consumption of the water to a cer
tain point, opens a valve and admits more.       And so
on, through all the different parts of the apparatus,
the various wonders of which cannot be better sum
med up than in the forcible and graphic language of
                    "
a recent writer : — In the present perfect state of the
engine it appears a thing almost endowed with intel
ligence. It regulates with perfect accuracy and uni
formity the number of its strokes in a given time,
counting or recording them moreover, to tell how
much work it has done, as a clock records the beats

                      THE STEAM ENGINE.                           317
of its   pendulum ; — it regulates the quantity of steam
 admitted to work ; — the briskness of the fire ; — the
 supply of water to the hoiler; — the supply of coals
 to the fire ; — it opens and shuts its valves with abso
 lute precision as to time and manner; — it oils its
joints ; — it takes out any air which may accidentally
 enter into parts which should be vacuous ; and when
 anything goes wrong which it cannot of itself rec
 tify, it warns its attendants by ringing a bell ; yet
 with all these talents and qualities, and even when
 exerting the power of six hundred horses, it is obedi
 ent to the hand of a child ; — its aliment is coal, wood,
 charcoal, or other combustible, — it consumes none
 while idle, — it never tires, and wants no sleep ; — it is
 not subject to malady when originally well made,
 and only refuses to work when worn out with age ;
 it is equally active in all climates, and will do work
 of any kind ; — it is a water-pumper, a miner, a sailor,
  a cotton-spinner, a weaver, a blacksmith, a miller,
  &c. &c. ; and a small engine, in the character of a
  steam poney, may be seen dragging after it on a rail
  road a hundred tons of merchandise, or a regiment
  of soldiers, with greater speed than that of our fleetest
  coaches.      It is the king of machines, and a perma
  nent realization of the Genii of Eastern fable, whose
  supernatural powers were occasionally at the com
  mand of man *."
      In addition to those difficulties which his unrivalled
  mechanical ingenuity enabled him to surmount, Watt,
  notwithstanding the merit of his inventions, had to
  contend for some time with others of a different nature,
  in his attempts to reduce them to practice. He had no
  pecuniary resources of his own, and was at first with
  out any friend willing to run the risk of the outlay
  necessary for an experiment on a sufficiently large
  scale.    At last he applied to Dr. Roebuck, an inge-
     * Arnott's Elements of Physics, fourth edition, vol. i. p. 334.
                                                  2 e 3

 318         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 nious and spirited speculator, who had just esta
blished the Carron iron-works, not far from Glas
gow, and held also at this time a lease of the exten
sive coal-works at Kinneal, the property of the Duke
of Hamilton. Dr. Roebuck agreed to advance the
requisite funds on having two thirds of the profits
made over to him ; and upon this Mr. Watt took out
his first patent in the beginning of the year 1769.
An engine with a cylinder of eighteen inches diameter
was soon after erected at Kinneal ; and although, as a
first experiment, it was necessarily in some respects
of defective construction, its working completely de
monstrated the great value of Watt's improvements.
But Dr. Roebuck, whose undertakings were very
numerous and various, in no long time after forming
this connexion, found himself involved in such pecu
niary difficulties, as to put it out of his power to make
any farther advances in prosecution of its object. On
this Watt employed himself for some years almost
entirely to the ordinary work of his profession as a
civil engineer; but at last, about the year 1774,
when all hopes of any farther assistance from Dr.
Roebuck were at an end, he resolved to close with a
proposal which had been made to him through his
friend Dr. Small, of Birmingham, that he should
remove to that town, and enter into partnership
with the eminent hardware manufacturer, Mr. Boul-
ton, whose extensive establishments at Soho had
already become famous over Europe, and procured
for England an unrivalled reputation for the arts
there carried on. Accordingly, an arrangement having
been made with Dr. Roebuck, by which his share of
the patent was transferred to Mr. Boulton, the firm of
Boulton and Watt commenced the business of making
steam-engines in the year 1775.
   Mr. Watt now obtained from Parliament an exten
sion of his patent for twenty-five years from this date, in

                           WATT.                     319
  consideration of the acknowledged national import
  ance of his inventions.   The first thing which he and
  his partner did, was to erect an engine at Soho, which
  they invited all persons interested in such machines
  to inspect.    They then proposed to erect similar
  engines wherever required, on the very liberal prin
  ciple of receiving as payment for each, only one-
  third of the saving in fuel which it should effect, as
 compared with one of the old construction.      As this
  saving, however, had been found to amount in the
 whole to fully three-fourths of all the fuel that had
 been wont to be employed, the revenue thus accruing
 to the patentees became very great after their engines
 were extensively adopted. This they very soon were,
 especially in Cornwall, where the numerous mines
 afforded a vast field for the employment of the new
 power, partly in continuing or commencing works
 which only an economised expenditure could make
 profitable, and often also in labours which the old
 engine was altogether inadequate to attempt.
     But the draining of mines was only one of many
 applications of the steam power now at his command
 which Watt contemplated, and in course of time
 accomplished.     During the whole twenty-five years,
 indeed, over which his renewed patent extended, the
 perfecting of his invention was his chief occupation ;
 and, notwithstanding a delicate state of health, and
 the depressing affliction of severe head-aches to
 which he was extremely subject, he continued
throughout this period to persevere with unwearied
diligence in adding new improvements to the me
chanism of the engine, and devising the means of
 applying it to new purposes of usefulness. He devoted,
in particular, the exertions of many years to the con
triving of the best methods of making the action of
the piston communicate a rotatory motion in various
circumstances " and between the years 1781 and

320       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
1785 he took out four different patents for inventions
having this object in view.    In the midst of these
scientific labours, too, his attention was much dis
tracted by attempts which were made in several
quarters to pirate his improvements, and the conse
quent necessity of defending his rights in a series of
actions, which, notwithstanding successive verdicts
in his favour, did not terminate till the year 1 799,
when the validity of his claims was finally confirmed
by the unanimous decision of the Judges of the
Court of King's Bench.
   Watt's inexhaustible ingenuity displayed itself in
various other contrivances beside those which make
part of his steam-engine.     An apparatus for copy
ing letters and other writings, now in extensive
use ; a method of heating houses by steam ; a new
composition, for the purposes of sculpture, having
the transparency and nearly the hardness of marble ;
a machine for multiplying       copies of busts and
other performances in carving or statuary, — are
enumerated    among his minor inventions.       But it
is his steam-engine that forms the great monu
 ment of his genius, and that has conferred upon
 his name its imperishable renown. This invention
has already gone far to revolutionize the whole
domain of human industry ; and almost every year
is adding to its power and its conquests.       In our
 manufactures, our arts, our commerce, our social ac
commodations, it is constantly achieving what, little
 more than half a century ago, would have been
 accounted miracles and impossibilities.   " The trunk
 of an elephant, it has been finely and truly said,
 that can pick up a pin, or rend an oak, is as nothing
 to it. It can engrave a seal, and crush masses of
obdurate metal like wax before  it,— draw out, without
breaking, a thread as fine as gossamer, — and lift a
ship of war like a bauble in the air. It can embroider

                          STEAM.                     321
muslin and forge anchors; cut steel into ribbands,
and   impel loaded vessels against the fury of the
winds and waves." And another application of          it,
which has been made only within the last few months,
is  perhaps destined to be productive of still greater
changes on the condition of society than have re
sulted from any of its previous achievements.         It
had been employed, several years ago, at some of our
collieries, in the propelling of heavily loaded car
riages over rail-ways but the great experiment of
                      ;
the Liverpool and Manchester Railway has, for the
first time, practically demonstrated with what hitherto
almost undreamt-of rapidity travelling by land may
hereafter be carried on through the aid of steam.
Coaches, under the impetus communicated by this,
the most potent, and at the same time the most per
fectly controllable of all our mechanical agencies,
have already been drawn forward at the flying speed
of thirty and thirty-five miles an hour.   If  so much
has been done already,    itwould be rash to conclude
that even this  is   to be our ultimate limit of attain
ment.     In navigation, the resistance of the water,
which increases rapidly as the force opposed to       it
increases, very soon sets bounds to the rate at which
 even the power of steam can impel a vessel forward.
But, on land, the thin medium of the air presents no
 such insurmountable obstacle to a force making its
 way through  it;   and a rapidity of movement may
 perhaps be eventually attained here, which     isto us
 even as yet inconceivable.     But even when the rate
 of land travelling already shewn to be quite prac
 ticable shall have become universal, in what    a  new
 state of society shall we find ourselves !   When we
 shall be able to travel a hundred miles in any direc
 tion in six or eight hours, into what comparative
neighbourhood will the remotest extremes even of       a
large country be brought, and how little shall we

322        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
think of what we now call distance ! A nation will
then be indeed a community; and all the benefits of
the highest civilization, instead of being confined to
one central spot, will be diffused equally over the
land, like the light of heaven.      This improvement,
in short, when fully consummated, will confer upon
man nearly as much new power and new enjoyment
as if he were actually endowed with wings.
    It is gratifying to reflect that even while he was
yet alive, Watt received from the voice of the most
illustrious of his contemporaries the honours due
to his genius.     In 1785 he was elected a Fellow of
the Royal Society ; the degree of Doctor of Laws
was conferred upon him by the University of Glas
gow in 1806 ; and in 1808 he was elected a member
of the French Institute. He died on the 25th of
August, 1819, in the 84th year of his age.
    We cannot better conclude our sketch of the life of
 this great inventor than by the following extract
 from the character that has been drawn of him by
the eloquent writer (Mr. Jeffrey) whom we have
                     " Independently of his great at
 already quoted.
 tainments in mechanics, Mr. Watt was an extraordi
 nary, and in many respects a wonderful man.         Per
 haps no individual in his age possessed so much and
 such varied and exact information,
                                         —had read so
 much, or remembered what he had read so accu
 rately and well.    He had infinite quickness of appre
 hension, a prodigious memory, and a certain rec
 tifying and methodising power of understanding,
 which extracted something precious out of all that
 was presented to it.      His stores of miscellaneous
 knowledge were immense, and yet less astonishing
  than the command he had at all times over them.
  It seemed as if every subject that was casually started
  in conversation had been that which he had been
  last occupied in studying and exhausting ; such was

                         WATT.                       323
 the copiousness, the precision, and the admirable
 clearness of the information which he poured out
 upon it without effort or hesitation. Nor was this
 promptitude and compass of knowledge confined in
 any degree to the studies connected with his ordi
 nary pursuits. That he should have been minutely
 and extensively skilled in chemistry and the arts,
 and in most of the branches of physical science,
 might perhaps have been conjectured ; but it could
 not have been inferred from his usual occupations,
 and probably is not generally known, that he was
 curiously learned in many branches of antiquity, me
taphysics, medicine, and etymology, and perfectly at
home in all the details of architecture, music, and
law. He was well acquainted, too, with most of the
modern languages, and familiar with their most re
 cent literature.   Nor was it at all extraordinary to
 hear the great mechanician and engineer detailing
and expounding, for hours together, the metaphysical
theories of the German logicians, or criticising the
measures or the matter of the German poetry.
    " His astonishing memory was aided, no doubt,
in a great measure, by a still higher and rarer
faculty — by his power of digesting and arranging in
its proper place all the information he received, and
of casting aside and rejecting, as it were instinc
tively, whatever was worthless of immaterial. Every
conception that was suggested to his mind seemed
instantly to take its place among its other rich fur
niture, and to be condensed into the smallest and
most convenient form.      He never appeared, there
fore, to be at all encumbered or perplexed with the
verbiage of the dull books he perused, or the idle
talk to which he listened ; but to have at once ex
tracted, by a kind of intellectual alchemy, all that
was worthy of attention, and to have reduced it for
his own use to its true value and to its simplest form,

324          THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE.
And thus it often happened, that a great deal more
was learned from his brief and vigorous account of
the theories and arguments of tedious writers, than
an ordinary student could ever have derived from
the most faithful study of the originals, and that
errors and absurdities became manifest from the
mere clearness and plainness of his statement of
them, which might have deluded and perplexed
most of his hearers without that invaluable assist
ance."*
   * The portrait of Mr. Watt, in    this volume, is from a drawing
partly copied from  a picture of Sir  W. Beechey, and partly from
Mr. Chantrey's bust. The drawing was executed under the
obliging direction of Mr. Watt, of Aston Hall, and has also had
the advantage of Mr. Chantrey's suggestions.

                            Chapter    XIV.
            Sir Richard Arltwright.— The   Cotton Manufacture.
We propose now to give some account of an indi
vidual, whose rise from a very humble origin to
affluence  and distinction was the result of his per
severing attention to the improvement of the ma
chinery employed in one of the most important
branches of our manufactures, and whose name is
intimately connected with the recent history of the
commercial greatness of this country.       We allude to
the celebrated Sir Richard     Arkwright.      Arkwright
was born on the 23d of December, 1732, at Preston,
in Lancashire.     His parents were very poor, and he
was the youngest of a family of thirteen children ; so
that we may suppose the school education he received,
if he ever was at school at all, was extremely limited.
Indeed, but little learning would probably be deemed
necessary for the profession to which he was bred,—
that of a barber.    This business he continued to fol
low till he was nearly thirty years of age ; and this
first period of his history is of course obscure enough.
About the year 1760, however, or soon after, he
gave up shaving, and commenced business as an
itinerant dealer in hair, collecting the commodity by
travelling up and down the country, and then, after
he had dressed        it,
                    selling    again to the wig-makers,
                                  it
with whom he very soon acquired the character of
keeping a better article than any of his rivals in the
same trade.     He had obtained possession, too, we
are told, of a secret method of dyeing the hair, by
   VOL.   II.                                          2
                                                       F

326         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
which he doubtless contrived to augment his profits ;
and perhaps, in his accidental acquaintance with this
little piece of chemistry, we may find the germ of
that sensibility he soon began to manifest to the
value of new and unpublished inventions in the
arts, and of his passion for patent-rights and the
pleasures of monopoly.
    It would appear that his first effort in mechanics,
as has happened in the case of many other ingenious
men, was an attempt to discover the perpetual motion.
It was in inquiring after a person to make him some
wheels for a project of this kind, that in the latter
part of the year 1767, he got acquainted with a
clockmaker of the name of Kay, then residing at
Warrington, with whom it is certain that he remained
for a considerable time after closely connected. From
this moment we may date his entrance upon a new
career.
   The manufactureof cotton cloths was introduced into
this country only towards the end of the seventeenth
century; although stuffs, improperly called Manchester
cottons, had been fabricated nearly three centuries be
fore, which, however, were made entirely of wool. It is
generally thought that the first attempt at the manu
facture of cotton goods in Europe did not take place
till the end of the fifteenth century, when the art
was introduced into Italy.        Before this, the only
cottons known had been imported from the East
Indies.
    The English cottons, for many years after the intro
duction of the manufacture, had only the weft of
cotton; the warp, or longitudinal threads of the cloth,
being of linen. It was conceived to be impracticable to
spin the cotton with a sufficiently hard twist to make
it serviceable for this latter purpose.  Although occa
sionally exported too in small quantities, the nianu

                      ARKWRIGHT.                       327
factured goods were chiefly consumed at home.            It
was not till about the year 1760 that any considerable
demand for them arose abroad.
    But about this time the exportation of cottons,
both to the continent and to America, began to be
carried on on a larger scale, and the manufacture of
course received a corresponding impulse. The thread
had hitherto been spun entirely, as it still continues
to be in India, by the tedious process of the distaff
and spindle, the spinner drawing out only a single
thread at a time.    But as the demand for the manu
factured article continued to increase, a greater and
greater scarcity of weft was experienced, till, at
last, although there were 50,000 spindles constantly
at work in Lancashire alone, each occupying an
individual spinner, they were found quite insuffi
cient to supply the quantity of thread required. The
weavers generally, in those days, had the weft they
used spun for them by the females of their family ;
and now " those weavers," says Mr. Guest, in his
History of the Cotton Manufacture,
                                           " whose fami
lies could not furnish the necessary supply of weft,
had their spinning done by their neighbours, and
were obliged to pay more for the spinning than the
price allowed by their masters ; and even with this
disadvantage, very few could procure weft enough to
keep themselves constantly employed.           It was no
uncommon thing for a weaver to walk three or four
miles in a morning, and call on five or six spinners,
before he could collect weft to serve him for the re
mainder of the day ; and when he wished to weave
a piece in a shorter time than usual, a new ribbon,
or gown, was necessary to quicken the exertions of
the spinner."
    It was natural, in this state of things, that attempts
 should be made to contrive some method of spinning
more effective than that which had hitherto been in
                                          2  f 2

328               THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
use ; and, in fact, several ingenious individuals seem
to have turned their attention to the subject. Long
before this time, indeed, spinning by machinery had
been thought of by more than one speculator.     A Mr.
Wyatt, of   Litchfield,  is stated to have actually in
vented an apparatus for that purpose so early as the
year 1733, and to have had factories built and filled
with his machines, both at Birmingham and North
ampton. These undertakings, however, not being
successful, the machines were allowed to perish, and
no model or description of them was preserved*.
There was also a Mr. Laurence Earnshaw, of Mot-
tram, in Cheshire, of whom " it is recorded," says
Mr. Baines, in his History of Lancashiret, " that,
in the year 1753, he invented a machine to spin and
reel cotton at one operation, which he shewed to his
neighbours, and then destroyed              it,
                                   through the gene
rous apprehension that he might deprive the poor of
bread"— a mistake, but a benevolent one.
   It was in the year 1767, as we have mentioned,
that Arkwright became acquainted with Kay.        In
1768 the two friends appeared together at Preston,
and immediately began to occupy themselves busily
in the erection of machine for the spinning of cot
                      a
ton-thread, of which they had brought a model with
them.    They had prevailed upon Mr. Smalley, who
                                             a
is  described to have been a liquor merchant and
painter of that place, to join them in their specula
tion and the room in which the machine was fixed
         ;
was the parlour of the dwelling-house attached to
the free grammar-school, the use of which Smalley
had obtained from his friend, the schoolmaster.   At
this time Arkwright was so poor that, an election
contest having taken place in the town, of which he
     *
     See Essay on the Cotton Trade,           by   Mr. Kennedy, Man
chester Memoirs, second series, vol. iii,
f    Vol. p. 115,
             i.

                         ARKWRIGHT.                              329
was a burgess, it is asserted that his friends, or party,
were obliged to subscribe to get him a decent suit of
clothes before they could bring him into the poll-
room *. As soon as the election was over, he and
 Kay left Preston, and, carrying with them their
model, betook themselves to Nottingham, the appre
hension of the hostility of the people of Lancashire
to the attempt he was making to introduce spinning
by machinery having, as Arkwright himself after
wards stated t, induced him to take this step.       On
arriving at Nottingham, he first made arrangements
with Messrs. Wrights, the bankers, for obtaining the
necessary supply of capital ; but they, after a short
time, having declined to continue their advances, he
took his model to Messrs. Need and Strutt, stocking
weavers of that place, the latter of whom was a par
ticularly ingenious man, and well qualified, from his
scientific acquirements, of which he had possessed
himself under many disadvantages, to judge of the
adaptation of the new machinery to its proposed
object. An inspection of it perfectly satisfied him of
its great value ; and he and Mr. Need immediately
agreed to enter into partnership with Arkwright, who
accordingly, in 1769, took out a patent for the ma
chine as its inventor.     A spinning-mill, driven by
horse power, was at the same time erected, and filled
with the frames ; being, unless we include those
erected many years before by Mr. Wyatt, the first
work of the kind that had been known in this country.
In 1771 Arkwright and his partners established ano
ther mill at Cromford, in the parish of Wirksworth,
in Derbyshire, the machinery in which was set in
motion by a water-wheel; and in 1775 he took out
a second patent, including some additions which he
had made to his original apparatus.
      *   Barnes's History of Lancashire, vol.   ii.   p. 484.
                  J'  See his « Case," 1781.
                                                 2f3

330            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
     In    what we have hitherto related, we have care
fully confined ourselves to facts which are universally
acknowledged ; but there are other points of the
story that have been stated in very opposite ways, and
have given rise to much doubt and dispute.
     The machinery for which Arkwright took out his
patents consisted of various parts, his second spe
cification enumerating no fewer than ten different
contrivances ; but of these the one that was by far
of greatest importance, was a device for drawing
out the cotton from a coarse to a finer and harder
twisted thread, and so rendering it fit to be used for
warp as well as weft *. This was most ingeniously
managed by the application of a principle which had
not yet been introduced in any other mechanical
operation. The cotton was in the first place drawn
off from the skewers on which it was fixed by one
pair of rollers, which were made to move at a compa
ratively slow rate, and which formed it into threads
of the first and coarser quality t ; but at a little dis
 tance behind the first was placed a second pair of
rollers, revolving three, four, or five times as fast,
 which took it up when it had passed through the
 others, the effect of which would be to reduce
 the thread to a degree of fineness so many times
 greater than that which it originally had.                       The
 first pair of rollers might be regarded as the feeders
 of the second, which could receive no more than
     * This was, in truth, the principal subject of Arkwright's first
 patent ; and, accordingly, on the great trial (afterwards men
 tioned) which took place in June, 1785, his opponents accused
 him of endeavouring unfairly to prolong his first patent by means
 of his second.
     +   In Arkwright-'s apparatus, which was    a combination   of the
  carding and   spinning machinery, this first part of the process w as
  somewhat modified ; but the principle of the two pairs of rollers,
  the one revolving faster than the other, which forms the pecu
  liarity of the machine, was employed as here described.

                        ARKWRIGHT.                        331
the    others sent to them ; and that, again, could
 be no more than these others themselves took up
from the skewers.         As the second pair of rollers,
therefore, revolved, we will say, five times for every
 one revolution of the first pair, or, which is the same
 thing, required for their consumption in a given
 time five times the length of thread that the first did,
 they could obviously only obtain so much length by
drawing out the common portion of cotton into
thread of five times the original fineness.          Nothing
could be more beautiful or more effective than this
contrivance ; which, with an additional provision for
giving the proper twist to the thread, constitutes
what is called the water-frame or throstle *.
     Of this part of his machinery, Arkwright particu
larly claimed the invention as his own. He admitted,
with regard to some of the other machines included
in his patent, that he was rather their improver than
their inventor ; and the original spinning-machine
for coarse thread, commonly called the spinning-
jenny, he frankly attributed in its first conception to
 a person of the name of Hargrave, who resided at
 Blackburn, and who, he said, having been driven
out of Lancashire in consequence of his invention,
 had taken refuge in Nottingham ; but, unable to
bear up against a conspiracy formed to ruin him, had
been at last obliged to relinquish the farther prosecu
tion of his object, and died in obscurity and distress.
     There were, however, other parties who had an
 interest as well as Arkwright in these new machines,
and who would not allow that any of them were of his
 invention.     As to the principal of them, the water-
 frame, they alleged that it was in reality the inven
 tion of a poor reed-maker, of the name of Highs, or
 Hayes, and that Arkwright had obtained the know-
    * So called from its having been originally moved by water
power.

332            THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
ledge of it from his old associate Kay, who had been
employed by Highs to assist him in constructing a
model of it a short time before Arkwright had sought
his acquaintance. Many cotton-spinners, professing
to believe this to be the true state of the case, ac
tually used Arkwright's machinery in their factories,
notwithstanding the patent by which he had at
tempted to protect it ; and this invasion of his mo
nopoly was carried to such an extent, that at last he
found himself obliged to bring actions against no
fewer than nine different parties *.
     The first of these, in which a Colonel Mordaunt
was defendant, was tried in the Court of King's
 Bench, in July, 1781.               Upon this occasion, how
ever, the question as to the originality of the inven
tions was not mooted ; the defence taken being the
insufficiency of the specification on which the patent
had been obtained ; and upon that ground a verdict
was given in favour of the defendant.                      On this
result Arkwright abandoned the other eight actions
he had raised ; and instead of attempting any longer
to maintain his patent in a court of law, published a
    * It is asserted, in the article on the cotton manufacture,    in
the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and repeated in
a paper on the same subject in the 91st number of the Edinburgh
Review, that a trial took place upon the subject of Arkwright's
first patent in the year 1772, on which occasion he obtained a
verdict establishing its validity. This statement, however, for
which no authority is given, appears to be altogether without
foundation.     No such trial is alluded to in the course of the pro
ceedings    in the  Court of King's Bench in June and November,
1785, although both that of July, 1781, and that of February,
1785, are repeatedly mentioned ; nor is it noticed, we believe,
in any of the earlier accounts of Arkwright's machinery.         Mr.
Guest (who has written       a  history of the cotton manufacture,
which is marked by a somewhat strong dislike to Arkwright)
searched the records of the courts of King's Bench, Common
Pleas, and Exchequer, for the year 1772, without finding any
trace of it.

                      ARKWRIGHT.                    333
pamphlet, containing what he called his " Case,"
with a view of inducing the legislature to interfere
for his protection. It is proper we should here men
tion that, although the first of these actions in 1781,
which decided the fate of the others, thus went off
without the real merits of the case having been gone
into, yet several of the defendants were prepared to
dispute the claim of the patentee to the invention of
the machines, and that both Highs and Kay had
been summoned to give their evidence upon that
point, and were actually in court during the trial of
the action against Colonel Mordaunt, the former
having been brought over from Ireland, where he
was then residing, expressly for the occasion.
   Arkwright submitted to the verdict that had been
given against him for nearly four years ; but at last,
in February, 1785, he commenced a second action
upon the subject, which was tried in the Court of
Common Pleas ; and, having brought forward several
artists who declared that they could make the ma
chines from the descriptions which he had given in
his specification, he obtained a verdict which rein
stated him in the enjoyment of his monopoly. Upon
this, as on the former occasion, the only question
submitted to the jury was that regarding the suffi
ciency of the specification ; although it soon appeared
that several of the parties interested were determined
not to rest satisfied with a decision of the matter
upon that ground alone.
   Accordingly, in the month of June, in the same
year, a scire-facias, an action which is nominally at
the suit of the King, was brought against Arkwright
in the Court of King's Bench to repeal the patent, in
the trial of which the whole of the question was at last
gone into. The principal evidence on which it was
attempted to be shewn that the water-frame was not
invented by Arkwright was that of Highs, of Kay,

334        THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
and of Kay's wife, the substance of which was, that
the double rollers had been originally contrived by
Highs in the early part of the year 1767, while he
was residing in the town of Leigh ; that he had em
ployed his neighbour and acquaintance Kay to make
a model of a machine for him upon that principle ;
and that Kay, upon meeting with Arkwright a short
time after, at Warrington, had been persuaded by
him to communicate to him the secret of Highs's in
vention, on the understanding, as it would appear,
that the two should make what they could of it, and
share the advantages between them.      The evidence
of each of the witnesses  corroborated, so far as the
case admitted, that of the others ; Highs stating that
he had been first informed of the manner in which
Arkwright had got possession of his invention by
Kay's wife, who, on her part, swore that she recol
lected her husband making models, first for Highs,
and afterwards for Arkwright, although she could
not speak with any distinctness to the nature of the ma
chine ; while Kay himself acknowledged the treachery
of which he had been guilty, and gave a parti
cular account of the manner in which he said that
Arkwright had contrived to obtain from him the secret
of Highs's invention.     Highs also stated that, upon
meeting with Arkwright in Manchester, some years
after he had taken out his patent, he charged him
with the source from which he had derived the ma
chine ; to which Arkwright said nothing at first, but
afterwards remarked that, if any person, having
made a discovery, declined to prosecute        it,
                                                 he con
ceived any other had  a  right, after a certain time, to
take  itup and obtain a patent for  it,    he chose.
                                          if
   This famous trial lasted from nine o'clock in the
morning till half-past twelve at night, and excited
the greatest interest, both among those more imme
diately concerned, and among the public generally.

                      ARKW EIGHT.                    335
 Among the witnesses examined were Mr. Cumming,
 the well-known watchmaker, Mr. Harrison, the son
 of the inventor of the marine chronometer, Dr. Dar
 win, and the since celebrated James Watt. The result
 was a verdict again invalidating the patent ; which, on
 a motion being made for a new trial, the court refused
 to disturb. Arkwright after this never took any
 further steps to vindicate his patent rights. On this
 account some writers have been disposed to maintain
 that he really had obtained the inventions in the
 manner that Highs and Kay alleged. It is, however,
 to be remembered that it has been a common fate with
 those who have been fortunate enough to enrich them
selves by their happy inventions to have attempts made
 to take from them the honour of those discoveries, of
the profits of which it is found impossible to deprive
them — and that it has seldom, in such cases, been
difficult to find some hitherto unheard-of genius to
set up his claim to the prior discovery of what, never
theless, it would appear he scarcely knew the value
of, after he had discovered it. In this particular case
the other party had a strong interest in setting aside
Arkwright's pretensions if they could, and the cir
cumstance of Kay having been connected with
Highs before he was employed by him, afforded them
a tempting foundation on which to erect what they,
no doubt, considered a very convenient theory.
Then again, as for so much of their allegation as
rested upon the evidence of this Kay, it was not en
titled to command much attention, since it appeared
both that he had some time before quarrelled with
Arkwright, and that he must, even by own account,
have acted so perfidious a part in regard to his first
friend, Highs, as to deprive him of all claim to be
believed in anything he might now choose to assert.
Highs's own evidence is undoubtedly what seems to
bear strongest against Arkwright; but he, from

336             THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
very natural causes, might have been mistaken as to
various points.    He appears to have told his story in
a very confused and ineffective way — much as       it'
                                                      he
either did not feel his ground to be very sure, or was
not at all aware of the importance of the facts to which
 he was brought to speak.      It not impossible that,
                                     is
 if he actually did invent the machine in question,
 Arkwright may have also hit upon the same idea
about the same time    ; or may at least have been led
to    itmerely by some vague rumour that had got
abroad as to what Highs was about — not an unna
tural supposition, when we reflect that his opera
tions seem to have been a good deal talked of in
the neighbourhood, and that the slightest hint of
the principle of the water-frame would have sufficed
to put an ingenious man like Arkwright in possession
of the whole machine. And this after all gives us,
perhaps, the most natural explanation of his conver
sation with Highs at Manchester.       If he knew that
he had really stolen his invention from that person in
the manner stated in Kay's evidence,      it  not likely
                                               is
that he would have been much disposed to meet him
at all ; whereas the interview appears to have been
arranged       the intervention of a mutual acquaint
                by
ance, who had in all probability obtained the consent
of both parties to his bringing them together. His
silence, when Highs charged him with having got
possession of his invention, or rather merely noticed
the circumstance (for the whole seems to have
passed in quite an amicable manner), will depend for
its interpretation very much upon the exact words
used       by
           Highs, which    it  very possible he did not
                                is
recollect perfectly when he gave his evidence in the
Court of King's Bench twelve or thirteen years af
terwards.    Perhaps he said nothing about Kay at
all but merely remarked in general terms that he
  ;
had been beforehand with Mr. Arkwright in thinking

                          ARK WRIGHT.                337
of the two pairs of rollers which formed   so valuable
a part of his patent machinery.  This was an aver
ment which for anything that Arkwright knew might
 be true, and which if incorrect he had at any rate no
 means of refuting ; — so that nothing could be more
 natural than his remaining silent — although he would
 scarcely, one should think, have taken the thing
 quite so passively if he had been flatly charged with
 the base conduct afterwards imputed to him.       The
 observation, again, he is said to have made a little
 while after is perfectly consistent with this view of
 the case. He waves the question as to which of the
two might have been first in possession of the idea ;
 and contents himself with simply remarking that, how
 ever that might be, he conceived any one who had made
a discovery which he thought might be turned to ad
vantage was quite entitled to take it up and prosecute
 it by himself, even though another might also be in
 possession of   it, that other shewed no intention of
                     if
 stirring in the business. And to this remark Highs,
 by his own account, quietly assented, although it cer
 tainly would have been natural enough for him to
 have hinted,    he really had previously advanced the
                if
 charge which on the trial he said he had done, that
 whatever a man might do with regard to an inven
tion that was really his own, he could hardly have    a
right in any circumstances to steal those of other
people, and take out a patent for them.
    Whatever conclusion may be come to on the sub
ject of Arkwright's claim to the invention of the ma
chinery introduced by him into his spinning factories,
it    incontestable that to him alone belongs the
     is
merit both of having combined its different parts with
admirable ingenuity and judgment, and of having by
his unwearied and invincible perseverance         first
brought into actual use on anything like an exten
           it
sive scale, and demonstrated its power and value.
     vol. ii.                           2
                                        a

338          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
The several inventions which his patent embraced,
whether they were his own or not, would probably but
for him have perished with their authors ; none of
whom except himself had the determination and
courage to face the multiplied fatigues and dangers
that lay in the way of achieving a practical exempli
fication of what they had conceived in their minds,
or to encounter any part of that opposition, incre
dulity, ridicule, of those disappointments, repulses,
losses, and other discouragements, over all of which
he at last so completely triumphed.          When he
set out on this career he was poor, friendless, and
utterly unknown.      We have already stated that,
on his coming with Kay to Preston, he was almost
in rags ; and it may be added that when he and
Kay made application immediately before this to a
Mr. Atherton for some pecuniary assistance to en
able them to prosecute       their plans, Arkwright's
appearance alone was enough to determine that
gentleman to have nothing to do with the adven
 ture. Can we have a more exciting example, then,
of what a resolute heart may do in apparently the
most hopeless circumstances? — of what ingenuity
 and perseverance together may overcome in the pur
suit of what they are determined to attain? And this
is the grand lesson which the history of Arkwright is
fitted to teach us —to give ourselves wholly to one
object, and never to despair of reaching it.      Even
after he had succeeded in forming his partnership
with Messrs. Need and Strutt, his success was far
from being secured. For a long time the speculation
was a hazardous and unprofitable one ; and no little
outlay of capital was required to carry it on.      He
tells us himself in his Case that it did not begin to
pay till it had been persevered in for five years, and
had swallowed up a capital of more than twelve thou
sand pounds. We cannot doubt that it required al

                           ARKWRIGHT.                            339
 Arkwright's dexterity and firmness to induce his
 partners to persevere with the experiment under this
 large expenditure and protracted disappointment.                But
 it was the character of the man to devote his whole
  heart and faculties to whatever he engaged in. Even
  to the close of his life the management of his different
  factories was his only occupation, and even amuse
  ment. Although he had been from early life afflicted
  with severe asthma, he took scarcely any recreation —
  employing all his time either in superintending the
  daily concerns of these establishments — which were
 regulated upon a plan that itself indicated in its con
 triver no little ingenuity and reach of mind * ; or in
 adding such improvements to his machinery from
 time to time, as his experience and observation sug
 gested. And thus it was, that from a poor barber he
 raised himself to what he eventually became — not
 merely to rank and great affluence — but to be the
founder of a new branch of national industry, des
tined in a wonderfully short space of time to assume
 the very first place among the manufactures of his
country.      A very short review of what the cotton
trade now is, as compared with its former state, will
shew what it owes to Sir Richard Arkwright.
     England may be said to have been a manufacturing
country for five hundred years, from the time, namely,
when the clothiers of Flanders came over in great
    * " The originality   and comprehension      of Sir Richard Ark
wright's   mind," says  the writer of the article on the cotton manu
                                        '
facture, in the Supplement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica,'
" were perhaps marked by nothing more strongly than the judg
ment with which, although new to business, he conducted the
great concerns his discoveries gave rise to, and the systematic
order and arrangement which he introduced into every department
of his extensive works. His plans of management, which must
have been entirely his own, since no establishment of a similar
nature then existed, were universally adopted by others ; and
after long experience they have not yet in any material point been
altered or improved."
                                                   2 G 2

340         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 numbers and settled themselves in different parts of
 the kingdom, on the marriage of our Edward         III. to
 Philippa  of  Hainault.   The   manufacture     of cotton
cloth, however, as we have already noticed, was not
introduced among us till about the middle of the seven
teenth century, and made no extraordinary progress
for a hundred years afterwards. As an evidence of the
comparatively slight degree of interest which it ex
cited, and of the little ingenuity which was conse
quently exerted in its improvement, it may be stated
that the valuable invention of the fly-shuttle, which was
introduced into the woollen manufacture about the year
173S, was not employed in the weaving of cottons till
more than twenty years afterwards ; up to which
period, whenever the web was more than three feet
wide, two men were constantly stationed at the loom
in which it was wrought, the one to throw the shuttle
from right to left, and the other to throw it back
from left to right.   It was not till the year 1769 that
an attempt was made upon any considerable scale to
spin cotton thread by machinery ; for, whatever may
have been done before this time by individuals of
mechanical ingenuity in inventing contrivances for
that purpose, it is certain that the invaluable im
provement in question was really introduced into the
manufacture by Arkwright when he took out his
patent and built his first mill.
   The revolution, therefore, we may almost say, in
the whole aspect and character of our manufacturing
and commercial interests, which has hence arisen, is
the work of only the last sixty years.         About the
beginning of the last century, the quantity of cotton
wool annually imported into Great Britain did not
amount to 1,200,000 lbs. ; and by the year 1720 it
had not increased to much beyond 2,000,000 lbs.
There are no returns from 1720 to 1771 ; but the
importation had probably gone on increasing during

                 COTTON MANUFACTURE.                341
 that interval, although at a slow rate.    Nor did it
 make a very rapid progress even for several years
 after spinning by machinery was introduced, having
 from 1771 to 1775 averaged only 4,764,589 lbs., and
 for the next five years only 6,706,013 lbs. In 1784,
 the year immediately preceding the final repeal of
 Arkwright's patent, it amounted to 11,482,083 lbs.
 That event gave a great impulse to the manufacture,
 the average importation for the next five years hav
 ing grown to 25,443,270 lbs. annually. In 1799
 it had risen to 43,379,278 lbs., and in 1800, to
 56,0 1 0,732 lbs. In 1817 it was 124,912,968 lbs.,
 and in 1825 it actually amounted to the immense
 quantity of 228,005,291 lbs. The average importa
 tion of cotton wool into Great Britain may now be
 stated as considerably exceeding 200 millions of
 pounds per annum, or as amounting to fully a hun
 dred times what it was a century ago, and to more
than fifty times what it was when Arkwright began
 to spin.
    The whole of this raw material, with the exception
of about ten millions of pounds which are used in an
unmanufactured state, and from ten to twenty mil
lions which are annually exported, is spun into
thread, and mostly wrought into cloth, in this country
The Reverend Dr. Cartwright invented his power-
loom in 1784 ; but it is only since the commencement
of the present century that weaving by machinery
has become general.      Steam was first applied as the
moving power for the spinning machinery in 1785;
in which year Messrs. Boulton and Watt erected one
of their rotative engines for a factory belonging to
the Messrs. Robinsons at Papplewick, in Notting
hamshire.     In the present day the cotton is carded,
spun, and woven into cloth in the same manufac
tory ; these different operations being performed by
                                        2g3

342           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
machinery, the several parts of which are all set in
motion by a single steam-engine.
    In 1787 the number of spinning factories in the
county of Lancaster amounted only to 42, of compa
ratively inconsiderable magnitude; in August 1825,
there were, according to Mr. Baines*, no fewer than
104 such factories in Manchester alone, which were
worked by 110 steam-engines, of the aggregate
power of 3,598 horses.           The number of steam-looms
now at work in the kingdom is calculated at 45,000+,
of which about 8,000 are in Scotland, and above
20,000 in Manchester. In 1824, it has been stated J
that the number of spindles constantly in motion was
about six millions, and the power by which they were
moved equal to that of 10,572 horses.                  In another
statement, however, drawn up by Mr. Kennedy §, it
is calculated that in 1817 (when the importation of
cotton wool was not nearly so great as in 1824) the
number of spindles was 6,645,833, and the moving
power equal to that of 20,768 horses. Some idea
 may be formed of the growth of this manufacture
 since the year 1769, by contrasting the astonishing
 number of threads which it would thus appear are
 spun every day now, with the 50,000 which were all
 that were produced then.
    The produce of all this machinery is, as may be
                              " In the
 supposed, immense.                      present improved state
 of this (the weaving) process," says the writer of the
 article already referred to in the ' Encyclopedia Bri-
 tannica, " one person, generally a girl, attends to
 two looms, the weekly produce of which is from seven
 to nine pieces of cloth, of seven-eighths wide, and
               * History of Lancashire, vol. ii. p. 134.
                    f  Edinburgh Review, No. 91.
          J  Supp.  to Encyc. Brit, art. Cotton Manufacture.
           J  Manchester Memoirs, Second Series, vol. iii.

              COTTON MANUFACTURE.                     343
twenty-eight yards long."
                                    "
                                  A single factory in
Manchester," says Mr. Guest, writing in 1828, " and
that not of first-rate magnitude, receives the raw
cotton, and turns out a web of cloth, varying in width
from three quarters of a yard to a yard and a quarter,
of forty miles in length every week." In 1750, it
has been calculated that the whole amount of the
cotton manufacture of the kingdom did not exceed
the annual value of 200,000/. ; it is now considered,
 on good grounds, to amount to fully thirty-six mil
lions of pounds sterling per annum *. Sir Richard
Arkwright states, in his Case published in 1781, that
the capital then invested in buildings and machinery
by those engaged in this trade, amounted to 200,000/. ;
it is calculated to amount now, in Lancashire alone,
which possesses about four-fifths of the trade, to
 8,000,000/. t In the year ending on the 1st of May
 1818, 105 millions of yards of cotton cloth of all
sorts were manufactured in Glasgow and the neigh
bourhood, of which the value was about 5,200,000/. %
 Of this about one half was exported. The value of
the cotton cloths, twist, and yarn, exported from
Great Britain for some years past, has been on an
average about 16,000,000/., leaving of course about
20,000,000/. worth for home consumption.     The ex
port trade in cotton is now fully three times that in
woollens, the manufacture of which used to be the
great staple of the kingdom.
   The extraordinary perfection to which every part of
the cotton manufacture has now been carried is
another result for which we are entirely indebted to
the introduction of machinery. Especially since the
invention of the mule, a compound of the jenny and
the water-frame, about the year 1790, the muslins
manufactured in England have been every year
                  * Edin. Review, No. 91, p.
            f Baines'sLancashire, vol.  ii.
                                       iii,
                                               134.
                                              p.
          J   Encyc. Brit. Supp. vol.       p. 404.

344         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
attaining a greater fineness of fabric, and are now
rapidly approaching to a rivalry even in this respect
with the most exquisite productions of the East.     As
an illustration of the state of advancement to which
the spinning process has been brought, it may be
mentioned, that " Mr. John Pollard, of Manchester,
spun, in 1792, on the mule, no fewer than 278 hanks
of yarn, forming a thread of 233,520 yards, or
upwards of 132 miles in length, from a single pound
of raw cotton *." The diminution in the price of the
manufactured article which has been produced by the
successive improvements in the cotton machinery is
equally extraordinary.       Yarn of what is called No.
100, which even in 1786, after its price had been
greatly reduced by the cancelling of Arkwright's
patent, sold for thirty-eight shillings, has fallen in
price every year since that time, and is now to be
had for three or four shillings t- The raw material
is now indeed brought from India, and manufac
tured into cloths in England, which, after being re
exported to that country, are actually sold there
cheaper than the produce of the native looms. There
can hardly be a more striking proof than this of the
triumph of machinery.
    Finally, it has been calculated that while the
number of persons employed in the cotton manufac
ture in 1767, did not probably amount to 30,000, the
number of those now engaged in its different depart
ments can hardly be less than a million J. Yet, " in
some branches of the business," it has been stated,
 " the spinning in particular, such is the economy of
labour introduced by the use of machinery, that one
man and four children will spin as much yarn as was
spun by six hundred women and girls fifty years ago§."
            <U+2666>Edinburgh Review, No. 91, p. 15.
            f Encyc. Brit. Supp. vol. iii. p. 398.
               i J Edinburgh Review, No. 91.
            § Barnes's Lancashire, vol. i. p. 119.

                        Chapter XV.
Inventions^ the Power-Loom— Dr. Cartwright. W.Edwards, R. Walker.
 Machinery,      in addition to being used in the spinning,
is now,   as we noticed in our last chapter, extensively
 applied to the weaving of cotton ; and we now pro
pose to give a short account of the Reverend Dr.
Cartwright, to whose ingenuity our great national
 manufacture is indebted for the introduction of this
 crowning improvement.            We have been supplied
 with the materials of the following sketch from a
 quarter which enables us to supply some original and
 authentic information.
    Edmund Cartwright was born in the year 1743,
and was the fourth son of William Cartwright, Esq.
of Marnham, in Nottinghamshire. One of his elder
brothers was the late Major John Cartwright, so
well-known for his steady devotion through a long
life to what he believed to be the cause of truth and
 patriotism, and for many public and private virtues
 which commanded the respect even of those who dif
fered most widely from him in politics.              Being in
 tended for the church, Edmund at the usual age was
 entered of University College, Oxford, from whence
 he was subsequently elected a Fellow of Magdalen
 College.   He early distinguished himself by his lite
rary attainments, an evidence of which he gave to
the world while yet a young man by the publication
of a small volume of Poems, which was very fa
vourably received.        About the year 1774, also, he
became a contributor to the Monthly Review; for
which he continued to write during the following ten
years,

 346         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
    For  the first forty years of his life he had never
 given any attention to the subject of mechanics ; al
 though, as was recollected long afterwards, his genius
 for invention in that department had once displayed
 itself, while at his father's house during one of his
 college vacations, in some improvements which he
 made on an agricultural machine which happened to
 attract his notice.   But this exercise of his ingenuity,
 being out of the line of his pursuits at that time, led
 to no other attempts of the kind, nor to any further
 application of his thoughts to such matters.
    The circumstances which many years after this led
 him to the invention of his weaving machine, or
 power-loom, as it is commonly called, cannot be
better described than they have been by himself in
 the following statement, — first printed in the Sup
plement to the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
                                                   " Hap
pening," he says,
                      " to be at Matlock in the summer
            I
of 1784, fell in company with some gentlemen of
 Manchester, when the conversation turned on Ark-
wright's spinning-machinery.         One of the company
observed that as soon as Arkwright's patent expired,
so many mills would be erected, and so much cotton
spun, that hands would never be found to weave it.
To this observation      I replied, that Arkwright must
then set his wits to work to invent a weaving-mill.
This brought on a conversation upon the subject, in
which the Manchester gentlemen unanimously agreed
that the thing was impracticable ; and in defence of
their opinion they adduced arguments which          I was
certainly incompetent to answer, or even to compre
hend, being totally ignorant of the subject, having
never at the time seen a person weave.          I contro
verted, however, the impracticability of the thing by
remarking that there had been lately exhibited in
London an automaton figure which played at chess.
Now you will not assert, gentlemen, said I, that it

                      CARTWEIGHT.                         347
is more difficult to construct a machine that shall
weave, than one that shall make all the variety of
 moves that are required in that complicated game.
 Some time afterwards a particular circumstance re
 calling this conversation to my mind, it struck me
 that, as in plain weaving, according to the concep
 tion I then had of the business, there could be only
three movements, which were to follow each other in
 succession, there could be little difficulty in producing
 and repeating them.      Full of these ideas,      I  imme
 diately employed a carpenter and smith to carry them
 into effect.   As soon as the machine was finished         I
 got a weaver to put in the warp, which was of such
 materials as sail-cloth is usually made of. To my
 great delight, a piece of cloth, such as it was, was
 the produce.     As  I  had never before turned my
 thoughts to mechanism, either in theory or practice,
 nor had seen a loom at work, nor knew anything of
 its construction, you will readily suppose that my
 first loom must have been a most rude piece of ma
 chinery.     The warp was laid perpendicularly, the
 reed fell with a force of at least half a hundred
weight, and the springs which threw the shuttle were
strong enough to have thrown a Congreve rocket.
 In short, it required the strength of two powerful men
to work the machine, at a slow rate, and only for a
 short time.    Conceiving in my simplicity that        I had
 accomplished all that was required,        I  then secured
        I
what thought a most valuable property by a patent,
 4th of April, 1785.    This being done,      I  then conde
scended to see how other people wove ; and you will
 guess my astonishment when        I  compared their easy
modes of operation with mine.        Availing myself, how
                I
ever, of what then saw,     I made a loom in its general
principles nearly as they are now made.            But it was
not till the year 1787 that      I  completed my inven

348        THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
tion, when  I  took out my last weaving patent, Au
gust the 1st of that year."
   Dr. Cartwright's children still remember often
seeing their father about this time walking to and fro
apparently in deep meditation, and occasionally
throwing his arms from side to side ; on which they
used to be told that he was thinking of weaving and
throwing the shuttle.      From the moment indeed
when his attention was first turned to the invention
of the power-loom, mechanical contrivance became
the grand occupying subject of his thoughts.       With
that sanguineness of disposition which seems to be
almost a necessary part of the character of an in
ventor, he looked upon difficulties, when he met with
them in any of his attempts, as only affording his
genius an occasion for a more distinguished triumph ;
nor did he allow even repeated failures for a moment
to dishearten him.    Some time after he had brought
his first loom to perfection, a manufacturer, who had
called upon him to see it at work, after expressing his
admiration of the ingenuity displayed in  it,remarked
that, wonderful as was Mr. Cartwright's mechanical
skill, there was one thing that would effectually baffle
him, the weaving, namely, of patterns in checks, or,
in other words, the combining, in the same web, of a
pattern, or fancy figure, with the crossing colours
which constitute the check.      Mr. Cartwright made
no reply to this observation at the time but some
                                          ;
weeks after, on receiving a second visit from the
same person, he had the pleasure of shewing him a
piece of muslin, of the description mentioned, beauti
fully executed  by  machinery. The man      is   said to
have been so much astonished that he roundly de
clared his conviction that some agency more than
human must have been called in to assist on the oc
casion.

                      CARTWRIGHT.                       349
   After this Dr. Cartwright exercised his ingenuity
in a variety of other contrivances; and introduced
valuable improvements in the combing of wool by
machinery, in rope-making, and in several other de
partments of agriculture and manufactures.             For
some of these inventions he took out patents, and for
others premiums were bestowed upon him by the So
ciety for the encouragement of Arts, and the Board
of Agriculture.     Even the steam-engine engaged his
attention ; and an account of some improvements
which he proposed in its mechanism may be found
in Rees's Cyclopedia *. Indeed, so long as forty
years ago, while residing at Eltham in Lincoln
shire, he used frequently to tell his son that, if he
lived to be a man, he would see both ships and land-
carriages impelled by steam. It is also certain that
at that early period he had constructed a model of a
steam-engine attached to a barge, which he explained
about the year 1793, in the presence of his family, to
 Robert Fulton, then a student of painting under his
countryman West, and whose zeal and activity af
terwards, as is well-known, brought the project of
steam-navigation to such perfection in America, from
whence it has extended all over the civilized world.
Even so late    as the year 1822,      Dr. Cartwright, not
withstanding his very advanced age, and although
his attention was much occupied by other philosophi
cal speculations, was actively engaged in endeavour
ing to contrive a plan of propelling land-carriages by
steam.
   His  death, however, at Hastings, in October 1823,
prevented the completion of this, as well as of many
other designs in the prosecution of which he had
been employed.       His enthusiasm for mechanical in
vention continued unabated to the last ; and indeed his
general energy both of mind and body was very little
                        * See article.
   VOL. It,                                  2 H

350          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
impaired up to within a short period of his death.
In a letter to his brother, Major Cartwright, dated
24th April, 1819, he says, "           I  this day entered into
my 77th year in as good health and spirits, thank
God, as I have done on any one birth-day for the
last half century. I am moving about my farm from
eight o'clock in the morning till four in the afternoon
without suffering the least fatigue.               I    sent in my
claim to the Board of Agriculture for their premium
for a cure of the mildew on wheat, but have not yet
heard that it was admitted.            I don't know whether      I
ever mentioned to you a machine for dibbling or
planting wheat which          I  have brought to great per
fection. I have also a very material improvement on
the stocks respecting ploughs and wheel-carriages ;
              I
but of this shall say nothing till I have brought it to
the proof, which I hope to do very shortly ; when you
shall be immediately informed of the result, whether
favourable or not."            The following verses, also,
which he sent to a friend not long before his death,
will shew at once the undiminished ardour and acti
vity of his mind, and the generous and philanthropic
motives by which his enthusiasm was sustained and
directed : —
      " Since  even Newton owns that all he wrought
        Was due to industry and patient thought,
        What shall restrain the impulse which I feel
        To forward, as I may, the public weal ?
        By his example fired, to break away,
        In search of truth, through darkness into day ?
        He tried, on venturous wing, the loftiest flight,
        An eagle soaring to the fount of light !
          cling to earth, to earth-born arts confined,
        A worm of science of the humblest kind.
        Our powers, though wide apart as earth       and heaven,
        For different purposes alike were given    :
        Though mine the arena of inglorious fame,
        Where pride and folly would the strife disdain,

                         CARTWRIGHT.                       351
       In spite of failing vigour and of age,
       Nor quit the combat till I quit the stage;
       Or, if in idleness my life shall close,
       Let well-earned victory justify repose  '"
   The disposition         of this   excellent    man, indeed,
naturally carried him throughout his life to promote,
by every means in his power, the benefit of his fel
low creatures ; and the following incident is perhaps
worthy of being recorded, as illustrating how this ten
dency used to display itself in other parts of his con
duct, as well as in his zeal for mechanical improve
ments. While he held the living of Goadly Max-
wood, in Leicestershire, he applied himself so assi
duously to the study of medicine that he acquired
extensive knowledge and eminent skill in that science,
and was in the habit of prescribing to his poorer
parishioners with great success.
   Actuated by such feelings as those we have de
scribed, Dr. Cartwright was as free as any man who
ever lived from jealousy or illiberality towards other
inventors.      In fact, it may be safely asserted, that
had he not carried his frankness and want of suspi
cion, as well as his indifference to pecuniary gains,
beyond the limits of worldly prudence, his ingenious
contrivances would in all probability have been pro
ductive of much greater benefit to himself than they
ever actually were.         So careless was he in regard to
retaining in his own possession the valuable ideas
with which his mind was continually teeming, that
he has been frequently known to have given the most
important assistance by his suggestions to other per
sons engaged like himself in mechanical pursuits, and
afterwards to have forgotten the circumstance as
entirely as if it had never happened. Nay, so com
pletely did what he was engaged about at the mo
ment occupy his mind, that he sometimes forgot his
own inventions, and other productions, of an older
                                                2 h 2

352        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
date, even when his attention was particularly called
to them.     One day, one of his daughters having
chanced to repeat in his presence some lines from a
                    '
poem entitled the Prince of Peace,' which appeared
in his volume already mentioned, he exclaimed, to
her surprise and amusement, " Those are beautiful
lines, child ; where did you meet with them !"      On
another occasion, being shewn the model of a ma
chine, he examined it with great attention, and at
last observed, that the inventor must have been a
man of great ingenuity, and that he himself should
feel very proud if he had been the author of the con
trivance ; nor could he be immediately convinced of
what was proved to be the case, namely, that it was a
machine of his own.
    Dr. Cartwright was defrauded of the pecuniary
profits which he might reasonably have expected
from his great invention of the power-loom by various
accidents, and especially by the burning of a manu
factory, containing five hundred of his machines,
almost immediately after it was built. It may also
be added, that after he had demonstrated the prac
ticability of weaving by machinery, other inventors
applied themselves to the devising of contrivances
for that purpose slightly different from his — a com
paratively easy task, even where the new invention
was not merely a disguised infringement of his patent,
while in those cases in which it was in reality nothing
more than such an infringement, it was yet so pro
tected, that it could hardly be reached and put down
as such.    On these and other accounts, and in no
small degree owing to Dr. Cartwright's carelessness
about his own interests, the power-loom only began,
in point of fact, to be extensively introduced about
 the year 1801, the very year in which his patent ex
 pired.   So generally, however, was it felt among
 those best entitled to express an opinion on the sub

                        EDWARDS.                    353
ject, that to him really belonged the merit of the
 invention,  that in the year 1808, several merchants
 and manufacturers of Manchester and its neighbour
 hood, to none of whom he was personally known,
 held a meeting to consider the propriety of present
 ing to the Lords of the Treasury a memorial of his
 eminent services, and of the losses he had sustained
 through the piracies and other unfortunate circum
 stances to which we have alluded.      In consequence
of this and other applications in his favour, the sum
 of ten thousand pounds was soon after granted to
 him by Parliament. This national recognition of his
 claims may be taken as a sufficient answer to some
 attempts that have been occasionally made to rob
 Dr. Cartwright of the credit of having been the
 author of one of the most valuable presents ever
 made to the manufacturing industry of his country.
    As a man of education and literary habits, the in
ventor of the power-loom, notwithstanding his devia
 tion from his original track of thought and study
 when he began to give his attention to mechanics,
 may yet be said to have come even to that new line
of pursuit with certain acquired advantages.        He
brought with him at least a mind awakened to some
knowledge of its own powers by the general cultiva
tion it had received, and not undisciplined by its
accustomed exercises to habits of speculation and
inquiry.    The individual we are now to mention, who
also rose to eminence in what may be called a depart
ment of mechanics, was in these respects very differ
ently circumstanced.
    William Edwards, the celebrated Welsh engineer,
was born in 1719, in the parish of Eglwysilan, in Gla
morganshire.     He lost his father, who was a farmer,
when he was only two years old ; but his mother con
tinued to hold the farm, aud was in this manner
enabled to bring up her family, consisting of two

 354        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 other sons and a daughter, beside William who was
 the youngest.    Her other sons, indeed, were soon old
 enough to take the chief part of her charge off her
 hands. William, in the meantime, was taught, as he
 grew up, to read and write Welsh      ; and this was all
 the education he seems to have received.          When
 about the age of fifteen he first began to employ him
 self in repairing the stone fences on the farm ; and
in this humble species of masonry he soon acquired
uncommon expertness.       The excellent work he made,
and the dispatch with which he got through it, at
last attracted the notice of the neighbouring farmers ;
and they advised his brothers to keep him at this
business, and to let him employ his skill, when
wanted, on other farms as well as their own. After
this he was for some time constantly engaged ; and
he regularly added his earnings to the common stock
of the family.
    Hitherto the only sort of building he had prac
tised, or indeed had seen practised, was merely with
stones without mortar.      But at length it happened
that some masons came to the parish to erect a shed
for shoeing horses near a smith's shop.          By Wil
liam the operations of these architects were contem
plated with the liveliest interest, and he used to
stand by them for hours while they were at work,
taking note of every movement they made. A cir
cumstance that at once struck him was, that they
used a different description of hammer from what
he had been accustomed to employ ; and, perceiving
its superiority, he immediately got one of the same
kind made for himself. With this he found he could
build his walls both a good deal faster and more
neatly than he had been wont to do.       But it was not
long after he had, for the first time in his life, had
an opportunity of seeing how houses were erected,
that he undertook to build one himself.        It was a

                         EDWARDS.                    355
  workshop for a neighbour; and he performed his
 task in such a manner as obtained him great applause.
 Very soon after this he was employed to erect a mill,
 by which he still further increased his reputation as
 an able and ingenious workman.          Mr. Malkin, to
 whose work on the Scenery, &c. of South Wales, we
 are indebted for these particulars of Edwards's early
 life, as well as for the materials of the sequel of our
 sketch, says, that it was while building this mill that
 the self-taught architect became acquainted with the
 principle of the arch.
     After this achievement Edwards was accounted the
 best workman in that part of the country ; and being
 highly esteemed for his integrity and fidelity to his
 engagements, as well as for his skill, he had as much
 employment in his line of a common builder, as
he could undertake. In his twenty-seventh year,
however, he was induced to engage in an enterprise
of a much more difficult and important character than
anything he had hitherto attempted.
    Through his native parish, in which he still con
tinued to reside, flowed the river called the Taff,
which, following a southward course, flows at last into
the estuary of the Severn. It was proposed to throw
a bridge over this river at a particular spot in the
parish of Eglwysilan, where it crossed the line of an
intended road; but to this design oifficulties of a
somewhat formidable nature presented themselves,
owing both to the great breadth of the water,
and the frequent swellings to which it was subject.
Mountains covered with wood rose to a considerable
height from both its banks ; which first attracted and
detained every approaching cloud, and then sent
down its collected discharge in torrents into the river.
Edwards, however, undertook the task of construct
ing the proposed bridge, though it was the first work
of the kind in which he ever had engaged. Accord

336          THE PURSUIT   OF KNOWLEDGE.
  ingly, in the year 1746, he set to work; and in due
 time completed a very light and elegant bridge of
 three arches, which, notwithstanding that it was the
 work of both an entirely self-taught and an equally
 untravelled artist, was acknowledged to be superior to
 anything of the kind in Wales.       So far his success
 had been as perfect as could have been desired. But
 his undertaking was far from being yet finished.     He
 had both through himself and his friends given secu
 rity that the work should stand for seven years ; and
 for the first two years and a half of this term all
 went on well.      There then occurred a flood of ex
 traordinary magnitude ; not only the torrents came
 down from the mountains in their accustomed chan
 nels, but they brought along with them trees of
 the largest size, which they had torn up by the
 roots ; and these, detained as they floated along by
 the middle piers of the new bridge, formed a dam
 there, the waters accumulated behind which at length
 burst from their confinement and swept away the
 whole structure. This was no light misfortune in
 every way to poor Edwards; but he did not suffer
 himself to be disheartened by    it,  and immediately
 proceeded, as his contract bound him to do, to the
 erection of another bridge, in the room of the one
that had been destroyed.     He now determined, how
ever, to adopt a very magnificent idea — to span the
whole width of the river, namely, by    a single arch of
the unexampled magnitude of one hundred and forty
feet from pier to pier.     He finished the erection of
this stupendous arch in 1751, and had only to add
the parapets, when he was doomed once more to be
hold his bridge sink into the water over which he had
raised it,  the extraordinary weight of the masonry
having forced up the keystones, and, of course, at once
deprived the arch of what sustained its equipoise.
Heavy as was this second disappointment to the hopes

                        BRIDGES.                      357
of the young  architect, it did not shake his courage any
more than the former had done. The reconstruction of
his bridge for the third time was immediately begun
with unabated spirit and confidence. Still determined
to adhere to his last plan of a single arch, he had now
thought of an ingenious contrivance for diminish
ing the enormous weight which had formerly forced
the keystone out of its place.       In each of the large
masses of masonry called the haunches of the bridge,
being the parts immediately above the two extremi
ties of the arch, he opened three cylindrical holes,
which not only relieved the central part of the struc
ture from all over-pressure, but greatly improved its
general appearance in point of lightness and elegance.
The bridge with this improvement was finished in
1755, having occupied the architect about nine
years in all ; and it has stood ever since.
   This bridge over the Taff — commonly called the
New Bridge, and by the Welsh Pont y Pridd, was, at
the time of its erection, the largest stone arch known
to exist in the world. Before its erection the Rialto at
Venice, the span of which was only ninety-eight feet,
was entitled, as Mr. Malkin remarks, to this distinction
among bridges ; unless, indeed, we are to include the
famous aqueduct-bridge at Alcantara, near Lisbon,
consisting in all of thirty-five arches, the eighth of
which is rather more than a hundred and eight feet in
width, and two hundred and twenty-seven in height.
The bridge at Alcantara was finished in 1732. Since
the erection of the bridge over the TaiT several other
stone arches of extraordinary dimensions have been
built both in our own country and in France — such
for instance as the five composing the splendid Pont
de Neuilly over the Seine near Paris, the span of
each of which is a hundred and twenty-eight feet, —
the central arch of the bridge over the same river at
Mantes, which is of the same dimensions — the Island

358           THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
Bridge, as it is called, over the LifFey near Dublin,
which is a single arch of a hundred and six feet in
width — the bridge over the Tees, at Winston, in
Yorkshire, which is also a single arch of a hundred
and eight feet nine inches wide, and which was
built in 1762 by John Johnson, a common mason,
at a cost of only five hundred pounds — and the
nine elliptical arches, each of a hundred and twenty
feet span, forming the magnificent Waterloo Bridge,
over the Thames at London.         But no one of these
great works rivals in respect of dimensions the arch
constructed by Edwards.* The bridge over the Taff,
we may add, rises to the height of thirty-five feet
above the water, and is the segment of a circle of a
hundred and seventy feet in diameter.        Buttressed
as it is at each extremity by lofty mountains, while
the water flows in full tide beneath           it,
                                          its aspect, as
it   seen rising into the air, may well be conceived to
     is
be particularly striking and grand.
   This bridge, which      looked upon as a wonder to
                           is
this day, spread the fame of Edwards over all the
country.    He afterwards built many other bridges in
South Wales, several of which consisted also of
single arches of considerable width, although in no
case approaching to that of the arch over the TafF.
One which he erected over the Tawy near Swansea,
had a span of eighty feet — another at Llandovery in
Carmarthenshire was eighty-four feet wide — and                  a
third, Wychbree Bridge, over the Tawy, was of the
width of ninety-five feet.      All the bridges which
Edwards built after his first attempt have their
arches formed of segments of much larger circles
     *   A
        bridge   is, however, now being built at Chester, which  is
the largest single arch  in     the world, being 200 feet span.  A
bridge   over  the  Severn,  lately built at Gloucester,
                                                       is  150 feet
span    and the arches of the New Londou Bridge are larger than
         ;
that of Pont y   Pridd.

                       EDWARDS.                       359
than he ventured to try in that case          ; and the
roads over them are consequently much flatter, a
convenience which amply compensates for their in
feriority in point of imposing appearance.      He found
his way to this improvement entirely by his own ex
perience and sagacity ; as indeed he may be said to
 have done to all the knowledge he possessed in his
art. Even his principles of common masonry, he
used himself to declare, he had learned chiefly from
his studies among the ruins of an old Gothic castle in
his native parish.    In bridge building the three ob
jects which he always strove to attain in the highest
 possible degree were, first, durability ; secondly, free
 dom for the passage of the water under the bridge;
 and lastly, ease of traffic over it.
    In commencing architect Edwards did not abandon
 the business of his forefathers.      He was likewise a
 farmer to the end of his life. Nay, such was his un
 wearied activity that, not satisfied with his week-day
 labours in these two capacities, he also officiated on
 Sundays as pastor to an Independent congregation,
 having been regularly ordained to that office when he
 was about thirty years of age, and holding it till his
 death. He accepted the usual salary from his congre
 gation, considering it right that they should support
 their minister ; but instead of putting the money
 into his own pocket, he returned it all, and often
 much more, in charity to the poor.            He always
 preached in Welsh, although early in life he had also
  made himself acquainted with the English language,
  having embraced the opportunity of acquiring it
  under the tuition of a blind old schoolmaster in whose
  house he once lodged for a short time while doing
  some work at the county town of Cardiff.          He is
  said to have shewn all his characteristic assiduity of
  application in this effort, and to have made a cor
  respondingly rapid progress.

  360        THE PURSUIT     OF KNOWLEDGE.
     This ingenious and worthy man died in 1789, in
  the seventieth year of his age, leaving a family of six
  children, of whom his eldest son David became also
  an eminent architect and bridge-builder, although he
  had had no other instruction in his profession than
 what his father had given him. David's eldest son
  is also said to have inherited the genius of his father
 and his grandfather.
     The mention of Edwards's clerical occupation leads
 us to conclude our chapter by a few words respecting
 the Wonderful Robert Walker, as he is still called
 in the district of the country where he resided, who
 was curate of Seathwaite in Cumberland during the
 greater part of last century. The fullest account that
 has appeared of Mr. Walker is that given, in the notes
                                   '
 to his series of sonnets entitled The River Duddon,'
 by Mr. Wordsworth, in whose poem of the Excursion
 the worthy clergyman is also noticed with the com
 mendations due to his singular virtues. From this
 memoir it appears that Walker was born in the parish
 of Seathwaite in 1709 ; that, being of delicate consti
 tution, it was determined by his parents, whose
youngest child he was, to breed him a scholar ; and
that accordingly he was taught the elements of
reading, writing, and arithmetic by the clergyman of
the parish, who also officiated as schoolmaster.      He
afterwards contrived to acquire a knowledge of the
classics ; and, becoming in this manner qualified for
taking holy orders, was ordained, and appointed to
the curacy of his native parish, which was at this time
(about the year 1735) of the value of five pounds per
annum.        On obtaining possession of this living
Walker married, his wife bringing him what he calls
himself, in one of his letters, a 'fortune' of forty
pounds.      We must refer to Mr. Wordsworth's pages,
and the documents which will be found printed there,
for a detail of all that the industry and economy of

                         WALKER.                     361
the curate and his wife contrived to accomplish upon
these scanty resources.     Suffice it to say that about
twenty years after Walker's entrance upon his living
we find its value, according to his own statement, in
creased only to the amount in all of seventeen pounds
ten shillings.    At a subsequent period it received a
further augmentation, to what amount is not stated;
but it was not considerable. Before this Mr. Walker
had declined to accept the adjoining curacy of Ulpha,
to be held, as proposed by the bishop, in conjunc
tion with that of Seathwaite, considering, as he says
himself, that the annexation " would be apt to cause
a general discontent among the inhabitants of both
places, by either thinking themselves slighted, being
only served alternately, or neglected in the duty, or
attributing it to covetousness in me ; all which occa
sions of murmuring      I would willingly avoid."    Yet
at this time he had a family of eight or nine chil
dren. One of his sons he afterwards maintained at
the college of Dublin till he was ready for taking
holy orders.      He was, like his predecessors in the
same cure, schoolmaster as well as clergyman of his
                " he made no
parish ; but                   charge," says his biogra
pher,
        "  for teaching school ; such as could afford to
pay gave him what they pleased."          His hospitality
to his parishioners every Sunday was literally without
limitation; he kept a plentiful table for all who chose
to come.      Economical as he was, no act of his life
 was chargeable with anything in the least degree
 savouring of avarice ; on the contrary, many parts of
 his conduct displayed what in any station would have
been deemed extraordinary disinterestedness and ge
 nerosity. Finally, at his death, in 1802, he actually
left behind him no less a sum than two thousand
 pounds.
    There is in all this, as Mr. Wordsworth remarks,
 something so extraordinary, as to make some expla-
    VOL.  II.                               2 I

362       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 natory details necessary.   These we shall give in his
 own words.     " And to begin," says he, " with his
 industry ; eight hours in each day, during five days
 in the week, and half of Saturday, except when the
 labours of husbandry were urgent, he was occupied in
 teaching. His seat was within the rails of the altar;
 the communion table was his desk ; and, like S hen-
 stone's schoolmistress, the master employed himself
 at the spinning-wheel, while the children were re
 peating their lessons by his side.      Every evening,
after school hours, if not more profitably engaged,
he continued the same kind of labour, exchanging,
for the benefit of exercise, the small wheel, at which
he had sate, for the large one on which wool is spun,
the spinner stepping to and fro.         Thus was the
wheel constantly in readiness to prevent the waste of
a moment's time.       Nor was his industry with the
pen, when occasion called for    it,  less eager.  En
trusted with extensive management of public and
private affairs, he acted in his rustic neighbourhood
as scrivener, writing out petitions, deeds of convey
ance, wills, covenants, &c., with pecuniary gain to
himself, and to the great benefit of his employers.
These labours, at all times considerable, at one pe
riod of the year, viz., between Christmas and Candle
mas, when money transactions are settled in this part
of the country, were often so intense, that he passed
great part of the night, and sometimes whole nights,
at his desk.     His garden, also, was tilled by his
own hand he had a right of pasturage upon the
          ;
mountains for  a    few sheep and a couple of cows,
which required his attendance   ;    with this pastoral
occupation he joined the labours of husbandry upon
a small scale, renting two or three acres in addition
to his own, less than one acre of glebe    ;    and the
humblest drudgery which the cultivation of these
fields required was performed   by  himself. He also

                         WALKER.                     363
assisted his neighbours in haymaking and shearing
their flocks, and in the performance of this latter ser
vice he was eminently dexterous.         They, in their
turn, complimented him with the present of a hay
cock, or a fleece ; less as a recompense for this par
ticular service than as a general acknowledgment.
The Sabbath was in a strict sense kept holy ; the Sun
day evenings being devoted to reading the scripture
and family prayer. The principal festivals appointed
by the Church were also duly observed ; but through
every other day in the week, through every week in the
year, he was incessantly occupied in works of hand
or mind ; not allowing a moment for recreation, ex
cept upon a Saturday afternoon, when he indulged
himself with a newspaper, or sometimes with a maga
zine.    The frugality and temperance established in
his house were as admirable as the industry. Nothing
to which the name of luxury could be given was there
known ; in the latter part of his life, indeed, when
 tea had been brought into almost general use, it was
provided for visitors, and for such of his own family
 as returned occasionally to his roof, and had been
 accustomed to this refreshment elsewhere ; but nei
 ther he nor his wife ever partook of it. The raiment
 worn by his family was comely and decent, but as
 simple as their diet ; the homespun materials were
 made up into apparel by their own hands.         At the
 time of the decease of this thrifty pair, their cottage
 contained a large store of webs of woollen and linen
cloth, woven from thread of their own spinning. And
 it is remarkable that the pew in the chapel in which
 the family used to sit, remained a few years ago
  neatly lined with woollen cloth, spun by the pastor's
 own hands.      It is the only pew in the chapel so dis
 tinguished ; and     I know of no other instance of his
 conformity to the delicate accommodations of modern
 times. The fuel of the house, like that of their
                                          2 i 2

364         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
neighbours, consisted of peat, procured from the
mosses by their own labour. The lights by which, in
the winter evenings, their work was performed, were
of their own manufacture, such as still continue to be
used in these cottages ; they are made of the pith of
rushes dipped in fat. White candles, as tallow candles
are here called, were reserved to honour the Christmas
festivals, and were perhaps produced upon no other
occasions.      Once a month, during the proper sea
son, a sheep was drawn from their small mountain
flock, and killed for the use of the family ; and a cow,
towards the close of the year, was salted and dried,
for winter provision ; the hide was tanned to furnish
them with shoes.         By these various resources this
venerable clergyman reared a numerous family ; not
only preserving them, as he affectingly says,
                                                    " from
wanting the necessaries of life," but affording them
an unstinted education, and the means of raising
themselves in society.
    All this, if not a lesson in the pursuit of knowledge,
is at least a striking example of what assiduity and
perseverance will do in any pursuit, as well as highly
instructive with regard to one of the most important
 subjects that can engage the attention of literary or
scientific students, the art, namely, of husbanding
time and employing it to the best advantage.            But
with all his industry of another description, Mr. Walker
did not find it impossible to nourish and exercise also
 his mental powers. " It might have been concluded,"
 his biographer proceeds,
                                " that no one could thus,
as it were, have converted his body into a machine
 of industry for the humblest uses, and kept his
 thoughts so frequently bent upon secular concerns,
 without grievous injury to the more precious parts of
 his nature. How could the powers of intellect thrive,
 or its graces be displayed, in the midst of circum
 stances apparently so unfavourable, and when, to the

                        WALKER.                     365
direct cultivation of the mind, so small a portion of
time was allotted ? But, in this extraordinary man,
things in their nature adverse were reconciled ; his
conversation was remarkable, not only for being
chaste and pure, but for the degree in which it was
fervent and eloquent ; his written style was correct,
simple, and animated. Nor did his affections suffer
more than his intellect ; he was tenderly alive to all
the duties of his pastoral office ; the poor and needy
' he never sent
                  empty away ;' the stranger was fed
and refreshed in passing that unfrequented vale ; the
sick were visited ; and the feelings of humanity found
further exercise among the distresses and embarrass
ments in the worldly estate of his neighbours, with
which his talents for business made him acquainted ;
and the disinterestedness, impartiality, and upright
ness which he maintained in the management of all
affairs confided to him, were virtues seldom separated
in his own conscience from religious obligations.
Nor could such conduct fail to remind those who wit
nessed  it,of spirit nobler than law or custom they
              a                                 ;
felt convictions which, but for such intercourse, could
not have been afforded, that, as in the practice of
their pastor, there was no guile, so in his faith there
was nothing hollow and we are warranted in believ
                    ;
ing that, upon these occasions, selfishness, obstinacy,
and discord would often give way before the breath
ings of his good will and saintly integrity. It may
be presumed also, while his humble congregation
were listening to the moral precepts which he de
livered from the pulpit, and to the Christian exhorta
tions, that they should love their neighbour as them
 selves, and do as they would be done unto, that
peculiar efficacy was given to the preacher's labours,
by recollections in the minds of his congregation,
that they were called upon to do no more than his
own actions were daily setting before their eyes."
                                       2i  3

366         THB PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
    What may be deemed out of character, we may
merely add, in some of the occupations in which this
 excellent clergyman was wont to employ himself,
 ought to be judged of with a reference both to the
 times in which he was born and grew up, and to the
 simple and sequestered population among whom it
 was his lot to pass his life.
                                " Had he lived," says
                          " at a later period, the prin
 Mr. Wordsworth, justly,
 ciple of duty would have produced application as un
 remitting ; the same energy of character would have
 been displayed, though in many instances with widely
 different effects."

                         Chapter XVI.
Pursuit of  Knowledge by Travellers.— Lithgow ; Walking Stewart;
     Athenian Stuart ; Niebuhr ; Ledyard ; Belzoni. — Conclusion.
Books, immense as their value really is,           over
                                                      are
rated when it is supposed that they may be made to
teach us everything.    Many of the items which con
stitute the mass of human knowledge have not yet
found their way into books, but remain still loose and
ungathered among the habits and daily transactions
of society, or of some particular portion of       from it,
intercourse with which they are much more easily
and perfectly learned than they could be from books,
were they actually to be there recorded.     But much
of what meets us in our direct intercourse with the
world, and supplies us with the richest sources of
reflection and speculation, does not admit of being
transferred to books at all. Indeed what should any
one of us know of that country, or portion of society,
with which we happen to be most familiar,        all our
                                                     if
knowledge of    itconsisted merely either of what has
been, or of what could be, set down about             in    it
books  ?  What mere description, even the most minute
and faithful, ever placed before any man an exact
representation even of      scene in the world of in
                              a
animate nature?     The copy,          true, simply by
                                       it   is
virtue of its being a copy, may have charms which
the reality wants   but that
                     ;          not the question. The
                                  is
one  is  something entirely different from the other,
and produces a different impression upon the mind.
Much more must this be the case when the subject
of the description    something that, from the more
                         is
various, complicated, and shifting nature of its re

368         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
lations and lineaments, and from much of its cha
racter not shewing itself to the eye at all, still less
admits of being thrown into the shape of a picture.
The moral condition, indeed, of a country and its
inhabitants is constituted by so multifarious a con
course of circumstances,     that their number and
diversity alone would preclude them from being
adequately represented in their working and effect
by any description.      To be felt and understood
in their real power and combined agency, they must
be seen and experienced.    A general judgment with
regard to the matter may undoubtedly be formed
from the reports of others ; and from such reports
also, filled up and coloured by the mind of the reader
or hearer, a sufficiently vivid picture of something
having a certain resemblance to the original may be
drawn; but the real features of that original are
nevertheless sure to be in a thousand respects mis
conceived.     Hence with regard to certain subjects,
and these neither the least interesting nor the least
important to be known, travelling becomes a means
of acquiring knowledge, for which in fact there is no
substitute. Crowded, too, as is this path of enterprise
with so many both of the hazards and the opportunities
most alluring to a warm imagination, it is not to be
wondered at that it should always have had a peculiar
charm for active and adventurous spirits, and that in
no other pursuit whatever should greater toils, priva
tions, and dangers have been encountered and over
come.
    In  the small space that now remains to us we
cannot attempt to enumerate many names from the
long catalogue of celebrated travellers ; but our work
 would be very incomplete without a reference to a few
of the most distinguished of those examples which
recent times have afforded of this species of devotion
 in the pursuit of knowledge.     There is no other, as

             LITHGOW.      JOHN STEWART.               369
we have just remarked, which has sustained men in
the endurance of more severe and prolonged sufferings,
or more frequently tempted them to peril everything,
even life itself, in the effort to attain their object.
     Some have performed journeys of wonderful ex
tent and difficulty on foot.     Of this class is William
Lithgow, who was born in Scotland about the end
of the sixteenth century. This person, in a history
of his adventures, which he published in 1614, and
which has been more than once reprinted, computes
the extent of his pedestrian wanderings over various
countries in Europe, Asia, and Africa, at no less than
thirty-six thousand miles. He underwent many hard
ships in the course of his peregrinations ; but the worst
misfortune which befell him was what he suffered on
his return home, when he was seized at Malaga, in
Spain, by the Inquisition, and subjected both to the
ordinary and the extraordinary torture.          So dread
fully was he disabled by the injuries he received on
this occasion, that after he reached England, and it
was proposed that he should make his appearance at
Court to present his book to James        I.,  he had to be
carried thither on a litter, his worn and emaciated
form exciting the astonishment of all who looked on
it.   Lithgow, who afterwards recovered his health,
died in 1640.       The late Mr. John Stewart, com
monly called Walking Stewart, affords us another
instance which deserves to be commemorated under
this head.    Mr. Stewart had only recently gone out
to Madras as a writer in the service of the East India
 Company, when, in the year 1765, he formed the ex
traordinary resolution of leaving the Presidency, and
 setting out to travel on foot over the world.          The
 first thing which he did, in pursuance of this de
 termination, was to write   a   letter to the Directors, in
 which he told them that he " was born for higher
 pursuits than to be   a   copier of invoices and bills of

370       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
lading to a company of grocers, haberdashers, and
cheesemongers." This heroic epistle, which doubt
less not a little amused the persons to whom it was
addressed, is said to be still preserved among the
records of the Company. Its spirited author lost very
little time, after despatchingit,  in proceeding to ex
 ecute his project.    He first directed his course to
 Delhi and he subsequently visited in the same
      ;
 manner almost every other part of the Indian penin
 sula, and even extended his excursions to Persia,
 and, crossing the Red Sea, traversed a considerable
portion of the opposite continent of Africa.    Finally,
he determined to make out the journey to Europe on
foot, which he actually accomplished, arriving at
length in safety at Marseilles, after surmounting a
long succession of difficulties by the most uncon
querable perseverance. He then made a tour through
Spain, and afterwards walked across France to his
native country. But he had not come home, even
after all this exertion, to repose from his toils.   He
soon after set out on a pedestrian perambulation
over England, Scotland, and Ireland      ;    and, that
finished, he proceeded to the New World, and walked
over the greater part of the United States.        Such
performances will be acknowledged to have amply
earned for their author the epithet by which he was
distinguished.
   Walking Stewart must not be confounded with
Mr. James Stuart, commonly called Athenian Stuart,
from his splendid work entitled " The Antiquities of
Athens," who,   it   so happens,is  also famous for his
travels,  a considerable part of which was performed
on foot.   Indeed, Stuart's life
                               is  altogether a fine in
stance of devotion to the pursuit of knowledge.      He
was born in London in 1713, and by the early death
of his father was left, while yet a boy, to support his
 mother and her three younger children,    by  the exer

                     JAMES STUART.                     371
  cise of his almost uninstructed talents in the humble
  occupation of painting fans.    While sustaining this
  heavy charge, he found time to study, almost with
  out assistance, not only the higher departments of
  the art of drawing, but anatomy, geometry, and other
  branches of science, the knowledge of which he
  deemed essential to his professional progress as a
  draughtsman and painter.      He even taught himself
 Latin, excited by a desire to understand the inscrip
 tions in that language which he used to see under en
 gravings ; and he afterwards proceeded to the study
 of Greek. But the knowledge he found in books
 was insufficient to satisfy him ; he could take no rest
 until he had seen with his own eyes those lands of
 Italy and Greece of which he had read so much. He
 therefore made preparations for travel; and let it be re
 corded to his honour that the first thing he did was to
 exert himself to obtain situations for his sister and his
 two younger brothers, which, although humble, might
enable them to support themselves and their mother
during his absence. An anecdote is also told of him
 which places in a striking point of view the resolute
 enthusiasm with which he set out on his enterprise.
 He had a dangerous wen on his face, which a sur
geon whom he consulted advised him to endeavour
to get removed before commencing his travels.          As
the least hazardous mode of treatment, it was at the
same time proposed to submit it to a course of medi
cal applications, which would occupy a considerable
time.    Stuart himself, however, immediately asked
if an operation could not be attempted. On being
informed, in reply, that it certainly might, but that
it would be attended with some danger, he reflected
a moment, and then placing himself on a chair,
requested the surgeon to proceed immediately to
apply the knife ;
                     " I," said he, " shall not stir."
The operation, fortunately, was performed with per-

372         THE PURSUIT    OF KNOWLEDGE.
feet success.    Stuart then set out on foot, and in
this manner accomplished the journey to Rome.
He had little or no money in his pocket ; but he
supported himself on his way by the paintings which
he executed and sold.     While at Rome he became
acquainted with Mr. Revett, the architect, with whom
he afterwards proceeded to Greece.      It was during
a residence of some years in that country, that he
collected the materials for his great work, already
mentioned, which was published in 1762, and imme
diately introduced its author both to fame and to
abundant and lucrative employment in the new pro
fession of an architect, which he had resolved to
embrace.     He was afterwards appointed surveyor of
Greenwich Hospital, and became a Fellow of the
Royal and of the Antiquarian Societies.      Mr. Stuart
died in 1788.
    One of the greatest travellers of whom modern
times have had to boast, is the celebrated Carsten
Niebuhr ; and his early history is also interesting,
as exhibiting a persevering pursuit of knowledge
in the face of considerable difficulties, and with
nothing to urge him forward except his own desire
 of intellectual improvement. But we must refer the
reader for the interesting details of his career to the
memoir of his life which has been lately published
in the Library of Useful Knowledge.       If our object
were to enumerate the important accessions which
have been made both to geography and the other
 sciences by persons who have devoted their lives to
 travelling, there are many other eminent names also
which should not be omitted. But at present we
 must select our notices with reference, not so much
 to the positive discoveries which the traveller may
 have made, as to the spirit of enterprise he has dis
 played, and the extraordinary sacrifices to which he
 has submitted for the sake of his object.   Estimated

                         LEDYARD.                    373
 by this criterion, there is perhaps no name that ought
in this department of exertion to be placed before
that of John Ledyard.         Ledyard was born in the
year 1751, in Connecticut, in North America.        His
father, who was the captain of a vessel employed
in the West India trade, died at the early age of
thirty-five, leaving his widow, with John and three
younger children, almost destitute of any means of
support.     Some time after this, Mrs. Ledyard mar
ried again, on which the subject of our notice went
to live with his grandfather, who took upon himself
the charge of educating and providing for him. The
strange and shifting history of his youth we can only
sketch very rapidly.       After having been kept for
some time at a grammar-school in the town of Hart
ford, where he acquired some acquaintance with the
classical tongues, he was sent to a lawyer's office.
 Here he remained only a few months, when, finding
law not at all to his taste, he abandoned the study.
 He was now nineteen ; and he seems to have passed
a year or two more of his life in doing nothing.      At
last, in the beginning of the year 1772, he deter
mined to enter himself a student at a college which
had been recently established at Hanover, in New
Hampshire, for the education of missionaries to be
employed in converting the Indians.          In entering
 upon this new pursuit, the principal part of his
equipment consisted of a collection of dresses and
 scenery, which he took with him to the college for
the purpose of indulging his taste for theatrical
amusements, of which he had some time before be
come passionately fond.         After persevering in his
studies for four months, he one day, tired of the quiet
life he had been leading, left the college, without
leave or notice of his intention, and bent his steps to
the woods, where he wandered about with the Indians
for about three months and a half. He then returned
    vol. II.                               2 K

374          THE PURSUIT   OF KNOWLEDGE.
to college   ; but after a residence of three or four
months longer, he again made his escape, this time
embarking in a canoe which, with the assistance of
some of his fellow-students, he had hollowed out of a
large tree, with the intention of descending the Con
necticut to Hartford.        The distance was not less
than a hundred and forty miles, and there were dan
gerous falls and rapids in many parts of the river ;
but the intrepid navigator accomplished his voyage
without any accident, although, on one occasion,
while he lay at his length in his bark, wrapped up in
his bear-skin, and absorbed in the perusal, it is un
certain whether of his Greek Testament or his Ovid,
the only two books he had taken with him, he very
narrowly escaped being sucked down a formidable
precipice.     His missionary zeal having completely
evaporated, his views were now turned to the regular
ministry ; but although he began the prescribed pre
liminary studies, his impatience to be actually en
gaged in preaching would not allow him to proceed
in this course, and he exerted himself, with his cha
racteristic spirit and energy, to carve out, if possible,
a shorter road to his object.       But we must refer the
reader to the very interesting memoirs of his life and
travels, published a few years ago by Mr. Sparks, for
a detail of his various adventures in this pursuit.    Suf
fice it to say that he could not prevail upon the reverend
gentlemen, to whom he applied for immediate ordina
tion, to accede to his request.      This determined him
to bid a final adieu to theology ; and, in a few weeks
 after, he entered himself as a common sailor on board
 a trading vessel bound to the Mediterranean.           He
was now for the first time in a line of life suited to
his restless and daring character of mind ; but still,
 not quite satisfied, he took an opportunity, while the
 ship was lying at Gibraltar, of leaving   it,  and enlist
 ing as a soldier. By the exertions, however, of the

                       LEDYARD.                    375
captain, who was his friend, his release was obtained
from this new engagement ; and he returned to the
vessel, and completed his voyage back to America.
He had no intention, however, of remaining at home.
In a letter which he wrote to one of his friends from
Gibraltar he had said, "    I  allot to myself a seven
years' ramble more, although the past has long since
wasted the means     I possessed ;" and in conformity
with this resolution, he next set out on a voyage to
England, entering himself again as a common sailor
on board a vessel bound for Plymouth.       From Ply
mouth    he begged his way     to   London,   where he
expected to find some relations ; but being unsuc
cessful in a short search he made after them, he ad
dressed himself to Captain Cook, who was then
(in 1776) setting out on his third and last voyage,
and was by him engaged to accompany the expe
dition in the capacity of a corporal of marines.    He
was now at last embarked in good earnest on such a
ramble as he had long been desirous of, and had a
chance of seeing something of the world.
   In the course of his voyage Ledyard distinguished
himself on various occasions by his activity, courage,
and spirit of adventure.    At the island of Onalaska
on the north-west coast of America he was selected
by Cook to go alone on an expedition into the inte
rior in quest of a European settlement which there
was reason to believe existed there ; and this ha
zardous commission he executed with great ability
and perfect success, having after a journey of two
days arrived among a small colony of Russians,
three of whom he brought back with him to the
ship.    At Owhyee his enterprising disposition
prompted him, accompanied by other two persons
belonging to the expedition, to attempt the ascent of
the celebrated volcanic mountain called Mouna
Roa, which has been computed to be about eighteen
                                        2 k 2

376        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
thousand feet high.       After persevering, however,
for two days, the party found themselves obliged
 to return without having reached the summit.      This
 mountain has since been ascended by Lord Byron
 and several of his officers, when he carried home
the bodies of the king and queen of the Sandwich
 Islands in his majesty's ship Blonde, in 1S24-5*.
Ledyard also headed the party of marines who were
with Captain Cook when he was killed at this
island.    He continued for two years longer in the
navy after returning from his voyage round the
world ; and then having found himself, in December
1782, in a man of war stationed near New York, he
considered it his duty to embrace the opportunity of
leaving the service of a country with which his own
was now engaged in hostilities.     He made his escape,
accordingly, from the ship, and returned for a short
time to his native village, from which he afterwards
transferred himself to Hartford. During four months
which he spent here he employed himself in writing
an account of his adventures while on board Cook's
ship, which was published.        Like everything that
Ledyard wrote, this work, without much polish of
diction, abounds in the traces of a vigorous mind,
accustomed to suffer no opportunity to pass unim
proved of storing itself with materials for reflection.
After seeing his book through the press, his old
 desire of roaming, only made more restless and
impatient by the partial gratification it had already
enjoyed, roused him again to new schemes and
new labours.
    His first project was a trading voyage to the
 northwest coast of his native continent ; and he ex
 pended much time and exertion in vain endeavours
 to induce some of his mercantile countrymen to en
 trust him with the conduct of such an enterprise.  He
               * See Voyage, pp. 169—191.

                         LEDYARD.                           377
   then resolved to repair to Europe in hopes of better
   success in that quarter ; and taking ship accordingly,
   he arrived in Cadiz in August 1784.          From hence
   he soon after sailed for Brest ; and proceeded after
   wards to L' Orient, where he intended to announce
   his plan.      At first the parties to whom he had
   brought letters seemed to enter into his views as
   warmly as he could desire ; and a negociation was
   nearly concluded for securing his services to conduct
   the proposed adventure.       After being amused, how
   ever, for nearly a year by the expectations thus excited,
   he was doomed to be again disappointed : some ob
  stacles, of a nature not well ascertained, suddenly
  presented themselves, and the scheme was abandoned.
  On this Ledyard proceeded to Paris, where he made
  himself known to the American minister, Mr. Jef
  ferson, who gave him a very encouraging reception,
  and exerted himself to promote his object.       Here he
  also met with the celebrated Paul Jones ; and that
  enterprising commander, on being informed by him of
  his scheme for an expedition to the north-west coast
  of America, at once agreed to join him in      it, and to
  advance the funds necessary for undertaking          on a
                                                       it
  large scale.     But after four or five months this plan
  also fell to the ground.     Hitherto, however, Ledyard
 had been supported, according to stipulation, by the
 parties with whom he had successively entered into
 these fruitless negociations ;    but now he was entirely
 without resources.       In this condition he was reduced
 to the necessity of becoming a pensioner upon the
 bounty of various distinguished persons whose regard
 he had acquired among whom Mr. Jefferson and
                   ;
 the Marquis de   la   Fayette are particularly mentioned.
 Meanwhile he made still another attempt to induce a
 mercantile company to enter into his favourite pro
ject; but, after keeping him for several months in
suspense,  it   failed like the others.
                                         2   3k

378        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
    Hopeless as he had now become of succeeding in
his original plan, he still clung to his determination
to find his way, if possible, by some means on other,
to the north-west part of the American continent,
with the view of exploring that vast and as yet al
most unknown region. He resolved, therefore, to
attempt the attainment of his object in a new way;
namely, by travelling overland to the north-eastern
extremity of Asia through Russia and Siberia, and
then crossing Behring's Strait to the quarter he was
desirous of reaching. But while he was making
preparations for setting out on this adventure, he was
induced suddenly to start for London by a letter
from a friend in that city offering him a free passage
in a vessel which was about to sail for the Pacific
Ocean, and which would set him on shore at any
part of the American coast he might choose.      On ar
riving in the English metropolis he was introduced
to Sir Joseph Banks and other eminent scientific
characters.    His plan of operations was very soon
 arranged.    He determined to land at Nootka Sound,
and from thence, penetrating at once into the interior,
to make his way across the wilderness to Virginia.
 But this daring design, like his former attempts, was
 destined to be frustrated long before he had encoun
 tered any of its dangers.   The vessel in which he had
 embarked had sailed down the river and put out to
 sea, when, just as they were losing sight of land, she
 was seized and brought back by order of government,
 in consequence of some irregularity in clearing at
 the custom-house, and eventually adjudged to be for
 feited.   On this occasion Ledyard lost all the pro
 perty he had in the world, which did not, however,
 amount to much, the principal part of it consisting
 of two great dogs, an Indian knife, and a hatchet,
 which he had purchased with some money given
 him by the gentleman (Sir James Hall) at whose
 invitation he had come to London.

                      LKDYAED.                       379
   On this disappointment he immediately turned his
thoughts again to his plan of travelling across Eu
rope and Asia by land ; and accordingly, in December,
1786, he set out for Hamburgh, where he arrived
with only ten guineas in his pocket, part of the pro
duce of a subscription which had been made for him
in London, the remainder of which appears to have
been expended in providing himself a second time
with a couple of great dogs, and the other articles
which constituted his simple equipment for a journey
across the American continent. Here he heard of a
countryman of his own, a Major Langhorn, who was
reported to him as having as great a passion for tra
velling as himself, and who was now at Copenhagen
in the course of a perambulation he had been making
over the North of Europe.       Having reason to sus
pect that Langhorn was in want of money, the
generous Ledyard immediately determined to render
him all the succour his own scanty resources would
permit.      I
           " will fly to him," says he, in a letter to a
friend, " with my little all, and some clothes, and lay
them at his feet. At this moment     I may be useful to
him ; he is my countryman, a gentleman, a traveller.
He may go with me on my journey : if he does, am   I
blessed ; if not, I shall merit his attention, and shall
not be much out of my way to Petersburgh." Full of
these visions he set out for Copenhagen, where on
his arrival he found the person of whom he was in
quest, in the predicament he had anticipated, and in
so complete a state of destitution, indeed, that he
could not leave his room for want of decent clothes.
 Ledyard's ten guineas, however, soon remedied this
inconvenience ; and even enabled the two to enjoy a
 very pleasant fortnight in each other's society.    But
 when Ledyard at last proposed to his friend to ac
 company him to Petersburgh, Langhorn's reply was
 abundantly frank and decisive :
                                   " No," said he ;   "I

380        THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
esteem you, but   I  can travel in the way I  do with no
man on earth."
   Ledyard therefore, having contrived to recruit his
finances by drawing a bill for a few pounds on the se
cretary to the American embassy in London, which
he was fortunate enough to find a person willing to
accept, proceeded on his journey alone.         When he
came to the usual place for crossing the Gulf of
Bothnia, he found that his deviation from the direct
line of his route in pursuit of Langhorn had lost
him his only opportunity of passing over that season ;
for the winter had turned out what is called an
open one, that is to say, the water had not, as it
commonly does, frozen all over, so as to form a road
for sledges, while at the same time the masses of
floating ice with which it was impeded made sailing
through it impracticable.       This was a disappoint
ment which for a moment disconcerted and struck
down even Ledyard's courage ; but it was only for a
moment.     To turn back was out of the question ; to
remain for several months where he was in inac
tivity as little suited his inclination ; he therefore
resolved to travel round by the northern extremity of
the gulf, and so to reach its opposite coast by a jour
ney of above twelve hundred miles through the most
desolate regions of the inhabited globe.     And all this
labour was only to reach a point, to which the dis
tance directly across the gulf was not more than fifty
miles.   He actually accomplished his formidable un
dertaking in an extraordinarily short space of time,
considering the nature of the country through which
he had to make his way, having reached Petersburgh
within seven weeks after leaving Stockholm, which
was travelling at the rate of about two hundred miles
a week.
    On arriving in Petersburgh his money,    as might be
 supposed, was quite exhausted, and even his clothes

                         LEDVAED.                        381
were torn to pieces.      He was again fortunate enough,
however, to obtain twenty guineas by drawing a bill
on Sir Joseph Banks, for the payment of which the
acceptor was willing to depend on that gentleman's
generosity.      Thus provided he set out for Siberia in
company with a Dr. Brown, a Scotch physician, who
was going thither on a commission from the govern
ment.       The travellers proceeded together to Tobolsk,
 and from thence to Barnaoul, the capital of the pro
vince of Kolyvan, where they parted.          " How have
                                                     I
come thus far," writes Ledyard from this place to
Mr. Jefferson, on the 29th of July, "and how am        I
to go still farther, is an enigma that      I must disclose
to you     on some happier occasion.      My health is per
fectly good ;     but, notwithstanding    the vigour of my
body, my mind keeps the start of me, and        I anticipate
 my    future  fate with the  most  lively  ardour.  Pity it
 is, that in such a career one should be subjected, like
 a horse, to the beggarly impediments of sleep and
 hunger." After spending a week at Barnaoul, he
 set out for Irkutsk with the courier who had charge
  of the mail. Here he remained about ten days,
  during which time he visited the lake of Baikal and
 the other scenery in the neighbourhood.            He then
  proceeded in a boat down the river Lena, and arrived
  at Yakutsk after a voyage of twenty-two days. This,
  however, was destined to be the termination of his
 journey.      The Russian government, which at the so
  licitation of some of his friends in Paris had pro
  fessed to grant him its protection, and had hitherto
  forwarded him on his way, is supposed to have been
  all along determined, nevertheless, that he should not
  reach the coast of America, where a fur-company had
  been recently established, the concerns of which the
  national jealousy was unwilling to expose to the in
   spection of the subject of another state. The com
   mandant at Yakutsk, accordingly, contrived in the

 382          THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
 first instance to persuade him to remain there during
 the winter, contrary to his own earnest wishes to pro
 ceed; and on representations which he afterwards
 found to be quite false. " What, alas, shall       I do,"
 he says in his journal, on finding himself all but de
 tained by force, and not without reason to apprehend
 that even that might be employed, if necessary, to
 prevent him from pursuing his journey ;
                                                  " What
 shall   I do, for  I am miserably prepared for this un
 looked-for delay.      By remaining here through the
 winter,   I cannot expect to resume my march until
 May, which will be eight months.           My funds !   I
 have but two long frozen stages more, and      I shall be
 beyond the want or aid of money, until, emerging
 from the deep deserts,    I gain the American Atlantic
 States ; and then, thy glowing climates, Africa, ex
 plored,   I will lay me down, and claim my little por
 tion of the globe      I have viewed ; may it not be
 before."     He goes on to lament his poverty, as form
 ing, after all, the chief entanglement which had in
 duced him to yield to the commandant's importuni
 ties.    With regard to his proposed journey, which
 had been represented to him as impracticable, he
                                      " I do not believe it
 says, in a letter to Colonel Smith,
 is so, nor hardly anything else."      But he adds that
 he was somewhat reconciled to his detention by one
consideration among others, namely, that he was
 without clothes, and with only a guinea and one-
fourth in his purse. While at Yakutsk he employed
 himself diligently in studying the peculiarities of the
 country and its inhabitants, keeping all the while a
 regular journal of his observations.    It was here that
he wrote his celebrated eulogy on women, which has
 been so often quoted.     But, after he had been a few
 months at Yakutsk, he was induced to embrace an
 opportunity which offered of returning up the river in
 a sledge over the ice to Irkutsk.    This journey, of fif

                     LEDYAHD.                       383
teen    hundred miles, he accomplished in seventeen
days.     In four or five weeks after his arrival at
 Irkutsk he was seized by an order of the Russian go
 vernment, and immediately despatched in custody to
 Moscow, from whence he was sent forward in the
 same condition to Poland, and there set at liberty,
 with an intimation that he might now go wherever he
pleased, but that if he ever again set foot in the Rus
 sian dominions, he would certainly be hanged. We
will leave him to tell the remainder of his story in his
own words. " I had penetrated," says he, in his
journal, " through Europe and Asia, almost to the
 Pacific Ocean, but, in the midst of my career, was
 arrested a prisoner to the Empress of Russia, by an
express sent after me for that purpose.         I passed
under a guard part of last winter and spring; was
banished the empire, and conveyed to the frontiers of
Poland, six thousand versts from the place where      I
was arrested, and the journey was performed in six
weeks. Cruelties and hardships are tales    I  leave un
told.  I   was disappointed in the pursuit of an object,
on which my future fortune entirely depended.         I
know not how     I   passed through the kingdoms of
Poland and Prussia, or from thence to London,
where   I   arrived in the beginning of May, disap
pointed, ragged, pennyless ; and yet so accustomed
am I to such things, that     I  declare my heart was
whole."     His health he acknowledges had suffered
for the first time from his confinement, and the rapi
dity with which he had been hurried through Tar-
tary and Russia ; but a few days' rest, he adds, in
Poland had re-established   it,
                            "and   am now," says
                                   I
he,  " in as full bloom and vigour as thirty-seven
years will afford any man."
   When Ledyard found himself in London, one of
the first persons on whom he called was his friend
Sir Joseph Banks. This gentleman, after hearing

384         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
from him the story of his disasters, and learning that
he had now no particular object in view, told him of
the Association which had just been formed, and
of which he was himself one of the leading members,
for prosecuting discoveries in the interior of Africa.
This was news which made Ledyard's heart leap with
joy ; and having received a letter of introduction
from Sir Joseph, he went with it directly to Mr.
Beaufoy, the secretary of the Association.
                                                   " Before
I  had learned from the note the name and business
of my visitor," says Mr. Beaufoy, " was struck with
                                        I
the manliness of his person, the breadth of his chest,
the openness of his countenance, and the inquietude
of his eye.     I spread the map of Africa before him,
and tracing a line from Cairo to Sennaar, and from
thence westward in the latitude and supposed direc
tion of the Niger,    I  told him, that was the route by
which    I was anxious that Africa might, if possible,
                  He said he should think himself singu
                                                          I
be explored.
larly fortunate to be trusted with the adventure.
                                              '
asked him when he would set out.                To-morrow
morning,' was his answer."
    It was not possible to get his instructions and
letters ready with all the expedition that would
have satisfied the wishes of the eager and heroic
 adventurer. He at last left London.             " Truly is
it written," he exclaims in the exultation of his
 heart in a letter addressed immediately before his
 departure to his mother,
                             " that the ways of God are
 past finding out, and his decrees unsearchable.         Is
 the Lord thus great?       So also is he good.     I am an
 instance of it.   I have trampled the world under my
 feet, laughed at fear, and derided danger.        Through
 millions of fierce savages, over parching deserts, the
 freezing North, the everlasting ice, and stormy seas,
 have    I passed without harm.        How good is my
 God ! What rich subjects have          I for praise, love,

                         LKDYARD.                      385
 and adoration !" To Mr. Beaufoy, the last time
 they were together, on the morning of his departure,
 he said, with perhaps a somewhat sadder, but not a
 less resolute spirit, "   I am accustomed to hardships.
 I  have known both hunger and nakedness to the
 utmost extremity of human suffering.       I have known
 what it is to have food given me as charity to a mad
 man ; and      I have at times been obliged to shelter
 myself under the miseries of that character, to avoid
 a heavier calamity.      My distresses have been greater
 than   I   have ever owned, or ever will own, to any
 man.      Such evils are terrible to bear ; but they
 never yet had power to turn me from my purpose.
 If I         I
       live, will faithfully perform, in its utmost ex
 tent, my engagement to the society ; and if      I perish
 in the attempt, my honour will still be safe, for death
 cancels all bonds."
    We have little more to relate of poor Ledyard.
 From London he proceeded to Paris, and from
 thence to Marseilles, where he took ship for Alexan
 dria. From Alexandria he pursued his journey up
 the Nile to Cairo, where he arrived on the 19th of
 August.       His intention was to set out at the proper
 season with the caravan from this city to Sennaar ;
and in the mean time he occupied himself in studying
the character and manners of the people among
whom he was, and gaining as much as he could of
the information most likely to be useful to him in his
future progress.       He kept as usual a journal of his
observations, copious extracts from which have been
printed in the Proceedings of the Association.        But
towards the end of November, when the caravan
which he intended to accompany was just on the
point of setting out, he was attacked by a bilious
complaint ; and, after all his hopes, this long-looked-
for opportunity of prosecuting his journey seemed on
the point of being lost.       In his extreme anxiety in
    VOL.  II.                               2 h

386         THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
these circumstances     to get rid of his indisposition as
 speedily as possible, he took so large a dose of the
common remedy, vitriolic acid, as to produce the
most violent pains, which the best medical skill in
Cairo was exerted in vain to remove or alleviate ; and
he perished a victim to his zeal and precipitancy.
   There never beat a heart animated by a warmer or
more disinterested love of the path of public duty
which it had chosen than that which death had now
laid low. Mr. Sparks's memoir, to which we have
been indebted for the materials of our rapid sketch,
contains many other anecdotes of his generous self-
devotion which our space does not permit us to notice.
The following passage, however, from a letter ad
dressed to his employers, one of the last he ever
wrote, presents so fine a picture of a mind elevated
by some of the noblest feelings of which our nature
is susceptible that we quote it as a fit conclusion to
the account we have given of the writer.
                                               " Money !,"
he exclaims, "it is a vile slave!       I have at present
an economy of a more exalted kind to observe.              I
have the eyes of some of the first men of the first
kingdom on earth turned upon me.            I am engaged
by those very men in the most important object that
any private individual can be engaged in.            I  have
their approbation to acquire or to lose ; and their
esteem, also, which     I prize above everything, except
the independent idea of serving mankind.             Should
rashness or desperation carry me through, whatever
fame the vain and injudicious might bestow,        I  should
not accept of it ; it is the good and great      I look to ;
fame bestowed by them is altogether different, and is
                      '           '
closely allied to a     well done from God ; but rash
ness will not be likely to carry me through, any more
than timid caution. To find the necessary medium
of conduct, to vary and apply it to contingencies, is
the economy     I allude to ; and if  I  succeed by such

                         BELZONI.                      387
  means, men of sense in any succeeding epoch will not
 blush to follow me, and perfect those discoveries,
 which   I  have only abilities to trace out roughly, or a
 disposition to attempt.        A Turkish sofa has no
 charms for me : if it had,     I  could soon obtain one
 here.    Believe me, a single ' well done ' from your
  Association has more worth in it to me, than all the
 trappings of the East ; and what is still more pre
  cious, is, the pleasure  I  have in the justification of
  my own conduct at the tribunal of my own heart."
     Ledyard, as is well known, was the first of too
  long a list of courageous adventurers who have one
  after another sacrificed their lives in the cause of
 African discovery ; and did our limits permit, the
  names of Houghton, Hornemann, Park, Laing,
  Clapperton, and many others, might each furnish us
 with an example, not unworthy to be compared with
 his, of fearless resolution, and perseverance which
 only death could overcome.       But we can attempt now
 only to sketch very briefly the career of one who, al
 though he also perished in that enterprise, fatal to so
 many of his forerunners, the attempt to penetrate
 into central Africa, is and will continue to be chiefly
 remembered for his researches and discoveries in
 another quarter of that great continent ; we mean
 the late lamented Belzoni.          Giovanni Battista
Belzoni was born in 1778, at Padua, where his
father was a barber.         The family, however, had
belonged originally to Rome; and it is related
that Belzoni, when only thirteen years of age, be
trayed his disposition for travelling by setting out
one day along with his younger brother to make his
way to that city, which he had long been haunted by
a passionate desire to see from hearing his parents so
often speak of it.    The failing strength and courage
of his brother, however, forced him to relinquish this
                                          2  lS

388       THE PURSUIT OP KNOWLEDGE
expedition, after they had proceeded as far as the Apen
nines ; and he returned once more to assist his father
in his shop, as he had already for some time been
doing.     But when he was three years older, nothing
would detain him any longer in his native place ; and
 he again took the road to Rome, which this time he
actually reached.      It is said that on his first arrival
 in this capital he applied himself to the acquirement of
a knowledge of the art of constructing machines for
the conveyance and raising of water, with the view
probably of obtaining a livelihood by the exhibition of
curious or amusing experiments in that department
of physics. It is certain, however, that he eventually
adopted the profession of a monk, as offering an
easier or surer way of gaining his bread.
   The arrival of Buonaparte in Italy in 1800 brought
him the opportunity, which he embraced, of throwing
off his monastic habit, being by this time heartily
tired of the idleness and obscurity to which it con
signed him.      He then pursued for some time a wan
dering life, having in the first instance returned to
his native town, and then proceeded in quest of em
ployment to Holland, from whence, in about a year
afterwards, he came back to Italy.        By this time he
had attained so uncommon a height, with strength
proportioned to  it,   that he was an object of wonder
wherever he was seen.          It was probably with the
expectation of being able to turn these personal ad
vantages to account that he determined, in 1803, to
come over to England.          On arriving here, accord
ingly, he first attempted to get a maintenance by
perambulating the country, exhibiting hydraulic expe
riments and feats of muscular strength and, accom
                                          ;
 panied  by  his wife, an Englishwoman, whom he had
 married soon after his arrival, he visited with this
object all the principal towns both of Great Britain
 and Ireland.     He was afterwards engaged for some

                         BELZOM.                     389
  time at Astley's amphitheatre ; and altogether he con
 tinued for about nine years in England.
     At last, finding probably that he had no farther
 chance of improving his circumstances in this country,
 in 1812 he sailed with his wife for Lisbon. Here he
 soon obtained an engagement from the director of the
  San Carlos theatre ; at the expiration of which he
 proceeded to Madrid, where for a time he also
 attracted considerable attention by his performances.
 From Madrid he went to Malta ; and here, it is sup
 posed, the idea first suggested itself to him of pass
 ing over to Egypt, as others of his countrymen had
 already done, and offering his services to the Pacha,
 the active and enterprising Mahomet Ali.       Accord
 ingly, carrying with him a recommendation from a
 Maltese agent of the Pacha's, he proceeded, still ac
 companied by his wife, to Cairo.         On presenting
 himself to Ali, he was immediately engaged, on the
 strength of his professed skill in hydraulics, to con
 struct a machine for watering some pleasure gardens
 at Soubra, on the Nile. This undertaking, it is said,
 he accomplished to the Pacha's satisfaction ; but an
 accident having occurred to one of the persons look
 ing on, on the first trial of the machine, the Turkish
 superstition, under the notion that what had hap
pened was a bad omen, would not suffer the use of it
to be continued.     This misfortune, at the same time,
put an end to all Belzoni's hopes of further em
ployment from the Pacha; and he was once more
probably as much at a loss what to betake himself to
as he had ever before been in his life.
    The state of destitution, however, in which he
found himself, led to his entering upon a new career,
in which he was destined to acquire great distinc
tion.    The late Mr. Salt was at this time the English
Consul in Egypt, and, embracing the opportunity
                                         2 L 3

390         THE PURSUIT      OF KNOWLEDGE.
ployed in investigating and making collections of the
precious remains of antiquity in which that country
abounded.      For this purpose he kept several agents
in his pay, whose employment it was to make
researches in all directions after interesting objects of
this description. To Mr. Salt Belzoni now offered
his services in this capacity ; and he was immediately
employed by that gentleman in an affair of consider
able difficulty, namely, the removing and transport
ing to Alexandria of the colossal granite bust of Mem-
non, which lay buried in the sands near Thebes.
The manner in which Belzoni accomplished this his
first enterprize in his new line of pursuit at once esta
blished his character for energy and intelligence.
Dressing himself as a Turk, he proceeded to the
spot, and there half persuaded and half terrified the
peasantry into giving him the requisite assistance in
excavating and embarking the statue, till he had the
satisfaction at last of seeing it stowed into the boat
intended for its conveyance, without having received
any injury, and fairly afloat on the Nile. Having
arrived at Alexandria, it was afterwards sent to Eng
land, and is now in the British Museum.
    Belzoni had now found his proper sphere, and hence
forth his whole soul was engaged in the work of explor
ing the wonderful country in which he was, in search of
the monuments      of its ancient arts and greatness.  In
this occupation he was constantly employed, sometimes
in the service of Mr. Salt, and sometimes on his own
account. The next affair which Mr. Salt committed
 to him was the excavation of the Temple of Ipsam-
 boul, in Upper Egypt, which was so enveloped in
 sand, that only its summit was visible.         Belzoni,
 however, in despite of innumerable obstacles, partly
 of a physical nature, and partly created by the oppo
 sition of the natives, at last succeeded in penetrating
 into its interior. On returning from this expedition,

                      BELZONI.                     391
he next undertook a journey to the valley of Beban-
el-Malouk, beyond Thebes, where, from a slight in
spection on a former occasion of the rocky sides of
the hills, he had been led to suspect that many tombs
of the old inhabitants would be found concealed
within them. For some time he searched in vain in
all directions for any indication of what he had ex
pected to find, till at last his attention was suddenly
attracted by a small fissure in the rock, which pre
sented to his experienced eye something like the
traces of human labour.      He put forward his hand to
examine  it,  when the stones, on his touching them,
came tumbling down, and discovered to him the en
trance to a long passage, having its sides ornamented
with sculpture and paintings. He at once entered
the cavern — proceeded forward — and, after overleap
ing several obstacles which opposed his progress,
found himself in a    sepulchral chamber, in the centre
of which stood an alabaster sarcophagus, covered with
sculptures.    He afterwards removed this sarcophagus,
and with infinite labour took exact copies of the draw
ings, consisting of nearly a thousand figures, and the
hieroglyphic inscriptions, amounting to more than
five hundred, which he found on the walls of the
 tomb.    It was from these copies that Belzoni formed
the representation or model of this tomb, which he
afterwards exhibited in London and Paris.
    On returning to Cairo from this great discovery, he
immediately engaged in    a   new investigation, which
 conducted him to another perhaps still more interest
 ing. He determined to make an attempt to pene
trate into one of the pyramids and was at last fortu
                                  ;
 nate enough to discover, in that called the pyramid of
 Cephrenes, the entrance to   a  passage, which led him
into the centre of the structure. Here he found a
 sepulchral chamber, with a sarcophagus in the middle
 ofit,  containing the bones of       bull — discovery
                                      a   a

392         THE PURSUIT ftP KNOWLEDGE.
which has been considered as proving that these im
mense edifices were in reality erected by the supersti
tion of the old Egyptians, for no other purpose than
to serve each as a sepulchre for one of their brute
divinities.   After this, encouraged by the splendid
success that had hitherto attended his efforts, which
had now made him famous over Europe, Belzoni
engaged in various other enterprises of a similar
character, which we have not room to enumerate.
He made also several journeys both to the remote
parts   of Egypt, and beyond the bounds of that
country into the adjoining regions of Africa.        At
last he determined to revisit Europe, and accordingly
he set sail for that purpose in September 1819.
   The first place which he visited was his native
city, from which he had now been absent nearly
twenty years.     When he left it last, he was an un
known wanderer, without employment or the means
of existence, and ready almost to accept the humblest
that might be anywhere offered him ; he returned to
it now with a name familiar over the civilized world,
and the glory of many discoveries which had long
made him the pride of his fellow-citizens.      He pre
sented on this occasion to the town of Padua,
two lion-headed granite statues, which were placed
by the magistracy in a conspicuous situation in the
            J
Palace of ustice ; and a medal was at the same time
struck in honour of the giver, on which were in
scribed his name, and a recital of his exploits. A
copy of this medal, in gold, was presented to Belzoni,
accompanied with a letter expressive of the admira
tion felt by the Paduans for their distinguished towns
man. From Italy Belzoni hastened to England, where
the rumour of his discoveries had already excited
a greater interest than in any other country.      Here
he met with the welcome due to one whose services
had contributed to extend the scientific glory of the

                        BELZONI.                    303
nation ; and, both in the world of letters and in the
world of fashion, the celebrated traveller became a
chief object of attraction. He now employed him
self in preparing an account of his travels and dis
coveries for the press ; and the work appeared about
the end of the year 1820, in a quarto volume, accom
panied with another volume of plates, in folio.       It
excited great interest, and soon passed through three
editions ; while translations of it into French and
Italian had also appeared at Paris and Milan. It
was after the publication of his book that Belzoni
prepared his representation of the tomb he had dis
covered at Beban-el-Malouk, which was exhibited in
London and Paris.
   Tired, however, of leading an inactive life, Belzoni
soon began to project other schemes of foreign travel.
He visited successively, France, Russia, Sweden,
and Denmark ; after which, returning to England,
he undertook, under the auspices of the government,
to prosecute the perilous attempt of penetrating into
central Africa.    His plan was to endeavour, in the
first instance, to reach Timbuctoo, thence to direct
his course eastward towards Sennaar, and then to
return through Nubia and Egypt.          But even his
experience, skill, and extraordinary personal strength
and prowess did not save him from falling a victim in
the cause in which so many gallant men had already
perished. He left England towards the end of the year
 1822 for Gibraltar, on reaching which he immediately
 embarked for Tangiers.     From this he proceeded to
 Fez, where he was well received by the Emperor
 of Morocco, and obtained permission to join a cara
 van for Timbuctoo, which was to set out in a few
 days.    Unexpected difficulties, however, arose when
 he was on the point of departure; and after a resi
 dence at Fez of five months he was obliged to give
 up all hope of commencing his journey by the route

  394       THE PURSUIT OF KNOWLEDGE.
  he had originally fixed upon.    On this disappoint
  ment he sailed for Madeira, and from thence, in Oc
  tober 1823, he set out for the mouth of the river
  Benin on the west coast of Africa, with the intention
 of making his way to the interior from that point.
  He entered upon this journey accompanied by an
  English merchant who was to conduct him as far as
 the town of Benin, and to introduce him there to the
 king of the country ; but by the time he had arrived
 at this place a malady which had attacked him al
 most as soon as he had set his foot on shore, had
 reached such a height that he was unable to proceed
 any farther ; and he begged his companion to have
 him taken back to Gato.       He arrived here on the
 2nd of December in a dreadfully exhausted state,
 and being immediately attacked with delirium, ex
 pired on the following day.      His remains were in
 terred under a plane tree on the shore, while the
 English vessels on the station honoured his memory
 by discharges of their cannon during the ceremo
 nial.   An inscription in English was afterwards
 placed over his grave, recording his melancholy fate,
 and expressing a hope that every European who
 might visit the spot would, if necessary, cause the
 ground to be cleared, and the fence repaired, around
 the resting-place of the intrepid and enterprising tra
 veller.
    Many other names of persons of both sexes yet
remain on the records of literature, science, art, and
the other departments of intellectual exertion, which
might be referred to as illustrating the Pursuit of

                    CONCLUSION.                   395
Knowledge under Difficulties.      But   the selection
 of examples we have made, regulated as it had
 been with a view to give as much diversity of in
 terest as possible to the contents of the work, will
 probably be thought sufficiently extensive for our
 purpose. The lesson we would teach, as we have
 already frequently had occasion to remark, is, that
 in no situation of life, be it what it may, is the
work of mental cultivation impossible to him who in
good earnest sets about it. What is chiefly wanted
to invigorate the mind to the encounter and conquest
of the most formidable difficulties which any circum
stances can oppose to   it,   simply the conviction of
                              is
this truth
         ;   and of that conviction we can bring for
ward nothing likely to produce a more deep and
abiding impression than some of the histories re
corded in  the preceding pages.
                       FINIS.


                                              INDEX.
Adams, Dr. vol.      page 51  i.,                        Baines,   Mr,     328 ii.
Adrian, Emperor,      32           i.                    Baird, Professor,     376       i.
         Pope, 269 i. i.                                 Ballard, G.    214i.
jEpinus, M,      252                                     Bandinelli,    38, 214
jEsop, i. 31                                             Banks, Sir        J, i.
                                                                            378    ii.
Africanus, Scipio,    114         i.                     Barry, James, ii. 157
Albani, Card., ii. 147                                   Bartlett, John, ii. 292
Albertus Magnus, ii. 263                                 Batoni,     ii.   179
Alcendi,     247
             ii.                                         Baudouin, B.,          i.      40
Alcuin, ii. 10                                           Bayle,
                                                                   ii.
                                                                   4
Alexis Michelovitch, ii. 23                              Beaufort,      Lady Joanna,                  i.   283
Alfieri, ii. 5
                                                         Beaufoy, Mr., ii. 384
Alfred the Great,     63;         i.          ii.   11   Beaumont, F.,     75      i.
Allen, Mr., ii. 149                                                          Elie de,             284
Almon, John,      185
                   i.                                    Beckman, Professor,                  i. i.   124
Alphery, Nicephorus,                    ii.   5          Beddoes,  Dr.,ii. 117
Alphonso X. of Castile,    20               ii.          Behmen,  Jacob, ii. 215
Ames, Joseph,      189                                   Beighton, Mr.,     306
                                                                                    ii. ii.
                        i. 4 i.
Anaxagoras, ii.                                          Belzoni, G. B.,     387
Aram, Eugene,      355                                   Bernard, Mr., ii. 238
Archimedes,     20 i.                                    Bew, Mr,      301
                                                                        i.
Argyle, Duke of,     99       i.                         Bewick, Thomas,       191        ii.
Arkwright, Sir R., ii. 325                               Bianchi, Ant., ii. 205
Armati,   degP, ii. 267
          S.                                             Bielby, Mr, ii. 192
Amigio, Bart,            i.       35                     Birch, Dr.,    90   ii.
Ascoli, Jerome de, ii. 252                               Blacklock, Dr.,    298, 312
Asser, ii. 11                                            Blake, Admiral,     60     i. i.
Aurelius, Marcus, ii.                   7                Bloomfield, Robert, ii. 208
Averroes, ii. 247                                                     George, ii. 209
Avicenna,     247
             ii.                                         Bodmer,     153
Bacon, Anthony,      56           ii.                    Boethius,   i. i.   279
        Lord,    119
                   i.                                    Boot, Mr, ii. 229
        Dr. N.,    298  i.                               Bouiton, Mr., ii. 318
        Roger, ii. 244                                   Bowyer, W, 59        i.
Bagford, John, 189                                       Boyle, Robert, ii. 74, 115
   VOL.   II.                                                              M    2

393                                                  INDEX.
Brahe, Tycho,                                           Celotti,              L., ii. 181
                          i. ii.
                 67, 115                                           Abbe"
Breinihal, Mr.,  238                                    Cervantes,      i.   126
Breitkopf,   215i.                                      Chapman, G.,   82     i.
Bridgewater, Francis Duke of,                           Charlemagne, Emperor,                              ii.   9
    i.   325                                            Charles V., Emperor,                       i.   38
Briggs, Henry,      52        ii.                       Chatterton, T., 212     i.
Brindley, James,     318        i.                      Chaucer,    80
                                                                    i.
Brouncker, Vise., ii. 97                                Cicero,   106
                                                                   i.
Brown, Dr., ii. 381                                     Cimabue, ii. 179
Bruhl, Count de,     28                                 Clarendon, Lord,                       119
                                i. i.                                                  i. i.
Brydges, Sir E.,     66                                 Claude Lorraine,      211, 270
Buchan, Lord, ii. 43                                    Cleanthes,     32
                                                                        i.
Buchanan, G.,      125, 279
                          i.                            Clement VII., Pope,      66              i.
Buffon, Count de, ii. 98                                Cole, Mr., ii. 278
Bullinger, H.,    266    i.                             Cook, CapL J.,      131   ii. 375
                                                                                   i. i.
                                                                                                  ;
Bulmer, W., ii. 198                                     Cookesley,   W.,    404
Buonaparte, N.,      38         ii.                     Cornelisz, L.,     45 i.
Burchiello, ii. 206                                     Correggio, 77   i.
Burke, Edmund,         160         ii.                  Colines, Simon de,      167
                                                                                               i. i.
Burnet, Bishop, ii. 29                                  Collingwood, Lord,      135
Burns, R.,     75,375, 388                              Collins, W.,     75
                                                                           i. i.
                    i.
        G.,   390, 396
                    i.                                  .           Mr.,           221
Burton, Mr., ii. 278                                     Collinson, Peter,  249      i.
Byron, Lord,     75      i.                              Colson, Mr.,   291i.
Caesar,    Julius,        i.    1   12                   Columbus,     130
                                                                        i.
Calley, John, ii. 303                                    Cowper, W.      74  i.
Campe, ii. 116
                                                                   ii.
                                                         Crates,   4
Canova, Ant.,     166     ii.                            Cromwell, O.,   69        i.
Canstein, Baron von, ii. 98                              Cruden, Alexander,                    i.      187
Cantley, Mr.,    200     i.                              Cuneus,    M.,
                                                                          i. i.
                                                                                   246
Caravaggio,  P.,   21         i.         1               Currie, Dr.,   390
•            M. A.,     211             i.               Dalmasi, Lippo, ii. 183
Carter, Dr.,   65    i.                                  Dampier, Captain,     127          i.
Cartw right, Rev. E., ii. 341, 345                       Davies, Miles,   274  i.
Caslon, W.,     59   i.                                  Davis,    John,            127
                                                                                           Ill
                                                                             i.
Casserio,      i.    45                                  Davy, Sir H.,             ii.
Castagno, A. del, ii. 116                                          John,    116
                                                                              ii.
Castalio, S.,  43, 268
                     i.                                            Rev. W.,   274    i.
Caslell, Edm.,    274     i.                             Decow, Isaac,  237       i.
Cato,     i.   62                                        Defoe, Daniel,  191       i.
Caus, Solomon de,                       ii.   296        Democritus, 33  i.ii.          ;              4
Cavedone,    211    i.                                   Demosthenes,          i.    284
Cavendish, H.,             i.       252; ii. 92          Dempster, Thomas,                       ii.   64
Cavendish, Lord                    C,     ii,   92       Denham,  Mr., 235     i.
Cellini, B.,  56    i.                                   Dent, Dr.   89 ii.

                                                          INDEX.                                                 399
Desaguliers, Dr.,    302          ii.                        Forey, M., ii.38
Des Cartes,    123; ii. 269
                    i.                                       Forster, 36  i.
Didymus,    296i.                                            Fowlis, R, ii. 99
Diodotus,    296
               i.                                            Francis      I.,
                                                                        Emperor,      37              i.
Dodsley, Robert,     184          i.                         Frankel, David, ii. 234
Dollond, John, ii. 271                                       Franklin, Benjamin,     217            i.
Dominici, Bernardo,      182                ii.              Fransham, John,     129          i.
Dominis, Antonio de, ii. 268                                 Fraunhofer,    292   ii.
Donne, Dr.,    190   i.                                      Frederick the Great, 29, 114             i.
Drebell, Corn,     62        ii.                             Fulcodi, Card. ii. 251
Drummond, Abp.,       151             ii.                    Fulton, Robert, ii. 349
                     W.,
                     67           ii.                        Gainsborough, T. ii. 156
Drury, Robert,     127      i.                               Galileo,   i.      8,
                                                                           22, 78 ii. 269          ;
Duck, Stephen,      219         ii.                          Gait,   J., ii.     143
Ducrest, Madame,       317            i.                     Galvani,      ii.   120
Durer, Albert,     194      ii.                              Garrick.D.                 316
Dutens,       L,
               63, 281
                    ii.                                      Ged, Wm,           i. i.   190;          ii.   98
Duval, D. J., 35.      i.                                    Gelli, 40
                                                                     i.
Earlom, Richard,     214         i.                          Gesner,      J.     M.,     i.    30
Earnshaw, Lawrence,       328                 ii.            -        Solomon,                 i.     153
Edward VI. of England, ii. 19                                GifforJ, W., 398      i.
Edwards, George,      212         i.                         Gilbert, Davies, ii. 117
           William, ii. 353                                           Wm.,     245      i.
           David,     360         ii.                        Gilpin, Sawrey, ii. 156
Ehret, G. D.    180  ii.                                     Gilchrist, M.,    199      i.
Elizabeth, Queen, ii. 19                                     Giordani,     129
                                                                             i.
Epictetus,   31i.                                            Giotto, ii. 179
Erasmus,    265
              i.                                             Gley, M. ii. 72
Evelyn, John,    28    ii.                                   Goddard, Dr., ii. 79
Euler,   i.   299   ;       ii.   274                        Goldsmith, Dr. O,ii. 230
Eusebius,     298
               i.                                            Golovin, T. A,      37          ii.
Falconer, W.,      128                                       Gower, Lord,      330      i.
Falieri, Giov.,     187ii. i.                                Grainger, Rev. Mr., ii. 228
Farmer, Dr.,     383                                         Grammateus, H., ii. 50
                    i. i.
Faust, John,     190,     99            ii.                  Grant, Mr.,    200  i.
Fawcet,  Rev.   Mr,     210        ii.                       Grantham, Lord, ii. 146
Fayette, Marquis de la, ii. 377                              Greathead, Bishop, ii. 263
Ferguson, James,       196,  115i.                  ii.      Gregory, Jas.,    73; ii. 269
                                                                                     i. i.
Ferracino, Bart.,     339    i.                              Gregory,   Dr,   291
Fielding, H.,     193i.                                      Greuze,      ii.   180
Fiore, Colantonio del, ii, 182                               Grey, Lady Jane,     282         i.
Flinders, Lieut.,    135    i.                               Grotius, H.,i. 119
Flower, Mr., ii. 140                                         Guericke, Otto, ii. 81,305
Fothergill, Dr.,    358     i.                               Guest, Mr, ii. 327
Folckz, J,,    45
               i,                                            Guttenberg, John,     190
                                                                                               2 i.
                                                                                 2       h

400                                                     INDEX.
Guys, M.i. 138                                               Jay, G. M. le,     i.       273
Haak, Theodore,                   ii.                        Jefferson, Mr.,              477
                                                                                     i. ii.
                        79
Hale, Sir M.,       119
                      i.                                     Johnson, Dr. S., 272 ii. 232            ;
Hales, Dr.,     86  ii.                                      Joly,M., 213
                                                                        i.
Hallam, Mr.,   ii. 256                                       Jones, Inigo,    43i.
Halley, Mr., ii. 293                                                Sir W.,     61, 107
                                                                                    i.
Hannam, Mr., ii. 155                                                Paul, ii. 377
Hargrave, Mr., ii. 331                                       Jonson, Ben,     44, 124. 384
                                                                                i.
Haroun     Raschid,
              al           10           ii.                  Joseph II., Emperor,     35         i.
Harrison, J., 211,340                                        Jourdain, M.,     214
                                                                                i.
Harry, Blind,       i. i.
                   312                                       Julian, Emperor,             ii,    8
Hautefeuille, Abb£,       43         i.                      Kay, James, ii. 212
Haiiy, Abbe,      33i.                                             Mr.,   ii.
                                                                           326
Hawkesworth, Dr. ii. 230                                     Keimer, Mr., 229, 274
                                                                                i.
Haydn,     41
          i.                                                 Keith, Sir W.,     229 i.
Hemsterhuys,       30  i.                                    Kelly, Mr., ii. 145
Henry, W., ii. 141                                           Kent, W.,     58
                                                                          i.
Henry     of England,
         I.                  18            ii.               Kepler, i. 265
Henry  VIII.  of   England,     19                ii.        Kinnear, Jas..    376  i.
Henshall, Mr.,       331                                     Kirby,J.   J., 68
                          i. i.
                                                                              i.
Herbert, Wm.,         189                                    Kish.M.,   ii.   236
Hermelin, Baron, ii. 98                                      Kleist, M. von,   246  i.
Hero, of Alexandria,        10             i.                Klingenstierna, ii.275
Herschel, SirW.,                                             Lagrange, M.,     272
                                  i. ii.
                         284
                                                                                i. i.
Heyne, Professor,        25                                  Lalande, M.,      198, 211                  ;   ii.
Hiero,    i.   20                                              287
Highmore, Joseph, ii. 155                                    Lambert,  H., ii. 214
Highs, Mr., ii. 331                                          Langhorne, Major, ii. 379
Hill, Robert, i.348                                          Lawrence, SirThomas, ii. 170
Hoche, Gen., 272                                             Ledyard, John, ii. 373
Hogarth, W.,         i. i.
                           i.
                  59                                         Leibnitz,  21, 80
                                                                        i.                                    .
Holcroft,T.,     406
                                                        N
                                                             Leoben, M. de,      29  i.
Home, Sir E.,      47     i.                                 Lessing. G. E., ii. 239
Homer,     306i.                                             Lillo, George,         i.   192
Hooke, Robert, ii. 84                                        Lilly, ii. 52
Huber, M., i.317                                             Linnajus,  i.43, 211
        Madame,       31          i.       f                 Lithgow, Wm., ii. 369
Hunter, John,      45     i.                                 Loffl, Capel, ii. 209, 225
         Dr. W.,     47         i.                           Lomonosoff, M.,      44
Hutton, W.,      172i.                                       Longomontanus, 44           i. i.
         Dr., ii. 192                                        Lope de Vega,      38  i.
Ibbetson,     C, 58
               J.           i.                               Lorenzini, L.,    280  i.
James    of England,
          1.             19                ii.               Lovelace,    283
                                                                          i.
James      of Scotland,
          I.                282                  i.      :   Lowry, Mr.,     214
                                                                               i.
   ii.   15                                                  Lowlh, Bp., 360   i.

                                                                                                               401
Macclesfield, Earl           97,          of,   ii.         Morland, Sir S.,     29/            It.
     292                                                    Moschini, Sign., ii. 182
Macculloch, Mr.,     146        i.                          Moses, Israel,    237    ii.
Maclaurin, C, 207                                           Moyes,  Dr.  H., 301        i.
Maddox, Dr.         45
                      I., i.   i.                           Mozart,   76
                                                                      i.
Maggi, Jerome,    280      i.                               Murdoch, Mr.,     393    i.
Magliabecchi, A., 343            i.                         Murray,  Dr. A.,   361        i.
Mahomet Ali,     389   it,                                  Musculus, W.,    266
Maistre, Isaac     (or Saci),
                           le                          i.   Napier, John, ii. 43
  280                                                                Archibald, ii. 63
                                                                     ,
Malala, ii. 61                                              Navarete, F., 285
Malmesbury, William of,                         ii.   263   Need, Mr, ii. 329
Mamolicus,     267
                 ii.                                        Newcomen, Thomas, ii. 303
Mandeville, Dr.,   233                                      Newton, Sir Isaac,       15, 294     i.      1,
Manutius, Aldus,    156        i. i. i.                       ii.   115, 269
             ,Paul,                    159                  Niebuhr, C, ii. 372
           Aldus, jun.,       159              i.           Nollet, Abbe,     257
                                                                                    ii. i. i.
            ,
Marcet, Mrs., ii. 108                                       North, Sir         139
                                                                               D.
                                                                                ,
Marcombes, Mr., ii. 76                                      Noy, Joseph,      37
Marmontel,     272
                 i.                                         Ogilby,
                                                                     J,   68
                                                                           i.
Marr, John, ii. 52                                          Opie, J., 41  i.
Mary Queen of Scots,        282            i.               Orleans, Duke of, ii. 73
Maskelyne,  Dr.,   ii.  289                                 Oswald, John,      130    i.
Matsys, Quintin,       57                                   Otway,     75
                               i. i.
                                                                      i.
Maurice, Count,        22                                   Ovid,    278
                                                                    i.
Mead, Dr., 355  i.                                          Pagan, Count de,      298
                                                                                                i. i.
Medici, Lorenzo de,        78             i.                Palissy, Bernard,     215
Memes,  J. S., ii. 188                                      Palitzch, G, ii. 293
Mendelsohn, Moses, ii. 234                                  Palmer, Samuel,       189, 233      i.
Mengs,   ii.
           148                                              Pancoucke, —        188      i.
                                                                                          J,
                                                                                ,
Meredith, Mr.,     236    U                                              —
                                                                        C.                       i.     188
Metastasio,      i.    41                                   Papin, D, ii. 298
Metcalf, John,                  310                         Pareus, D.,   44
                       i. i. i.
                                                                               i.
Middleton, Dr.,                    106                      Parini,   43
                                                                     i.
Milner, Dr.          I.,         45                         Paris, Wiiliam of,                    ii.    262
        J
        ,        i.    45                                   Parkes, Samuel,                     ii.     101
Milton, i.22, 84, 306                                       Parr, Dr. S, 272    i.
Milhridates,    83   i.                                     Pascal, B.,     13, 73; ii. 115
                                                                           ii. i.
Moliere,     65
            i.                                              Pasch, G.     63
Montgolfier, Joseph,                      i.   15           Pasino, ii. 186
                 ,   Stephen,              i.   14          Paterson, Samuel,                     i.     189
Mordaunt, Col., ii. 332                                     Paucton,    68i.
More, Sir T.,      119i.                                    Pemberton, Dr.,                 i.
                                                                                               i.         15, 233
Moris, Dr. J., ii. 138                                      Pendrell, Joseph,                  4,       359

402                                               INDEX.
Pennington, Mr.,        135     i. ii.                Rothscholtz,         Fred.                 189.
                                                                                         i. i.
Perrier, Francis,     370                             Ruddiman, Thos.,                           167
Peter the Great, ii. 22                               Ruhnker, D.,     13  i.
Petty, Sir W., ii. 80                                 Ruysch,  Professor, ii. 29
Phelps, Thomas, ii. 292                               Sachs, H.     44
                                                                     i.
Pico, G., Prince of Mirandola,                        Saint Palaye,    65   i.
  i.  78, 83                                          Saint, Thomas, ii. 197
Piles, R. de,     308
                    i.                                Salinas, F.,   308
                                                                      i.
Pitot, H.,    66                                      Salisbury,  John of, ii. 243
           i. i.
Plutarch,    113                                      Salt, Mr.,  389ii.
Politian, A.,    78i.                                 Salvator Rosa,   270. ii. 116
                                                                                i.
Polybius,  i. 114                                     Saunders, Sir E.   43
                                                                                      i. i.
Porta, Baptista, ii. 267                              Saunderson, N.,   285
Postellus, W., 267     i.                             Saverv, Capt.,            ii. 301
Prideaux, Dean,       354                                        C.            38
                                                      Scalig'er,
                                                                J. J.
                                i.
        ,   Dr.        43  J.,   i.                                  J.,      i. i.
                                                                              39
Priestley, Dr.,     15, 247i.                         Scapinelli,    i.     312
Proclus, ii. 61                                       Scapula, John,               i.   162
Protagoras,     32                                    Schaefler,    i.     265
                i. i. i.
Protogenes,     40                                    Scheele, ii.,
                                                                  93, 114
Prynne, W, 280                                        Schiavoni,   59i.
Publius Syrus,      31     i.                         Schottus, ii.81
Purver, Anthony,       358                            Selden, John,   119
                                                                            i. i.
                                i.
Pythagoras,      19i.                                 Senefelder, M.   190
Raleigh, Sir W.,      281    i.                       Shakspeare, W.,    383           i.
Ramsay, Allan, ii. 206                                Shannon, Lord, ii. 89
Ramsay, Chev.,    99       i.                         Sharp, W.   52, 59
                                                                     i.
Ramsden, J., ii. 278                                  Siegen, Lieut-Col. de,      14                i.
Ramus, P.,     44                                     Simeon, Rev. Mr. ii. 227
Rannequin,      S i.
                   338
                     ,     i.                         Simpson, Thomas,         89         i.
Raphael   d' Urbino,     77           i.              Sinclair, Sir J.,    103     i.
Reaumur,    i.67                                      Sleigh, Dr.,      231
                                                                          ii.
Rennie, John,     210  i.                             Sloane,   Sir H.,            i.    233
Revett, Mr., ii. 372                                  Small, Dr.,      318
                                                                        ii.
Reynolds, Sir        52,   J.,
                             174i.          ii.       Smart,  Christ.,  i.280
Ricardo, Mr. 151     i.                               Smith, Dr.,         ii,
                                                                        141
Richardson, Sam.,      168        i.                  Smith, Dr. R,        286  ii.
Richelieu, Card.,    273         i.                   Solario, Ant. de,      181        ii.
Rittenhouse, Mr. ii. 115                              Solon,   i.   137
Rodolph II. Emperor,        70             ii.       Southey, R,          i. ii.
                                                                                 223
Roebuck, Dr.,      317     ii.                       Spagnoletto,               273
Roland, Madame,       281        i.                  Sparks, Mr. ii. 374
Ross,  Mr.                                           Spence, Dr.     248
                                                                        i. i.
Rothman,   i,      44                                        Mr. 314,                         ii.   221

                                               INDEX.                                              403
Spencer, Jarvis,      155        ii.              Urquhart, SirT.,     58         ii.
Spina, Alex, de, ii. 267                          Valerianus, J. P. 66
Stahlin, M ii. 33
               ,                                  Vancouver,    135i.
Stanhope, Earl, ii.                    9          Vauban, Marshal, ii. 98
Stanley, John,     308 i.                         Vernet, H.   211 i.
Stephens, Robert,        159       i.             Vertue, G.,    147  i.
          Henry,     161     i.                    Villars,M. 213
Stephenson, Dr.,       314       i.                Vitalian, ii. 61
Stewart, John,   ii. 369                           Voerda, N.de,    298    i.
Stifcls, M.    ii.
               50                                  Volta, ii. 120
Stone, Edmund, 99              i.                  Voltaire,    i.
                                                                4
Stone, Jerome,       103     i.                    Vondel,  J.van del,     66, 123   i.
Stuart, James, ii. 370                             Walckendorf,      69  ii.
                      i. of,
Sully, Duke          118     i.                    Walker, Rev. R.      360     ii.
Surrey, Lord,      75                              Waller,   81
                                                              i.
Swedenborg, Count, ii. 47                          Wallis, Dr.,     79ii.
Sydney, Sir P.,       75
                             i. i.                 Walton, lzaak,      190   i.
Tassie, James,       212                           Watt, James, ii. 295, 306
Tasso, T,     279
               i.                                        Gregory,      116  ii.
Taylor, John, ii. 204                              Wayne, Mr.,   ii. 138
Teignmouth, Lord,          10          i.  ]       West, Benjamin, ii. 132
Telford, Mr.     336i.                             Whiston, W.,      291
                                                                        i. i.
Terence,   i.31                                    White, Dr J. 45
Thackeray, Dr.,                  i.    107                 H. K. ii.        223
Thales, ii.     4                                  Wilberforce, Mr.               ii.   228
Theden,    J.      C,        i.   45               Wild, H., 353i.
Thew, R.,    59i.                                  Wilkins, Bishop, ii. 62
Thou, President de,    119              i;         Williams, Anna,    315       i.
Tibullus,   28                                     Winckelman,     35, 266
                                                                        i. i.
           i.
Tilloch, Dr. A. ii. 99                             Wolcot, Dr.,   41
Titian,   i.   59, 78                              Worcester, Marquis of,                     i.   62,
Toretto (Gius.               Bernardi),ii.ll8        97,   ii. 296
Torricelli,    i.   12, 73                         Wordsworth, W, ii. 360
Towers, Dr.,      15 i.      1                     Wotton, Sir H.,    191   i.
Towne, F.,     58
               i.                                  Wright, Richard, ii. 156
Trew, Dr., ii. 180                                 Wyatt, Sir. T.,   75     i.
Tschirnhausen, it. 71                              Wyatt, Mr., ii. 328
Tullidelph, Dr.    104       i.                    Zabaglia, N.,        i.   339
Turner, Dr.,    355                                Zeno,    33
                    ii. i.
                                                           i.
Turner, S.,     243                                Zonaras,     ii,   61
Tyller, James,     274    i.

          Under the Superintendence             of the   Society   for the
                     Diffusion of      Useful   Knowledge.
                             This Day is Published,
           RESULTS of MACHINERY,                 namely, Cheap Production,
THEand        Increased Employment       exhibited:   being the First Volume of
                 The   WORKING MAN'S COMPANION.
Price One Shilling sewed, and One Shilling and Threepence bound
                                     in Cloth.
        The above may be had in Six Numbers, at Twopence each.
             London: CHARLES KNIGHT, Pall Mall East ;
                             Of whom may be had,
   An ADDRESS to the LABOURERS on the subject of DE
STROYING MACHINERY; Price One Penny.
                                    And also,
                                          II.
                       Price Six Shillings, bound in cloth.
   The   BRITISH ALMANAC               and COMPANION ; with corrected
Lists of Appointments up to the )5th December.
The Almanac and Companion may be had separately, 2s. &J. each.
                                         III.
                                     Price 6s.
   The    QUARTERLY JOURNAL of EDUCATION, No. I.
   Contents — Introduction. — On         University Education, Oxford. — Ele
mentary     Instruction   in Scotland,   United   States, Silesia, Bavaria, &c. —
Education at Rome — Gregorian or Roman College. — Medical School of
Paris — Dissenting Academies — Education among the Early Dissenters-
Polytechnic School of Paris. — Edinburgh Sessional School. — Education in
the Ionian Islands.
   Rbvikws. — Zumpt's Latin Grammar. — The Modern Traveller, Egypt,
Nubia, Stc. — On the Polity and Commerce of the Chief Nations of Anti-
tiquity ; by Professor Heeren j Egypt. — Tables of Different Species for
facilitating Calculation — 'Elements of Arithmetic t by A. de Morgan — Dr.
Butler's Ancient Atlas — Lessons on Objects, as given in a Pestalozzian
School at Cheam — Heeren's Manual of Ancient History — Greek Grammar.
—The Anabasis of Xenophon — Pinnock's Catechisms — Miscellaneous : —
Foreign — British.
                                        IV.
                         Preparing for Publication,
   DR. PALEY'S NATURAL THEOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
With Notes and Dissertations, by the Lord Chancellor, and
                        Charles Bell, Esq., F.R.S.          ;
            And with numerous Figures and Engravings:
   To which will be prefixed, A Preliminary Discourse on the
Objects, Advantages, and Pleasures of the Study of Natural
Theology.
   A fine Edition will be printed in 8vo. ; a cheap Edition uniform
with the Library of Entertaining Knowledge; and a limited
number of Copies on large paper, for Libraries.
     *»* Orders for the large paper Copies to be sent before the
                              1st of February, 1831.

             ENTERTAINING KNOWLEDGE
                          IMPORTANT NEW ANNUAL.
   On the 1st of November will be published, uniform with the larger Annualsf
       consisting entirely of Steel Engravings, price, neatly bound, only \8s.—
       21s. finely coloured, — or bound in Morocco gilt edges for elegant presents,
       3s. extra,
                                                THE
        GEOGRAPHICAL ANNUAL,
                                            FOR      1832,
                                           CONTAINING
                   ONE HUNDRED            BEAUTIFUL ENGRAVINGS.
       As there is no branch of knowledge which combines so much useful In
  formation with so much delight as Geography, it is presumed that a work
  designed to illustrate the form, structure, and divisions of the earth will be
  received as a highly valuable addition to the Annuals already in existence.
      The present publication, on account of its enduring interest, may justly
  lay claim to the title of a " Perennial" rather than an " Annual," and be
  valued as a lasting Gift of Friendship rather than a Pastime-Offering.                         It
  will, however, be published every year, for the purpose of including the
  latest Discoveries and the Changes that are continually taking place in
  various quarters of the Globe.
      The GEOGRAPHICAL ANNUAL consists of Engravings of all the
  States, Kingdoms, and Empires throughout the world; of the comparative
  height of the principal Mountains, length of Rivers, extent of the Lakes
  and Inland Seas, and of Tables which present the chief advantages of a
  Gazetteer. This work affords three times the information of the generality
  of Quarto Atlases, and is so beautifully executed us to unite in a great de
  gree the Picturesque attractions of the other Annuals with its own more
  solid and intrinsic character.
      Having, after minute care, great exertion, and at a vast expense, brought
 to completion the ' Family Cabinet Atlas,* and the number of Copies ori
 ginally proposed to be circulated in the first issue, being disposed of, the
 Proprietors have made extensive arrangements for reissuing the work, in an
 improved and more elegant form, as now announced, and at a price that
 can be no obstacle to its admission into every family in the Kingdom.
                                 NEW BIBLE ATLAS.
 On the      same day     will  be completed, and the six Parts delivered bound                in
                      One Vol. Price \5s, plain,— 21s. finely coloured,
                                               THE
         BIBLICAL CABINET ATLAS,
                                          CONTAINING
     FINELY EXECUTED ENGRAVINGS                          from STEEL, of all the TRIBES
 and COUNTRIES mentioned in Sacred History : with a General Index,
 upon a more extensive and improved plan than has ever before been,
 adopted.
                                      CRITICAL NOTICES.
     ' This  beautiful publication is executed in a style of Engraving beyond which, we snp-
         art cannot go. It is the more acceptable, as charts of the countries mentioned in the
g:,se,
   ible have hitherto been cither very incorrect, or, if well executed, inacccobiblc to the public
on account of their enormous prices.' — Monthly Review.
    ' We are pleased to add our
                                   most unequivocal commendation of this very useful publica
tion.' — Christian Remembrancer.
     Published for the Proprietors by Mr. Bull, 26, Holies Street, Cavendish
Square; Messrs. Bell and Bradfute, Edinburgh; and Mr. John Cumming,
Dublin,
                       Sold also by every Bookseller in the kingdom.

2               Entertaining Knowledge Advertiser.
             WORKS NEARLY READY FOR PUBLICATION,
                                         BY
  WHITTAKER, TREACHER,                                          AND          CO.,
                      AVE MARIA LANE, LONDON.
                       In 3 vols. 8vo. with  100 Engravings,
                    AMERICAN ORNITHOLOGY, with the Continu
WILSON'S  ation, by Charles Lucien Bonaparte; together with an Enu
meration and Description of the newly-discovered Species not included in
the original works, and copious Notes. By SIR WILLIAM JARD1NE,
Bart.
                  On the First of November, Price      12s.  in silk,
    The "WINTER'S WREATH, for 1832; a Collection of Original
Pieces in Prose and Verse. Contributed by some of the most popular
writers of the present day, and illustrated by the following Plates, engraved
on Steel in the first style: —
                                                  PAINTED BY          ENGRAVED BT
   The Highland Fortress of Lessing Cray. .J. Martin                  R. Braudard
   The Cotter's Saturday Night                   Stothard, R.A... E. Smith
   The Wreck                                     J. Williamson . .R. Miller
   Allon, the Piper of Mull                      E. Goodall           H. Robinson
   Portrait — The Visionary                      H. Liversege    . . ,F. Engleheart
   Lago di Nemi                                  A. Aglio             R. Brandard
   The Reply of the Fountain                     H. Liversege .. .E. Smith
   Vintage Feast at a Villa of Rione Tras.     1
                                                                      H Robinson
      tevere                                   J
   Naples                                        W. Linton            E. Goodall
   Abbeville                                     D. Roberts           A. Freebairn
   Sunset— Bavarian Alps                         G. Barret            R. Wallis
   The Wreath                                    Vandyke              E. Smith
                                 In 1 vol. post 8vo.
    A DICTIONARY of QUOTATIONS from various Authors, in
Ancient and Modern Languages, with English Translations, and illustrated
by Remarks and Explanations.          By HUGH MOORE, Esq.
                                In 2 vols, post 8vo.
    The SISTER'S BUDGET; a Collection of Original Tales in Prose
and Verse, by the Authors of ' The odd Volume,* &c. with contributions
from Mrs. Hemans, Miss Mitford, Mrs. Hod3on, Mrs. Kennedy, Mr. Mac-
farlane, Mr. Kennedy, Mr. Bell, Mr. Malcolm, and some others.
               In 12mo. a new Edition, with several Engravings,
    The BEAUTIES of the BRITISH POETS, 'with a few introduc
tory Observations. By the Rev. GEORGE CROLY, D.D.
                                In a Pocket Volume,
    The LONDON MANUAL of MEDICAL CHEMISTRY; com
 prising an interlinear verbal Translation of the Pharmacopceiee, with exten
 sive Chemical, Botanicai, Therapeutical, and Posological Notes, not only
 In reference to the Medicines enumerated in that work, but also to those
'which have recently been introduced in practice, together with the treat
 ment of Tests of Poisons, and an introduction, containing the Theory of
 Pharmaceutical Chemistry, &c. &c. For the use of Students. By Wit-
 LIAM MAUGHAM, Surgeon.
In three Volumes, a new Edition with Plates, Price 10s. 6d. elegantly bound,
    AMERICAN STORIES for CHILDREN                           under ten Years         of
 Age. Collected by Miss MITFORD, author of ' Our Village.'
 * A SECOND SERIES for ELDER CHILDREN.                                In  Three uni
 form Volumes, will be Published at Christmas,

                    Entertaining Knowledge Advertiser,                                              3
                           Just Published,    in 18mo. 2». half-bound,
 s     TORIES for YOUNG CHILDREN.
               versations on Chemistry/ &c.
    * A very pretty littlo hook, well calculated to
                                                                By the Author of 'Con
                                                      explain to children many common objects,
 such as the building of houses, the planting of trees, the manufacture of "bricks, the cutting
 <jf glass, and some of the simplest elements of mechanics.' — Monthly Review.
                Printed for Longman, Rees, Orme, Brown, and Green.
                                      Of whom may be had,
     CONVERSATIONS                   on CHEMISTRY.               2 vols. 14*.
     CONVERSATIONS                   on VEGETABLE PHYSIOLOGY.                              2 vols.
 12s.
     CONVERSATIONS on NATURAL PHILOSOPHY.                                            10s. 6d.
     CONVERSATIONS on POLITICAL ECONOMY.                                         9s.
                               of    LONDON.             The      following        MEDICAL
 UNIVERSITY            CLASSES open        on Monday, the 3rd October :—
Anatomy and Physiology, Dr. Qualn                                     Fee for Session £7 0
 Morbid Anatnmy, Dr. Garswell                                              —       —           3 0
 Demonstrations and Dissections, Mr. Richard Quain                         —       —           5 0
 Principles and Practice of Medicine, Dr. Elliotson .                      —       —           5 0
 Principles and Practice of Surgery, Professor S.
     Cooper                                                                —       —           3 0
 Midwifery, and Diseases of Women and Children,
    Dr. D. D. Davis               '                                        —       —           5   0
Materia Medica and Therapeutics, Dr. A. T. Thomson                         —        —          6 0
 Chemistry, Dr. Turner                                                     —       —           7 0
 Comparative        Anatomy     and   Zoology,   Dr.  R.  E.  Grant      For 4 months         2 0
Medical Juris- I Dr. A. T.Thomson...                               )
                                                                       Fee for Session 4 „
    prudence,          J Professor Amos, Prof, of Law... J
Botany, Professor Lindley                                                  —       —          3 0
Veterinary       Medicine     and   Surgery,   Mr. Youatt                  —       —          5    0
     These fees, where they axceed 41., may be paid               in  two  divisions,      viz.  in
 October and January.
     Particulars of these Courses may be had at the University j at Mr. Tay
 lor's, 30, Upper Gower Street; and at all Medical Booksellers.
    A Dispensary is attached to the University, of which John Hogg, M.D.
is House.Surgeon.
           The General Classes open in November, and are as follows : —
 Latin, Professor T. H. Key                                                     Fee ..£7 10
 Greek, H. Maiden                                                                  „ .. 7 10
Mathematics                                                                           ,,..    7   0
E nglish Language, Dr. Blair                                                          .. 5 0
French Language, P. T. Merlet                                                     ,»  .. 5 0
German Language, Professor                                                       ,, .. 5 0
Italian Language, Professor A. Panuzi                                             ,*  .. 5 0
Oriental Languages, Professor                                                         .. 6 0
Hebrew, Professor H. Hunvita                                                      „ .. 5 0
Philosophy of the Mind and Logic, Professor Rev. J. Hoppus „ . , 5 0
Natural Philosophy and Astronomy, Professor Kev. Dr.
   Lardner                                                                       „ .. 7 0
Political Economy, Professor J. R. M'Culloch                                                 5    0
English Law, Professor A. Amos                                                   „ .. 5 0
                                                     By Order of the Council,
   lSth September 1831.                                            THOMAS COATES,

4                  Entertaining Knowledge Advertiser.
                        This Day is Published, Price       2s.
A PLAN           for conducting      the
tration and the Service. By A SUBSCRIBER.
                                           ROYAL NAVAL SCHOOL, re
        spectfully submitted to the Consideration of the Council         of Adminis
                    London  :  Charles Knight, Pall Mall East.
                             Preparing for Publication,
            PA LEY'S      NATURAL             THEOLOGY ILLUSTRATED.
 DR.     With Notes and Dissertations      by the   LORD CHANCELLOR, and
                       CHARLES         BELL,    Esq., F.R.S.
                  And with numerous Figures and Engravings.
                             To which will    be prefixed,
   A PRELIMINARY DISCOURSE                     on the Objects, Advantages,
           and Pleasures of the Study of Natural Theology.
   A fine Edition will  be printed    in 8vo. j a cheap Edition,       unifor with
"The Library of Entertaining Knowledge j" and                  a limited number of
Copies on large Paper, for Libraries.
    September 1831.
                           TO NATURALISTS,             &c.
Early in May will be Published, In one very thick Volume,              Svo.   with nu
                   merous illustrative Wood-cuts, Price 1/. U.
                       ORNITHOLOGICAL DICTIONARY.                             A New
MONTAGU'SEdition, With    the Genera, as established by Temminck, Selbv,
Vigors, and other eminent Naturalists. A PLAN OF STUDY, the Use of
Systems, and Numerous Original Observations.               By JAMES RENNIE,
A.M., A.L.S., Professor of Natural History, King's College, London,
Author of " Insect Architecture," "Insect Transformations,'* &c. &c.
   London: Hurst, Chance, and Co. 05, St. Paul's Churchyard ;               and Whit-
 aker, Treacher, and Arnott, Ave Maria Lane.
                                        Also,
   Preparing for Immediate Publication, in a Neat Pocket Volume, I8mo.
   A CONSPECTUS of BUTTERFLIES and MOTHS, with De
scriptions of all the species found in Britain, amounting to nearly 2000;
their English and Scientific Names, the peculiar food, habitats, &c. of their
Caterpillars, and the times of their Appearance.           By J. RENNIE, A.M.,
Professor of Natural History, King's College, London, Author of "Insect
Architecture," &c. &c.
  Mr. Rgnnib has in a state of forwardness, a translation, with copious
Notes and Syuonimes, of Lb Vaillant's magnificent Works, the Birds
of Africa, the Birds of Paradise, and the Parrots, uniform with
his edition of Montagu's Ornithological Dictionary.                         The very
high prices of these splendid works have hitherto kept them exclusively in
the bauds of a lew amateurs.

[
L.



ft


