This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
http://books.google.com

amusements
Scientific
people
young
for
Pepper
Henry
John

-ia?-~ "#r-



\7Z'^{
       HUMPHRY DAVY'S MOUTHFUL £2 PF.R1MF.NTS.

 "-" '                                                           ', •        i .'
  f. .
 Chi        •-"
 ( .         .'.
 01"
 01 :-
 C ''•               -C'».V.
  vV ..
                                      fV
                  JOHN iLivXRY ; ... i :. K.
r.C.3., A. IB ST. C'JB.i'tV •:    ••> .^' .•.',.                  .   .]-. .
       POLTTIQJIWIC, "ii'THUS             'S < '  1 ! i. ; k¦li SciRXi.li.
                     »> ...    -.
                 ^iijj at-.: (p .«.. • i>;iir:J) |;U'jtrmous.
 KOI.'TLEDGP, WAViV; . AJS'D itOLTLEPf
                         ^AHRT^Scr N ST .F <•"?.
                  NE^r YOjdC- . ', WALK. .It STKEKr.
        \C\c\S .                   -£*               25

  r.
,

 SCIENTIFIC AMUSEMENTS
               YOUNG people!:: i                                i )u
                             COMPRISING
 CHEMISTRY.                                 KALEIDOSCOPE.
 CRYSTALLIZATION.                           MAGIC LANTERN.
 COLOURED EIRES.                            ELECTRICITY.
 CURIOUS EXPERIMENTS.                       GALVANISM.
 OPTICS.                                    MAGNETISM.
 CAMERA OBSCUEA.                           AEROSTATION.
 MICROSCOPE.                               ARITHMETIC, ETC.
               JOHN HENRY PEPPER,
F.C.S., A. INST. C.E., LATE PROFESSOR OF CHEMISTRY AT THE ROYAL
     POLYTECHNIC, AUTHOR OF " THE PLAYBOOK OF SCIENCE,"
                  " THE PLAYBOOK OE METALS," ETC.
             SBiib, abobe ©tu iimirrtb Illustrations.
                            LONDON :
 EOUTLEDGE, WAENE, AND EOUTLEDGE,
                       FARRINGDON STREET.
               NEW YORK: 56, WALKER STREET.
                                1861.
                                             23
         <n5- i

             LOirooir :
S1TILL iOfl) EDTTABDS, PbIHUbS
       CHAlfDOS STBBXT.

                           CONTENTS.
                                  PAGE                                    PAGE
IHIHODTJCTIOIT                        1      Common Salt                     34
                                             To make large Crystals ...      34
.Chemistby                            3      Lead Tree                       35
  The Atmosphere                      9      Arbor Dianas, or Silver Tree .  35
     The Barometer                   10   Chemistry of Water                36
     Atmospheric Air . '. . . . 11           To test the Purity of Water .  36
     Modes of preparing Oxygen Gas 12        Pure Water not affected by
  Experiments with Oxygen Gas . 11              Tests                        36
     Coloured Light obtained by              To procure Oxygen Gas ...      37
       burning Sulphur in Oxygen 14          Care required in burning
     To bleach Flowers .... 14                  Hydrogen                    37
     To obtain a White Solid from            Fire on Water                  37
        Water                        14     Experiments with Hydrogen .     38
     To make Test Papers ... 15             Sounds obtained by burning
     Turmeric Paper                  15         Hydrogen under Glass Tubes  38
     Test for Alkalies               15      Formation of Water ....        38
     Heat and Light obtained by           Experiments with various Gases     33
       burning Phosphorus in                Nitrous Oxide, or LaughingGas   38
       Oxygen                       15      Coal Gas                        39
     Monochromatic Light ... 16             Violet-coloured Vapour ...      39
     Acid obtained by burning               Chlorine                        39
       Phosphorus in Oxygen . . 16        Experiments with Carbon and
     Chameleon Experiment ... 17               Hydrogen                     41
     Combustion of Steel in Oxygen 17       Carbonic Acid Gas ....          42
     Fire from Water, or theModern          Remarks on Carbon and Hy
       Greek Fire                   17         drogen                       42
    Fire from Ice                   18      Coal Gas                        44
  Analysis of Air                   18    Miscellaneous Experiments . .     45
    Light Gas will float on Heavy           Heat                            45
       Gas                          19      Prince Rupert's Drops ...       46
    To prepare Nitrogen .... 19             Attraction and Decomposition    47
    To make Atmospheric Air . . 20          To melt a Coin in a Nut-shell   48
  Heat or Caloric                   20      Tomake Water phosphorescent     48
  Experiments producing Heat                Luminous Writing in the Dark    49
       and Cold                     26      Semblanceof Perpetual Motion    49
    Crystals of Snow                27      Artificial Petrifactions ...    49
    Water at the Freezing Point . 27        Beautiful Experiment with
    Fusible Metal at certain Tem               Phosphorus                   49
       peratures                    28    Sympathetic Inks                  50
    To examine Crystals of Snow . 28      Coloured Fires                    51
    To make Ice in Summer . . 28            Red Fire                        51
    Heat by Solidifying a Liquid . 29       Green Fire                      51
    Heat by condensing Water . 29           Bluish-white Fire               51
    Latent and sensible Heat . . 29         Bengal Light                    51
    To imitate Hoar-frost ... 29            Orange-coloured Fire ...        51
    Boiling one Liquid may freeze           Spur Fire                       51
       another                      30    Concluding Remarks ....           52
    Freezing Mixtures .... 31
 .Crystallization                   31  Optical Experiments ....            53
    Alum Baskets                    32    Sources of Light                  54
    Starlike Crystals               32    Phosphorescence                   59
    Beautiful Groups of Crystals . 32       Solar Phosphor!                 59
    Crystals of Alum                33      Phosphorescence by Heat . .     60
    Metallic Crystallization ... 33         Bodies spontaneously phos
    Crystals of Blue Vitriol . . . 33          phorescent                   60
    Crystallization on Insects,             Phosphorescent Living Animals   61
       Flowers, &c                  33      Phosphorescence of the Sea .    61
    Oxychloride of Lead .... 34             Phosphorescent       Vegetable
    Crystals of Glauber Salts . . 34           Substances                   62

                                   CONTENTS.
                                 PAGB                                     PAGB
    Emission of Light during                Repulsion of the Poles ...      95
      Crystallization               62      Directive Power of the Magnet   95
  Phenomena of Light ....           63      To make Artificial Magnets .    95
    Reflection of Light ....        63      To magnetise a Poker ...        96
    Kaleidoscope                    64      Magnetised Watch ....           96
    Myriamoscope                    65      Magnetic Repulsion and At
    Refraction of Light ....        65        traction                      96
  Magic Lantern                     67      Magnetic Polarity               96
    Painting the Sliders ....       68      North and South Magnetic
    Screen for the Lanterns . .     71        Poles                         97
    Stanhope Lens                   71      Magnetic Fish                   97
    Camera Obscura                  71      Horse-shoe Magnets ....         97
    Simple Microscopes ....         72      To make Magnets with Poker
    Water Lenses                    72        and Tongs                     98
    Prismatic Colours               72      Soft-iron Magnets               98
    Optical Augmentation ...        73      Needle suspended in the Air .   99
    Thaumatrope                     74    Electro-magnetism                 99
    Stroboscope or Phenakistiscope  74      Power of Electro-magnet . .     99
    Optical Deceptions ....         75      Dip of the Needle . ....        99
    Curious Optical Experiment .    76      Variation of the Needle ...    100
    Optical Game                    76      Mariner's and Pocket Compass   100
    ExperimentwithRays of Light     76      Amusement with a Pocket
Electricity, Galvanism, ani>                  Compass                      100
      Magnetism                     77      Particulars concerning the
    Simple Means of producing                 Magnet                       101
      Electricity                   80    Conclusion                       101
    Attraction and Repulsion ex         Aerostation                        102
      hibited                       80      Air and Fire Balloons . . .    108
    Cheap Electrical Machine . .    81      Paraehutes                     110
    Conductor                       82      Balloon Signals                110
    Plate Electrical Machine . .    82
    Sparks drawn from the Nose .    83  Arithmetic                         113
    To fill a Leyden Jar ....       83      To find the Difference between
    Electrical Battery              83        a known and unknown
    Dancing Balls and Dolls . .     84        Number                       114
    Electrical Kiss                 84      Three Countrywomen and
    Ringing Bells                   85        Eggs                         115
    Working Power of Electricity    85      To divide any Number by Nine 116
    Electrified Wig                 85      Curious Arrangement of Digi
    Imitation Thunderclouds . .     86        tal Numbers                  116
    Imitation Lightning ....        86      Basket and Stones              116
    Electrical Sportsman ...        87      Magic Square                   116
    Experiments with Frictional             Natural Square                 117
      Electricity                   87      Unequal Shillings in a Hand
    Electrical Machines ....        89        discovered                   117
    ExcitationoftheElectrophorus    89      Countrywoman and Eggs . . 118
    Illustration of Conductors . .  89      To tell a Number thought of . 118
    Illustration of Non-Conductors  89      To tell twoNumbers thought of 119
    Effect of Points                89      To tell a Figure struck out . 120
    Effect of Balls                 89      Horse-dealer's Bargain . . . 120
  Experiments with Voltaic Elec             To find the least Number of
      tricity or Galvanism ...      90        Weights                      120
    Experiments with Plates in              Curious Arrangement of One
      Water                         91        Hundred Figures .... 121
    To make a Magnet by Gal                 Square Yards required for the
      vanism                        92        Permutations of the Alphabet 121
    Effects of Galvanism on a               Number Forty-five .... 122
      Magnet                        92      Profit and Loss                122
    ChangeofColourbyGalvanism       92      Philosopher's Pupils .... 122
    To electrotype Seals ....       92      Company of Four Merchants . 122
  Experiments with Magnetism .      93      Road-making                    123
    Magnetic Swan                   94      Two Travellers                 123
    Magnetism in Scales ....        95      To tell the Breadth of a River
    To show Polar Attraction . .    95        by the Brim of a Hat . . .123

   SCIENTIFIC AMUSEMENTS.
                               Kg. 1.
                      INTRODUCTION.
Many years ago, a little boy, with his face most unpleasantly
speckled with a number of small scars (just healing), happened to
meet that awful personage the "Family Doctor," who was coming
down stairs from a grand medical consultation with mamma and the
assembled inmates of the nursery. The grave son of JSsculapius at
once and most tenderly inquired (oh ! that dreadful physic bill) after
the health of the juvenile, with a view, no doubt, to correct the
excessive heat of blood which had caused so frightful an eruption on
his youthful countenance. And "Pray, sir," asked the doctor,
"what is the matter with you?" The boy, half frightened at the
distant prospect of bolus and draught, replied, in the usual lucid
manner, "Nothing, sir." "Nothing!" said the doctor; "why
what an inflammatory state your skin is in ; I must send you some
cooling medicine immediately, my dear boy." " Oh, sir, please sir,

2                            INTRODUCTION.
don't ; it's phosphorus ! ! "      The doctor forgot his dignity, and
stared with amazement; he was clever, but of the very old school ;
he waited one moment, felt the boy's pulse, and looked hard in his
face again as if to count the spots, and at last his pent-up feelings
found vent. "Take care, sir! take care, or you'll blow your head
off with your chemical pranks ; and now tell me how it happened."
The youthful philosopher was not long in relating he had read in
a book on chemistry, that if phosphorus and chlorate of potash were
rubbed together in a mortar, they made a "bang," which he had
tried accordingly in his bedroom, secretly, with the help of the
kitchen mortar ; that the stuff would not go off at first, and whilst he
gathered up all his strength and gave the blow that produced the
stunning effect, his face, somehow or other, came over the mortar,
and all the phosphorus blew up into it ; and "a lucky fellow," re
joined the doctor, " you are, to escape the penalty of injured eyes ,,"
and so will every one say who reads this account ; but the moral of
our story is, the caution to all would-be juvenile philosophers not to
attempt experiments they do not thoroughly understand, and espe
cially to avoid those results that merely end in explosions, and try
only those combinations of chemical substances which are pleasing
and without danger, such as will now be described in the following
popular sketch of the Science of Chemistry.
           Fig. 2. The danger of experiments with explosive bodies.

                            CHEMISTRY.
In the history of nations we read of a very brave and talented
people who, under the name of the "Moors," and sometimes called
the " Saracens," helped to rescue the rude Romano-German popula
tion of Europe from the Gothic brutishness and ignorance into which
they had lapsed. The warlike Moors originally came from Arabia,
and are, therefore, the descendants of Ishmael ; and although, when
conquerors, they were (at first) quite as ready to destroy as to create,
and, in pursuit of the former evil passion, even burnt the magnificent
library of Alexandria ; yet, when they had conquered and gained
wealth, they cultivated learning of every kind, and became highly
civilized ; so that, when they ruled Spain, they introduced into
 Europe the science of astronomy, the principles of numeral notation,
 algebra, and the noble science of chemistry, which derives its name
 (according to the Rev. Mr. Palmer, Professor of Arabic) from the
 word " alchemy," or more properly " al-kemy," the knowledge of the
 tubstance or composition of bodies, so named from the substantive
 (kyamon), that is, the constitution of anything, derived from the root
 Icama.
     It is pretended by some that the words chemistry and alchemy
 are derived from the name of Shem or Chem, the son of Noah, who
 is said to have been an adept in the art, and to this day there are
 persons who assert that the Jews still possess the art of making
 gold, or they could not possess such fabulous wealth. Others say
  the art was derived from the Egyptians, amongst whom it was
 founded by Hermes Trismegistus. The Jesuit, Father Martini, in
  his "Historia Sinica," says it was practised by the Chinese 2500
  years before the birth of Christ ; but, as he does not produce any
  proofs or data upon which this statement is founded, his assertion is
  worth very little or nothing. There
  can be no doubt that impostors,
  who deceived the unwary with the
  pretence of making gold and silver,
  existed in Rome in the first cen
  turies after the Christian era, and
  that, when discovered, they were
  liable to punishment as knaves and
  swindlers.
      At Constantinople, in the fourth
  century, the art of transmutation
   was fully believed in, and many
   Greek ecclesiastics wrote learned
   treatises thereon ; of these and
   other distant periods the informa
   tion respecting alchemy must be        —„,,,.                 , ..
        •i   j j i.c i       i i. •* ,    Tip;. 3. Analembic, oralambie, em-
   considered doubtful; but it is pioyld by the alchemists for the pro-
   certain that in the eighth century cess of distillation and sublimation.
                                                                 B2

                                   CHEMISTET.
the art reappeared amongst the Arabians. Now, there are many
words in common use which are derived (like the word alchemy) from
the Arabic language, such as "Al-manack," "Al-koran;" and hence
it is not surprising to find chemical words which hare the like origin .
Thus the word "Al-kali," derived from kali a plant, al-kali of a
plant, representing an important class of chemical bodies having
opposite qualities to acids, is clearly of Arabic origin ; so again, with
the names of apparatus, such as the alembic or alambic. This is
compounded of the Arabic particle al the, and the Greek word
ambix, a kind of cup or cover of a pot. It is now used to denote the
whole of an apparatus for distilling, as in Fig. 3 ; but it formerly
denoted, according to Bishop Watson, only one part of it—viz., the
head, or that part in which the distilled matter was collected.
    Astrology preceded astronomy, and alchemy paved the way for
the science of chemistry. Much valuable time and money were
                            thrown away by learned but misguided men,
                            who, groping their way in the dark, and not
                            having the advantage of perusing books written
                            by shining lights—such as Sir Humphry Davy
                            or Faraday—stumbled on many valuable truths
                            in their pursuit of the ever- attractive " Philo
                            sopher's Stone, " which was to turn lead into
                            gold ; or, as a magical potation, under the name
                            of the " Elixir of Life," was not only to impart
                            longevity, but continual life, so that the maker
                            of the gold should not lose it in the grim clutch
                            of King Death. The worldly desire to have and
                            enjoy is well depicted in these dreams of the
                            alchemists, whilst the most intense nonsense is
                            apparent in many of their notions ; thus, in a
                            " Discourse on divers Spagyrical [i.e. chemical]
                            Experiments and Curiosities, and of the Ana
    Fig. 4. A signifies the tomy of Gold and Silver," by one John French,
 candlestick, which must
 be hollow and full of "Doctor of Physick," and printed as late as
 water.                     1651, in the time of the " Commonwealth" of
    b. The top of the can- Oliver Cromwell, weare gravely told how " To-
 wMleI°to,contauiagood extract" white milkie substance from the rayes
store' of water, for to of the moon ;" at the same time, in this dis
till up the candlestick as course there is much that is useful, and we
thc°Thelecandle "which learn that distillation may be conducted by
must be as long' as the     a lamp ; and this statement is accompanied
 candlestick.               with a diagram, of which a copy is given
   D. The vessel that con   (Fig. 4) where we see the germ—the principle
tains either water, sand,
 or ashes for any vessel    of Palmer's celebrated spring candlestick,
 to be set into.            in which the candle is maintained at one
        A glass vessel      height by the compression and elasticity of a
standing in digestion.      sprjno-.
     Grave and honest men continued their studies in alchemy with
 amazing industry—the clever chemist, not alchemist—Boerhaave,
 distilled mercury 1009 times in order, as he says, in his paper

                                  CHEMISTBY.
addressed to the Koyal Society, "to subvert the high pretensions
of other alchemists that mercury could never be freed from its original
impurity but by being joined to some purer body of the same nature
with itself, such as gold or silver," as also to prove "the unchange-
ableness both of mercury and gold, how often soever they were dis
tilled together."
   During the time that the true believers continued their experiments
there was another class of men who, with consummate impudence,
possessed themselves of a few chemical terms and hard words, and
astonished the ignorant with juggling tricks, which passed for true
alchemy. They had only to consult the works of clever, perhaps
honest alchemists, to learn the magniloquent style of describing
 experiments. There was Paracelsus, who was undoubtedly a
 most learned man, and called by Naude' "the zenith and rising
 sun of all the alchemists ;" he indulged in a rampant style of
puffing himself. In the year 1528 he was chosen Professor of Physics
and Natural Philosophy in the University of Basle, where his lectures
attracted vast numbers of students ; he treated the physicians of his
'time with the most absurd vanity and illiberal insolence, telling
them " that the very down of his bald pate had more knowledge than
all their writers, the buckles of his shoes more learning than Galen
and Avicenna, and his beard more experience than all their univer
sities ;" he revived the extravagant doctrines of Raymond Lully con-
       Fig. 5. The death of Sombas'eg Paracelsus by drinkinj alcohol, being
                            liia alleged Elixir of Life.

6                                CHEMISTRY.
cerning an universal medicine, and boasted himself to be in possession
               of secrets able to prolong the present period of human life
               to that of the Antediluvians : he had, in fact, made the
               discovery of alcohol, and thought that in it he had found
               the long-sought elixir of life. Paracelsus determined to
               put it to the test, and, drinking copiously of his alcohol
               (with a daring worthy of a better cause), sank dead on
               the floor of his laboratory—a type, as Cumming says,
                ' ' of man's effort to save himself—that is, to live for
               ever I"
                    The swindlers and cheats did not propose to them
                selves such tragic experiments, but studied carefully the
    Figi °'m ar^ of deceiving fools (of whom, it is said, the human race
 b Common is chiefly composed) by first awakening the passion of
iron.           avarice ; thus they would invest a little of the precious
   The whole, metal in the construction of a nail half gold and half
beingpainted {T0D) and meeting with a victim of the required softness,
reddish1 co- 'hey would then carelessly remove it from their pockets
lour, would in company with other nails, and, producing a phial of
have the ap- the elixir, would expend the last drop in changing the nail
rusWnail        intogold; tlie elixir, of course, being coloured water that
                could wash off the paint with which the nail was covered.
    The last drop of elixir being expended, it was of course necessary
 for the alchemist to prepare some more, and presenting the nail as
 an earnest of his power, he would be at free quarters for many
months with his patron, who would incur, at the alchemist's sugges
tion, unheard-of expenses for chemicals, glasses, furnaces, &c,
                        until tired out with repeated failures, he would
                     A send the alchemist (not empty) away, to repeat in,
                        some other locality the same impertinent trick on
                        the wisdom of his fellow-creatures.         There is
                        nothing that better demonstrates the shrewdness
                        of Queen Elizabeth than her dealings withDr. Dee.
                        Like our own beloved Sovereign, she was the patron
                        of learned men, and having been presented with a
                        round piece of silver which Dr. Dee pretended he
                        had made of a portion of brass cut out of a warming
                        pan, the said pan being afterwards sent to her
                        majesty that she might convince herself that the
                        piece of silver exactly corresponded with the hole
                        which was cut into the brass ; did receive him most
                        favourably, at least so far as words went, and gave
                        orders that he should not be molested in his pur
   ine. 7. A. Hollow suits of chemistry and philosophy, at the same
metal rod, in which time, with most sensible queen-craft, intimated
waxTo^Sse m that the man who could make silver must be per-
end.' G. The grains fectly independent of her exchequer,
of gold. c. A cork,       There were other mendicant rogues wno pre-
to prevent the tended to transmute vulgar lead and copper
Sg^nonSe iiTthe ^to royal gold by certain powders, which they
tube.                  projected and always stirred into the baser metal,

                                CHEMISTET.
to the wondering delight and edifieation of all concerned. In
fact, the stirrer was the primum mobile in this amusing fraud ; and
after the fashion of the wonderful miracle of producing the omelette
in the empty frying-pan, as narrated by all truth- loving chroniclers
of Spain and her mendicant monks, these cunning jugglers pre
viously conveyed their atom of gold into the hollow of the stirrer, and
by the help of a little powdered charcoal, sulphur, and nitre, which
made a great deflagration or fizz, when thrown into the red-hot
crucible, the eyes of the curious were dazzled, and the conjurors
passed themselves off as the possessors of the true philosopher's stone,
and rewarded the believers and reproved the incredulous by the pro
duction of a modicum of gold.
    It were tedious to give the names of all the alchemists
who have distracted the peace of mind of others who suc
ceeded them by their insane ravings after the mysterious chemical
which was, by multiplication on the largest scale, to pro
duce a mountain of gold from a molehill of the quintessence ; it is suffi
cient to know that, so far as our modern chemistry enlightens us, it
is impossible to change one element into
another. There are certain substances
which are called allatropic; that is to
say, they are capable of assuming one
or more physical states, and putting on
such disguises, that even the best de
vised masqueradedress cannot approach
them in the perfection of concealment.
    Thus charcoal, which possesses almost
the property of ubiquity, is to be found
as the very cornerstone in the fabric of
the fairest faces of Eve's daughters.
It lurks in the sweetened cup of tea,
and a quarter of a pound of nice white
lump sugar put into a breakfast-cup with
the smallest possible dash of boiling-          Fig. 8. Alchemist using his
water, and then the addition of plenty                  hollow rod.
of oil of vitriol, is a truly wonderful spectacle, and more instructive
than much reading ; to see the
white sugar turn black, then
boil spontaneously, and now ,
rising out of the cup in solemn
black, it heaves and throbs as
the oil of vitriol continues its
work in the lower part of the
cup, emitting volumesof steam
and reminding one of some of
those remarkable upheavings
of the earth which geologists
delight to paint and talk about,
till the acid has spent its fury ; /'§!, 9- Breakfast cup containing a quarter
 ,.   .      i. c     '      l , of a pound ot lump sugar, upon which a little
the elements torming water m boilmg water has been poured, and then
 the sugar have been attracted, plenty of sulphuric acid.

  8                              CHEMISTRY.
 and are now united to the oil of vitriol (scientifically called sul
 phuric acid), a divorce has taken place between the water and the
 charcoal, which latter now tumbles over the sides of the cup.
     In describing this experiment the other state of charcoal (the alla-
 tropic condition) must not be forgotten. The breakfast-cup is full
  of—no ! not diamonds !—it only contains a porous sort of black
  charcoal ; and yet, in Nature's hand, this common black matter is
  moulded into the costly diamond, and, glancing from the ring on the
  finger to the solid contents of the cup, it is difficult to trace out any
 analogy ; but this is the point of the argument, and is the nearest
 approach to the alchemical fantasy of our forefathers. A substance
  may take two or three forms, as already described, but it is impossible,
  so far as experience teaches us, to change one element into another.
  We may have charcoal—as coke—the diamond—plumbago—anthra
  cite, a smokeless coal—but we cannot change it, or lead, or copper
  into gold, unless we adopt the time-honoured and most successful
 mode of transmutation, and become coal, lead, or diamond merchants.
     Speaking of elements, brings us to the consideration ofchemistry as
 a modern science. Just eighty-seven years ago Dr. Priestley began his
 famous experiments with the preparation and examination of various
  gaseous bodies, one important result of which was the discovery of
  " oxygen gas," the foundation of the present classified and embodied
  series of facts that record the labours of so many talented men.
  Thus oxygen deservedly stands at the head of the list of the ele
 ments which form every animate and inanimate thing within, upon,
 or about the world. There is nothing more encouraging to a be
  ginner in chemistry, such as the youthful philosopher who expends
 his shillings and sixpences in chemicals and apparatus, who disdains
  to play out his half-holidays, and, enraptured with the wonders of
  which he is the magician, is better pleased experimenting in the
 secluded garret-room than in the noisy playground—there is nothing
 more satisfactory than the statement that the highest mountain and
 the lowest valley, the most beautiful summer-cloud or the grandest
 cataract of water, the ugliest reptile or the most graceful form,
 the noblest palace erected by the hand of man, with its pictures,
 statuary, paintings, carpets, furniture, silks, satins, velvets, its costly
 jewels, diamonds, pearls, rubies, and sapphires, orthe poorer hovel, with
 its shivering tenants in rags, can each and all be referred in composition
 to some sixty-two or -three elements, which are easily classified, viz. : —
     Three permanent gases—oxygen, nitrogen, hydrogen.
     Four elements having many similar characteristics—chlorine,
 bromine, iodine, fluorine.
     Five solids which do not possess the usual metallic properties—
 carbon, boron, selenium, sulphur, phosphorus.
     Fifty metals, only one of which is a liquid—viz. , quicksilver or
 mercury—all the others being solid.*
     In this list there is the alpha, beta, gamma, delta of chemistry,
 puzzled out by the laborious work of some of the most talented and
    * For more extended information on these elements, the reader is referred to
-the " Flaybook of Science," and the "Playbook ofMetals." (Routledge.Warne
 and Co.)

                               CHEMISTRT.                               9
gifted of men, and, once grasped, this chemical alphabet is the step
ping-stone to compound words of one or more syllables, or containing
one or more elements. Thus oxygen and hydrogen combined spell
water; charcoal, oxygen, and calcium, chemically united, spell the
marble arch; carbonate of lime, sulphur, oxygen, aluminium, potas
sium, spell alum. The word spell is pressed into the service, and is
intended, of course, to be a synonym for the verb to form or pro
duce ; at all events, having been once used in this way to help an
analogy, we may lay it on one side, and now begin to describe some
of these experimental lessons, commencing with
                         THE ATMOSPHERE.
 NlTltOGEN is the principal constituent of the air of the atmosphere
 which surrounds our globe, extending to a height of about forty-five
 miles above it, and playing a most important part in the economy of
 nature, inorganic as well as organic.
     This atmospheric air consists of nearly four-fifths of nitrogen, and
 rather more than one-fifth of oxygen, about seventy-nine of the
 former to twenty-one of the latter, and generally contains also a
 variable proportion of the vapour of water, and a very small quan
 tity of carbonic acid gas, scarcely amounting to 1 part in 1000. Its
 constituent parts are so easily separated, that it appears to be rather
 an intimate mixture than a chemical compound, though the mixture
 is so complete that chemists have not been able to ascertain any dif
 ference in the composition of air taken from all parts of the world,
 and from different heights, up to the highest point which has to this
 time been attained.
     This atmosphere presses on the surface of the globe and every
 being on it, with a force of about fifteen pounds to every square inch
 of surface, but as it presses equally in all directions, upwards as well
 as downwards, its weight cannot be perceived unless the pressure be
 removed from one surface by some artificial means.
                               EXPERIMENTS.
     1. Place a cylinder of strong glass, open at both ends, on the plate
  of the air-pump, and put your hand on the other end, and you will
  of course be able to remove it at pleasure. Now exhaust the air from
  the interior of the cylinder, and at each stroke of the pump you will
  feel your hand pressed tighter and tighter on the cylinder, until you
  will not be able to remove it ; as soon as the air is again admitted
  to the interior of the cylinder, the pressure within will be restored,
  and the hand again be at liberty.
      2. Tie a piece of moistened bladder very firmly over one end of a
  similar glass cylinder, and place the open end on the plate of the
  pump. As soon as you begin to exhaust the air from the interior,
   the bladder, which was previously quite horizontal, will begin to
  .bulge inwards, the concavity increasing as the exhaustion proceeds,
  ;until the bladder, no longer able to bear the weight of the superin
  cumbent air, breaks with a loud report.

10                             CHEMISTRY.
   3. The elasticity of air, or indeed of any gaseous body, may be
shown by introducing under the air-pump receiver a bladder con
taining a very small quantity of air, its mouth being closely tied. As
you exhaust the air from the receiver, that portion contained iu the
Madder being no longer pressed upon by the atmosphere, will gra
dually expand, distending the bladder until it appears nearly full ;
on re-admitting the air into the receiver, the bladder will at once
shrink to its former dimensions.
   A shrivelled apple placed under the same conditions, will appear
plump when the air is removed from the receiver, and resume its
former appearance on the re-admission of the air.
   4. There is a very pretty apparatus made for the purpose of show
ing the pressure of the atmosphere, consisting of a hollow globe of
brass, about three inches in diameter, divided into two equal parts,
which fit very accurately together ; it is furnished with two handles,
one of them screwed into a hollow stem, communicating with the
interior of the globe, and fitting on to the air-pump ; the other is
attached to a short stem on the opposite side of the globe. In the
natural state, the globe may easily be separated into its two hemi
spheres by one person pulling the handles; but after the air has been
exhausted from the interior, it requires two very strong men to sepa
rate the parts, and they will often fail. By turning the stopcock,
and re-admitting the air into the interior of the globe, it will come
asunder as easily as at first.
                            THE BAROMETER.
   We are indebted to the weight of the atmosphere for the power we
possess of raising water by the common pump, for the piston of the
pump withdrawing the air from the interior of the pipe, which ter
                       minates in water, the pressure of the atmo
                       sphere forces the water up the pipe to supply
                       the place of the air withdrawn. It was soon
             SO.mcks. found, however, that when the column of water
                       iu the pipe was more than thirty feet high, the
                       pump became useless, for the water refused
                       to rise higher. Why ? It was found that a
                       column of water about thirty feet high, exerted
                       a pressure equal to the weight of the atmo
                       sphere, thus establishing an equilibrium be
                       tween the water in the pipe and the atmo
                       spheric pressure.
                          This is the principle on which the barometer,
                       or measurer of weight, as its name imports, is
                       constructed. The metal Mercury is about
                       twelve times heavier than water, consequently,
                       if a column of water thirty feet high balances
                       the pressure of the atmosphere, a column of
        Fig. 10.       mercury thirty inches high ought to do so also,
                       and this is in fact the case. If you take a glass
tube nearly three feet long, and closed at one end, fill it with mer.

                               CIIEHISTET.                              11
cury, then placing your finger on the open end, invert the tube into
a basin or saucer containing some of the same metal ; upon removing
your finger (which must be done carefully, while the mouth of the
tube is completely covered by the mercury), it will be seen that the
fluid will fall a few inches, leaving the upper part of the tube empty.
Such a tube with a graduated scale attached, is in truth a baro
meter, and as the weight of the atmosphere increases or decreases,
so the mercury rises or falls in the tube. This instrument is of the
greatest value to the seaman, for a sudden fall of the barometer will
often give notice of an impending storm, when all is fine and calm,
and thus enable the manner to make the preparations necessary to
meet the danger.
   This instrument was discovered by an Italian philosopher, named
Torricelli, and from him the vacuum formed in the upper end of the
tube above the surface of the mercury, has been called the Torri
cellian vacuum. It is by far the most perfect vacuum that can be
obtained, containing necessarily nothing but a minute quantity of
the vapour of mercury.
                               EXPERIMENT.
    Pass a little ether through the mercury in the tube, and as soon as
it reaches the empty space it will boil violently, depressing the mer
cury until the pressure of its own vapour is sufficient to prevent its
ebullition. If you now cool the upper part of the tube, so as to con
dense the vapour, the pressure being thus removed, the ether will
again begin to boiL and so alternately, as often as you please. In
 order to show this fact with effect, the bore of the tube should not
be less than half an inch in diameter.
                            ATMOSPHERIC AIR.
    Atmospheric air contains, beside the oxygen and nitrogen, its
 principal constituents, a small proportion of carbonic acid gas, as has
been mentioned, and this may be shown by filling a tube about half
full of lime-water, and shaking it with the air contained in the other
half, when it will become slightly turbid from the insoluble carbonate
of lime formed.
    When we consider that every living animal is constantly con
 suming oxygen, and replacing it by carbonic acid gas, and that all
 burning bodies, fires in our dwellings, furnaces, artificial lights of all
 kinds, act in the same way in abstracting the oxygen from the air,
 and replacing it by immense quantities of carbonic acid gas, which is
 a poison to all animals who breathe, or attempt to breathe it, we must
 wonder what becomes of this irrespirable gas, as it is found to exist
 in the air in quantities so minute, and by what means the oxygen is
 restored, and the air again made fit for respiration. This is effected
 by one of those laws which the wisdom of the Creator has impressed
 upon matter, by which one part of creation as it were balances
 another, and all proceeds in an endless circle of change. This car
 bonic acid, which is so poisonous to animal life, is the food of the
 vegetable world, plants having the power of taking up the carbonic

12                            CHEMISTRT.
acid into their pores ; converting the carbon into their own sub
stance, and rejecting the oxygen, which is again respired by animals,
&c. In the same way, all animal refuse is the food of vegetables,
and is used under the name of manures.
   The atmosphere contains also a variable quantity of vapour of
water, invisible so long as it is in the state of vapour, but it may be
rendered obvious by bringing any very cold body into warm air, when
the vapour will condense on the cold body in the form of small drops
of water. A tumbler of fresh-pumped water brought into a crowded
room, is almost immediately covered with moisture, and it may also
be seen on bottles of wine which have been put into ice before coming
to table. Fogs are occasioned by the condensation of vapour, pro
duced by mixing a current of warm air with a colder air. The banks
of Newfoundland are notorious for dense fogs, occasioned by the
warm air brought from the south by the Great Gulf Stream mixing
with the cold air from the Arctic regions, and thus precipitating the
vapour in a visible form, rendering everything but itself invisible.
The famous London fogs depend upon the same precipitation of the
vapour of water, with the addition of the smoke from the numerous
 sea-coal fires, which give it that interesting yellow tinge for which it
is so remarkable.
   Aqueous vapour being lighter and more transparent than air,
permits objects to be seen more distinctly in proportion to its
quantity ; hence, when distant hills appear nearer, and objects
upon them more distinct than usual, rain may be expected, the
air being fully charged with vapour ready to be deposited on the
slightest cause.
          THE VARIOUS MODES OF PREPARING OXYGEN GAS.
   Procure an old gun-barrel, and plug up the touch-hole with wire,
or, if a larger quantity of oxygen is required, obtain an empty
iron quicksilver bottle, which may be purchased at Mr. Gale's, iron
monger, Oxford-street, for some three or four shillings. In the first
place, fit into the gun-barrel a cork with a pewter tube, or stretch a
piece of vulcanized india-rubber tube over the end of the gun-barrel,
having previously poured in gome black oxide of manganese, in grain,
not powder, as the latter contains water, which, expandinginto steam,
has a tendency to blow out the powdered manganese, causing it to
clog the pewter tube or vulcanized india-rubber tubing. If the
touch-hole end be now placed between the bars on an ordinary fire,
and the tube conveyed an inch or so beneath the surface of some
water in a pail or foot tub, bubbles of gas will soon escape, which
can be collected in a bottle previously filled with water and held over
the end of the pipe ; the gas ascends into the bottle, gradually dis
placing the water, and, when filled, the bottle is corked, or stoppered,
under water, and removed for use.
   If the large mercury bottle is used, an iron pipe is screwed into the
orifice, from which the plug is removed, and when the pipe is fixed,
the bottle is filled with grain manganese and placed in a proper

                                    CHEMISTEY.                                    13
furnace, whilst the gas can be conveyed to a pneumatic trough
by means of vulcanized india-rubber tubing, which is remarkably
useful for all experiments connected with the gases.
   Fig. 11. A, the iron bottle containing the black oxide of manganese, with pipe
passing to the pneumatic trough, b b, in which is fixed a shelf, c, perforated
with a hole, under which the end of the pipe is adjusted, and the gas passes
into the gas jar, d.
                 ANOTHER MODE OF MAKING OXYGEN GAS.
    Obtain a Florence oil flask, and having cleaned out the oil by
means of some bits of soap and boiling water, and thoroughly washing
the flask, let the vessel
dry, and then take away
the wicker work, which
need not be wasted, as
it can be coiled round
and bound, and answers
admirably for a stand
to support the flask up
right.      Into the flask
place a mixture of two
ounces       of powdered
chlorate of potash and
one ounce of powdered
black oxide of manga
nese, both        of which
should be dry and well             Fig. 12. 1. Florence oil flask with wickerwork.
mixed before they are              2. Ditto cleaned and dried.
placed in the flask ; then         3. The wicker converted into a pad to rest the
fit a cork and pewter flask            on.
                                   4. Cork borers fitting into each other, and of all
tube. The cork can be sizes.
easily bored, either with          5. Flask fitted with cork and bent tnbe, and con
a rat-tail file, or, what taining the chlorate of potash and black oxide of
                                 manganese, with spirit lamp. The pewter pipe
is still better, a cork- leads to No. 6.
horer, which can be pur            6. Pneumatic trough. The gas jar standing
chased at any of the che on the shelf, and receiving the bubbles of gas from
mical apparatus 3liops- No.           5. With the above arrangement nearly all
                                   N.IS.
.Now place the flask and the most interesting gases may be prepared.

14                             CHEMISTRY.
bent-tube on a ring-stand, and apply the heat of a spirit-lamp, when
torrents of gas will escape. The oxygen may be collected in gas jars
or bottles over the pneumatic trough, and pictures of all the appa
ratus used are given here, to assist the manipulation of the youthful
chemist, who wiil of course be most desirous to begin by making
oxygen gas.
            EXPERIMENTS WITH OXYGEN GAS.
If a lighted taper is blown out so as to leave a part of the snvff
(so-called, i.e. the wick) in a state of ignition, and then plunged into
oxygen gas, the taper relights with a slight pop or noise, being a
good example of the power of oxygen to support combustion.
   CURIOUS COLOURED LIGHT OBTAINED BY BURNING SULPHUR IN
                                 OXYGEN.
   Into a deflagrating spoon, which is a little cup made of brass or
copper screwed on to the end of a copper or iron wire, place a little
sulphur ; when set on fire, and plunged into oxygen, it emits a most
remarkable coloured light. After the combustion is over, some
amusing experiments can be made with the product.
            TO BLEACH A RED ROSE AND OTHER FLOWERS.
   If a red rose be placed inside the jar where the sulphur has been
burnt, the colour is discharged, and the rose rendered nearly white.
   Many variegated dahlias, blue heartsease, lor a bunch of blue
violets, have their colours curiously modified, if not bleached, by the
acid produced, which is called sulphurous acid, and is most largely
employed for bleaching straw hats and bonnets. The same acid is
exceedingly valuable as a disinfectant, and also for arresting fer
mentation. Many casks of home-made wine become home-made
vinegar in consequence of the rapidity of the fermentation in warm
weather ; and the fumes of sulphur, obtained either by burning that
substance in air or oxygen, have the remarkable power of stopping
the too-rapid conversion of sugar into alcohol. The sulphurous acid
described is one of the most ancient bleaching agents, and it is
even mentioned by Pliny as used for whitening woollen fleeces.
TO OBTAIN A WHITE SOLID FROM THE WATER IN WHICH THE GAS-JAR
              CONTAINING THE SULrHUROUS ACID STANDS.
   After trying the bleaching experiments explained, let the gas-jar
and the remaining fumes stand for some little time in a dish with
water containing a little nitric acid, when the acid and some sul
phuric acid will gradually fall into and mix with the water, which
should be pure and distilled. If a piece of paper coloured blue with
tincture of litmus be dipped into the water, it changes red, demon
strating the presence of an acid body ; and, on the addition of a solu
tion of nitrate of baryta, a white precipitate falls, called sulphate of
baryta, or heavy white. This is a pigment largely used for enamelled

                                CHEMISTET.                             15
 papers, and is also sometimes employed to adulterate white lead.
 Experiments can always be made, instructive as well as entertaining,
 and the production of the heavy white is a good example of chemical
 affinity, as well as of the indestructibility of matter, for it now con
 tains the greater part of the sulphur originally burnt in the oxygen
 gas—sulphate of baryta consisting of 16 parts sulphur, 32 parts
 oxygen, and 68J parts of the metal barium.
                          TO MAKE TEST PAPERS.
    Test papers are exceedingly valuable to the experimental chemist
 for the purpose of detecting the presence of acids and alkalies, and
 they may be prepared in the most simple manner. Take an ounce
 of litmus and place it in a ten-ounce bottle, pour upon it a mixture
 of five ounces of alcohol (methylated spirit will do very well) and five
 ounces of water ; continually shake the ingredients during several
 days, when a deep blue tincture will be obtained, which may be
 poured off clear into another bottle, or filtered through blotting-
 paper. To use the tincture of litmus (for all solutions of vegetable
 substances in alcohol are generally called tinctures, especially when
  employed in medicine), pour a little into a soup-plate, and then take
 some strips of blotting-paper, pass them through the tincture, when
 they will absorb sufficient to colour the paper a lovely blue, which
 is now to be hung up, and when dry placed in a well-corked or
 stoppered wide-mouthed bottle in a dark place. The paper is now
 called litmus paper, and is an exceedingly delicate test for acid bodies
soluble in water.
                             TUEMEETO PAPER.
    This test is used to detect alkalies, and, in contact with a solution
 of potash, soda, or ammonia, changes to a reddish-brown ; it is pre
pared in precisely the same manner as the litmus paper, by using
one ounce of powdered turmeric root to five ounces spirit and five
ounces water.
                ANOTHER DELICATE TEST FOR ALKALIES.
    Take some litmus paper and pass it through very weak vinegar,
and hang it up to dry. The paper is now red ; but, in the presence
 of an alkali, it immediately changes to a blue, as may be noticed in
trying some other amusipg experiments with oxygen gas.
   INTENSE HEAT AND LIGHT PRODUCED BY BURNING PHOSPHORUS
                                IN OXYGEN.
    If this experiment is tried with the precautions mentioned, the gas-
jar may be usually saved ; but, if carelessly performed, the heat pro
duced is so great that it generally cracks the glass. Take a moderate-
sized piece of phosphorus and dry thoroughly by pressing it gently
in blotting-paper ; place this in a deflagrating spoon, and, having
previously removed the, stopper of the gas-jar containing the
oxygen, place the spoon and its contents in the neck of the jar, and

16                               CHEMISTRY.
then ignite the phosphorus by touching it with a hot wire. Now
place the spoon in the centre of the jar, when a dazzling bright light
is obtained. This experiment is made still more amusing by first
showing some flowers in pots and coloured silks by a monochromatic
light, and afterwards lighting up the phosphorus, when all the colours
are shown with great brilliancy. In this case the gas-jar should be
screened from the eyes of the spectators, so that they may be able
to appreciate the changes of colour in the articles displayed by
the two lights.
                          A MONOCHROMATIC LIGHT.
   Into a pint-bottle of methylated spirit place two ounces of common
salt, which must be constantly shaken ; after agitation, pour some
on a cloth or some cotton-wool tied round a stick and placed in the
nozzle of a common candlestick. If flowers or coloured shawls are
 exhibited by the light obtained from the burning spirit containing
 the salt, they present a most dreary and monotonous appearance,
 and the contrast is very marked when the jar of oxygen is produced
 and the phosphorus burnt—the colours appear to be restored as if
 by magic. Of course these experiments must be prepared in a
 darkened room—a room with shutters is very convenient for these
 experiments.
    Fig. 13. Table set out in a darkened room.
    a. The candlestick and cotton saturated with spirit and salt, burning and pro
  ducing a yellow light.
    B. The phosphorus in oxygen,
    r. Flowers of various colours in centre of table.
       AN ACID OBTAINED BY BURNING PHOSPHORUS IN OXYGEN.
     If the phosphorus is burnt in a jar containing dry oxygen gas,
  the phosphoric acid deposits in white flakes which, if mixed ra
  pidly with lime and a little water, constitute a useful material for
  stopping teeth, as the lime and phosphoric acid unite and form
  phosphate of lime ; this substance is perfectly harmless, and unlike
  the dangerous mercurial amalgams placed in hollow teeth, cannot
  injure the health of persons using it. If the jar of oxygen stands

                              CHEMISTEY.                            17
in a plate containing water, the white flakes of phosphoric acid
rapidly dissolve, and when tested by the litmus paper, betray the
presence of the acid by the change of the blue to red. This ex
periment contrasts curiously with the next.
  AN ALKALI PRODUCED BY BURNING A METAL IN OXYGEN, AND THE
                        CHAMELEON EXPERIMENT.
   Potassium is lighter than water, and when placed in a spoon and
heated by a spirit-lamp, and then plunged into a jar of oxygen, it
glows with an intense and sudden heat. If the product contained
in the spoon is now dissolved in water, the solution changes the
colour of the turmeric from a yellow to a reddish brown, showing
that oxygen can not only produce an acid but an alkali ; and a very
interesting result is obtained by taking the litmus paper changed
to red from the phosphoric acid, and restoring the blue by dipping
it into the solution from the potassium, or by taking the turmeric
paper, already changed to a reddish-brown by the alkali, and bringing
back the bright yellow by placing it into the phosphoric-acid solution.
This experiment, which is quite chameleon in its character, is very
 easily performed, and furnishes a striking example of the difference
 between acids and alkalies.
              COMBUSTION OF STEEL SPRING IN OXYGEN.
    Take a bit of watch-spring, and soften the end by means of the
 flame of a spirit-lamp. When cold, twist round it a piece of waxed
 thread or waxed taper. If this is set on fire, and introduced into
 a jar of oxygen, the steel spring burns with great intensity, throw
 ing out sparks in every direction ; and as these are extremely hot,
 they strike against and melt themselves into the body of the glass ;
 other portions fall into the water below, and frequently pass through
 the stratum of water, melting the glaze and adhering firmly to it.
 In this experiment the result is neither acid nor alkaline, but a
 mixture of the oxides of iron, a neutral compound being formed ;
 and it is very curious here to mark the elasticity, hardness, and
 toughness of the steel as compared with the product of combustion,
 which is so brittle that it may be crushed by the fingers in the palm
of the hand.
           FIRE PROM WATER, OR THE MODERN GREEK FIRE.
    Potassium will burn very readily in oxygen gas, the combustion
 being retarded chiefly from the formation of a crust of oxide or
 potash covering the metal. This does not occur if potassium is
 thrown on water : the metal oxidizes rapidly, and so much heat is
 generated during the change, that the hydrogen escaping around the
 ignited ball takes fire, whilst the potash formed on the surface is
 rapidly cleared off, and the whole mass being converted into
 potash, is at the last a red-hot ball of that substance ; and being
 no longer able to maintain its high temperature, comes in con
 tact with the water, and bursts with a sharp crack ; and for that
                                                               c

IS                               CHEMISTRY.
                       reason, the vessel in which potassium is burnt
                       must not be approached at the last stage of the
                        combustion too closely, as the particles from the
                        red-hot ball of potash would cause intense agony,
                        if they happened to enter the eye.
                           Advantage is taken of this property in the popu
                        lar experiment called the " Modern Greek Fire."
                        Globes of glass are filled with ether or naphtha, and
                        a thin glass tube placed inside, containing some
                        small pellets of the metal potassium. If a bullet
   Fie. 14 a The        or a ""a^ble is placed in the glass globe, and it i«
globe full of naphtha   dashed on the surface of the water, the globe, with
or ether.               the slender tube containing the potassium, breaks,
  b. Slender tube tied  the contents are discharged on the water upon
to a bit of thread at-    ....        ,      ,      s .     _             r
tached to the cork,     which the ether and potassium float, and as the
containing the potas-   latter takes fire instantaneously, it communicates
sium' . _               to the ether or naphtha, and a perfect sheet of
Bure the fractureC"f    ^re covers the tank, pond, or lake in which the
the glass.              experiment is performed.
                                FIRE 1'ROM ICE.
    Make a hole in a thick piece of ice, dry it out with some cotton,
and place into the hole a bit of potassium, when the metal immedi
ately takes fire, and sometimes is discharged from the hole with
great violence, especially if the potassium has been held some time
in the fingers and become warm. Care must always be taken not
to lean over the ice or water during experiments with potassium,
and it should be remembered that it very nearly always explodes
when held in the fingers, or warmed before use.
                       THE ANALYSIS OF AIR.
One of the most pleasing and simple experiments is that of analys
ing air, or separating it into its constituent parts : thus, if a lighted
taper be placed in a bottle, it burns at first with its ordinary
brilliancy ; in a short time, however, the flame diminishes and the
work of combustion is brought to an end. It might be thought
that the carbon of the taper had removed all the oxygen and con
verted it into carbonic acid ; and to prove that this is not the case,
a little burning sulphur, in a spoon, is now introduced, which is not
extinguished till some time has elapsed. After this burning phos
phorus may be placed into the same bottle, and when the latter
substance has ceased burning, no other combustible will continue to
burn, as the oxygen is wholly removed, and nitrogen with the white
smoke of the phosphoric acid alone remain ; the latter soon dissolves
away in the presence of a little water, leaving the nitrogen behind.
    Nitrogen or azote instantly extinguishes a lighted taper, and is
lighter than oxygen, as may be proved by the next experiment.

                                  CHEMISTRY.                                  19
A LIGHT GAS WILL FLOAT ON A HEAVY
    GAS LIKE ALCOHOL UPON WATER.
    If alcohol, coloured blue with litmus,
be placed into a phial, some water may
be introduced beneath it by means of
a tube, and the former floats on the
 latter.     The same principle may be
displayed with the gases ; thus, if a
jar containing oxygen is inverted, and
 placed with the mouth upwards, and
covered with a glass plate, and another
jar, containing nitrogen gas (with a
 similar glass plate), in the upright
 position, be placed upon it, the two
 glass plates can be withdrawn; and a
lighted taper being introduced, is first
 extinguished in the top gas jar, con
 taining the nitrogen, whilst it is im
 mediately relighted on being thrust
 into the lower jar, containing the
oxygen.
                                                 Fig. 15. A, gas jar, containing
                                               nitrogen ; n, standing on it, an
                                               other jar full of oxygen, o. The
                                               taper c is extinguished at N, and
                                               re-lighted at o. n D stand, sup
                                               porting the jars.
                                                TO PREPARE NITROGEN.
                                              Into a little porcelain cup,
                                           supported on a small wine-glass
                                           or other convenient stand placed
                                           in a dish with some water, put
                                           a piece of phosphorus ; set this
                                           on fire and invert a jar of air
                                           over it, and as the water rises in
                                           the jar, pour more into the dish ;
                                           or, if the stand, &c., be placed
                                           on the shelf of the pneumatic
    Fig. 16. A. The gas jar, containing at trough, the water will absorb
  mospheric air.                           the phosphoric acid and rise in
    c. The cap containing the phosphorus. the jar in consequence of the
    B. The wine-glass supporting it.
    a d. The plate ordishcontainingwater, removal of one-fifth of the vo
  in which the whole stands.               lume— viz., oxygen gas. After
                                                                     c 2

20                                 CHEMISTEY.
                                    the white smoke has disappeared, the
         A
                                    residual gas is nitrogen.
               o                           TO MAKE ATMOSPHERIC AIR.
               0
                         ^             Take four measures of nitrogen and
                                    pass them into a tall jar, or, what is
               0 t   B^^            better, graduate or divide a long jar into
               0\                   five equal parts, and fill four of the
                                    parts with nitrogen gas, which extin-
   ,,. 17.
   Fie.  ,„ Gas    .
             ,, iar,          ...
                       a, on the    6guishes „..                . . in some acAr
                                              flame;' , then rpass          oxygen
                                                                                 ,
shelf! a, of the pneumatic           gas, to fill up the remaining one fifth in
trough, full of water, and mode      the graduated long glass ; finally, slide a
of passing gas into it from bot-     glass p^te over tne orifice of the jar,
  c' B'                              and agitate the vessel so as to mix the
two gases. A lighted taper introduced into this mixture burns pre
cisely as it would do in common air, and the experiment is very
instructive, and shows the synthesis of the chief constituents of
 common air.
                            HEAT, OR CALORIC.
          Tig. IS. A B, cylinder of brass, c n, iron gauge, admitting a b
        longitudinally, and also in the hole v. when cold, but excluding a b
        when the latter is heated and expanded.
 The chief agent in causing the repulsion or separation of the par
ticles of bodies from each other is heat, or more correctly caloric, by
which is understood the unknown cause of the effect called heat.
Philosophers are not agreed upon the nature of this wonderful agent.
It pervades all nature, is the cause of nearly all the changes that
take place, whether in organic or inorganic matter, and has great
influence in the meteorological phenomena which we observe in the

                                CHEMISTET.                                 21
atmosphere that surrounds our planet. It appears to be intimately
connected with light, electricity, and magnetism, subjects which the
genius of Faraday and others is investigating, and by their dis
coveries bringing us nearer to the knowledge of the real nature of
these most wonderful forces.
    Caloric, then, exists in all bodies, and has a constant tendency to
equalize itself, as far at least as its outward manifestation, called tem
perature, is concerned ; for if a hot body be brought near colder ones,
it will give up heat to them, until by its loss and their gain they all
 become of the same temperature; and this proceeds more or less
 rapidly, according as the original difference of temperature was
 greater or less. Some other circumstances also influence this equali
 zation. The converse will take place on introducing a cold body
 among warmer ones, when heat will be abstracted from all the bodies
 within reach of its influence, until it has absorbed sufficient caloric
 to bring its own temperature to an equality with theirs. This is
 the true explanation of the apparent production of cold. When, for
 instance, an iceberg comes across a ship's course, it appears to give
 out cold, whereas, it has abstracted the heat from the air and sea in
 its neighbourhood, and they in turn act upon the ship and everything
 in it, until one common temperature is produced in all the neigh
 bouring bodies.
     It does not follow that the bodies thus equalized in temperature
 contain equal quantities of caloric ; far from it. Each body requires
 a particular quantity of caloric to raise its temperature through a
 certain number of degrees ; and such quantity is called its specific
 caloric. A pound of water, for instance, will take just twice as
 much caloric as a pound of olive oil, to raise its temperature through
 the same number of degrees ; the specific caloric of water is there
 fore double that of oil. Mix any quantity of oil at 60° of tempera
 ture with an equal weight of water at 90°, and you will find the
 temperature of the mixture to be nearly 80°, instead of only 74° or
  75°, showing that while the water has lost only 10° of caloric, the
  mixture has risen 20°. If the oil be at 90°, and the water at 60°,
  the resulting temperature will be only 70°, or thereabouts, instead of
 75°, the mean ; thus, here the hot oil has lost 20°, while the mixture
  has risen only 10°; the water, then, contains at the same tempera
  ture twice as much caloric as the oil ; its specific caloric is double that
 of the oil. This mean temperature does result when equal weights
  of the same body at different temperatures are mixed together.
     The sensations called heat and cold are by no means accurate
  measures of the real temperature of any substances, for many causes
  influence these sensations, some belonging to the substances them-
  eelves, others to the state of our organs at the time. Every one has
  remarked that metals in a warm room feel wanner, and in a cold
   room colder than wooden articles, and these again than woollen or
  cotton articles of dress or furniture ; this arises from metals being
   what is termed better conductors of heat than wood, and this better
   than wool, &c., that is, they give out or absorb caloric more rapidly
   than these last. Some philosophers, wishing to ascertain how much

 22                            CHEMISTET.
 heat the human body could endure, had, a room heated with stoves',
 every crevice being carefully stopped, until the temperature rose so-
 high that a beefsteak placed on the table was sufficiently cooked to>
 be eaten. They were dressed in flannel, and could with impunity
 touch the carpets, curtains, &c., in the room ; but the iron handles,
 fire-irons, and all metallic substances, burnt their fingers ; and one
 who wore silver spectacles was obliged to remove them to save his
 nose. The fallacy of our sensations may be easily shown by taking
 two basins, placing in one some water at 100°, in another some water
 at as low a temperature as can easily be procured—hold the right
 hand in one, the left in the other, for a few minutes, and then mix
 them, and place both hands in the mixture ; it will feel quite cold to
 the hand that had been in the hotter water, and hot to the other.
    In order to arrive at a correct estimate of the temperature of
 bodies, instruments are made use of called thermometers, or mea
 surers of heat, which show increase or diminution of temperature by
 the rising or falling of a column of some fluid in a tube of glass, one
 end of which is expanded into a bulb, and the other hermetically
 sealed. This effect is produced by the expansion or swelling of the
 fluid as caloric is added to, and its contraction when caloric is ab
 stracted from it. Coloured spirits of wine, or quicksilver, are the
 most usual thermometric fluids, and the tube containing them is
 fixed to a wooden or metallic frame, on which certain divisions are
 marked, called degrees.
    That in general use in England is called Fahrenheit's, from the
 name of the person who first introduced that particular scale. In
 this thermometer, the point at which the mercury in the tube stands'
 when plunged into melting ice, is marked 32°, and the distance
 between that point, and the point to which the mercury rises in
 boiling water, is divided into 180 equal parts, called degrees; so that
 water is said to boil at 212° = 180° + 32° There are two other scales
 of temperature used in different parts of the world, but it is not
 worth while to notice them here.
    Not only do different bodies at the same degree of temperature
 contain very different quantities of caloric, but this also is the case
 with the same body in different forms. Ice, water, and steam, are
three forms of the same body, but ice at 32° contains much less
caloric than water at the same temperature, and water at 212° con
tains much less caloric than steam (or water in a state of vapour) at
that temperature.
    Place in a jar any given quantity of snow, or small pieces of ice,
at 32°, and in another the same weight of water at 32°, pour on each
an equal weight of water at 172°, and you will find that in the first
case the ice will be melted, but the temperature will remain at 32°
or thereabouts, while the temperature of the water in the other
vessel will have risen to 100° or thereabouts, being as near as pos
sible the half of the excess of the temperature of the hot water,
140° over that of the cold, namely 70° added to 32°, the original
temperature. Now, what has become of the heat which was added
to the ice, and is apparently lost '—it is absorbed by the ice in its

                                 CHEMISTRY.                                       23
passage to the fluid state ; so that water may be said to be a com
pound of ice and caloric.
    Again, take 10 ounces of water at about 50°, and add 1 oz. of
water at 212°, and the temperature of the mixture will be about 66° ;
then condense some steam at 212°, into another 10 oz. of water until
it has become 11 oz., and you will find the temperature will be nearly
212°. Why does the ounce of steam at 212° raise the temperature
of the water so much higher than the ounce of water at the same
temperature ? Obviously because it contains hidden in its substance
a vast quantity of caloric, not to be detected by the thermometer ; in
fact, that steam is a compound of water and caloric, as water is a
compound of ice and caloric ; and this caloric which exists, more or
less, in all bodies without producing any obvious effect, is called
latent caloric, from the Latin verb lateo, to lie hid. The quantity of
caloric thus absorbed as it were by various bodies, differs for each
body, and for the same body in different forms, as mentioned above.
    Fig. 19. Expansion of liquids is shown at A by the coloured water rising in
 the tube from the flask, which is quite full of liquid, and heated by boiling water.
  B. The expansion of the water heated by the spirit-lamp is shown by the rising
  of the piston and rod c c. D represents a retort filled up like A to show the
  expansion of a liquid by heat.
                                                                                      r

24                               CHEMISTRY.
                                   EXPANSION.
   As a general rule, all bodies, whether solid, liquid, or gaseous, are
expanded by caloric. This may be shown by experiments in each
form of matter.
    Have a small iron rod made, which when cold just passes through
a hole in a plate of metal ; heat it, and it will no longer pass ; after
a time the rod will return to its former temperature, and then will
go through the hole as before. The rod increases in length as well as
width ; if you have a gauge divided into j-J-j- of an inch, and place
the rod in it when cold, noting its position, on heating, it will extend
to a greater length in the gauge, returning to its former place when
cool. (See Fig. 18, p. 20.)
    The effect of caloric in causing fluids to expand is actually em
ployed as a measure of quantity in the thermometer, the rise of the
fluid in the tube when heated depending on the increased bulk of the
fluid occasioned by the addition of caloric. The same fact is to be
noticed every day when the cook fills the kettle, and places it on the
fire. As the water becomes warmer it expands, that is, takes up
more room than it did before, and the water escapes by slow degrees,
increasing as the heat increases, up to the point of boiling, when a
sudden commotion takes place from a condensation of a portion of
the water into steam.
    But it is in the form of vapour or gas (which, by the bye, is not
the same thing*) that the expansive force of caloric is most obvious.
The gigantic powers of the steam-engine depend entirely on the
tendency of vapour to expand on the addition of caloric ; and this
force of expansion appears to have no limit : boilers made of iron
plates an inch or even more in thickness, and the buildings or ships
containing them, having been torn to pieces and scattered in all di
rections by the expansive power of steam. Take a bladder, and fill
 it about half full of air, and tie the neck securely ; upon holding it
 to the fire it will swell out, and become quite tense from the expansion
 of the contained air.
    The principal source of caloric is the sun, whose beams, diffused
 through all nature by the refractive property of the atmosphere, are
 the source of vitality both to vegetables and animals, and when con
 centrated by a large convex lens, produce the most intense heat,
 sufficient to light a piece of diamond, and melt platinum. Caloric is
 also produced or evolved by combustion, by friction, percussion,
chemical combination, electricity, and galvanism.
    The evolution of heat by friction may be witnessed daily in a
 thousand instances. Lucifer matches are lighted by rubbing the
   * It may be well to state here, that by vapour is generally understood the
aerial form of a substance usually existing in a solid or fluid form at ordinary
temperatures ; as the vapour of iodine, a solid ; of mercury, water, spirits, and
other fluids ; while the term gas is applied to those bodies usually known in the
aerial state ; thus oxygen, nitrogen, carbonic acid, hydrogen, &c. &c., are called
fases. It is, however, but an arbitrary distinction ; for many of these gases
  ave, by the combined influence of cold and powerful pressure, been converted
into fluids, and even solids—carbonic acid gas for instance 1

                                  CHEMISTRY.                             25
lighly inflammable substances with which they are tipped against
a piece of sand-paper. Nearly all savage people procure fire by
rubbing a piece of hard wood violently against a softer piece. The
axle-trees of steam-engines, and even of carriages, have been known
to be so heated by friction as to endanger burning the carriage ; and
it is very usual to be obliged to pour a quantity of cold water on
the iron axle of the carriages of an express train after an hour of
constant and rapid work. If you merely rub the blade of a knife
rapidly on a piece of wood, it will become hot enough to burn
your hand.
    Percussion is merely a more energetic kind of friction, and is often
 resorted to by the blacksmith to light his furnace. He places a nail
or other piece of soft iron on his anvil, and beats it rapidly with the
hammer, when it becomes actually red hot. The production of sparks
      Fig. 20. C. The steel. B. The flint. E. The tinder, d. The matches
                        of the old-fashioned tinder-box, a.
 by striking flint against steel, or two pieces of flint one against the
 other, is a familiar instance of heat produced by percussion.
     One of the most powerful means of producing heat is the process
 of combustion.
     Combustion, as the word imports, is the burning together of two
  or more substances, a chemical union of oxygen generally with carbon
  and hydrogen in some shape or other. In our ordinary fires we burn
  coal, a hydro-carbon as it is called ; and the gas which is now so

26                           CnEMISTRY.
universally used for the purpose of illumination, is a compound of
the same bodies—so wax, tallow, oil of various kinds, both of animal
and vegetable origin, are all hydro-carbons.
   On the application of a sufficient heat, and a free access of
atmospheric air, or of some other gas containing oxygen in a
certain state of combination, these bodies take fire, and continue
to burn either with flame, or a red or even white heat without
flame, until they are consumed ; that is, until they have entered
into new combinations with the oxygen, and are converted into
carbonic acid and water, the carbon forming the first product, the
hydrogen the other.
     EXPERIMENTS PRODUCING HEAT AND COLD.
Water is presented to us by nature in three forms, viz., in the
conditions of ice, water, and steam, and many beautiful experiments-
can be made with it in either of these states.
                                  Snow crystals.

                              CHEMISTRY.                                 27
                           CETSTALS OP SNOW.
    Very few persons have any idea of the lovely forms they tread
under foot when walking over fresh-fallen snow, or remember that
frozen water is capable of assuming the three states of snow, hail,
and ordinary ice.
   The atmosphere always contains -a considerable quantity of aque
ous vapour, or invisible steam, which collects in the form of clouds,
and in cold weather, in extra-tropical latitudes, descends in the form
of snow, and covers the surface of the earth with a mantle of virgin
white.
    Snow has not only been seen in Europe, but has even visited
China ; and some years ago, a correspondent at Canton, writing to
a friend, says : " The elders of our European society are, at this
moment, in the ecstasy of revived associations, pelting each other
with snowballs from the house-tops with all their might."
   WATER DOES NOT CONTRACT WHEN REDUCED TO THE FREEZING
                                  POINT.
   It is well known that solids usually expand by beat and contract
by cold.      This is proved by fitting a cold bar of metal into a
gauge, and then heating it, when the bar will no longer enter the
same space, and has therefore expanded.
   Liquids, such as alco
hol and mercury, follow
the same law, as shown
in the useful instrument
called the thermometer ;
but water is a curious
exception, and, after fall
ing to a temperature of
40° r7., begins to expand
till it reaches a tempera
ture of 32°, when it floats
upon the surface of the
warmer water, and thus
protects the lower strata,
containing the living in
sects, plants, andfish from
the dangerous action of
intense cold. The fact
itself is proved by taking
a long glass and nearly
filling it with water. If
a thermometer is placed
at the bottom, the tempe
rature may be, say 40°;
whilst if a lump or two T'g- 22- a. Top of glass of water at a temperature
  f .      ,     , l i      of 32°, with lumps of ice floating. B. Bottom of
01 ice oe piacea on water> and temperature at 40°. c c c c. Box, on.
the top, it floats and legs, d d, containing a freezing mixture.

28                            CHEMISTRY.
partly melts, reducing the temperature of the water to 32° Fah.
Now, if the water contracted as it became colder, the particles would
become more condensed or heavier, and hence they would sink to
the bottom, and being succeeded by fresh quantities of warmer water,
the whole volume would sink to the freezing point, or 32° Fah. :
whereas they expand, become lighter, and swim on the surface of
the wanner part of the fluid, like oil upon water.
  FUSIBLE METAL EXPANDS UP TO A CERTAIN TEMPERATURE, AND
                CONTRACTS IF THE HEAT IS INCREASED.
   Rose's fusible metal ismade by melting one part of lead and mixing
with it one part of tin and two parts of bismuth. A bar of this alloy
expands till it attains a temperature of 111° Fahrenheit ; it then
rapidly contracts by the addition of heat, and at 156° attains its
greatest density or contraction. After passing this temperature, the
metal again expands, and melts at 201°, being eleven degrees below
the boiling point of water. For that reason certain persons, of course
wags, have taken the trouble to make spoons of it, and one may easily
imagine the surprise of any grave person quietly stirring his or her
tea, to see the spoon gradually disappear from their vision and sink
in the liquid state to the bottom of the cup.
   HOW TO EXAMINE THE VARIED CRYSTALLINE FORMS OF SNOW.
   By collecting some snow on a black hat or a piece of black velvet
and examining it by means of a magnifying glass, it is distinctly seen
that they are not mere shapeless flakes, but possess crystalline forms
of extreme beauty and ofvery great variety. In the Polar regions snow
assumes the most beautiful and varied forms. Scoresby has figured
ninety-six varieties, distributed into three classes ; viz., Lamellar, or
disposed in thin plates ; Spimlar, or dart-like, or sharp-pointed ; and
Pyramidal crystals. The snow crystals constantly vary, like the
pictures of a kaleidoscope, and sometimes resemble parallel fillets,
leaves, and spines with rosette terminations, as in Fig. 21, p. 26.
TO MAKE ICE IN SUMMER, AND LOWER THE TEMPERATURE OF WATER
             BY THE SUDDEN LIQUEFACTION OF A SOLID.
   1st. Dissolve powdered nitre rapidly in water, when the tempera
ture will fall from 50° to 35°. This fact is well known to experienced
officers in hot climates, who thoroughly appreciate the value of a
cartridge shaken gently over the neck of a bottle of wine standing in
a pail of water. The cartridge contains nitre, which liquefies rapidly
and cools the wine.
   2nd. Two hundred and seven parts of lead, 118 of tin, and 284 of
hismuth melted together and granulated (i.e. poured whilst liquid
into water), will produce a temperature of 16° below the freezing
point of water, if added rapidly to 1617 parts of quicksilver.
   3rd. Four ounces of nitrate of ammonia, four ounces of carbonate
of soda, dissolved in four ounces of water, will freeze water contained
in a convenient thin metallic vessel surrounded with it.

                               CHEMISTRY.                                       29
        HEAT PRODUCED BY THE SOLIDIFICATION OF A LIQUID.
   Take some blue vitriol and heat it to redness in a crucible ; when
cold, place it in a well-stoppered bottle for use. If a little be put on
a plate aud sprinkled with cold water, steam issues in considerable
quantity ; and if a slice of phosphorus is placed on the surface of the
blue vitriol, it will take fire in consequence of the latent heat set free
by the chemical union of the water with the dry sulphate of copper
or blue vitriol, when the water is in effect solidified. Ships laden
with lime have taken fire from the leakage of the water, which com
bines with the lime, and produces a great heat.
          HEAT PRODUCED BY THE CONDENSATION OF WATER.
   A pint of water mixed with one pint of oil of vitriol generates a
large amount of heat, and when cold does not measure two pints,
showing that condensation lias taken place.
          DIFFERENCE BETWEEN LATENT AND SENSIBLE HEAT.
   If a nail is made red hot,
it glows with the ignition,
and throws off heat, which
is apparent to the senses ;
but if a cold horseshoe nail
is examined, there is no di
rect evidence of the presence
of heat; when, however, the
same cold nail is rapidly ham
mered on an anvil, enough
heat is obtained to set fire
to a piece of phosphorus.
The heat thus squeezed out
by compression k called la
tent heat.
  TO IMITATE HOAR-FROST.
     Hoar-frost is caused by
 the freezing of the dew de
 posited on the branches and
 twigs of trees and bushes,
 and may be perfectly imi
 tated by arranging some
 sprigs of holly or other
 plants on a wooden stand,
 in the centre of which is
 fitted a small evaporating         Fig. 23. Circular wooden Htand, B, with
                                  sprigs of holly, &c, inserted.
 dish containing some ben           a. The gas jar, with stopper left sufficiently
 zoic acid.    On the applica     open to allow the benzoic acid vapour to escape
 tion of heat, the acid is sub    a little.
                                     c. The evaporating dish, containing the
 limed, and may be collected      benzoic acid, and heated by the spirit lamp.
 in a gas jar placed over the        V. The sprigs of holly, rock-work, shells, &c.

30                           CHEMISTRY.
stand and bits of holly ; and as the vapour cools, a beautiful deposit
of the crystals of benzoic acid on the miniature trees takes place.
This experiment admits of a very tasteful arrangement, and after
completion will last a long time, if protected by a glass shade.
         THE BOILIKG OF ONE LIQUID MAY FREEZE ANOTHER.
   To show that the heat abstracted by the boiling of one liquid will
freeze another, fill a tall narrow glass about half full of cold water
(the colder the better), and place in it a thin glass tube containing
some ether. Put them under the receiver of an air-pump. As you
exhaust the air, the ether will begin to boil, until at length, by
continuing the exhaustion, the water immediately surrounding the
tube of ether will freeze, and a tolerably large piece of ice may thus
be obtained.
   Ether evaporates so rapidly even under the pressure of the atmo
sphere, that a small animal such as a mouse may be actually frozen
to death by constantly dropping ether upon it. If poured on the
hand, it produces a degree of cold that soon becomes, to say the least,
unpleasant.
    Place a flat saucer, containing about a pound of oil of vitriol,
 Tincier the receiver of the air-pump, and set in it a watch-glass con
 taining a little water, supported on a stand with glass legs. Exhaust
 the receiver, when the water will evaporate, but without boiling, and
 the vapour being absorbed as it forms by the oil of vitriol, the vacuum
 is preserved, and the evaporation continues, until the vapour has
 abstracted so much caloric from the remainder of the water that it is
 all at once converted into ice.

                                CHEMISTRY.                            31
   In most elementary works on chemistry may be found a long table
of freezing mixtures as they are called, some with and others without
ice or snow. I have selected a few from each division.
                 FREEZING MIXTURES WITH ICE OR SNOW.
               Snow or powdered ice                    2  parts.
               Powdered common salt                    1    ,,
             {Snow                                      5    ,,
               Powdered common salt                    2    ,,
               Powdered sal ammoniac                    1   „
               Snow                                    3    ,,
               Dilute sulphuric acid                   2    ,,
             \ Snow                                    2    „
             I Crystallized muriate of lime  .   .  .  3    ,,
                          WITHOUT SNOW OR ICE.
             ! Sulphate of soda                        3  parts.
               Dilute nitric acid                      2    ,,
             ( Nitrate of ammonia                      1    „
             (Water                                    1    „
             ! Phosphate of soda                       2    ,,
               Dilute nitric acid                      1    ,,
             ( Sulphate of soda                        2    ,,
             ( Muriatic acid                           1    „
    The effects of most of these mixtures may be considerably increased
 by previously cooling the ingredients separately in other freezing
 mixtures.
                          CRYSTALLIZATION.
 The ancients were unacquainted with the nature of crystals, and
 very far from having any just idea of the phenomena of crystalliza
 tion ; for Pliny, who flourished in the first century of the Christian
 era, speaks of the rock-crystal as a piece of ice frozen to the point of
 acquiring a permanent consistency and durability ; when, in fact, the
 rock-crystal is composed of a mineral called silica, which crystal
 lizes in six-sided prisms, terminating with six-sided pyramids.
     The phenomena of crystallization, so replete with beauties, and
  so marvellous in their results, often take place within the reach of
  our observation ; without, however, attracting it, from our ignorance
  of the circumstance. The substance which in cold and dry winter
  nights covers the panes of glass, exhibiting various fantastic and
  elegant ramifications, is the human breath crystallized. The pel
  lucid and transparent coating which in the depth of winter covers
  and so elegantly decks the branches of trees and leaves of evergreens,
  is no more than crystallized water. The snow which falls and accumu
  lates before our eyes, is a congeries or mass of an immense number
  of separate and transparent crystals of ice.

 32                            CHEJIISTRY.
                             ALUM BASKETS.
                             A common willow or wire basket may be
                          covered with beautiful crystals, by immersing
                          it in a solution of alum prepared for the pur
                         pose. The water used for the solution must be
                          twice the quantity required to cover the
                         basket, and sufficient alum put in to make
         p. „.           a saturated solution, which you must filter
            D ""''        through a piece of brown paper into a sauce
 pan or pipkin. But if you wish your basket to be' coloured, the dye
must be added to the solution before it is filtered. To produce
 Crimson crystals, it is necessary to use an infusion of madder and
 cochineal. Yellow—Muriate of iron or turmeric. Black— Japan ink
thickened with gum. Blue—A solution of indigo in sulphuric acid.
Bale Blue—Equal portions of alum and blue vitriol ; and to produce
green, you have only to add to these last ingredients a few drops of
muriate of iron. Of course, all these colours are more or less deep,
according to the quantity of colouring matter employed.
   The solution being filtered, boil it gently until half the quantity
 has been evaporated, then put it into a jar, or any other vessel
in which the basket may be immersed, and remove it with its
contents to a dry place, where it may cool without being dis
turbed.
   It is to be observed that, if you make use of a wire basket, the
wire must be filed or covered all over with worsted, as the surface of
whatever is incrusted must be equally rough.
                          STARLIKE CRYSTALS.
   Pour three ounces of diluted nitric acid into a glass vessel, and add
to it gradually two ounces of bismuth broken by a hammer into
small pieces. The metal will be attacked with great energy, and
nitrate of bismuth will be formed. Crystallize the solution by a
gentle heat, and preserve the crystals, which possess great beauty,
under a glass,
                   BEAUTIFUL GROUPS OF CRYSTALS.
   Dissolve in seven different tumblers, each containing warm water,
half ounces of the sulphates of iron, copper, zinc, soda, alumina, mag
nesia, and potash. Pour them all, when completely dissolved, into a
large evaporating dish of Wedgwood ware, and stir the whole
with a glass rod ; set the dish in a warm place, where it cannot
be affected by the dust, and where it may not be agitated. "When
the necessary evaporation has taken place, the whole will shoot out
into crystals. These will be interspersed in small groups, and single
crystals amongst each other. Their colour and peculiar form of
crystallization will distinguish each crystal separately, and the
whole together, remaining in the respective places where they
were deposited, will display a very curious and beautiful appearance.
Preserve it carefully from dust.

                              CHEMISTRY.                               33
                          CRYSTALS OP ALUM.
   Dissolve a pound and a half of alum in a quart of boiling water,
and suspend in it a piece of coke ; set it aside to cool, and a beautiful
crystallization, resembling a mineralogical specimen, will be obtained.
                       METALLIC CRYSTALLIZATION.
   Melt a ladleful of bismuth, and let it cool gradually till a thin
crust has formed on its surface ; then, by means of a pointed iron,
make two small apertures through the crust ; quickly pour out
by one of the openings the fluid portion, as carefully, and with
as little motion of the mass as possible, whilst the air enters at the
other. On removing the upper crust by means of a chisel, when the
vessel has become cold, a cup-shaped concavity will appear, studded
with very brilliant crystals, more or less regular, according to the
quantity of bismuth employed, the tranquillity and slowness with
which it cooled, and the dexterity with which the fluid portion, at
the moment it began to harden, was decanted from the crystallized
part. The same effect may be produced by fusing the substance
in a small crucible which has a hole at its bottom, lightly closed by
an iron rod or stopper, which is to be drawn out when the mass
begins to congeal : by this means the superior portion, which is
fluid, is made to run off, and a cake studded over with crystals
is obtained.
                       CRYSTALS OF BLUE VITRIOL.
    Boil a few copper filings in concentrated sulphuric acid, to which
 a small portion of nitric adid has been added, and when the copper
 is dissolved, dilute the mixture with a little water, and then leave it
 where it can cool gradually. If the mixture be then suffered to re
 main a few hours undisturbed, beautiful crystals of blue vitriol will
 be found at the bottom of the vessel, as hard as some minerals.
         CRYSTALLIZATION ON INSECTS, FLOWERS, MOSSES, &C.
    The application of aluminous crystallization to objects of natural
 history and botany has opened a wide field of amusement in a
 subject heretofore possessing little variety, inasmuch as baskets
  have been nearly the only articles subjected to the process of crys
 tallization.
    Put eighteen ounces of alum into a quart of water (keeping the
 same proportions for a greater or less quantity), and dissolve it by
 simmering it gently in a close tinned vessel over a moderate fire,
 stirring it frequently with a wooden spoon.
    When the solution is completed, it must be poured into a deep
 glazed jar, and as it cools, the subjects intended to be crystallized
 should be suspended in it by a piece of thread or twine, from a stick
 laid across the mouth of the jar ; where they must be suffered to
 remain for twenty-four hours. When taken out of the solution,
 they are to be hung up in a shady, cool situation, till perfectly dry.
 Care must be taken that the solution is neither too hot nor quite
                                                                 D

34                             CHEMISTRY.
 cold, as in the one case the crystals will be very small, and in the
 other much too large.
    The insects adapted for crystallization are spiders, beetles, and
 grasshoppers ; and amongst the vegetable productions the com
 mon moss-rose, bunches of hops, ears of corn, the daisy,
 hyacinth, pink, furze blossoms, lichens, and mosses are some of
 the most suitable subjects ; the nests of small birds, with their
 eggs, particularly if fastened on the branch of a tree, are exceed
 ingly interesting. It is necessary to observe that much attention
 must be paid to the deposition of the alum, to see that too great a
 quantity does not settle upon some parts, and too little upon
 others.
                         OXY-CHLORIDE OF LEAD.
    Melt in the bowl of a tobacco-pipe, or in a small crucible, a mixture
 of an ounce of litharge of lead, and a drachm of pulverized muriate
of ammonia ; when well incorporated by exposure to a red heat, pour
it into a metallic cup, and allow it to cool : the result will be oxy-
 chloride of lead of a bright yellow colour, which, when broken, will
 present a most beautiful crystalline appearance.
                     CRYSTALS OF GLAUBER SALTS.
    On a solution of common soda pour, by small quantities at a time,
 diluted sulphuric acid, until the effervescence ceases ; by gently
 evaporating the solution in a saucer near a fire, crystals of sulphate
 of soda (Glauber salts) will be obtained.
                              COMMON SALT.
   Take some muriatic acid, and mix it with thrice its bulk of
water, adding thereto as much soda as it will dissolve ; by slowly
evaporating the solution before the fire, muriate of soda (common
table salt) will be obtained.
                       TO MAKE LARGE CRYSTALS.
   The salt to be crystallized is to be dissolved in water, and evapo
rated to such a consistency that it shall crystallize on cooling. Set
it by, and when quite cold, pour the liquid part from the mass of
crystals at the bottom, and put it into a flat- bottomed vessel. Soli
tary crystals will form at some distance from each other, and gradu
ally increase in size. Pick out the most regular, put them into
another flat-bottomed vessel, a little apart from each other, and pour
over them a quantity of fresh solution of the salt evaporated, till it
crystallizes on cooling. Alter the position of every crystal once at
least every day, with a glass rod, that all the faces may be alter
nately exposed to the action of the liquid ; for the face on which the
crystal rests never receives any increase. By this process the
crystals will gradually augment in size. When they have acquired
such a magnitude that their forms can easily be distinguished, the
most regular are to be chosen, or those which have the exact shape
which you wish to obtain. Each of them should be put separately into

                                CHEMISTRY.                                 35
a vessel filled with a portion of the same liquid, and turned by the
glass rod several times a day, and by this treatment you may obtain
them almost of any size desired. Whenever it is observed that the
angles and edges of the crystals become blunted, the liquid must im
mediately be poured off, and fresh liquid put in its place, otherwise
the crystal will be infallibly destroyed.
                                 LEAD TREE.
   Dissolve two drachms of acetate of lead in a quart of water, and set
it aside for a day or two, decant the clear solution into a large phial,
and in the centre suspend a piece of zinc, by means of a silk
thread fixed to the cork. If the whole be left undisturbed, the
lead will arrange itself around the zinc in beautiful metallic plates,
resembling a shrub.
                     ARBOR DIANAS, OR SILVER TREE.
   Let six drachms of a saturated solution of pure silver in nitric
acid, and four drachms of a similar solution of mercury in the same
acid, be diluted with five ounces of distilled water, and poured into
a small decanter or glass phial ; then compose an amalgam, by
mixing one part 'of finely-divided silver with seven parts of mercury,
and place a small lump of it at the bottom of the bottle, which must
be kept quite still. In a short time the surface of the amalgam will
rje covered with minute filaments of silver, and after standing about
forty-eight hours, the solution will deposit all its silver, in the form
of brilliant, arborescent crystals, springing like a glittering shrub
from the bottom of the vessel.
        Fig. 26. Engraver's globe, with arborescent precipitate of silver.
                                                                     d2

 36                                  CHEMISTRY.
              THE CHEMISTRY OF WATEE.
                    HOW TO TEST THE PURITY OP WATER.
 Obdinaby spring water contains carbonic-acid gas, which imparts
an agreeable freshness, and makes it agreeable to the taste. It is
easily detected by adding a solution of lime-water, when the carbonic
acid unites with the lime and forms carbonate of lime, which is pre
cipitated as a white substance and is in fact common chalk.
    Spring water also contains generally sulphuric acid and chlorine
in combination with lime, magnesia, soda, or potash ; these salts, with
some organic matter, oxide of iron, silica, and alumina, usually con
stitute the residue left alter evaporating a gallon of water to dryness,
and hence the formation of what is called deposit or incrustation in
boilers or fur in tea-kettles.
    To half a pint of water add a solution of nitrate of silver with some
pure nitric acid. Chloride of silver is thrown down, which is a white
precipitate that gradually blackens when exposed to light, and is
evidence of the presence of chlorides such as common salt.
   To another portion add some solution ofnitrate of baryta with a little
more nitric acid ; a white precipitate of sulphate of baryta is formed,
and shows the presence of sulphuric acid, most likely in combination
with the lime, forming sulphate of lime or gypsum.
   To a third portion add some oxalate of ammonia, and white oxalate
of lime will be produced, if the water contains lime.
   To detect the oxide of iron in water, a pint should be evaporated
to dryness in a porcelain dish ; to the residue some hydrochloric acid
should be carefully added in very small quantity, and the excess
gently evaporated away ; then, on the addition of a little water and a
solution of ferrocyanide of potassium, a splendid blue is produced
called Prussian blue, if oxide of iron be present.
    The detection of the other substances in the water will require
more practical skill than can be obtained by reading this little work,
and the reader is referred to Abel and Bloxam's " Hand-Book of
Chemistry."
              PURE WATER IS NOT AFFECTED BY THE TESTS.
                                        Put some spring water into an ordi
                                     nary kettle, the spout of which has been
                                     closed by a cork. Get the tinman to make
                                     another lid, as shown at Fig. 27, and to
                                     fit a piece of pewter pipe into the top of
                                     it. Having placed the kettle on the fire,
                                   ' arrange the pipe as shown at Fig. 28, and
                                     wind round it a piece of cotton cloth ;
                                     keep this constantly moist, and as the
   Fig. 27. The lid to fit mto tea- steam rises it is condensed in the pipe
kettle. A is the pipe to which the       ,       ,    . .   , ,.,     ,    f, r.
pewter condensing pipe will be and runs down into a bottle, when it is
attached, b is the supply-pipe now called aqua pura, or distilled water,
for putting in fresh water, and T_,et the first quantity that distils over be
wa^SbTpo^W thrown away as the inside of the pipe
kettle,                              is generally dirty.

                                   CHEMISTRY.                                   37
     Fig. 28. The tea-kettle-still at work: the kettle is shown in section; the
                        arrow shows direction of the steam,
                         TO PROCURE HYDROGEN GAS.
   Into a common wine-bottle, provided with a cork and pewter
tube, place some granulated zinc or zinc cuttings ; fill the bottle
about half full with water, and add some oil of vitriol ; when effer
vescence takes place from the escape of hydrogen gas, which may be
collected in gas jars on the pneumatic trough, the same as oxygen
gas, by fitting in the cork and tube.
       CARE MUST BE TAKEN IN BURNING HYDROGEN FROM THE
                              GENERATING BOTTLE.
   If it is desired to see the hydrogen burn from the end of the
pewter pipe, it should be turned up straight, and before applying
flame the first portion of the gas must be allowed to escape, or else
the air already in the bottle mixes with the hydrogen and forms an
explosive mixture, and if this is fired, the cork and pewter pipe are
blown to the ceiling, whilst the bottle is frequently broken and the
acid spilled about.          A case occurred where some boys, making
hydrogen in their bedroom in an ink-bottle, with a tobacco-pipe
stem for a jet, incautiously applied the flame, when the whole
exploded, and one of the poor boys lost his eyesight.
                                 FIRE ON WATER.
   Take a finger-glass, and after putting in plenty of granulated zinc,
 pour on some water and oil of vitriol, when a powerful effervescence
 takes place, and the liquid boils over the sides of the glass, which
 should stand in a soup-plate. Flame applied sets fire to the bubbles
 of escaping hydrogen, that dart over the whole surface, and pro
 duce a number of slight explosions. This experiment should be
 performed under a chimney or in the open air, as the acid smoke,
 or rather steam, is very disagreeable.

33                            CnEMISTRY.
                                    EXPERIMENTS WITH HYDROGEN.
                                  When a gas jar is filled with hydrogen,
                                it may be lifted carefully from the
                                pneumatic trough without fear of any
                                gas escaping, and placed on a stand
                                sufficiently high to admit of the hand
                                being inserted into the jar ; if one of
                                the squeaking toys be first worked in
                                the air and then in the jar of hydrogen,
                                the effect is very laughable, as the
                                sound becomes so shrill, in conse
                                quence of the levity of the gas. A
                                bell sounded in air and afterwards
                                in hydrogen is also an amusing ex
                                periment.
                                CURIOUS SOUNDS EMITTED BY BURNING
                                 HYDROGEN FROM A JET OVER WHICH
                                    GLASS TUBES OF VARIOUS SIZES
 Fig. 29. The jar of hydrogen                 ARE PLACED.
       and the toy in hand.
                                   Take the generating hydrogen bottle^
                                and fit a long jet with a small orifice ;
if the hydrogen is set on' fire, and a tube placed over it at a certain
place, the hydrogen flame begins to flicker and emit a sharp sound,
which is varied according to the length and diameter of the glass
tubes. Sometimes many tubes may be tried before the sound can
be obtained.
    SYNTHESIS OF HYDROGEN AND OXYGEN, AND FORMATION OF
                                  WATER.
   If the jet over which hydrogen is burning is held under a cold
glass jar, the steam is very soon condensed, and trickles down the
sides in drops of water, produced by the combination of the hydro
gen with the oxygen of the air, as every nine pounds of water
consist of eight of oxygen and one of hydrogen.
            EXPERIMENTS WITH OTHEK GASES.
    NITROUS OXIDE, OR LAUGHING-GAS, AND NITRIC OXIDE GAS.
Take two or three ounces of pure nitrate of ammonia in crystals, and
put them into a retort, then apply the heat of a lamp to the retort,
and take care that the heat does not exceed 500°. When the
crystals begin to melt, nitrous oxide gas will be evolved in con
siderable quantities. Nitric oxide gas may be produced by pouring
nitric acid, diluted with six times its weight of water, on copper
filings, or small pieces of tin. The gas is evolved until the acid is
saturated with oxide of copper, when the process may be stopped.

                                CHEMISTET.                           39
     To inhale Laughing-gas.—Procure an oiled or varnished silk bag, or
a bladder furnished with a stop-cock ; fill it with pure nitrous oxide,
and after emptying the lungs of common air, take the stop-cock into
the mouth, and at the same time hold the nostrils ; the sensations
produced will be of a highly pleasing nature. A great propensity
to laughter, a rapid flow of vivid ideas, and an unusual fitness for
muscular exertion, are the ordinary feelings which it generally pro
duces. The sensations produced by breathing this gas are not
the same in all persons, but they are always of an agreeable nature,
and not followed by any depression of spirits, like those occasioned by
fermented liquors. Although no accident has yet happened to any
one whilst inhaling laughing-gas, it is perhaps better to leave such
experiments to be performed by experienced persons only. Nitric
oxide gas nearly caused the death of Sir H. Davy, who tried to
inhale it ; but the orange-red fumes of nitrous acids formed when it
comes in contact with the air almost suffocated him.
      Fill the bowl of a large tobacco-pipe with pulverized coal, and
stop it close with a mixture of pipe- clay and sand ; then put it
into a clear fire, and in a few minutes carburetted hydrogen gas
will issue from the end of the pipe, which may be ignited, and
will burn like a taper, affording an example of the production of gas
light.
                        VIOLET-COLOURED VAPOUR.
      Put three or four grains of iodine into a small test tube, and
 seal the other end of it hermetically. If the tube be gently warmed,
by holding it over a candle, the iodine will become converted into
 a beautiful violet-coloured gas or vapour, which, when the tube
 is suffered to cool, condenses again into minute brilliant metallic
 crystals of a bluish colour. This experiment may be repeated with
 the same tube and iodine for any number of times.
                                  CHLORINE.
      The other simple gas called
 a supporter of combustion is
 named chlorine, from a Greek
 word signifying yellowish
  green.
      This gas was formerly called
  ' ' oxyrauriatic acid," being
  supposed to be a compound
  of oxygen and muriatic acid
  gases, until Sir H. Davy, in
  a series of masterly experi
  ments carried on during the
  years 1808-9-10-11, proved
  that it contained no oxygen                     Fig. 30.

 40                             CHEMISTRY.
 or muriatic acid, and that it was in fact a simple or undecompounded
 substance, and changed its name to chlorine, which name was, after
 some discussion, accepted by the scientific world, and is still in use.
    This gas may be obtained for experiment, by gently heating in a
 retort a mixture of muriatic or hydrochloric acid, as it is now called,
 with some black oxide of manganese : the muriatic acid, a compound
 of chlorine and hydrogen, is decomposed, and so is the oxide of man
 ganese, giving out some of its oxygen, which takes the hydrogen
 from the muriatic acid to form water, while the chlorine gas, with
 which the hydrogen had been united, is set at liberty, and may be
•collected in jars over water.
     Chlorine gas is transparent, of a greenish yellow colour, has a
 peculiar disagreeable taste and smell, and if breathed even in small
 quantities, occasions a sensation of suffocation, of tightness in the
 chest, and violent coughing, attended with great prostration. I
 have been compelled to retire to bed from having upset a bottle
 containing some of this gas. It destroys most vegetable colours
 when moist, and is in fact the agent now universally employed for
 bleaching purposes.
     It has also the power of combining with and destroying all
 noxious smells, and is invaluable as a purifier of foul rooms, and
 destroyer of infection. For these latter purposes it is used in com
 bination with lime, either in substance or solution, under the name
 of "Chloride of Lime."
     Sir W. Burnett has lately discovered that the chloride of zinc
 answers the same purposes as the chloride of lime, and has the ad
 vantage of being itself destitute of smell, and his fluid is frequently
 substituted for the other.
     Chlorine gas is a powerful supporter of combustion, many of the
 metals taking fire spontaneously when introduced in a fine state of
 division into the gas.
                               EXPERIMENTS.
     1. Into a jar of chlorine gas introduce a few sheets of copper
  leaf, sold under the name of Dutch foil, when it will burn with a
  dull red light.
     2. If some metallic antimony in a state of powder be poured into
  a jar of this gas, it will take fire as it falls, and burn with a bright
  white light.
     3. A small piece of the metal potassium may be introduced, and
  will also take fire.
     4. A piece of phosphorus will also generally take fire spontaneously
  when introduced into this gas. In all these cases direct compounds
  of the substances with chlorine are produced, called chlorides.
     5. If a lighted paper be plunged quickly into the gas, it will con
  tinue to burn with a dull light, giving off a very large quantity of
  smoke, being in fact the carbon of the wax taper, with which the
  chlorine does not unite; while the other constituent of the taper, the
 hydrogen, forms muriatic acid by union with the chlorine.
     6. This substance has the property of destroying most vegetable

                               CHEMISTET.                               41
colours, and is used in large quantities for bleaching calico, linen, and
the rags of which paper is made. It is a curious fact that it shows
this property only when water is present, for if a piece of coloured
cloth is introduced dry into a jar of the gas, also dry, no effect will
be produced—wet the cloth, and re- introduce it, and in a very short
time its colour will be discharged.
    7. Introduce a quantity of the infusion of the common red cab
bage, which is of a beautiful blue colour, into ajar of this gas, and
it will instantly become nearly as pale as water, retaining a slight
tinge of yellow.
       EXPERIMENTS WITH CARBON AND OXYGEN.
Cabbok forms two gaseous compounds with oxygen ; the first,
called carbonic oxide, is not difficult to procure, but possesses no
interesting properties. It is inflammable.
    The other compound, carbonic acid, is transparent, colourless,
 much heavier than atmospheric air, has an agreeable taste, has the
 power of irritating the mucous membrane of the nose (as any one
 can tell who has drunk soda-water), without possessing any parti
 cular odour, is absorbed by water, does not support respiration, and
 extinguishes burning bodies.
    Carbonic acid gas may be obtained with the greatest facility by
 pouring some sulphuric acid, diluted with about six parts of water,
 upon some pieces of marble or limestone in a bottle with a tube
 attached, when the gas comes over in torrents. It may be collected
 over water, or allowed to fall into a bottle.
                               EXPERIMENTS.
     1. To show the great comparative weight of this gas, place a
 lighted taper at the bottom of a tall glass jar, then take ajar full of
 carbonic acid gas, and pour it as you would pour water into the jar
 containing the lighted taper ; you will soon find the taper will be
 extinguished as effectually as if you had poured water on it, and the
  smoke of the taper will float on the surface of the gas in very beau
 tiful wavy forms.
     2. Heat a piece of the metal potassium in a
  metal spoon (platinum is best), and if introduced
 in a state of ignition into the gas, it will continue
  burning brilliantly, producing a quantity of dense
 smoke, which is the carbon from the carbonic acid,
  the potassium having seized the oxygen and being
  converted by it into potash.
     3. If a mouse, bird, or other small animal, be
  placed in a jar of this gas, it becomes insensible
 almost immediately, but if speedily removed it will Tig. 31. Stoppered
  occasionally recover.                                  bottle for holding
     4. Shake up some water with some of this gas 6as-
  in a bottle ; the greater part of the gas will be absorbed by the water,

42.                             CHEMISTRY.
which acquires a sparkling appearance and a pleasant sharp taste ;
with the addition of a little soda this becomes the well-known beve
rage called soda water, so famous for removing the morning head
aches caused by " that salmon" having disagreed at yesterday's
dinner !
                            CARBONIC ACID GAS.
    It is the presence of this gas which renders it so dangerous to
descend into deep wells, for by its great weight it collects at the
bottom, and instantly suffocates any unfortunate person who incau
tiously subjects himself to it. Hence it is prudent always to let
down a lighted candle before any one descends into a well, or other
deep excavation, and if the candle is extinguished, it is necessary to
throw down several pails of water, lime-water if possible, and again
to try the candle, which must burn freely before it is safe for any
one to descend.
    It is this same gas, under the name of "choke-damp," which
proves so dangerous to miners, particularly after an explosion of
' ' fire-damp," for it is the principal product of the explosion, and by
its weight settles at the bottom of the mine, whence it is by no
means an easy matter to dislodge it.
    Carbonic acid gas has been condensed into the fluid form by caus
ing it to be disengaged under great pressure ; the fluid acid has the
appearance of water. When the pressure is removed, as by allowing
some of the fluid acid to escape from the vessel in which it has been
condensed, it instantly reassumes the gaseous form, and in so doing
absorbs so much latent caloric that a portion of the acid is actually
solidified, and appears in the shape of snow, which may be collected
and preserved for a short time. After a lecture by Mr. Addams
before the Ashmolean Society of Oxford, a kind of snowball of carbonic
acid was carried for a distance of 500 or 600 yards, and placed in
a saucer in a room. It evaporated very rapidly, and left no residue,
not even a mark where it had lain. It was too cold to be touched
by the naked hand without pain.
    Carbonic acid and lime are mutually tests for each other. If a jar
containing a little lime-water be put into a jar of this gas, it speedily
becomes turbid, the gas uniting with the lime, and producing chalk
 (the carbonate of lime), which is insoluble in water.
    This gas is produced in large quantities by the respiration of
animals, as may be proved by respiring through a tube immersed in
lime-water, when the water will be instantly rendered turbid from the
formation of chalk.
                          CARBON AND HYDROGEN.
    To the combination of these elements in various proportions, and
with the occasional addition of other substances, we are indebted
for all, or nearly all, our means of obtaining light and heat. Coal,
wood, spirit, oil, and all the varieties of fats, are composed princi
pally of carbon and hydrogen, and may easily be converted into the
gas with which our houses and streets are lighted, which is nearly
pure carburetted hydrogen.

                              CHEMISTET.                            43
    There are but two definite gaseous compounds of these two ele
 ments, the carburetted hydrogen, and bicarburetted or olefiant gas.
 The first is easily procured by stirring the bottom of stagnant water
 in a hot summer's day, and collecting the bubbles in a bottle filled
 with water and inverted over the place where the bubbles rise.
 This gas burns with a yellowish flame, and when mixed with a certain
 proportion of air, or oxygen gas, explodes with great violence on the
 application of a flame. It is the much-dreaded fire-damp generated
 so profusely in some coal-mines, and causing such fearful destruction
 to life and property when accidentally inflamed. It is this gas also,
in a state of low combustion, which produces the lambent flame fre
 quently seen in the evenings hovering over marshes, and called the
 "Will-o'-the-wisp." This appearance is still regarded with super
stitious horror by the uneducated countryman.
    The other compound, the bicarburetted hydrogen, forms by far
 the principal part of the gas used for illumination ; and, in fact,
 whatever substance is employed for artificial light, whether oil, tal
low, wax, &c. &c. , it is converted into this gas by heat, and then
furnishes the light by its own combustion.
    This gas has some very curious properties, and may be obtained
 nearly pure by mixing in a retort, very carefully, one part of spirits
 of wine and four of sulphuric acid. The heat produced by the
 mixture being insufficient to decompose the spirit, a lamp must be
placed under the retort, when the gas will speedily be disengaged,
 and will come over in great abundance ; it may be collected over
water.
   This gas is transparent, colourless, will not support combustion,
but is itself inflammable, burning with a brilliant white light, and
being converted into carbonic acid and water. If mixed with three
 or four times its bulk of oxygen, or with common atmospheric air in
much larger proportions, it explodes with great violence.
    This gas is sometimes called "olefiant gas," from the property it
 possesses of forming an oily substance when mixed with chlorine.
                    EXPERIMENT.
   Into a jar standing over water.half-full of this
gas, pass an equal quantity of chlorine gas. The
gases will speedily unite and form an oily-looking
liquid, which may be collected from the sides of
the jar as it trickles down. By continually sup
plying the jar with the two gases as they com
bine, a considerable quantity of this substance
may be collected. Care should be taken that
the olefiant gas is rather in excess.
   The substance produced is insoluble in water,
with which it should be washed by shaking them
together in a tube, and has a pleasant sweetish
taste and aromatic smell, somewhat resembling
ether.                                                    Fig. 32.

44                           CHEMISTET.
   The gas so universally employed for the purposes of illumination
is a mixture of the carburetted and bicarburetted hydrogen, with
minute portions of other gases scarcely worth mentioning. It is
procured by submitting coals to a red heat in iron retorts, having a
tube passing from one end, along which passes all the fluid and
gaseous matter separated from the coal,—namely, gas tar, amnio-
niacal liquor, and various gases, carburetted hydrogen, carbonic acid,
sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphurous acid, &c. &c. The tar and ammo-
niacal liquor remain in the vessel in which the tubes from the retorts
terminate, and the gaseous productions are conveyed through water
and lime to separate the impurities ; the remaining gas, now fit for
use, passes into large iron vessels, called gasometers, inverted over
water (like the jars in a pneumatic trough), whence it is sent through
pipes and distributed where required. What remains in the retorts
is called coke. It consists principally of charcoal, mixed with the
earthy and metallic particles contained in the coal.
                             EXPERIMENT.
   If you possess an iron bottle, fill it with powdered coal, and attach
a flexible tube to it, and put it in the fire : as soon as it becomes
red hot, large quantities of smoke will escape from the end of the
tube, being the gas mixed with all its impurities. By passing it
through water (if mixed with lime it will be better), the gas may
be collected in jars standing over water, and submitted to experi
ment. If you do not possess a bottle, take a tobacco-pipe with a
large bowl (a "churchwarden," for example); fill the bowl with
small coal, cover it with clay or putty, and when dry put it into the
fire, and the gas will soon appear at the other end of the pipe, when
it may be lighted, or the gas may be collected over water, as in the
former experiment.
   This gas is given off spontaneously in some coal-mines, and as it
forms explosive mixtures with atmospheric air, the mines where it
abounds could not be worked except at the greatest risk until about
the beginning of the present century, when Sir H. Davy, while
prosecuting some researches on the nature of flame, found that flame
would not pass through metallic tubes, and he gradually reduced the
length of the tubes, until he found fine iron wire gauze formed an
effectual barrier against the passage of flame. He then thought
that if the light in a lantern were surrounded with this gauze, it
might safely be used in an inflammable atmosphere where a naked
light would instantly cause an explosion. Upon submitting the
lamp to experiment, he found that by passing coal gas by degrees
into a vessel in which one of his lamps was suspended, the flame
first became much larger, and then was extinguished, the cylinder
of gauze being filled with a pale flame, and though the gauze
sometimes became red-hot, it did not ignite the gas outside. As
the supply of coal-gas was diminished, the wick of the lamp was
rekindled, and all went on as at first. A coil of platinum wire

                               CHE1IISTRT.                              45
was afterwards suspended in the lamps, which becomes intensely
heated by the burning gas, and gives out sufficient light to enable
the miner to see to work. As long as the gauze is perfect, it is
impossible for the external air to be kindled by the wick of the
lamp, but the miners are so careless, that they will often remove
the gauze to get a better light, to look for a tool, or some cause
equally trivial, and many lives have been lost in consequence of
such carelessness.
   The effect of fine wire-gauze in preventing' the passage of flame
may be shown ty bringing a piece of the gauze gradually over the
flame of a spirit-lamp, until it nearly touches the wick, when the
flame will be nearly extinguished, but the vapour of the spirit passes
through, and may be lighted on the upper side of the gauze, which
will thus have a flame on either side, though totally unconnected
with each other. The flame from a gas-burner will answer as well
as the spirit-lamp.
    Nearly all the fluids, and solids also, used for procuring artificial
light, such as naphtha, various oils, tallow, wax, spermaceti, spirits
of wine, ether, &c. &c., are compounds of carbon and hydrogen in
different proportions, with the occasional addition of some other
elements, especially oxygen and hydrogen, in the proportions to
form water; as a general rule, those bodies containing the greatest
proportion of carbon give the most light, though not necessarily the
most heat.
               MISCELLANEOUS EXPERIMENTS.
    1. Put some water into a glass or cup, and pour upon it about
half the quantity of sulphuric acid ; upon stirring them together, the
temperature will rise to many degrees above boiling water. In mix
ing the acid with the water, the greatest care should be taken not to
 do it too suddenly, as the vessel may break from the sudden heat, and
 the acid be spilt on the hands, clothes, &c. The greatest caution is
 also necessary in using it, as it will attack nearly every organic thing it
 is dropped on.—If apiece of iron is hammered smartlyon an anvil, its
 latent heat will be evolved in a short time to such a degree, that the
 iron will become almost red hot.—Pour a little clear water into a
 small glass tumbler, and put one or two pieces of phosphuret of lime
 into it. In a short time, flashes of fire will dart from the surface of
 the water, and terminate in ringlets of smoke, ascending in regular
 succession.
    2. Thinly spread some dry nitrate of copper on a piece of tin
 foil, three or four inches square, and wrap it up ; there will not be
 any effect produced. Unfold the tinfoil, and sprinkle a very small
 quantity of water on the nitrate of copper, wrap it up again as
 quickly as possible, and press down the edges closely. Considerable
 heat, attended with fumes, will now he evolved ; and if the experi
 ment be dexterously managed, it will ignite. This shows that nitrate

46                              CHEMISTET.
of copper has not any effect on tin till in a state of solution. —Fill a
saucer with water, and drop a small piece of potassium into it ; the
instant it touches the water, it will burst, with a slight explosion,
into a brilliant, violet- coloured flame. It will continue burning for a
short time on the surface of the water, darting from one side of the
vessel to the other with great violence, like a beautiful fire-ball. If
the potassium is thrown upon ice, it will likewise instantly take fire.
—Pulverize separately one ounce of crystallized muriate of ammonia,
an equal quantity of nitrate of potash, and two ounces of sulphate of
soda ; mix them together in a goblet with four ounces of cold water,
and immediately immerse in the mixture a thin glass tube containing
cold water ; in a short time it will freeze, even in a warm room, or
in the midst of summer.
   3. Take a very thin glass bulb, half-filled with water, and con
tinue to drop ether so slowly upon it, that it may evaporate, and
not fall from the surface of the glass ; the water inside will quickly
be frozen, and this effect will take place sooner if the bulb is held in
a current of air.
   4. Water expands by cold as well as by heat, and to prove this,
it is only necessary to expose a phial filled with water, closely corked,
in a frosty night ; when the water is frozen, the glass will burst.—
Put into a wine-glass a few tea-spoonfuls of a concentrated solution
of silicate of potash, and add to it gradually, drop by drop, sulphuric
acid. If these two liquids be stirred together with a glass rod, they
will become converted into an opaque, white, and almost solid
mass.
   5. Pour a small quantity of water in some muriate of lime, just
sufficient to saturate, not liquefy it ; then let some concentrated
sulphuric acid fall gradually upon this solution, and a solid com
pound, called sulphate of lime will be produced.
                         PRINCE RUPERTS DROPS.
               Glass is an extremely bad conductor of heat, and the
            reason why tumblers and other vessels made of glass
            crack when hot water is suddenly poured into them is,
            that the interior of the glass expands before the heat
            can penetrate through the particles on the outside, which
     != ' are consequently then riven asunder. Small glass toys called
Prince Rupert's drops, which may be obtained at a glass-blower's,
show very clearly the effect of heat on bad conductors. They are
made by dropping a small quantity of glass, while almost in a liquid
state, into water, by which means a globule with a spiral tail is in
stantly formed ; the outside of the globule cools and solidifies the
instant it comes into contact with the water, before the inner part
changes, and this, as it gradually hardens, would contract, were it not
retained and kept in its form by its adherence to the outer crust. If
the tail is broken off, or any other injury done to the globule, it will
burst with a slight noise and fall to pieces. In order that glass ware
may be durable, it is annealed ; that is to say, it is put into an oven
the temperature of which is allowed to decrease gradually.

                              CHEMISTRY.                               47
                     ATTRACTION AND DECOMPOSITION.
   1 . Add a little water impregnated with carbonic acid to a wine
glass of clear lime-water : these two liquids will combine and form a
white substance, which is called carbonate of lime.—Throw a piece
of copper into a wine-glass, and pour upon it some nitric acid ; these
two substances will combine, and a solution of a clear blue colour
will be produced. If you plunge into it a piece of iron (the blade
of a knife will answer), the acid will combine with this new body,
and the copper will be precipitated on the blade of the knife in its
original state. Should the solution be allowed to remain undisturbed
for some days, it will crystallize, and salts of copper will be produced.
    2. Pour a little of the infusion of litmus, or of red cabbage, into
a wine-glass, and add to it a single drop of nitric or sulphuric acid,
and it will be instantly changed into a beautiful red colour.
    3. Take a little of the liquid mentioned in the above experiment,
either before or after it has been converted to red, add to it a few
 drops of the solution of potash, or soda, and, upon stirring it up, a
 fine green colour will be produced.
    4. Let a drop of nitrate of copper fall into a glass and then fill
 it up with water, it will be perfectly colourless; but upon putting a
 drop of liquid ammonia, which is also without colour, into the glass,
 the liquid will change to a beautiful deep blue.
    5. Take some of the blue liquid left by the former experiment,
 and let a drop or two of nitric acid fall into it, and it will become
 clear as crystal.
    6. A drop of nitrate of copper poured into a glass of water will
 not produce any change in the colour of the fluid, but if a small
 crystal, or a drop of the solution of prussiate of potash be added, the
 water will become a dark brown.
     7. Mix some powdered manganese with a little nitre, and throw
 the mixture into a red-hot crucible, and a compound will be obtained
 possessed of the singular property of changing to different colours,
 according to the quantity of water that is added to it. A small
 quantity gives a green solution, whilst a greater quantity changes it
 to a beautiful rich purple. The last experiment may be varied by
 putting equal quantities of this substance into separate glasses, and
 pouring hot water in the one, and a portion of cold water in the
 other. The hot solution will assume a beautiful green colour, and
  the cold one a deep purple.
     8. Bypouring lime-water on to some juice of beet-root, a colourless
  liquid is obtained ; but if a white cloth be dipped in the liquid and
 dried, in a few houre it will become quite red, by the mere contact
  of the air.
     9. Spirits of hartshorn dropped into a solution of copper so weak
  as to be almost colourless, will produce an intense blue, which dis
  appears by adding an acid.
     10. To make Soap. —Pour a little water into a phial containing
  about an ounce of olive oil; shake the phial, and if the contents
  are examined, it will be found that no union has taken place ; but if

48                              CHEMISTRY.
some solution of caustic potash is added, and the phial then shaken,
an intimate combination of the materials occurs, and soap is pro
duced.
   11. Pour a little nitro-muriatic acid upon a small piece of
gold, or gold leaf, and in a short time it will be completely dis
solved, and the solution will assume a beautiful yellow colour.
   12. Pour a small quantity of nitric acid upon a little bit of pure
silver, or silver leaf, and it will dissolve in a few minutes.
   13. Pour a little sulphuric acid, diluted with about four times its
bulk of water, upon a few iron filings ; a strong effervescence,
caused by the escape of hydrogen gas, will take place, and in a little
time the filings will disappear.
   14. Pour some diluted nitric acid on a piece of copper, and in
a little while the copper will be dissolved, and the solution will
become of a beautiful blue tint.
   15. Into a solution of nitrate of silver immerse a small bar of
polished copper ; on withdrawing the bar, it will be found to be
covered with a fine coating of metallic silver.
   16. A small bar of polished iron immersed in like manner in a
solution of nitrate of copper will receive a coating of metallic
copper.
   1 7. A piece of silver immersed in the above solution will remain
unchanged ; but if immersed in contact with a piece of iron,
both, when withdrawn, will be found to be covered with a coating
of metallic copper.
   18. Pour half an ounce of diluted nitro-muriate of gold into
an ale-glass, and put in it a piece of very smooth charcoal. Ex
pose the glass to the rays of the sun, in a warm place ; and in a
short time the charcoal will be covered over with a beautiful golden
coat. Take it out with a pair of pincers, and enclose it in a glass
for show.
                    10 MELT A COIN IN A NUT-SHELL.
   Mix three parts of dried nitre, one) of sulphur, and one of fine
dry sawdust, and pound them well in a mortar. Press a portion of
this powder into a walnut-shell, and also enclose within the shell
a thin piece of silver, or copper rolled up ; then fill the shell
with some more powder, press it down closely, and set fire to it ;
the piece of metal will soon be melted, whilst the nut-shell is merely
blackened.
        TO EENDEE THE SURFACE OF WATER PHOSPHORESCENT.
   Wet a lump of fine loaf sugar with phosphorized ether, and throw it
into a basin of water ; the surface of the water will become luminous,
and show beautifully in the dark : by gently blowing upon it, phos
phorescent undulations will be formed, which will illumine the air
above the fluid for a considerable space. In winter the water must
be rendered blood-warm. If the phosphorized ether be applied to
the hands (which may be done with safety), it renders them luminous
in the dark.

                               CHEMISTRY.                             49
                   LUMINOUS WRITING IN THE DARK.
    Put a small piece of solid phosphorus into a quill, and write with
it upon paper ; if carried into a dark room, the writing will appear
luminous, and have a beautiful effect. Should the phosphorus take
fire by the friction, it must be plunged immediately under the sur
face of water and extinguished ; if any burning phosphorus falls
upon the hands, the painful effects of the severe burn are greatly
mitigated by plunging them under the surface of water to which a
very little solution of ammonia has been added.
                   SEMBLANCE OF PERPETUAL MOTION.
    Into a basin of clean water put a few pieces of camphor ; they will
commence a peculiar motion, traversing every part of the surface of
 the water ; but may instantly be stopped by dropping into the water
the minutest quantity of an oily substance.
                      ARTIFICIAL PETRIFACTIONS.
    Put into a retort a quantity of pounded fluor spar and sand, and
 pour upon it some sulphuric acid ; fluosilicic acid gas will be disen
 gaged, holding silex in solution. The subjects that you wish to
resemble petrifactions must next be moistened with water, and
 placed in a vessel connected with the neck of the retort. The fluo
 silicic acid gas will be absorbed by the moisture adhering to the
 substances, and the silex will be precipitated upon them like a sort
 of hoar-frost, which will have a beautiful appearance, and be tole
 rably durable.
               BEAUTIFUL EXPERIMENT WITH PHOSPHORUS.
    Put half a drachm of solid phos
 phorus into a Florence oil flask,
 holding the flask slantingly, that the
 phosphorus may not break the glass ;
 pour upon it a gill and a half of
 water, and place the whole over a
 tea-kettle lamp, or any common lamp,
 filled with spirits of wine; light the
 wick, which should be about half an
 inch from the flask ; and as soon as the
 water is boiling hot, streams of fire re
sembling sky-rockets will burst at in
tervals from the water ; some particles
will also adhere to the sides of the
glass, and immediately display brilliant
rays, and thus continue until the water begins to simmer, when a
beautiful imitation of the aurora borealis will commence, and gra
 dually ascend until it collects into a pointed cone at the mouth of the
 flask : when it has continued for half a minute, blow out the flame
 of the lamp, and the apex of fire that was formed at the mouth of the
 flask will rush down, forming beautiful illumined clouds of fire
                                                                E

50                            CHEMISTRT.
rolling over each other for some time, and when these disappear, a
splendid hemisphere of stars will present itself. Alter waiting a
minute or two, light the lamp again, and nearly the same phenomena
will be displayed as from the beginning. Let a repetition of lighting
and blowing out the lamp be made for three or four times, so that
the number of stars may be increased, and after the third or fourth
time of blowing out the lamp, the internal surface of the flask will be
dry. Many of the stars will shoot with great splendour from side to
side, whilst others will appear and burst at the mouth of the flask.
What liquid remains in the flask will serve for the same experiment
three or four times without adding any more water. Care should
be taken, after the operation is over, to put the flask in a secure
place.
                        SYMPATHETIC INKS.
All writings or drawings executed with sympathetic inks are illegible
until by the action of heat or some chemical agents upon a peculiar acid
or substance which forms the basis of the ink, a change is effected,
and a colour produced from that which was before colourless.
 • 1. Write with a weak solution of sulphate of iron, and it will be
invisible ; when dry, wash it over with a solution of prussiate of
potash, and the writing will be restored, and turned to a beautiful
blue.
   2. Write with some of the above solution, and it will, as before
stated, become invisible, but if a brush which has been dipped in a
decoction of oak hark, or tincture of galls, be slightly passed over it,
it will turn black.
   3. Write with the nitro-muriate of gold, and brush the letters
over with muriate of tin in a diluted state. The writing, before in
visible, will then appear of an exquisitely beautiful purple colour.
   4. The most curious of all kinds of sympathetic ink is that pro
cured from cobalt. It is a very singular phenomenon, peculiar to
this ink, that the characters of figures traced out with it may be made
to appear and disappear at pleasure ; all other kinds of sympathetic
ink are at first invisible, until some fluid has been applied to cause
their re-appearance, but when once they are developed, they remain
permanent. To make this ink, take zaffre, and dissolve it in nitro-
muriatic acid, until the acid extracts from it the metallic part,
or cobalt, which communicates to the zaffre its blue colour ; then
dilute the solution, which is very acrid, with common water. If you
write with this preparation, the characters will be invisible ; but when
exposed to a moderate degree of heat, they will become green, and on
the paper cooling again, they will vanish. However, if the paper is
over-heated, the writing will not disappear.
    5. Write with a diluted solution of muriate of copper, and the
writing will be invisible, when dry ; but on being held to the fire, it
 will be of a yellowish green colour.

                                CHEMISTRY.                                51
                          COLOURED FIRES.
One ounce and a half of dry nitrate of strontia, three drachms and
six grains of powdered sulphur, one drachm and twelve grains of
chlorate of potash, two drachms of the sulphuret of antimony, and
one scruple of charcoal, will make a most beautiful and intense red
fire. Pound the chlorate of potash and sulphuret of antimony each
separately in a mortar, and afterwards mix them together on paper,
then add them to the other ingredients. In mixing these ingredients
it must always be remembered that chlorate of potash and sulphur
explode when rubbed together.
                                GREEN VIRE.
   For green fire, take twenty-seven parts of nitrate of baryta, thirteen
of flowers of sulphur, five of nitrate of potass, three of charcoal, and two
of metallic arsenic. Let the nitrate of baryta be well dried and pow
dered ; pulverize the other ingredients completely, mix them carefully
together, and then grind them with a muller on a stone slab, taking
especial care to incorporate them thoroughly.
                         A BLUISH WHITE FIRE.
   Take of nitrate of baryta twenty-seven parts by weight, of sulphur
thirteen, of chloride of potassium five, of realgar two, and of charcoal
three parts ; incorporate them completely, and when inflamed they
will emit thatpeculiar whitish-blue light accompanied by much smoke
which is employed in fairy scenes at theatres.
                               BENGAL LIGHT.
   Mix together sixteen parts of nitre, four of sulphur, and one o
orpiment ; place it on a tile, and apply a match : it will burn with
bluish flame, and diffuse a most intense light.
                         ORANGE-COLOURED FIRE.
   If some muriate of magnesia be mixed with a little alcohol, and
then set on fire, a very beautiful orange-coloured flame will be pro
duced.
                                 SPUR PIRE.
   This fire, the most beautiful of any composition yet known, is
termed spur fire, from the sparks bearing a great resemblance to the
rowel of a spur. It is generally made of saltpetre two pounds, sul
phur one pound, and lamp-black three quarters of a pound, incorpo
rated thoroughly together ; it should then be put into cases about six
inches in length, but not driven very hard. This composition is very
difficult to mix. The saltpetre and brimstone must be first sifted
together, then put into a marble mortar and the lamp-black added to
them ; incorporate the ingredients with a wooden pestle till the mix
ture appears of a dark grey colour ; then drive some into a case for
                                                                  E 2

   52                               CHEMISTRY.
   trial, and fire it in a dark place ; if the sparks, which are called
   stars or pinks, come out in clusters, and afterwards spread well with
   out any other sparks, it is a sign of its being good; if any drossy
   sparks appear, and the stars are imperfect, the composition is not
   mixed enough ; and if the pinks are very small and soon break, it is
   a sign that you have rubbed it too much. This fire has a bettereffect
   in a room than in the open air, and may be fired in a chamber with
   out any danger ; indeed, it is of so innocent a nature, that, although
   it seems an improper phrase, it may truly be termed a cold fire, for,
   if well mixed, the sparks will not burn a handkerchief when held in
   the midst of them ; you may hold the cases in your hand while the
   fire jets out with as much safety as a candle ; and if you put your
   hand within a foot of the case, you will feel the sparks fall like drops
   of rain.
                             CONCLUDING REMARKS.
       Our limits warn us to close this highly interesting subject, and in so
    doing we shall observe that the experiments we have selected to eluci
    date the principles of chemistry are mostlyvery easy of attainment, and
    can be tried without incurring much expense ; indeed the smallest
    quantities sold of some of the more expensive articles will be amply
    sufficient for the purpose of displaying their effects, whilst a trifling
    quantity, three or four pennyworths, for instance, of the more com
    mon ones will do, as the effects are as beautifully apparent in smalt
    as in large quantities. Neither is it necessary to purchase many
    glasses or vessels in which to make the mixtures, as some slips of
    common window glass will serve the purpose, if only a few drops of
    the liquids are mixed together. This economical plan has been
    adopted by Dr. Reid, of Edinburgh, with the greatest success, and
    tyros in chemistry would do well to bear in mind that Sir Humphry
    Davy taught himself with an apparatus which cost but a few shillings.
Fig. 35. Globules of sodium rolling down and burning on wet blotting-paper placed on
   an inclined board provided with ledges at the sides to prevent the metal rolling off.

                                       53
                OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS,
                                     Fig
           4( Hail, holy Light ! Offspring of heaven, first-born,
                                    Before the sun.
              Before the heavens, thou wert : and at the voice
              Of God, as with a mantle didst invest
              The rising world of waters dark and deep."
                                                              Milton.
           " Oh, what a noble heavenly gift is light,
              By light, that blessed being, all things live."
                                                   Schilibe's William Tell.
It may be said without exaggeration that the chief facts in the
science of chemistry have been discovered within the last eighty-five
years, and a similar remark may be made with respect to the beauti
ful phenomena of light, viz., that the greatest refinements and im
provements in the science of optics have been discovered and prac
tised within about the same period, although, of course, much was
«ffected and reduced to system at least 200 years ago. No other

 54                       OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
 branch of science has given larger scope for the exercise of the
 highest order of reasoning than the gorgeous and magnificent effects
 of light ; and the study of its nature was pursued with the greatest
 diligence and success by the philosophers of antiquity. If the earth
 was always flooded with light, probably its nature would not have
 excited so much curiosity ; but the very fact of its being the pre
 cursor ofman's daily toil, the first greeting of each day, would induce a
 greater amount of thought to be devoted to its origin and existence ;
 hence light was typified in various ways in heathen mythology, and
 Eos or Aurora was the name of the goddess of the dawn, who at
 the close of every night rose from her couch, and in a chariot drawn
 by swift horses ascended up to heaven to announce the coming light
 of the sun ; whilst Helios or Sol, the god of the sun, was fancifully
 supposed to start in a chariot drawn by four horses from his magni
 ficent palace in the east, to speed to his second royal abode in the
 west, where his horses fed upon herbs growing in the Islands of the
 Blessed. Such fanciful creations of imagination indicate that the
 thoughts of the ancients were turned to the consideration of invisible,
 imponderable light, and they endeavoured to give this "quintessence
pure" a formal existence. The ancient Greeks were acquainted
 with the properties of the burning-glass, which was sold as a
curiosity in the toy-shops, just as the kaleidoscopes and the magic
lanterns are to be obtained in the bazaars at the present day. In order
to comprehend the principles of these optical contrivances, it is neces
sary to speak of the nature of light, beginning with the enumera
tion of the sources from which it may be derived.
                      THE SOURCES OF LIGHT.
Light emanates from (at least) six different sources. The first, the
greatest and the grandest, is the sun, the centre of our planetary
system, and the great source of light and heat to the earth. The
magnificence of this celestial light-giving agent can only be appre
ciated by considering the gigantic size of the sun as compared with
the earth, the former having a diameter of 770, 800 geographical miles,
and being 112 times greater than that of the earth.
   The sun's volume is 1,407,124 times that of the earth, and 600 times
greater than all the planets united. Sir John Herschel says, if a globe
representing the sun, and two feet in diameter, be placed in the centre
of a well-levelled field, and a circle described round it having a diameter
of 430 feet, the representation of the earth placed on the circum
ference of this circle would not be larger than a pea, whilst the cir
cumference would represent the orbit or path of the earth. Arago
says, " It is no exaggeration to assert that the electric light is com
parable to the solar light : the former is not effaced in the presence
of that of the latter. According to the energy of the battery em
ployed, the electric light varies from the fifth part to the fourth of that

                          OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                               55
  f the sun ; and, supposing it to be equivalent to about three or four
thousand wax candles, the light of the sun, at the surface of the earth,
would be equal to about twenty thousand candles on the same area
as would be illuminated by a
single electric light of great
energy. Comparison is always
a useful mode of instruction,
and therefore it may be worth
while to mention that the solar
light is at least 300,000 times
greater than that of the full
moon ; consequently the firma
ment must be gemmed with
more than 300,000 full moons
to produce a light equal to
that of the sun. Light ema
nates from terrestrial matter,
as when two substance* are JS£-*^J** **. A "' Larg"
rubbed one against the other, The cog wheel a has a handle attached.
and hence the use of the flint b. is on the same shaft that carries the
and steel; here minute par- steel wheel o.
 .. ,      ™ .            , , , r ~ The flint is shown at d.
tides ot iron are rubbed off,
 the very act of friction being sufficient to produce the heat which
helps their combustion in the air.               Before the invention of the
 safety - lamp, and                                    =^_^re_
 its use in coal
 mines, steel mills
 were in constant
 requisition in dan
 gerous pits, and
 every coal hewer
 was provided with
 a little boy, whose
 monotonous duty
 consisted in turn
  ing a little steel
  wheel against a
  piece of flint, at the
  risk of continually
  rubbing off the skin
  from his fingers,
  or projecting the
  small particles of          Fig. 38. Miner at work in the coal mine by the
                                   light of the sparks from the steel mill.
  the flint or steel
  into his eyes ; to say nothing of the occasional brutality of the
  coal hewer, who would allow no relaxation to the tired little
  fingers which helped to produce the light.
      The friction of a railway axle has occasionally been so great as even
  to set fire to the carriage to which it belonged.

  56                         OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
      Friction is, therefore, an important source of light, whether it be
  applied by civilized races to the ignition of a lucifer-matcb, or in
  the more troublesome and laborious efforts of a savage with his
                                                      dried pieces of wood.
                                                         A third source of light
                                                      is chemical action ; un
                                                      doubtedly (next to the
                                                      sun) the most valuable
                                                      means of obtaining illumi
                                                      nating power         without
                                                     the exercise of physical
                                                      strength. Light is procured
                                                     from the mere contact of
                                                     certain chemical agents.
                                                     Thus, if some chlorinated
                                                      lime, called chloride of
                                                     lime, be moistened with
                                                     water, and placed in a
                                                     beaker glass standing at
                                                     the bottom of a deep jar,
                                                     and some acid be poured
                                                     upon it by means of a
                                                     tube and funnel, the acid
                                                     being hydrochloric or sul
                                                     phuric acid, effervescence
                                                     takes place ; a heavy
                                                     gas, called chlorine, is
                                                     disengaged, which falls to
                                                     the bottom of the jar ; and
                                                     if a little Dutch metal, i.e.,
   Fig. 39. A A. Large glass jar.                    copper leaf, is now dropped
   B. Small ditto, cont aining the chlorinated lime. into it, light is produced
   c. Tube and funnel, conveying the acid to B.      by the sudden combina
   D D. Sheet of paper, with hole in centre to tion of the metal with the
admit tube.
   x. Small glass, used as a bucket.
   The arrows showthe direction of the heavy gas        In performing this ex
chlorine, and when sufficient is obtained, the periment great care must
Dutch metal may be dipped in.
                                                     be taken not to inhale the
                                                     chlorine gas, as it produces
a most painful and irritating cough, which would last a considerable
time. After performing the experiment, either place the glass on the
chimney-hob till the gas has all passed up the chimney, or put it outside
the window and shutdown the sash; and after the acid has been poured
in, put a plate over the top, to prevent any gas being carried out of
the jar by accidental currents of air in the room.
   A powder composed of chlorate of potash and sugar represents
solidity. At the ordinary temperature of the atmosphere, these
materials might remain in contact for years without evolving
light, until touched with the smallest quantity (a drop) of oil of
vitriol, when suddenly a little crackling noise is heard, a large flame

                       OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                             57
flashes upwards, and the heap of powder is gone—burnt up—changed
into carbonic acid and aqueous vapour, which pass into the air ;
whilst a small quantity of a white matter, and, perhaps, a few specks
of charcoal, remain behind. Before the extended manufacture and
application of phosphorus in the preparation of lucifer-matches, the
same mixture, combined with a small quantity of red lead and gum
was attached to the ends of little bits of pine wood, and these, when
dipped into a bottle containing asbestos
moistened with oil of vitriol, immediately
 took fire as already explained.
   A third, and excellent illustration of chemi
cal action as a source of light, is shown in the
combustion of all oil, tallow, wax, and gas
in the production of artificial illumination ;
the perfection of the light depending, in a
great measure, on the ignition of the solid
charcoal, which introduces us to
   The fourth mode of procuring light : viz.,
by the increase of heat in solid bodies, or
what is called ignition in contradistinction
to combustion, which means the actual burn
ing of a substance.
   For instance, if a deep jar is filled with       pjg. 40. a. Bottle con-
carbonic acid gas, and a piece of dry gun taining marble and hydro-
cotton is dropped into it, a flame, represent- chloric acid^ generatin|
ing combwtion, will not fire the cotton, as ^Ju%r the 6bentWtube
the lighted taper is extinguished before reach- into
ing the explosive substance, because carbonic >¦• Large beaker glass,
acid gas extinguishes flame; but if a piece S«0£on *
of iron wire be heated, i.e., ignited, this         c. Taper extinguished
may be passed through the carbonic acid gas by carbonic acid.
unaltered, and, coming in contact with the „ D- Ipi'od we, which
        ,..'_,.,
gun cotton,             1 causes it
              immediately             . .burn.
                                   .. to                   B cotton,
                                                 fires the gun
   The increase of heat in solid bodies producing light is admirably
illustrated in the dissection of the elements concerned in the com
bustion of ordinary gas, which consists chiefly of hydrogen gas and
carbon ; if the former is burnt, it combines with the oxygen of the
air, water is formed, and much heat, but little or no light obtained. If,
however, a coil of platinum wire is placed in the burning hydrogen,
it becomes intensely ignited, and light is obtained ; the metal is not
consumed, or changed, or oxidized, only ignited, and if some pow
dered charcoal is substituted for the platinum wire and dusted in the
flame, light is also obtained.       To dust charcoal powder into a
hydrogen flame would be a very tedious business, hence coal gas,
which already contains the charcoal, supplies the element required,
and being in excess, is not wholly and at once burnt up by union
with the oxygen of the air, but is deposited in the body of the flame,
where becoming ignited or incandescent, the light is produced, and
this is the principle of the illuminating power of oil, tallow,
wax, &c.

58                       OPTICAL EXPEEIHENTS.
   A fifth source of light, and one that may alarm or delight us accord
ing to the manner of its production, is Electricity. That wondrous
power which man has rendered subservient to his command, and em
ploys to convey his thoughts almost as quickly as they are conceived,
by the electric telegraph. In many other ways, and especially as
a light-giving agent, electricity promises in due time to become
second only to the sun in utility and brilliancy.
   On a dark stormy night there is nothing more awful (in conse
quence of the suddenness of the appearance and disappearance of the
excessively brilliant light) than a flash of lightning. In vain do the
nervous try to exclude the bright gleams of light by closing shutters
or hiding heads under the bedclothes ; the light has come and gone
ere the words which chronicle its existence have escaped us, and by
the time we have remarked " how blue the lightning is," the cause
of the colour has vanished, the impression only remains upon the
optic nerve.
                                               The electric light is ob
                                            tained either by passing a
                                            stream of sparks from the
                                            prime conductor of an elec
                                            trical machine, or by the use
                                            of a powerful voltaic bat
                                            tery of at least 30 pairs, on
                                            Professor Grove's principle,
                                            which must be conected with
                                            the charcoal points arranged
                                            on the ends of the instru
                                            ment called the universal
                                            discharge.
                                               The points must be con-
  Fig. «. a a. The universal discharge with stantly brought together, as
charcoal points.                            the positive pole is always
  b a. Three batteries often cells each.    losing charcoal, which de
posits partly on the negative pole ; the carbon so deposited is not in
a perfect state of aggregation, and soon burns away, otherwise the
light is not caused by the combustion of the charcoal, and is pro
duced by the ignition of the points, and the passage of the current of
electricity from pole to pole.
   The passage of the charcoal from one point to the other is perfectly
and beautifully displayed on a screen to a number of persons at the
same time, by using Duboscq's elegant arrangement, in which the
electric lamp is placed inside a lantern with a plano-convex lens, and
provided with a disc perforated with holes gradually decreasing in
size. By adjusting the proper orifice to the lens, and connecting
Duboscq's lamp with the battery of 30 cells, a picture of the char
coal points is projected on to the screen ; the passage of the electric
current (shown by a bluish light), with the transfer of the charcoal
from the positive to the negative pole is very perfectly seen.
   Professor Pepper's Duboscq cascade will long be remembered by
the habitues of the Polytechnic.

                          OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                             51)
  Fitr. 42. Duboscq'3 Electric Lamp, Lantern, and Screen. The lamp is placed in
the lantern, and the door removed, to show the inside.
  A. The plano-convex lens.
  b. The diaphragm, perforated with holes of various sizes.
  The picture of the positive and negative poles is shown on the white paper
screen facing the diaphragm.
   The sixth source of light is perhaps more curious than all the others
which have been enumerated, and is called " Phosphorescence."
This term must not be confounded with the use of the highly com
bustible substance called phosphorus, as the luminous effects are ob
tained from bodies which do not contain any of that element. More
over, a phosphorescent light is evolved from living insects, and
therefore it must (in this case) be the result of some remarkable
organic process.
                          PHOSPHORESCENCE.
   There are at least seven distinct means by which this kind of
light is produced.
                         NO. I. — SOLAR PHOSPHORI.
   Attention was first directed to this mode of causing bodies to shine
in the dark by the experiments of a shoemaker of Bologna, who,
being engaged in alchemical mysteries, had occasion to calcine some
native sulphate of baryta, or what is commonly termed heavy spar,
and he remarked that whenever this substance was exposed to the

.60                     OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
sun's rays after being heated red-hot, id possessed the curious
property of shining when taken into a darkened chamber. The
shoemaker in looking for the philosopher's stone, missed the golden
prize, but discovered this substance, which soon began to be in great
demandamongst the curious under the name of Bolognian phosphorus,
and after the death of "Vincenzio Cascariolo, the clever shoemaker,
a family of the name of Zagoni retained the secret of the preparation,
and supplied the philosophers and dilettanti of Europe with this pre
pared substance.
    Canton's phosphorus possesses similar properties, and is prepared
 by taking a dozen large oyster shells and placing them in an open
fire for half-an-hour, after which the whitest and largest pieces are
 selected, mixed with about one-third of their weight of flowers of sul
 phur, pressed into a crucible with a closely luted cover, and heated
 red-hot for an hour. It should be remembered that the oyster shells
 alone, when heated for about an hour in contact with charcoal, i.e.
 placed in an open fire surrounded with coke, become luminous when
 exposed to the sun's rays, and emit curious prismatic colours in a
darkened room.
    Nitrate of lime, prepared by saturating nitric acid with lime
 from chalk, evaporating to dryness, and melting at a low red heat,
 evolves light in a dark room after exposure to the sun's rays.
    The conditions of success in the use of these solar phosphori con
 sist in a great measure in the warmth and dryness of the weather, as.
 a cold or damp state of the atmosphere decreases the power of
 shining.
                  NO. II.—PHOSPHORESCENCE BY HEAT.
    In this case it is only necessary to take various substances in the
 powdered state, and to sprinkle them on a heated surface, such as a
 platinum spoon, held over the flame of a spirit lamp, and an iron
 shovel, just red hot, taking care of course to perform the experiment
 in a dark room or a cupboard lined with black calico.
    The powdered substances which become luminous in this manner
.are—
          Fetid carbonate of lime called stinkstone, which is rather
             plentiful at Bristol.
           Compact phosphate of lime.
           Calcareous spar.
           Heavy spar.
           Powdered quartz.
           Fluor or Derbyshire spar.
    Mr. Pearsallhas shown (in a very interesting series of experiments)
 that the luminosity of these substances is greatly increased by elec
 trical discharges, and he found that it conferred the property upon
 many substances which did not otherwise possess it.
          NO. III. —BODIES SPONTANEOUSLY PHOSPHORESCENT.
    Various animal substances become luminous before putrescence has
  commenced, and especially the flesh of certain fish, of which the

                        OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                          61
most remarkable are tench, carp, sole ; and herring, lobsters, and
crabs, when perfectly fit for the table, will sometimes emit a phos
phorescent light.
    One of the most remarkable instances on record is that described
by the late Mr. Daniel Cooper, and witnessed by the author, viz.,
the phosphorescence of the whole of the human bodies which were
undergoing dissection at the Webb Street School of Medicine. The
phosphorescence commenced in one of the subjects, and a portion
transferred by a scalpel to the other dead bodies, conferred the same
property upon them. The effect was extremely wonderful, not to say
fearful; it reminded one of the ghostly story of "Frankenstein,"
and suggested the fanciful notion of the resuscitation of these poor
remains of human mortality.
              NO. IV. —PHOSPHORESCENT LIVING ANIMALS.
    The glowworm (de
scribed with many other           j/C-
' ' Common Objects of the
Country," by the Rev. J.
C. Wood) is not a worm,
but a beetle.
    The hundred- legged
worm found in decayed
poplar wood, or under
lime, bricks, and pots in
the garden, emits flashes
of light when irritated
by a little warm water.           Fig. 43. Male and female glowworm.
Whilst, in tropical climates, the Lantern and Firefly have been the
theme of admiration of every traveller.
             NO. V. — THE PHOSPHORESCENCE OF THE SEA.
    Dr. Young and others are of opinion that it is caused by micro
scopic mollusks. "Every time," says the doctor, "I threw a net
into the water I withdrew i t full of biphores, heroes, and medusae. In
one single drop I discovered myriads of small beings moving rapidly
about, and at every contraction of these animalculae the emission of
light became more intense .... I had placed in a glass vase some
gigantic biphores ; I saw them alternately rise and fall in the water,
and all their movements were accompanied by a jet of fire, which
increased the luminous intensity of the liquid fourfold."
    The French Minister of Marine lately received a report from
Captain Tre'buchet, of the Capricieuse corvette, dated Amboyna,
August 28th, 1860, in which he states that on the night of the
26th of that month, while tacking to reach Amboyna, lying at about
twenty miles E.N.E., he and his crew witnessed the curious spec
tacle of the Milky Sea, which the Dutch call the Winter Sea, because
both the sky and the waters present the appearance of fields covered
with snow. The phenomenon lasted from seven p.m. until the
return of daylight. They at first attributed it to the reflection of

62                     OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
the moon, then only three days old ; but, as the appearance con
tinued after the moon had set, this explanation had to be discarded.
A bucketful of sea-water being drawn up and examined, it was
found to contain about 200 groups of animalculse of the same thick
ness (that of a hair), but of different lengths, varying between one
and two- tenths of a millimetre, and adhering to each other by tens
and twenties, like strings of beads. These insects emitted a fixed
light similar to that of the firefly or glowworm, and it was admitted
on all hands that the white appearance of the sea could only be
attributed to these minute creatures, the numbers of which must
therefore, exceed all imagination.
   In a paper read before the Royal Society, written by Father
Bourges, he speaks of the phosphorescence of the sea water in the
wake of the ship, and says, " One day we took in our ship a fish,
which some thought was a boneta ; the inside of the mouth of
this fish appeared in the night like a burning coal, so that, with
out any other light, I could read by it the same characters that I
read by the light in the wake of the ship. Its mouth being full of a
viscous matter, we rubbed a piece of wood with it, which immediately
became all over luminous ; but as soon as the moisture was dried
up, the light was extinguished." This phosphorescent light may be
one of the inscrutable wonders of creation, and serve possibly to illu
mine the eternal darkness of the great ocean depths to which the
rays of the sun never penetrate, giving light to those animals which
take their food near these valleys of the bed of the ocean.
     HO. VI.—PHOSPHORESCENCE FROM VEGETABLE SUBSTANCES.
   Decayed wood, and especially peat, has occasionally been ob
served to evolve a faint light, and even some flowers have been re
marked to give out brilliant flashes of light during a warm summer's
evening. The names of the flowers are the tuberose, nasturtium, and
nrarigold ; also the leaves of the phytolacca decandra, and certain
mosses, with some species of rhizopherma, have been observed to
be luminous in mines.
    NO. VH. —EMISSION OF LIGHT DURING CBYSTALLIZATION.
   Mr. H. Rose notices a remarkable instance of this property in the
solution of vitreous arsenious acid in hydrochloric acid ; one ounce of
the arsenious acid should be dissolved in three ounces of the hydro
chloric acid diluted with one ounce of water, and the whole boiled
for fifteen minutes in a flask ; when very slowly cooled the arsenious
acid gradually crystallizes, and nearly every crystal as it forms emits
a bright flash of light in a darkened room.
   The cause of phosphorescence does not yet seem to be perfectly
understood ; by the vibratory, or undulatory theory of light, it is pos
sible to conceive that vibrations may be commenced in phosphores
cent bodies, and communicated to the surrounding ether. The glow
worm and firefly may be naturally endowed with the power to
produce these rapid vibrations, the principle being, that as vibra

                       OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                             63
lions of the air produce sound, so the vibrations of the theoretical
ether, which is supposed to fill all space, would generate light.
   Phosphorescence is quite independent of combustion ; it may
arise in some cases from electrical disturbance, but taking it as a
whole, scientific men are obliged to confess their ignorance of the
causes which produce the leading cases of phosphorescence already
enumerated.
                    PHENOMENA OF LIGHT.
Hitherto the experiments and remarks in this article have applied
merely to self-luminous bodies, but yet we see every other shape and
form on the surface of the globe, although the bodies may not be
self-luminous. The cause is very simple, and depends chiefly on the
property possessed by all bodies of reflecting or throwing off the rays
of light.
   For instance, we might enter in imagination the cavern of the Forty
Thieves in the tale of Ali Baba ; the countless riches are comparatively
useless, because we cannot see them, they do not shine and make
themselves apparent in the dark ; but a lighted taper or torch very
soon throws its rays in every direction, and these falling on the sur
rounding objects are reflected to the eye and there produce the phe
nomena of vision.
   A bright beam of light may be passed from the Duboscq lantern
across a darkened chamber, and if it falls upon a piece of black velvet
and the face is turned away from it, hardly any light is perceptible in
the room ; but if the rays be received on a sheet of cardboard, then
the secondary reflection illumines the room. It is this reflection of light
by clouds and masses of vapour that produces the diffused light of
day. If the globe was not surrounded by an atmosphere, the sun
would look like a huge electric light in a perfectly black sky.
Hence the important connexion between luminous and non-luminous
bodies. For the purpose of reasoning on the properties of light, it
is usual to consider a beam of light as made up of rays, and when a
ray of light remains in the same medium of the same density, it pur
sues a perfectly straight line, but if it passes out of that medium into
another of a different density, or into any other solid, fluid, or gaseous
body, it may be disposed of in four different ways. It may be
                              1. Reflected.
                             2. Refracted.
                             3. Polarized.
                             4. Absorbed.
   The limits of this very popular article will not allow us to discuss
Nos. 3 and 4, but there are many entertaining experiments to be
performed with light in the use of various reflecting and refracting
substances.
                       THE REFLECTION OP LIGHT.
   Nature supplies us with bodies of all degrees of reflecting power,
and it is a property which is influenced rather by the condition of the

 64                     OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
surface than the nature of the materia], as we may destroy the bril
liancy of a bright mirror by breathing upon it, and we may also con
fer a reflecting surface on black charcoal by applying the thinnest
film of gold or silver leaf.
   Concave mirrors, in which the surface corresponds with the inside
of a watch-glass, have the property of collecting the rays of light,
whilst convex mirrors, in which the surface resembles the exterior
of a watch-glass, scatter the rays in all directions. Flat surfaces
afford plain reflections, and one of the prettiest applications of flat-
reflecting surfaces is shown in that beautiful invention of Sir David
Brewster called
                           THE KALEIDOSCOPE.
                             This interesting instrument is of modern
                           invention, and forms a toy of the most
                           pleasing kind. Rough, though effective,
                           kaleidoscopes may be purchased for a very
                           moderate price at most toy-shops, but for the
                           instruction of those of our readers who would
                           like to make them, we proceed to give some
                           instructions by which they may construct
                           very passable specimens for a trifling ex
                           pense. Get a tube of tin or pasteboard of
                           eight or ten inches in length and one and
          Fig. *4,         a half or two inches in diameter ; have one
end stopped up with a piece of tin firmly soldered in, and let there
be a slight hole made exactly in the centre of this end piece. Next
procure two pieces of looking-glass of nearly the length of the tube,
for reflectors ; but if looking-glass is not easily obtained, strips of
good new crown glass will answer the purpose, if the lower surfaces
are blackened with lamp-black or black wax. These plates of glass
must be put into the tube in the manner shown at B C B D in the
marginal figure ; they must be quite parallel and close to each other
at the lower part B, and kept asunder at the upper part by a piece
of cork or any other substance E ; the polished sides of the glasses
must be uppermost, as at b b ; A indicates the sight-hole at the
farther end, and close to this the reflectors must be fitted. The re
flectors being put in, a piece of glass of the same diameter as the
tube, is to be pushed into the tube so as to touch the reflectors,
sundry bits of different coloured glass are to be laid on it, and a ring
of brass or copper placed round its edge, and then another piece of
glass, one side of which has been ground with fine emery, laid upon
that ; the edges of the tin tube are then to be burnished down round
the last mentioned piece of glass, by which plan the glasses are
firmly secured in their places and the instrument completed. If a
piece of marbled or tinted paper is afterwards nicely pasted over it,
the kaleidoscope will look very neat and workmanlike.

                       OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                        65
              THE MTRIAMOSCOPE, OR MAGIC DESIGNER.
   This instrument is a variation of the
Kaleidoscope, possessing much of the
beautiful effect of that pleasing inven
tion, without its liability to be affected
by a shake, so as to derange the elegant
forms which it produces. A is a square
box, in the front of which the sight- hole
B is made ; two rollers, C C, are placed
at the bottom of the box, and in order
that they may be made to move round
with facility, knobs or handles should be           Fig. 45.
fixed to the ends of their axles at the sides of the box. On these
rollers a piece of calico D, must be wound, and upon which fanciful
borders, flowers, and ornaments cut out from pieces of paperhang-
ings, must be pasted. Two plane mirrors E E joined together by a
strip of leather, hinge-fashion, are then to be put on the calico, as
shown in the margin, and, of course, all the objects thereon make a
very pretty display in the glasses when viewed through the sight-
hole B. The mirrors must be so constructed that they may be put
to any inclination by means of two small pieces of wood fastened to
them, and passing through the sides of the box. An opening should
be made in the box for the convenience of renewing the subjects, and
the top of it be covered with muslin, strained tight, or some other
semi-transparent medium.
                     THE REFRACTION OF LIGHT.
   Light is refracted, or bent out of its course, when it passes ob
liquely through a medium of greater density than that which it
has been traversing, so as to fall quite in a different place to what
it would have done, had it not passed into that medium ; and
the amount of this refraction or bending of the light is always
governed by its obliquity, and the nature of the substance through
which it progresses. There are some substances or media which are
of greater density, and refract light better than others, as for in
stance, alcohol refracts it more than water, oil more than alcohol,
and glass even more than oil. Amongst the many useful inventions
which the progress of civilization and knowledge has brought forward,
there are few which are of so much utility as those which depend
upon the refractive powers of glass for their effect ; and these are
the telescope, microscope, camera obscura, magic lantern, &c. &c.
The pieces of glass used in these instruments are termed lenses, from
their being made in the shape of a flat bean or lentil ; this shape,
from being rounded outwards on both sides forms what is called a
convex lens, and in addition, the concave, or hollow on both sides,
with the various modifications of both kinds of lenses are employed
for optical purposes. The convex lenses cause the different rays
which pass through them from any given point or object, to bend
and unite together again at another point beyond them. The more

 66                     OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
 convex the lens is, the nearer is its focus, for it has been ascertained
 that the focus of a double convex lens is exactly where the centre
 of the sphere would be, of which the surface of the lens is a portion ;
 consequently, in proportion to the convexity of the lens, so will the
 nearness of its focus be, as it then forms a part of a smaller sphere.
 When the light proceeding from all points of any object placed be
fore a lens is collected at a certaint point beyond it, and received on
 a white screen or other medium in a darkened room, it produces the
well-known effects of the magic lantern, the solar and oxy-hydrogen
microscopes, and the camera obscura ; and when the image beyond
 a lens is viewed in the air, in a particular direction, it then shows
the disposition of parts which form the telescope, common micro
 scope, &c. The concave lens acts exactly the reverse of the convex,
that is, instead of converging the rays to a point, it expands them,
and causes them to fill a space considerably larger than the size of
the lens itself.
    Some of the most striking of celestial appearances, and which are
of very frequent occurrence, are the result of the reflection and re
fraction of the rays of light. The serene mild glow of twilight,
which so softly and sweetly ends the day, and diminishes the
transition from the burning glare of the sun to the cold hues of
night, is owing to reflection, and so also is that beautiful many-
 coloured arch, the rainbow. The varied tints of the clouds, from the
grey, pearly, morning dawn, to the brilliant crimson and gold glories
 of sunset, are produced by a combination of causes, absorption,
reflection, and refraction. The deceitful Mirage is another effect
 owing to refraction. It is occasioned by unequal refraction, that is,
 when the rays of light enter a medium of different densities, and is a
 phenomenon of rare occurrence in temperate climates, occurring
 chiefly in those subject to the extremes of temperature, whether of
 heat or cold. In the arid deserts of Africa, the mirage frequently
 presents the appearance of a delightful tract of country stretching
 across the wide plain, in which the traveller fancies he may refresh
 himself and his camels, sheltered by lofty palm-trees, from the
 scorching rays of the sun ; but as the wanderer pursues his onward
course, he finds the unsubstantial forms vanish before his eager gaze,
 making the dreary way still more desolate from the bitterness of
 disappointment. In the Arctic regions also, the mirage presents
forms of great interest and beauty, but of a different character
 from those in the torrid zone, displaying lofty towers and pinnacles,
high battlemented walls and aerial palaces, from the refracted forms
of the icebergs. There are many pleasing ways of showing the
 principles of refraction.
                EXPERIMENTS ON REFRACTION OF LIGHT.
   Put a piece of money at the bottom of an empty basin, and then
retire a few steps backwards, till the edge of the basin screens the
money from your sight. Keep your head steady, and request some
one to fill the basin very gently with water ; as the water rises the

                             OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                              67
 coin will come gradually into view, and when the basin is nearly full
 of water it will be completely visible.
     By the assistance of the Duboscq lantern, arranged as already
 described, with the exception of the diaphragm, which must be re
 moved and a piece of thick cardboard or brass cut in the form of an
 arrow arranged in its place, and a double convex lens placed in
 front, a perfect image of the arrow is thrown on the disc, and whilst
 the picture is visible, if a piece of plate-glass, marked D in the cut,
 say one inch wide and half-an-inch thick and six inches long is held
  across the shaft of the cardboard arrow, a piece of the shaft is seen to
  be broken out or refracted, as shown in the picture below.
V     :
             Fig. 48. a. The electric, or ory- hydrogen light.
             E. The plano-convex lens, or " bull's-eye."
             c. The bit of plate glass, the refracting medium, in front of the
                   arrow.
             D. The second double convex lens.
             K. The image on the screen, showing the arrow-shaft broken,
                   or refracted, at b.
                           THE MAGIC LANTERN.
      The MAGIC lantern, one of
  the most amusing of optical
  instruments, was invented by
  Kircher, about the middle of the
  seventeenth century, and was of
  the greatest service to the magi
  cians of those times, enabling
  them to work upon the credulity
  of the ignorant and superstitious
  with the utmost facility. As a
  vehicle of amusement, it contri
   butes in no small degree, in the
   shape of a galantee show, to the
  hilarity of a party of merry                               Fig. 17.
  younkers in a long winter's night ;
  and as a means by which lectures on astronomy can be elucidated,
   it arrests the attention of the old and wise.
        The instrument, the construction of which demands our attention
  first, is represented in the margin. A, is a box made of wood or
   tin, about eight inches square, having a bent funnel or chimney, B,
                                                                           p 2

68                     optical experiments.
at the top ; a handle, C, renders it a portable instrument, and holes
are made near the bottom to feed the flame of the lamp with the air
which is requisite for its combustion ; in the front of the box there
is a tin tube, furnished at the end near the light with a plano-convex
lens, D, —which indeed is affixed to the lantern itself,—and at the
other, a doubly convex lens, F ; this tin tube is fixed to the lantern
by a square foot, the sides of which are open, as at E, to admit the
sliders, and the end of the tube in which the doubly convex lens is
fastened is made to slide in and out for convenience when adjusting
the focus ; a third lens is occasionally employed when the space is
very confined, as a larger field of view can be obtained by its aid
than in the ordinary method. The lamp, G, is a common argand
burner, furnished with a concave tin reflector, to concentrate the
intensity of the light ; and if the lamp is made to slide back
wards and forwards by means of a wire, it will be so much the
more useful.
   The Phantasmagoria! Lantern varies but slightly from the fore
going, the chief points in which it differs being in the form of the
tube containing the doubly convex lens, which is made to project
more beyond the lens, F, and in the lens itself being contrived so
as to move readily backwards and forwards, either by a rack and
pinion, or studs fastened on each side ; in a flap to shut off the light
abruptly, which may be either a tin slider to run into the groove, or
else a piece of tin fastened in the front of all ; and in the top of the
square chamber, in which the sliders run, being made so as to open
on occasion.
                          PAINTINC THE SLIDERS.
   The sliders are made of pieces of glass, surrounded by a slight
frame, and in dimensions are of course regulated by the depth of the
aperture intended for them in the lantern. Few hints can be given,
beyond naming the colours, and the mode of preparing them, to
wards the painting of the sliders, as taste is the best guide, and prac
tice the most impressive instructor in all matters relating to painting.
 The colours proper are only such as are transparent, and they
 are the following : —Gamboge, scarlet lake, Prussian blue, a green
 made of distilled verdigris and a quarter of its bulk of gamboge,
 burnt sienna, burnt umber, and lamp-black. A few materials, such
 as a glass muller, and slab, which last may be about six inches
 square ; a palette-knife, and some small bottles to put the colours in
 after they are ground, are also requisite. The colours should be
 ground up with Canada balsam and turpentine, equal parts of each,
 or if in that proportion they are too thick for grinding freely, rather
 more turpentine may be added ; so mixed they require about a week
 to dry, and have a very beautiful appearance ; but if it is wished to
 have them harden in less time than that, mastic varnish may be em
 ployed instead. When painting, take a very little colour at a time
 out of the bottles, as it soon hardens : and if too thick, temper it
 with turpentine. A piece of glass will serve as a palette, and a
 bit of stick as a means of getting the colour out of the bottles. The

                        OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
black pigment used in darkening the surface of the glass round the
figures of the Phantasmagorial sliders, is composed of lamp-black and
aephaltum, dissolved in turpentine.
    The subjects intended for the sliders must be carefully drawn upon
a piece of paper, which should be placed under the glass, and then
painted from, and too much attention cannot be paid to the drawing
of them, for when they are thrown upon the wall, all their defects,
however minute, are enlarged to an astonishing extent.
    Those parts of the subjects which are to appear white, must be
left entirely destitute of colour, as flake, and all other whites, are
 opaque pigments. The mixed colours are produced by blending
 the colours before-mentioned ; thus greens are made by means of
 yellow and blue, orange by yellow and carmine, &c. ; this last,
 although not an exact orange, is near enough for the purpose, for the
 red which composes the proper tint, is opaque, and consequently
 useless. The shadows may be obtained either by stronger tints of
 the same colours, or by shades of brown or blue as may be requisite.
 It is necessary to observe that the sky tints must be darker than
 they are intended to appear, for the yellow light of the lamp throw
 ing a yellowish tone upon the colours, they would lose their effect
 were they not so managed ; for the same reason, the green of trees
 and grass should be painted of a bluish green, the reds be but very
 slightly used, and never shaded with blue ; and purples should also
  be but sparingly employed, for the yellow tone of the lights uniting
  with the blue and lake colours used in the purple, forms a decidedly
 neutral tint, or blackish purple, much too dark and unintelligible for
 the purpose. As it is often necessary to remove some parts which
  do not harmonize, even after they have well dried, a penknife will
 be found of great assistance, and when bright lines are required upon
 a dark ground, the effect is easily managed by scratching the colour
  away with a needle or any other pointed instrument ; and if the lines
  are to appear faintly coloured, it is only necessary to paint them deli
  cately after the scratching is completed.
     The sliders for
  the common magic
  lantern are trans
  parent, that is, the
  figures are painted
  on a piece of plain
  glass, whilst on
  those used in the
  phantasmagorial lantern the figures are surrounded by an opaque
  black tint, as in the illustrations ; the figures on the former are
  usually shown upon a wall, as represented in the headpiece to this
  chapter, page 53, and invariably have a circle of light around them ;
  whilst those in the latter are thrown upon a semi-transparent screen,
  which is placed between the spectators and the lantern, and in con
  sequence of no circle of light accompanying them, have a very
   beautiful appearance.
     Almost magical effects of light, shade, and motion, may be pro-
                                                                          r

 70                       OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
 duced by means of different glasses ; and the sliders so adapted are
 termed " moveable sliders."
     Landscape glasses are glasses on which several views are painted,
 divided from each other by some slight foreground object, as a tree,
 or a building, or guidepost. Various effects, from the brightest
 mid-day to the deepest tints of night, may he produced in these, by
  means of double sliders, and these contrivances may be thus applied.
  Cut away the frame of the slider at each end, nearly even with the
 glass, and fasten two narrow strips of wood along the glass, one at
 the top and the other at the bottom ; the piece of glass which is to
 be moved, should exactly fit the space between the upper and under
 frames, and act upon the slips, and to keep it steady in its place,
 two or three pins may be driven into the slips.
                                           Storm glasses, which are very
                                        ingenious representations of the
                                        effects developed by a change
                                        from a calm to a thunderstorm,
                                        require two glasses, as in the for
                                        mer slider: No. 1 in the an
                                        nexed illustration shows a com
 mon slider painted at one end to represent a calm of sea and sky, and
 the sun setting in splendour ; towards the centre the clouds appear
 threatening, and a gentle undulation of the water breaks its repose ;
 farther on a still greater agitation of the clouds and water is shown ;
 and at the other end, the lightnings flash, and the sweeping wave
 tells of the war of elements. The effect is materially heightened by
 means of the second slider, No. 2, having several ships painted on
 it, and these, of course, must correspond to the action of the water,
 from the hark sailing in quiet majesty to the tempest- torn and shat
 tered hulk.
    The effects of moonlight and sunrise mayalso be imitated by double
 sliders, and by a third one, figures may be introduced upon the scenes
 to add to their beauty.
                                            The eyes and mouths of
                                          figures and animals may be
                                          made to move, and produce a
                                          most singular, nay almost fright-
                              -; -i .-^a ful effect, and by referring to
                                          the marginal illustration, the
                                          modes by which these are
                  Kg. 50-                 managed will be clearly under
stood. In No. 1 the heads of a crocodile and lion are delineated, and
in No. 2 the contrivances for moving the jaw of the one and the eyes
of the other. A, represents a piece of talc having the lower jaw
painted upon it and surrounded with black, which fills up a space of
corresponding size left blank in the perfect Blider ; a slight lever
should be fastened to this piece of talc, act upon a pivot on the
frame, and project a little beyond it ; and as it moves up and down,
so will the crocodile's mouth appear to open and shut. The eyes of
the lion must be painted black upon a transparent piece of talc, as at

                          OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                            71
B, from which a side lever should be carried, as in the former case, to
a little beyond the frame, and to prevent the talc from shifting too
far either backwards or forwards, a drop or two of sealing-wax, or a
little knob of wood fastened to the glass on each side, either of the
talc or lever, will be found sufficient.
                        SCREENS FOR THE LANTERNS.
     As we before briefly stated that different media were required, on
which to show the effects of the Magic Lantern and Phantasmagoria,
 we must, in concluding this article, give some directions respecting
 them. Although any white surface will do very well to receive the
 objects from the Magic Lantern, yet a clean sheet stretched tightly
 upon a wall, is by far the best, as the chief point is to have a medium
 of perfect whiteness and quite flat. The screen for the Phantasma
 goria may be made of tissue paper strained upon a frame. Some
 persons recommend oiled paper as the best medium ; but in our
 opinion, paper so prepared is too transparent, the plain tissue being
 thin and translucent enough for any purpose.
     Wetted muslin and waxed muslin are also advocated by some per
 sons ; but for a screen suited to the pockets of young experimentalists,
 nothing can be better than the one we recommend.
                              THE STANHOPE LENS
 Is a very simple, portable, and economical species of microscope,
 invented by the late Earl of Stanhope. It is a cylinder of glass,
  about half an inch in length, and a quarter of an inch in diameter,
  and is generally mounted in white metal, silver, or gold. Both ends
  are ground convex, one rather more so than the other, and as its
  focus does not exceed its length, it is only necessary to
  put the object to be viewed either upon or in immediate
  contact with the end which has the slighter degree of
  convexity, to hold the instrument up to the light and
  look through it, when the object will be seen consider
  ably magnified, to the extent, we believe, of 4096 times ;
  its magnifying power is therefore nearly equal to that
  of many compound microscopes. The animalcula? in
  stagnant water, the mites in cheese, the farina and deli
  cate leaves offlowers, the beautiful down upon the wings Fig. 51.
  of butterflies and moths, human hair, and hairs of different
   animals, are amongst the objects which this lens developes in a lucid
   manner, as likewise the exquisitely minute crystallization of salts, if
   a drop of a solution of salts be lightly spread over one end of it, and
   viewed instantaneously ere the moisture fully evaporates.
                             THE CAMERA OBSCURA.
       Have a box made about twelve inches in length, four In depth,
    and six in width ; in the middle of one end of it let a hole be bored,
    as at A, in the annexed diagram, in which put a doubly convex lens ;
    and at the other end, inside the box, place a piece ofgood looking-glass,

 72                      OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
                                        as at B, inclining it at an angle
                                        of 45°, or in less technical phrase,
                                       in a position midway between the
                                       horizontal and perpendicular, so
                                        as to reflect objects upwards.
                                        Part of the top of the box must
                                        be made so as to act the part of a
                                       lid, upon hinges, as D, and the
                                       space beneath be filled up by a
                Fig. 52.               piece of ground glass C, upon
                                        which medium the objects are re
 flected from the looking-glass with the utmost exactness and greatest
 beauty, so as to appear like an exquisite picture in miniature. Sides
 are usually added to the lid, as at E, to keep off as much of the cir
 cumambient light as possible. In some cameras, instead of a fixed
 lens, a sliding tube, with a lens at the extremity, is employed. The
 inside of the box should be painted over with lamp-black, or in default
 of that, stained with ink.
                           SIMPLE MICROSCOPES.
    Get a piece of thin platinum wire, and twist it round the point of
a pin, so as to make a very small ring with a handle to it. Next
 break a piece of flint glass into pieces about the size ofmustard-seeds,
or somewhat larger ; put one of the pieces upon the ring of wire, and
hold it in the point of the flame of a candle ; when the glass melts,
it will become of a completely globular form, and serve, when
mounted, every purpose to which microscopes can be applied. The
simplest mode of mounting these diminutive lenses, is either to put
one between two pieces of brass, which have holes made in them of
just the size to retain the edge of the lens, or they may be fastened
to a single piece of brass by the aid of a little gum. It is to be
observed, that the smaller the drop of glass, the more globular it will
remain, and consequently possess greater magnifying powers.
                              WATER LENSES.
   Temporary microscopes of considerable distinctness may be very
easily made, by piercing a hole about the size of a pin's head in a
piece of brass, and carefully placing a minute drop of water on the
hole, where it will assume a globular shape. These lenses, as may be
imagined, are very easily rendered useless, being affected by the
slightest movements.
                         THE PRISMATIC COLOURS.
   Our young readers will find these three experiments upon the
colours in a ray of light of great interest and beauty.
   Close the shutters of a room into which the sun is shining, and so
exchange midnight gloom for meridian brightness ; and if there is
not an aperture in the shutters, then bore a little one. Hold a prism
at a short distance from the aperture, so as to allow the slender stream
of sunlight to pass through, and be decomposed by it ; when instead

                        OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                         73
of a little roundspot on the opposite wall of the room, an oblong image
will be displayed, consisting of the seven colours of the rainbow, red,
orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo, and violet. This image is called
the solar spectrum.
   If the hole in the shutter is exceedingly small, and no prism is em
ployed, then only four colours are evident, and these are red, green,
yellow, and violet.
   The above experiments show by decomposition, that light is of a
compound nature ; and to confirm them, it is only necessary to re-
compose the seven colours, and produce the pure sunlight effect, as
follows :—
   Take another prism corresponding in every respect with the first,
and placing them both together, so as to form a parallelogram,
the seven rays will be reunited, and form a single spot of light.
   In concluding this brief sketch of the nature and properties
of light, it will be as well to notice the structure of the human
eye, the organ by which the glorious works of the all-wise
 Creator are observed and impressed upon our minds. The human
eye is formed, externally, by a hard membrane termed the sclerotic
coat, or commonly the white of the eye ; in the forepart of this coat,
there is an opening called the cornea, from its resemblance in texture
 to polished horn ; the interior of the eye is lined with a fine mem
brane, the choroid, which round the cornea is fringed by the ciliary
processes, behind the iris ; through the centre of the latter, or the
pupil, the rays of light pass into the chamber of the eye. The crys
 talline humour or lens, which is in form like a doubly convex
 lens, is situated among the ciliary processes, and is the immediate
 instrument of vision, as it conveys the light from the pupil to
 a focus at the back of the eye. A delicate membrane called
 the retina, which is an expansion of the optic nerve, lines the back
 of the eye, and receives the images of every object from the crystal
 line lens, in most exquisite perfection, and most exact proportion.
 There are two humours for preserving the globular shape of the
 eye, the aqueous and the vitreous ; the aqueous, as its name implies,
 is perfectly limpid, and is before the lens, immediately under the
 cornea ; the vitreous fills the large cavity of the eye, to which it
 gives the globe-like form, and receives its appellation from being
enclosed in a transparent spongy structure, so as to resemble, in
some degree, molten glass.
    The eye is in effect a camera obscura, in which the refracted light
gives a very small but brilliant representation of external objects.
                         OPTICAL AUGMENTATION.
    Take a large conical-shaped drinking-glass, and put a shilling into
it, and fill it about half full with water. Put a plate upon the top
of the glass, and turn it very quickly over, so that the water may
not escape, and a piece of silver as large as half-a-crown will imme
diately appear in the plate, and some little way up the glass another
piece will present itself, about the size of a shilling. This effect is
 caused by refraction.

n                       OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
              THE THAUMATROPE, OR WONDER TURNER.
                                                 The Thaumatrope is an
                                               exceedingly amusing toy
                                               of very simple construction
                                               and pleasing effect. It is
                                               made in the following man
                                               ner: —cut out a circular
                                               piece of card-board, and
                   Fig- 53.                    affix to it six pieces of
string, three on each side, as delineated in the margin. Paint on
one side of the card a bird, and on the other a cage, being particularly
careful to draw them upside down to each other, otherwise the
desired effect will not be produced. When showing the toy, take
hold of the centre strings between the forefingers and thumb of each
hand, close to the card, and twist or twirl the card rapidly round,
audio! the bird will appear snugly ensconced in its cage. The prin
ciple on which this pleasing toy acts, is, that the image of any object
received on the retina or optic nerve, which is at the back of the eye,
is retained in the eye for about eight seconds after the object
causing the impression is withdrawn ; consequently the impression
of the painting on one side of the card is not obliterated ere
the painting on the other side is brought before the eye, and it
therefore follows that both sides are seen at once. The sub
jects suited to the Thaumatrope are very varied ; amongst others,
the following are well calculated for display; a juggler throwing up
two balls may be drawn on one side of a card, and two balls only on
the other, and according to the pairs of strings employed, he will
seem to toss two, three, or four balls, the body and legs of a man
on one side, and his head and arms on the other ; a candle and its
flame ; a mouse and a trap ; and a horse and his rider ; this last is a
very good one, as by using the different pairs of strings, the relative
positions of man and horse may be varied most singularly.
                THE STROBOSCOPE, OR PHENAKISTISCOPE.
   This is a most amusing instrument, and its principle resembles the
thaumatrope, its effect depending, like that, upon the continuance of
 the image of an object upon the retina. It consists of a disc made of
                            stout cardboard, upon which, towards the
                            edge a series offigures in eight or ten different
                            positions is painted ; thus if it be wished to
                            produce the illusion of a man running, the
                            first position should be quiescent, standing
                            upright, the second advancing forward a
                            little, the third stepping out still more, and
                            so on to the sixth figure, which should be
                            drawn as if running at full speed ; the
                            remaining attitudes should show the person
          Fig. 54.          gradually returning to the first quiet attitude.

                       OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.                          75
Between each figure a slit must be made about three quarters of an
inch in length, and a qiiarter, or less, in width, running in a parallel
direction with the radii of the disc, and extending to an equal dis
tance from the centre, as in the illustration. This disc when com
pleted should be put upon a handle as in the annexed figure.
No. 1. shows a little nut, which must be unscrewed
ere the disc can be placed on its axis, and which keeps
it in its proper place, so that it cannot lean forward
and spoil the experiment ; 2 is the disc, and 3 is a nut
fixed to the axis by which the rotatory motion is given      tffe»
to the disc. When trying the effect of this instrument,
stand before a looking-glass, and hold the painted face
of the machine towards the glass ; cause it to revolve
on its axis, and look through the slits, when instead of
beholding a mass of confusion, as might naturally be
expected, and as would undoubtedly be the case were
the disc viewed in the ordinary way, the figures will
seem to be running as fast as possible, and with very
natural movements, their velocity being of course
proportioned to the rate at which the disc is impelled.
The number of subjects adapted for this species of ex       Fig. 55.
hibition is considerable, and if they are well drawn they
may be made the source of much merriment. Especial care must be
taken, when drawing them, to make the figures correspond exactly
with each other in shape and depth of tone, as much of the good
effect of the display depends upon their accuracy in these particulars.
                          OPTICAL DECEPTIONS.
   Faraday has shown that if two equal cog-wheels be cut out
of cardboard, placed upon a pin, and turned round with equal
Telocity in opposite directions, instead of producing a hazy tint,
as one wheel would do, or even as the two would if revolving in
the same direction, there is presented an extraordinary appear
ance of a fixed wheel. Again, if one moves somewhat faster
than the other, then the spectral wheel appears to move slowly
round ; if the cogs be cut slantwise on both wheels, the spectral
wheel, in like manner, exhibits slant cogs ; but if one of the
wheels be turned so that the cogs shall point in opposite
directions, then the spectral wheel has straight cogs. If wheels
with radii or arms be viewed when moving, then similar optical
deceptions appear; and though the wheels move ever so fast,
yet the magic of a fixed wheel will be presented, provided they move
with equal velocities. If they overlap each other in a small degree,
then very curious lines will be seen.
   Perhaps the most striking deception is the following : —a paste
board-wheel has a certain number of teeth or cogs at its edges ; a
little nearer the centre is a series of apertures resembling the cogs
in arrangement, but not the same in number ; and still nearer the
centre, is another series of apertures, different in number, and vary

76                     OPTICAL EXPERIMENTS.
ing from the former. When this wheel is fixed upon an axle, its
face held two or three yards from an illuminated mirror, and spun
round, the cogs disappear, and a greyish belt, three inches broad,
becomes visible ; but on looking at the glass, through the moving
wheel, appearances entirely change, one row of cogs appears as
fixed as if the wheel were not moving, while the other two give an
opposite result ; shifting the eye a little, other and new appearances
are produced.
   With the two wheels mentioned in the first experiment, if only
one is turned in the sunlight, a shadow corresponding to its appear
ance will be produced ; but if both are turned in opposite directions,
the shadow is no longer uniform, but has light and dark alternately,
and resembles the shadow of a fixed wheel.
                    CURIOUS OPTICAL EXPERIMENT.
   Put on a piece of white paper, a circular piece of blue silk, of
about four inches diameter ; next place on the blue silk a circular
piece of yellow of three inches diameter ; on that a circle of pink two
inches in diameter ; on that a circle of green, one inch in diameter ;
then one of indigo, of half an inch in diameter, and finish by making
a small speck of ink in the centre. Place it in the sunshine, look on
the central point steadily, for a minute or two, and then closing
your eyes, and applying your hand, at about an inch from them, so
as to prevent too much light from passing through the eyelids, you
will see the most beautiful circles of colours the imagination can
conceive, differing widely from the colours of the silks, and also
adding to the richness of the experiment by changing in kaleido
scopic variety.
                          AN OPTICAL GAME.
   Give a ring to any person, or put it at a little distance, in such a
position that the plane of it shall be turned towards his face, and
then desire him to shut one of his eyes, and endeavour to push a
crooked stick through the ring ; to his surprise, he will seldom
succeed. The reason is evident ; being unaccustomed to use one
eye only, he cannot judge of the distance correctly, and, of course,
errs ; but a person having only one eye, would not fail of achieving
the trick.
           INTERESTING EXPERIMENT WITH RATS OP LIGHT.
   Make 'a small hole in a stout piece of pasteboard, and set the
piece upright on a table in front of two or three candles placed near
together ; lay a sheet of paper on the table, and the rays from the
different candles passing through the hole, will form as many
spots of light as there are candles ; each spot being perfect and
distinct. This experiment proves that the rays of light do not
obstruct each other in their progress, although all cross in passing
through the hole.

                                    77
       ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM,                              AND
                          MAGNETISM.
                Fig. 56. The Origin of Galvanism (page 78).
The primary object of the very elementary scientific articles in this
work is to excite cariosity in the youthful mind, so as to induce a
desire to read and study more extended and complete works on the
various subjects to which they relate. The vast increase of know
ledge derived from actual experiments with electricity, magnetism,
and electro-magnetism precludes the idea of giving a complete de
scription of all the varied phenomena in these branches of the science ;
brevity and simplicity have therefore been specially studied in the
following experiments, which may be very appropriately prefaced
with a glance at the historical connexions of these imponderable
agents.
   The exact nature of Electricity has not been ascertained, but it
is considered a highly subtle and elastic fluid. Its name is derived
from the Greek word electron, signifying amber, on which substance
some of its effects were first observed. The name of the person to

18        ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
whom we owe the earliest notice of the property of amber, when
rubbed, to attract and repel light bodies, has not been handed down
to posterity ; but it is said that Thales, a philosopher, born at
Miletus in Asia Minor, who flourished 600 years before Christ, and
was considered one of the first of the seven sages of Greece, de
scribed this remarkable phenomenon. It was also mentioned by
another Greek author, 321 years B.C., but the ancients did not
profit by the discovery, and the gleanings of the science were very
feeble until the sixteenth century of our era, when Dr. Gilbert of
Colchester applied the principles of philosophical iuvestigation to
the observations of the ancients.
   Electricity is one of the most active principles in nature. It
exists in all bodies, and is exhibited by various means ; one of which,
and the most generally employed, is friction. Some substances, such
as soot, charcoal, iron, gold, silver, copper, and other metals, water,
tc., are called good conductors, because they transfer with great faci
lity to other bodies the electric fluid, which glides over their surfaces
with the velocity of light ; whilst others, such as silk, wool, hair,
feathers, dry paper, leather, glass, wax, &c., are called non-con
ductors, because they resist the progress of the fluid, which accumu
lates all the time the friction continues. It is from these media that
the usual phenomena of frictional electricity, as exhibited in the ex
periments which we shall hereafter describe are obtained. Its effects
are felt in almost every part of nature ; the awful lightning is the
 exhibition of the electric fluid, which accumulates in the clouds, and
which is discharged when the heavy lurid masses come in con
tact with each other ; the mysterious sweeping whirlwind, the
terrific rising and rolling of the sand in the desert wilds of Africa,
the waterspouts, and the beautiful and evanescent aurora borealis
of the northern climes, are amongst a few of the effects attributed
-to it.
   The next branch of the science of electricity is Galvanism, or,
as it is sometimes called, Voltaic Electricity : it is obtained
chiefly by chemical action, and is said to have been first dis
covered at Bologna in the year 1791, by the lady of Louis
Galvani, an Italian philosopher of great merit and professor
of anatomy, and indeed from whom the science received its
name. His wife being possessed of a penetrating understanding
and passionately loving him, took a lively interest in the science
which so much occupied his attention. At the time the incident we
are about to narrate took place, she was in a declining state of health,
and using soup made of frogs by way of restorative. Some of these
animals, skinned for the purpose, happened to be lying on the table
of his laboratory, where also stood an electrical machine : the point of
a knife was unintentionally brought into contact with the nerves of
one of the frog's legs which lay close to the conductor of the machine,
and immediately the muscles of the limb were violently agitated.
Madame Galvani having observed the phenomenon, instantly in
formed her husband of it, and this incident led to the experiments
and interesting discoveries which will transmit his name to the latest

            EXECTI- ' CITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                    79
posterity. It is proper to state that this somewhat romantic story is
denied by some historians of the science.
    The uses of galvanic or voltaic electricity for scientific purposes are
incalculable, and its phenomena are so various and extraordinary, as
to render the study of this science exceedingly interesting. By
 means of a galvanic battery substances are decomposed, colours
 changed, water is decomposed, and motion is given to lifeless
 bodies.
    The experiments we give on galvanism show the effect of the
.combination which forms what is called a simple galvanic circle, by
means of two metals, zinc and silver, or zinc and copper, and water
mixed with sulphuric acid.
    Galvanic action is always accompanied by chemical action, and all
that is necessary to disturb the galvanic or voltaic electricity, is to
 unite two metals together, and subject them to the action of a fluid
 which will act chemically upon one of them more powerfully than
 upon the other.
    A galvanic circle may also be formed of one metal and two fluids
 which have a different action upon the metal employed.
    Magnetism is probably some modification of electricity ; at least
 there is sufficient evidence that these causes are intimately connected,
 if not identical, but philosophers are as yet ignorant of its nature. It is
 equally unknown the exact time when, and the country where, the
 property of the magnet was first considered. The Greeks of the
 time of Pythagoras were acquainted with its property of attracting
 metals. It was also familiar to the Arabs and the Indians, and the
 Chinese from the earliest ages have known its polarity or directive
 power, the needle being employed amongst them 1000 years before
 Christ to direct travellers by land. In Europe, a Neapolitan, named
 Flavio Gioia, who lived in the thirteenth century, has been regarded
 by many as the inventor of the mariner's compass ; but it was in use
 in the eleventh century in Iceland, as is confirmed by the historian
 Arc Frode, who wrote, about that time, the history of the discovery
 of his country, and who speaks of the mariner's compass in very de
 finite terms, and thus indirectly shows that it was employed or
 invented nearly as early as the tenth century.
     The property designated by the word magnetism is found in an
  iron ore of a certain composition, and of a dark grey colour and pe
 culiar lustre. This ore alone is the natural local habitation of mag
  netism, whilst others are subject to its influence, or attracted by it.
     This singular property of the loadstone is imparted to iron and
  steel by rubbing and keeping them close together for some length of
 time. The steel retains themagneticprinciplepermanently; but iron
  loses the power as soon as it is separated from the magnet. The steel
  thus prepared acquires the same directive and attractive power as the
  loadstone or natural magnet, and is employed for purposes of the
  utmost importance.
     We proceed to give the youthful amateur the opportunity of ex
  emplifying the principles of electricity, galvanism, and magnetism,
  by several interesting and simple experiments.

80          ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
               SIMPLE MEANS OF PRODUCING ELECTRICITT.
   To show the nature of electrical action, rub a piece of sealing-wax
or amber upon the coat-sleeve, and it will be found that while warm
               by the friction it attracts light bodies, such as straws or
               small pieces of paper. If a clean glass tube be rubbed
               several times through a silken or leather cloth, and pre
               sented to any small substances, it will immediately at
               tract or repel them ; and if a poker suspended by a dry
               silk string be presented to its upper end, then the lower
               end of the poker will exhibit the same phenomena as
               the tube itself, which shows that the electrical fluid
               passes through the metal. But if for a metallic body a
               stick of glass or sealing-wax be substituted, these phe
               nomena will not occur, which proves that the electrical
               fluid does not pass through these substances.
                   By this it will be perceived that besides the class of
                bodies called electrics, there is another which we call
   Fig. 57.    conductors. These bodies cannot be excited themselves,
               but have the power of transmitting the electric fluid
through them. These bodies comprise all the metals, some metal
and metallic ores ; the fluids of animal bodies, water, and other
fluids, except oil, ice, snow, earthy substances, smoke, steam ; and
even a vacuum.
                              When any electrified conductor is wholly
                           surrounded by nonconductors, so that the
                           electric fluid cannot pass from the conductor
                           along conductors to the earth, it is said to be
                           insulated : thus the human body is a con
                           ductor of electricity—but if a person stand
                           ing on a glass stool (as represented in the
                           drawing) be charged with electricity, the elec
                           tric fluid cannot pass from him to the earth,
                           and he is said to be positively electrified, be
                           cause he has more than his natural share ;
                           he is also insulated, and if he be touched by
                           another person standing on the ground, sparks
                           will be exhibited at the point of contact, whve
         [Fig. 58.         also the person touching will feel a pricking
                           sensation.
                  ATTRACTION AND REPULSION EXHIBITED.
    In order to illustrate certain remarkable facts in this science of an
 amusing character, attention must be directed to the figure A B,
 which is a metal stand ; c is a small piece of cork or pith, which is
 suspended from the hook by a dry silken thread. Having rubbed an
 electron, as a dry rod of glass, and presented it to c, the ball will be
 instantaneously attracted to the glass and will adhere to it. After
 remaining in contact for a few seconds, if the glass be withdrawn

           ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                     81
without being touched by the fingers, and again
presented to the ball, the latter will be repelled
instead of attracted, as in the first instance. By
being touched with the finger, the ball can be
deprived of its electricity, and if after this has
been done we present a piece of sealing-wax in
place of the glass formerly employed, the very                      1
same phenomena will take place. On the first
application the ball will be attracted, and on the
second repelled.
   Before the young reader can perform any very
important experiments with electricity, he must
become possessed of an electrical machine,
which is an instrument contrived for the purpose          Fig. 59.
of rubbing together the surfaces of electrics and
non-electrics. They generally consist of a cylinder, or plate of glass,
and a piece of silk for it to rub against, covered with an amalgam,
the method of preparing which we shall hereafter describe.
               HOW TO MAKE AN ELECTRICAL MACHINE.
   It is very easy to make a glass machine of the cylindrical form, if
the maker cannot afford to buy one. First procure a common wine
                                 Fig. 60.
bottle of good dimensions, and thickish glass. Drill a hole through
its bottom, by igniting a piece of worsted tied round it dipped in
turpentine, which will
do this. Through this
hole and the mouth
pass a spindle as re
presented in the cut.
The end of B should
be squared to fix a
handle on, and the
spindle should be fixed
firmly in the bottle.                         Fig. 61.
The bottle is then to
be fixed in a frame in the following manner : the end of the spindle
c passes through a hole at B ; and the other end at C has the
handle for turning the machine.
   Next make a cushion of wash-leather stuffed with wool, and fas
tened to the top of a frame of the following figure. This frame is to
                                                              o

82         ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
                       be of such a height that the cushion shall press
                       against the sides of the bottle, and a piece of
                       black silk is sewn on to the top of the cushion,
                       and hangs over the bottle D. The cushion
                       should be smeared with an amalgam, formed
                       by melting together in the bowl of a tobacco-
                       pipe, one part of tin with two of zinc ; to
   Fig. 62. Cushion.   which, while fluid, should be added six parts of ^
                        mercury. These should be stirred about till
quite cold, and then reduced to a fine powder in a mortar, and
mixed with a sufficient quantity of lard to form a thickish paste.
When all is done, the machine is complete.
                            THE CONDUCTOR.
   The electricity being generated by the friction produced between
the rubber and the bottle from the motion imparted by the handle, it
is necessary to draw it oft' for use. This is performed by what is
called a conductor. This is made in the following manner. At right
angles to one end of a cylinder of wood about two inches and a half
in diameter, and six inches long, fix a small wooden cylinder about
three-quarters of an inch in diameter, and three inches long, rounded
at both ends. The other end of the larger cylinder is also to be
rounded. Cover the whole with tinfoil, and mount it on a stand on
a glass rod. When used, it is to be placed with the even piece in a
line even with, and about half an inch from, the bottle, and it should,
be of such a height as to come just below the silk apron. When it is
wished to charge a Leyden jar, it is to be placed at the round end of
the conductor. By these simple means a great variety of pleasing
experiments may be performed ; but to show the various pheno
mena connected with this interesting study, we shall now describe
an electrical machine of the newest construction, and perform our
experiments with it.
                    THE PLATE ELECTRICAL MACHINE.
                                 Formerly the electrical machine was
                              made in the form of a cylinder, but now
                              it consists of a plate A, as seen in the
                              engraving. The plate is turned by the
                              handle P through the rubber B B, which
                              diffuses the excitement over the glass.
                              The points or balls at each side of the
                              plate carry off a constant stream of posi
                              tive electricity to the prime conductor c
                              Negative electricity is generated by insu
                              lating the conductor to which the cushion
                              is attached, and continuing the prime
                              conductor with the ground, so as to carry
           Fig. 63.           off the fluid collected from the plate.

              ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                 83
 *:*
• '' '      HOW TO DRAW SPARKS FROM THE TIP OF THE NOSE.
       If the person who works the machine be supported on a stool
 having glass legs, and connected with the conductor by means of a
 glass rod, the electricity will pass from the conductor to him, and as
 it cannot get away, owing to the glass on which he stands being a
 non-conductor, any person on touching him can draw the electricity
 from him, which will exhibit itself in small sparks as it passes to the
 person who touches him. If touched on the nose, sparks of fire will
 issue from it.
                  HOW TO GET A JAR FULL OF ELECTRICITY.
       A most useful piece of electrical apparatus is
 called the Leyden jar, here represented. It is
  employed for the purpose of obtaining a quantity
 of electricity, which may be applied to any sub
 stance. It consists of a glass jar, coated both
  inside and without, four-fifths of the way up,
  with tinfoil. A knob rises through a wooden
  top communicating with the inside of the jar.
  When it is wished to charge the jar, this knob is
  applied to the prime conductor of the electrical
  machine when in action, and a quantity of elec
  tricity being given off, the jar will remain charged
  with it till a connexion is made by some good
 'conductor of electricity between the knob and
  the outside tinfoil. A piece of brass chain must
  hang from the stem that carries the knob, and connect it with the
  interior of the jar.
                            THE ELECTRICAL BATTERY.
       If several of these jars be united, an enormous quantity of elec
  tricity can be collected ; but in arranging them, all the interior
 coatings must be made to communicate by metallic rods, and a similar
  union must be effected among the exterior coatings. When thus
  arranged, the whole series may be charged as if they formed but
 one jar.
       for the purpose of making a direct communication between the
  inner or outer coatings of a jar or battery, by which a discharge is
                    Fig. 65.                           Fig. 66.
                                                                G2

84          ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
 effected, an instrument called a discharging rod is employed. It
consists of two bent metallic rods, terminating at one end by brass
balls, and connected at another by a joint which is fixed to the
end of a glass handle, and which acting like a pair of compasses,
allows of the balls being separated at certain distances. When
opened to the proper degree, one of the balls is made to touch
the exterior coating, and the other ball is then brought into con
tact with the knob of the jar, when a discharge is effected ; while
the glass handle secures the person holding it from the effects of the
shock.
                       DANCING BALLS AND DOLLS.
   Get two round pieces of wood, A B, and coat them with tinfoil ;
or two pieces of metal plate ; attach one of them to the prime con-
              Fig. 67.                                Fig. 68.
ductor by a chain, and let it hang about two or three inches from
the knob. Place some pith-balls upon the bottom piece of wood B,
and bring it under the other. Immediately this is done, and the
upper piece is charged by electricity from the machine, the pith-
balls will jump up and down, and from one to the other, with great
rapidity. If some of the pith be formed into little figures, they will
also dance and leap about in the most grotesque manner. The same
may be made to dance by merely holding the inside of a dry glass
tumbler to the prime conductor for a few minutes, while the machine
is in action, and then whelm it over them, when they will jump
about, to the no small astonishment of the spectators, as the cause
of their motions is not quite so apparent.
                          THE ELECTRICAL KISS.
   This amusing experiment is performed by means of the electrical
stool. Let any lady challenge a gentleman not acquainted with the
experiment to favour her with a salute. The lady thereupon mounts
the glass stool, aDd takes hold of a chain connected with the prime
conductor. The machine being then put in motion, the gentleman
approaches the lady, and immediately he attempts to imprint the
seal of soft affection upon her coral lips, a spark will fly in his face,
which generally deters him from his rash and wicked intention.

              ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                   85
                                 RINGING BELLS.
    Bells may be made to ring by
electricity in the following man
ner. Let three small bells be sus
 pended from a brass wire, D D, and
supported by a glass pillar A, pass
 ing through bell B to the bell E.
 The electrical apparatus being at
 tached to the knob E, the electricity
 passes down the wires D D to the
 bells, which are then positively
 electrified and attract the clappers
 c c, that are negatively so, in con
 sequence of being insulated by the
 silken strings which are not con-                 Fig. 69.
 •ductors. The bells therefore attract
 the clappers till they are charged, when they strike against the centre
 bell to discharge themselves, and thus a peal is rung on the bells
 until the electricity is driven off.
                       WORKING POWER OF ELECTRICITY.
     This may be shown in a variety of ways. The subjoined machine
  will exhibit the principle upon which many ingenious toys may be
  made by the young philosopher.
  In the figure A is a wooden board
 or stand, B B B B, four pillars
  having fine wires, c c, stretched
  above. On these rest the rota
  tory wire or wheel F, having its
  points turned the reverse ways.                  Kg. 70.
  By means of a chain attached to
  the conductor, and to the instrument at B, the electricity passes over
  the pillar B, up the wire c, into the wheel, and off at the points,
  which causes it to be turned round on an inclined plane till it reaches
  the top.
              THE ELECTRIFIED WIG.
      While a person is on the electrical stool,
  if he be charged with much electricity,
     " Each hair will stand on end,
       Like quills upon the fretful porcupine."
   A wooden head, not your own, but a real
   wooden head, with a wig of streaming hair,
   and a handsome face to correspond, may
   be made in the following form, with a wire
   in the neck to support it by, and fixed in
   the conductor of an electrical machine.
   When this is put in motion, the hair will
   rise up as in the figure, to astonish even
   "Whigs," who are seldom astonished by,
   or deterred from anything.                           Fig. 71.

8G         ELECTRICITY, GALYANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
                      IMITATION THUNDERCLOUDS,
To show the manner in which thunderclouds perform their opera
tions in the air. A A is a wooden stand, on which are erected two
                                 Fig-. 72.
uprights, B B ; c c are two small pulleys, over which a silken cord
can pull easily ; E is another silken line stretched across from one
upright to another ; on these silken cords two pieces of thin card
board covered with tinfoil, and cut so as to represent clouds, are to
be fixed horizontally, and made to communicate by means of thin
wires, / and g, one with the inside, and the other with the outside of
a charged jar, D. Now, by pulling the loop of the silk line, D, the
cloud 1 will be brought near the cloud 2 ; continue this slowly, until
the clouds (which are furnished with two small brass balls) are within
an inch of each other, when a beautiful flash strongly resembling
lightning in miniature, will pass from one cloud to the other, restoring
electrical equilibrium.
                  THE LIGHTNING- STROKE IMITATED.
   If the jar D be put behind the stand, and the cloud 2 removed, a-
 vessel communicating by means of a wire with the outside of the jar
may be swum in water under the remaining cloud ; the mast being-
made of separate pieces, and but slightly joined together. When
the cloud is passed over the vessel, the mast will be struck andi
shattered to pieces.

          ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                     87
                            THE BPORTSMAN.
   This apparatus is capable of affording much amusement: A is a
stand of wood, B is a common Leyden jar, out of which proceed the
                                 Kg. 74.
wires H H, one terminating in ball F, the other in the ball D, to which
are attached a number of pith birds by silken strings ; E is a shelf
for the birds to rest upon ; c is the sportsman ; G his gun.
   To put this operation in motion, the Leyden jar is to be charged
with electricity by affixing a chain to the bottom part of it, and con
necting it with an electrical machine in the usual manner, or by
applying it to a prime conductor, when the birds will fly off the
knob to which they are fixed in consequence of their being repelled.
If the sportsman and gun be then turned, so that the end of his gun
shall touch the knob r, an electric spark will pass from one to the
other, a report will be heard, and the birds will fall down as if shot,
in consequence of the electricity having been taken from the Leyden
jar. There should be a communication between the sportsman and
the jar formed of tinfoil, or some metal, as shown by the dotted line
on the stand.
    MISCELLANEOUS EXPERIMENTS WITH FRICTIONAL ELECTRICITY.
   1. Lay a watch down upon
a table, and on its face balance
a tobacco-pipe very carefully.
Next take a wine-glass, rub it
quickly with a silk-handkerchief,
and hold it for half-a-minute be
fore the fire, then apply it near
to the end of the pipe, and the                  Fig. 75.
latter, attracted by the electri
city evolved by the friction and warmth in the former, will immedi
ately follow it ; and by carrying the glass around, always in front of

 88         ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
 the pipe, this will continue its rotatory motion, the watch-glass
 being the centre or pivot on which it acts.
    2. Warm a glass tube, rub it with a warm flannel, and then
 bring a downy feather near it. On the first moment of contact the
 feather will adhere to the glass, but soon after will fly rapidly from
 it, and you may drive it about the room by holding the glass between
 it and the surrounding objects ; should it, however, come in contact
 with anything not under the influence of electricity, it will instantly
 fly back to the glass.
    3. A stick of sealing-wax rubbed against a warm piece of flannel
 or cloth, acquires the property of attracting light substances, such as
 small pieces of paper, lint, &c., if instantly applied at the distance
 of about an inch.
    4. Suspend two small pith balls, by fine silken threads of about
 six inches in length, in such a manner, that when at rest they may
 hang in contact with each other ; on applying a piece of sealing-
 wax, excited as in the former experiment, they will repel each
 other.
    5. Take a piece of common brown paper about the size of an
 octavo book, hold it before the fire till quite dry and hot, then draw
 it briskly under the arm several times, so as to rub it on both sides
 at once by the coat. The paper will be found so powerfully elec
 trical, that if placed against a wainscotted or papered wall of a room,
 it will remain there for some minutes without falling.
    6. And if, while the paper adheres to the wall, a light fleecy
 feather is placed against it, it will be attracted to the paper in the
 same way as the paper is attracted to the wall.
    7. If the paper be again warmed, and drawn under the arm as
 before, and hung up by a thread attached to one corner of it, it will
 hold up several feathers on each side ; should these fall off from
different sides at the same time, they will cling together very strongly,
and if after a minute they are all shaken off, they will fly to one
another in a very singular manner.
    8. Warm and excite the paper as before, lay it on a table, and
place upon it a ball made of elder pith about the size of a pea ;
the ball will immediately run across the paper, and if a needle be
pointed towards it, it will again run to another part, and so on for
a considerable time.
    9. Support a pane of glass, previously warmed, upon two books,
one at each end, and place some bran underneath ; then rub the
upper side of the glass with a black silk handkerchief, or a piece of
flannel, and the bran will dance up and down under it with much
rapidity.
    10. Arrange two tumblers (which must be perfectly dry and
warm), on a table, in an inverted position ; bridge them over with
a common pane of window-glass, also clean and dry. If the centre
of the pane of glass be rubbed with a stick covered with a silk
handkerchief, and some pieces of cut paper are placed on a tin box
just under the glass, they will exhibit electrical attraction and
repulsion.

            ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
          ELECTRICAL MACHINES
Are nothing more than extended sur
faces of glass provided with simple
means of being rubbed when turned
by a proper handle ; and one of the
cheapest and most entertaining in
struments for obtaining frictional
electricity is the eleetrophorus, and
particularly the instrument as ma
nufactured and described by Mr.
Lewis M. Stewart, of the City of
London School.
EXCITATION OF THE ELECTROPHORUS.                             , ,        ,
                                           Fig. 76. Stewart's eleetrophorus.
    Beat B, the resinous plate, smartly    a- Brass plate provided with a
with a very dry piece of flannel, and &££& £l&T* **
hold it closely before a pith ball         B. The resinous plate.
placed on D ; the pith ball will be c. The brass or tin dish contain
                                         ing
 attracted, or any other light sub withthe       resinous plate, also provided
                                              a pith ball.
 stance.                                   D. The lower plate, supported on
                                         a glass leg, with wooden foot, and
     ILLUSTRATION OF CONDUCTORS.         forming a convenient insulating
                                         stand.
    After exciting the resinous plate B,
 place B C upon a table, and A upon B c, and connect the plate A
 with the table D by means of a fine wire ; upon touching A with the
 finger and then removing it from B, both A and D will be electrified,
 provided the fine wire has not touched the table or any other con
 ducting body.
                   ILLUSTRATION OF NON-CONDUCTORS.
    Connect the wire with the glass handle of A, and proceed as before;
 the plate D will not be electrified, as the glass, representing a part
 of the connecting chain, is a non-conductor of electricity.
                            EFFECT OF POINTS.
    Electrify A, and the little pith is repelled ; if a point, such as a
 needle, is now brought to A, the pith gradually falls.
                            EFFECT OF BALLS.
     Electrify A and present a round brass ball to it ; the repelled pith
  ball does not drop, provided the spark does not pass.
     With this eleetrophorus arrangement nearly every fact in
  frictional electricity shown by more expensive and elaborate appa
  ratus may be displayed ; and it is certainly one of the best instru
  ments for class instruction, as the resinous plate, when once
  thoroughly excited, will remain in action for many hours.

                                 90
                               Fig. 77.
  EXPERIMENTS WITH VOLTAIC ELECTRICITY, OR
                          GALVANISM.
   1. Place a thin plate of zinc upon the upper surface of the
tongue, and a half crown or a piece of silver on the under
surface. Allow the metals to remain for a little time in contact
with the tongue before they are made to touch each other, that the
taste of the metals themselves may not be confounded with the
sensation produced by their contact. When the edges of the metals
which project beyond the tongue are then suffered to touch, a
galvanic sensation is produced, which it is difficult accurately to
describe.
   2. Place a silver teaspoon as high as possible between the gums
and the upper lip, and a piece of zinc between the gums and the
under lip. On bringing the extremities of the metals into contact, a
very vivid sensation, and an effect like a flash of light across the
eyes, will be perceived. It is singular, that this light is equally
vivid in the dark and in the strongest light, and whether the eyes
be shut or open.
   3. Take a piece of copper of about six inches in width, and
put upon it a piece of zinc of rather smaller dimensions, inserting

           ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                  91
a piece of cloth, damped with dilute sulphuric acid, of the same size
as the zinc, between them ; place a leech upon the piece of zinc,
and, though there appears nothing to hinder it from crawling away,
yet it will hardly pass from the zinc to the copper, because, as soon
as its damp body touches the copper it receives a galvanic shock,
and of course retires to its resting place, the zinc.
   4. Plunge an iron knife into a solution of sulphate of copper,
(bluestone), by chemical action only it will become covered with-,
metallic copper. Immerse in the same solution a piece of platinum,
taking care not to let it touch the iron, and no deposition of copper
will take place upon it ; but if the upper ends of the metals are
brought into contact with each other, a copious deposition of copper
will soon settle upon the platinum likewise.
                    WITH METAL PLATES IN WATER.
   If we take two plates of different kinds of metal, platina or cop
per, and zinc, for example, and immerse them in pure water, having
wires attached to them above, then if the wire of each is brought
into contact in another vessel of water, a galvanic circle will be
formed, the water will be slowly decom
posed, its oxygen will be fixed on the
zinc wire, and at the same time a cur
rent of electricity will be transmitted
through the liquid to the platina or
copper wire, on the end of which the
other element of water—namely, the
hydrogen, will make its appearance in
the form of minute gas bubbles. The
electrical current passes back again
into the zinc at the points of its contact
with the platina, and thus a continued
current is kept up, and hence it is called
a galvanic circle. The moment the cir
cuit is broken by separating the wires,               Fig. 78.
the current ceases, but is again renewed
by making them touch either in or out of the water. If a small
quantity of sulphuric acid be added to the water, the phenomenon
will be more apparent. The end of the wire attached to the piece
of platinum or copper is called the positive pole of the battery, and
that of the wire attached to the zinc the negative pole.
   The current of electricity here generated will be extremely feeble,
                                  Fig. 79.

92          ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
but this can be easily increased by multiplying the glasses and the
number of the pieces of metal. If we take six such glasses instead
of one, partially fill them with dilute sulphuric acid, and put a piece
of zinc and copper into each, connecting them by means of copper
wire from glass to glass through the whole series, a stronger current
of electricity will be the result. The experimenter must be careful
not to let the wire and zinc touch each other at the bottom of the
tumblers, and must also remember that the copper of glass 1 is con
nected with the zinc of glass 2, and so on.
                 TO HAKE A MAGNET BY GALVANISM.
   To effect this, make a connexion between the poles of the above or
any excited battery with the two ends of a wire formed into a
spiral coil, by bending common bonnet- wire closely round a cylinder,
or tube, of about an inch in diameter ; into this coil introduce a
needle, or piece of steel wire, laying it lengthways down the circles
of the coil. In a few minutes after the electric fluid has passed
through the spiral wire, and consequently round the needle or wire,
the latter will be found to be strongly magnetized and to possess all
the properties of a magnet.
                EFFECTS OF GALVANISM ON A MAGNET.
   If a galvanic current, or any electric current, be made to pass
along a wire, under which and in a line with it a compass is placed,
it will be found that the needle will no longer point north and south,
but will take a direction nearly across the current, and point almost
east and west.
                  CHANGE OF COLOUR BY GALVANISM.
   Put a tea-spoonful of sulphate of soda into a cup, and dissolve it
in hot water ; pour a little cabbage blue into the solution, and put a
portion into two glasses, connecting them by a piece of linen or
cotton cloth previously moistened in the same solution. On putting
one of the wires of the galvanic pole into each glass, the acid accu
mulates in the one, turning the blue to a red, and the alkali in the
other, rendering it green. If the wires be now reversed, the acid
accumulates eventually in the glass where the alkali appeared, while
the alkali passes to the glass where the acid was.
           TO TAKE AN ELECTROTYPE COPY OF A WAX SEAL.
   Having selected a good and perfect seal, thoroughly blacklead
the surface with the ordinary plumbago, laid on and polished with
an old and soft tooth-brush. Into the side of the seal, in a portion
of the wax seal not covered with the impression, melt in gently a
very thin copper wire, so that the surface of the upper side of the
wire shall be flush with the seal, and blacklead this juncture care
fully ; then wind the other end of the thin copper wire round
a piece of amalgamated zinc five inches long, one-eighth of an

           ^ELECTRICITY, GALVANISE, AND MAGNETISM.                       93
inch thick, and three-quarters of
an inch broad, as in this arrange
ment the seal takes the place of
the copper element in the simple
voltaic circle.
    In half-a-pint of boiling water
dissolve as much powdered sul
phate of copper, or bluestone, as
the water will take up ; place this,
when cold, in an ordinary tumbler,
and having rolled a piece of
brown paper three or four times
round a ruler one inch thick, close
the side and bottom with sealing-
wax, to make a porous cell. Hold
the brown paper tube or cell over
the tumbler containing the solution
of sulphate of copper, and pour
into it a mixture'of five parts water
and one part oil of vitriol (these
latter must be mixed beforehand,
                                          Kg. 80. Electrotyping. A A. The
and should
       .       be quite cold) : as the tumbler   containing the solution of
acid is poured into the brown paper sulphate of copper.
cell, let it sink into the sulphate of        The porous cell made of brown
copper solution, and then, finally, paper,     holding the dilute acid, and
                                        the amalgamated zinc plate.
having bent the wire that unites          d. The wax seal black-leaded, at
 the seal to the amalgamated zinc, tached to zinc plate by the connecting
place the latter in the brown-paper wire.
 vessel, and the former into the solution of copper in the tumbler
 and in about twelve hours a beautiful impression of the wax seal
 will be obtained in copper.
    N.B. Zinc is easily amalgamated by dipping it first into some
 dilute sulphuric acid, and then, having a little mercury in a plate, it
 may be rubbed on by means of a flat piece of stick covered with
 flannel.
               EXPERIMENTS WITH MAGNETISM.
    1. We have said that the agency of the magnet can be imparted
 to steel ; this may be done in a very easy way. If you pass a mag
 net (which may be either natural or artificial), over a sewing-needle
 several times from the eye to the point, the needle will aoquire the
  principle and attract iron filings in the same manner as a natural
  magnet would do. But the part of the magnet which you apply to
  the needle must be the north pole, and you must not pass it over
  the needle backwards and forwards, but lift it always from the point,
  and again begin from the eye. Suppose you wish to impart the
  principle to a small bar of tempered steel, tie the piece to be mag
  netised to a poker with a piece of silk, and hold the part of the
  poker to which it is attached in the left hand ; take hold of the tongs

u          ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
a little below the middle, with the right hand, and rub the steel bar
 with them, moving the tongs from the bottom to the top and keeping
them steadily in a vertical position all the time. About a dozen
strokes on each side will impart quite sufficient magnetical power to
the bar to enable the operator to Hit up small pieces of iron and
steel with it. The lower end of the bar should be marked before it
is fastened to the poker, so that the poles may be readily dis
tinguished from each other when it is taken off; the upper end being
the south pole, and the lower the north.
                                  2. Scatter some iron filings upon
                               a piece of paper, and hold a magnet
                               underneath it. The instant the con
                               tact takes place, the filings will raise
                               themselves upright, and fall clown as
                               soon as the magnet is withdrawn. The
                               effect is singular, and indeed very amus
                               ing; the diminutive iron particles rising
           Fig. 81.            and falling as if by supernatural agency.
                             MAGNETIC SWAN.
   Form a swan of cork, and place within its beak a little bit or steel
strongly magnetised, then cover it with a thin coating of white wax,
and, to render the image more complete, glass beads may be put in
its head to represent the eyes. The swan being thus made, you must
provide it with a lake to swim in. A basin of water may supply
                                  Fig. 82.
this, and when your lake is ready and the swan placed in it, the next
object is to make it swim about. This you may easily accomplish
by holding in your hand a magnetic bar, on which the north and
south poles are marked. Show the nortli pole of the wand to the
swan, and the little creature will immediately follow it, moving very
gently over the water; you may thus lead it about, and when you
wish it to retire, present the south pole of the wand to it, and, like a
good, obedient bird, it will readily recede and turn back.
   If you wish to make a magnetic wand, you may do so by procuring
a hollow cane eight or nine inches in length, and half an inch thick,
and a small steel bar well magnetised. Put this bar in the cane, and

            ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                  95
close it at both ends by screwing on small ivory tops differing in
shape, or having some marks by which you may in an instant re
cognise the north and south ends of the rod. With this wand you
may direct the course of any floating figure you may choose to
fashion.
   TO SHOW THE EFFECT OF MAGNETISM BY MEANS OF A BALANCE.
     Suspend a magnet in one of the scales of a very delicate balance,
and carefully adjust it by putting weights into the other scale ; when
thus counterpoised, hold a piece of iron under the scale to which the
magnet is attached, and it will immediately descend. If, instead
of the magnet, a piece of iron be attached to the scale, and the
magnet held under the iron, the scale will descend as before.
        TO SHOW THAT THE POWER OF ATTRACTION RESIDES CHIEFLY
                               AT THE POLES.
     Place some iron filings upon a table,
 and then put amongst them a magnetic
 rod or bar. The filings will imme
 diately adhere to the ends of the bar or               .Kg. 83.
 rod, but not to the middle or centre,
 where the power of attraction is very little exerted, if at all.
                   TO SHOW THE REPULSION OF THE POLES.
     The north poles of two magnets repel each other, and the same
 happens with the south poles, for the magnetic attraction is exerted
 only between the contrary poles. Thus, if you fix two magnetised
 needles in two pieces of cork, and place them in a basin of water,
 and they are in a parallel position with the same poles together, that
  is north to north or south to south, they will mutually repel each
  other ; but if the contrary poles point to one another, then they will
 be attracted and draw close together.
              TO SHOW THE DIRECTIVE POWER OF THE MAGNET.
      If you balance a bar of steel or an untouched needle horizontally
  upon a pivot or centre, it will remain stationary ; but magnetise the
  same, as already indicated, and place it again on its centre, and
  you will see that it turns round, and does not stop until its north
   pole is in the direction of the north pole of the earth.
                        TO MAKE ARTIFICIAL MAGNETS.
       This may be done by stroking a piece of hard steel with a natura
    or artificial magnet. Take a common sewing-needle and pass the
    north pole of a magnet from the eye to the point, pressing it gently
    in so doing. After reaching the end of the needle, the magnet must
    not be passed back again towards the eye, but must be lifted up and
    applied again to that end, the friction being always in the same

  90         ELECTRICITT, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
 direction. After repeating this for a few times, the needle will become
  magnetised, and attract iron filings, &c.
                        HOW TO MAGNETISE A POKER.
    Hold it in the left hand in a position slightly inclined from the
 perpendicular, the lower end pointing to the north, and then strike
 it smartly several times with a large iron hammer, and it will be
 found to possess the powers of a magnet, although but slightly.
                          THE WATCH MAGNETISED.
    Borrow a watch from the company, and inquire if it will go when
 laid on the table. Then place it just over the point at which a magnet
 is fixed underneath the top of the table, and the magnet will attract
 the balance-wheel of the watch, and cause it to stop.
           TO SHOW MAGNETIC REPULSION AND ATTRACTION.
                                Suspend two short pieces of iron wire,
                             N s, N s, so that they will hang in contact
                             in a vertical position. If the north pole of
                             a magnet N be now brought to a moderate
                             distance between the wires, they will recede
                             from each other as in No. 1.
                                The ends s s being made south poles by
                             induction from the north pole N, will repel
                             each other, and so will the north poles N N.
                             This separation of the wires will increase as
                             the magnet approaches them, but there will
                             be a particular distance at which the attrac
                            tive force of N overcomes the repulsive force
                             of the poles s s, and causes the wires to-
          Fig. 84.           converge as in No. 2 ; the north poles N N
                            still exhibiting their mutual repulsion.
                        POLARITY OF THE MAGNET.
                                        The best method of proving this is
                                     to take a magnet or a piece of steel
                                    rendered magnetic, and to place it
                                     on a piece of cork by laying it in a
                                     groove cut to receive it. If the cork
                                     be placed in the centre of a basin of
                                     water, and allowed to swim freely
                                     on its surface, so that it is not at-
               Fig. 85.              tracted by the sides of the basin, it
                                     will be found to turn its north pole
to the north, and its south pole to the south, the same as the mari
ner's compass. If you fix two magnets in two pieces of cork, and
place them also in a basin of water, and they are in a parallel position
with the same poles together, that is, north to north, and south to

            ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.                   97
 south, they will mutually repel each other ; but if the contrary poles
 point to one another, as north to south, they will be attracted.
              NORTH AND SOUTH POLES OP THE MAGNET.
    Each magnet has its poles, north and south—
 the north or south poles of one magnet repel the
 north and south pole of another. If a magnet, as
 in the following figure, be dipped in some iron
filings, they will be .immediately attracted to one
 end. Supposing this to be the north pole, each of
the ends of the filings, not in contact with the
magnet, will become north poles, while the ends in
contact will by induction become south poles. Both
will have a tendency to repel each other, and the
filings will stand on the magnet as in the figure.          Tig. 86.
                          THE MAGNETIC FISH.
   Fish are to be purchased at the toy
shops, by which the young " magne'-
tique" may perform this experiment;
they are made hollow, and will float
on the water. In the mouth of each
should be inserted a piece of mag
netic wire. The angling rod is like
any other rod, and has a silken thread,
for a line, and an iron hook also
strongly magnetised. To catch the
fish it is only necessary to put the
hook in contact with the noses of the                 s' ''
fish, and they will be taken without any of the baits mentioned in
the "Young Angler." ('Routledge and Co.)
                        HORSE- SHOE MAGNETS.
   The form of a horse-shoe is generally given to
magnetised bars when both poles are wanted to
act together, which frequently happens in various
experiments, such as for lifting weights by the
force of magnetic attraction, and for magnetising
steel bars by the process of double touch, for which
they are exceedingly convenient. The following
is a method of making a powerful magnetic bat
tery of the horse-shoe form. Twelve bars or plates
of steel are to be taken, and having been pre
viously bent to the required form—that is, the             Fig. 88.
horse-shoe shape—they are then bound together
by means of rivets at their ends ; before being finally fastened, they
are each separately magnetised, and afterwards finally united.
   Horse- shoe magnets should have a short bar of soft iron adapted
to connect the two poles, and should never be laid by without such
                                                                        r

 98         ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
 a piece of iron adhering to them. Bar magnets should be kept in
pairs with their poles turned in contrary directions, and they should
be kept from rust. Both kinds of magnets have their power not
 only preserved but increased by keeping them surrounded with a
mass of dry filings of soft iron, each particle of which will re-act by
its induced magnetism upon the point of the magnet to which it
adheres, and maintain in that point its primitive magnetic state.
     TO MAKE ARTIFICIAL MAGNETS WITHOUT THE AID EITHER OF
            NATURAL LOADSTONES OR ARTIFICIAL MAGNETS.
                                Take an iron poker and tongs, or two
                             bars of iron, the larger and the older the
                             better, and fixing the poker upright, hold
                             to it with the left hand near the top P by
                             a silk thread a bar of soft steel about
                             three inches long, one fourth of an inch
                             broad, and one twentieth thick; mark
                             one end, and let this end be downwards.
                             Then grasping the tongs T with the right
                             hand a little below the middle, and keep
                             ing them nearly in a vertical line, let the
                             bar B be rubbed with the lower end L of
                             the tongs, from the marked end of the
                             bar to its upper end, about ten times on
                             each side of it. By this means the bar
                             B will receive as much magnetism as will
                             enable it to lift a small key at the marked
                             end ; and this end of the bar being sus
           Fig. 89.          pended by its middle, or made to rest on
                             a joint, will turn to the north, aud is called
its north pole, the unmarked end being the south pole. This is the
method recommended by Mr. Caxton, in his process, which he re
garded as superior to those in former use, and of which a more detailed
account will be found in his interesting volume.
 EXPERIMENT TO SHOW THAT SOFT IRON POSSESSES MAGNETIC PRO
    PERTIES WHILE IT REMAINS IN THE VICINITY OF A MAGNET.
                                       Let M be a magnet and K a key,
                                    held horizontally near one of its
                                    poles, or near its lower edge. Then,
                                    if another piece of iron, such as a
                                    small nail, be applied to the other
                                    end of the key, the nail will hang
                                    from the key, and will continue to
                                    do so while the magnet is slowly
                                    withdrawn; but when it has been
                                    removed beyond a certain distance,
               Kg. 90.              the nail will drop from the key, be
                                    cause the magnetism induced in the

             ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM", AND MAGNETISM.                      99
key becomes at that distance too weak to support the weight of the
nail. That this is the real cause of its falling off may be proved by
taking a still lighter fragment of iron, such as a piece of very slender
wire, and applying it to the key. The magnetism of the key will still
be sufficiently strong to support the wire, though it cannot the nail,
and it will continue to support it even when the magnet is yet
further removed ; at length, however, it drops off.
          TO SUSPEND A NEEDLE IN THE AIR BY MAGNETISM.
    Place a magnet on a stand to raise it a little above the table ; then
 bring a small sewing-needle containing a thread within a little of
 the magnet, keeping hold of the thread to prevent the needle from
attaching itself to the magnet. The needle, in endeavouring to fly
 to the magnet, and being prevented by the thread, will remain
.curiously suspended in the air like Mahomed's coffin.
                       ELECTRO-MAGNETISM.
    The identity of magnetism with electricity alluded to in a former
paragraph, has led to the formation of a new science under the above
name, and to some of the interesting experiments connected with it
we shall briefly allude, for the amusement of the young reader.
                     POWER OF THE ELECTRO-MAGNET.
    The same influence which affects the magnetic needle
 already described, will also communicate magnetism
 to soft iron. If a bar of that metal bent, as in the
 drawing, be surrounded with a common bonnet-wire,
or a copper wire prevented from touching the iron by
 a winding of cotton or thread, and then if a current
 of voltaic electricity be sent through the wire, the bar
 becomes a powerful magnet, and will continue so as
 long as the connexion with the battery is preserved.
 On breaking the contact the magnetism disappears.
This experiment may be easily made by the young
 reader with a horse-shoe magnet surrounded by seve
 ral coils of wire ; P is the positive, and N the negative
 pole.                                                           Fig. 91.
                            DIP OF THE NEEDLE.
     Another remarkable and evident manifestation of ihe influence of
 the magnetism of the earth upon the needle is the inclination or dip
 •of the latter, which is a deviation from its horizontal place in a down
 ward direction in northern regions of its north, and in southern
 regions of its south pole. The causes of the dipping of the needle
 are yet unexplained. In balancing the needle on the card, on
 account of this dipping, a small weight or moveable piece of brass
 is placed on one end of the needle, by the shifting of which either
 nearer to or further from the centre, the needle will always be
 balanced.
                                                                H 2          f

 100        ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM.
                       VARIATION OF THE NEEDLE.
   The magnetic needle does not point exactly north and south, but
the north pole of the needle takes a direction considerably to the
 west of the true north. It is constantly changing, and varies at
 different parts of the earth, and at different times of the day.
     THE MARINER'S COMPASS AND EXPERIMENTS WITH A POCKET
                                COMPASS.
   The mariner's compass is an artificial magnet fitted in a proper
box, and consists of three parts—1, the box; 2, the card or fly; and
              Fig. 92.
3, the needle. The box is suspended in a square wooden ease, by
means of two concentric brass circles called gimbals, so fixed by
brazen axes to the two boxes, that the inner one, or compass- box,
retains a horizontal position in all motions of the ship. The card is
a circular piece of paper which is fastened upon the needle, and
moves with it. The outer edge of the card is divided into thirty-
two points, as shown in the engraving, called points of the compass.
The needle is a slender bar of hardened steel, having a hollow agate
cup in the centre, which moves upon the point of a pivot made of brass,
           USEFUL AMUSEMENT WITH THE POCKET COMPASS.
   Pocket compasses are to be bought for five or six shillings, and
may be used in many ways. In travelling over mountains or a wide-
extended moor, they are indispensably necessary ; and no one should
go a tour into Wales, Scotland, or the lakes without such a com
panion, and it will be a very useful and amusing exercise for any
young person to take the bearings of his own or some particular
locality, and make out what may be called a bearing card. This he
may easily do in the following manner. Supposing he wishes, for
instance, to take the bearings of his own house, he has nothing to
do but set his pocket compass upon a map of the district—a county
map will do very well, unless his house stands on the verge of a
county, then two county maps will be necessary. He must make
the north of the map exactly coincide with the north, as indicated
by his compass, and having fixed his map in this situation, he

            ELECTRICITY, GALVANISM, AND MAGNETISM,                 101
slioiild take a ruler and piece of paper, and dot down the exact
bearings of each important town, or place, or village, around him.
Let him suppose himself, for in
stance, in the town of Cambridge,        WENTWORTH
and laying down his map as indi            WILBEKTON
cated by the compass, north to
north and south to south, he will
find the following places due north
—Wilberton, Wentworth ; Little
Wilbraham, Teversham, due east;
Duxford and Chesterfield, south ;
Coton and St. Neots in Hunting
donshire, west. The other points
of the compass may be filled up
in the same manner. Should,
therefore, our young friend be
upon any elevated situation near
his own dwelling, or upon any
other elevated spot from which
the bearings have been taken, he
 will be able to inform his young        CHESTERFIELD.
friends that such and such a place                 Fig. 94.
lies in such a direction, that this
place lies due north, the other north-west, a third south-east, the
 fourth south-west, &c. &c. ; and the information so obtained will be
serviceable to himself in many important matters.
         INTERESTING PARTICBLARS CONCERNING THE MAGNET.
    Fire-irons which have rested in one position in a room during the
 summer months are often highly magnetic.
    Iron bars standing erect, such as the gratings of a prison cell, or
 the iron railings before houses, are often magnetic.
    The uppermost of the iron tire round a carriage-wheel attracts the
 north end of a magnet, and has hence south polarity, while the lower
 end attracting the south end of the same, has north polarity.
    Magnetism may be made to pass through a deal board ; to exhibit
  which, lay a needle on the smooth part above, and run a magnet
  along the under side, and the needle will be found to follow the
  course of the magnet. A magnet dipped into boiling water loses
  part of its magnetism, which, however, returns upon its cooling.
    A sudden blow given to a magnet often destroys its magnetic
  power.
                               CONCLUSION.
    The preceding experiments in electricity, galvanism, and mag
  netism, we have selected for the simple illustrations which they offer
  of some of the principles of those branches of philosophy ; more
  elaborate experiments we have refrained from inserting, as although,
  perhaps, more astonishing and impressive in their effects, the costly
  apparatus which they require raise them far above the means of
  most boys, for whose instruction and amusement we cater.

                                   102
                      AEROSTATIOK
                             Tig. 95. Balloon.
From the remotest ages of which we have any record, the regions
of the air have been a subject of intense curiosity to man. For
many centuries fanaticism considered them as the abode of evil
spirits and demons ; but when knowledge poured her rich stores
upon man, he began to consider that air, like water, was a fluid,
which he might render subservient to his purposes, and conceived
the idea of flying. The first trials of this mode of progression seem
to have been achieved by Grecian skill, and the most celebrated
imitation of flying on record, of ancient times, is that of the re
nowned geometrician of Tarento, Archytas, who constructed a pigeon
of wood which could fly, but which, however, if it fell to the ground,
could not raise itself again. In Rome, in the time of Nero, it is
said that a man raised himself up by means of wings, but that he
lost his life in the attempt. In Scotland, in the reign of James IV.
an Italian adventurer made an essay at flying, and the latest en
deavour of the kind recorded in history, and which to a certain
extent was successful, was that of the Marquis de Bacqueville, who,
in 1742, rose, by the aid of wings alone, from his residence on the
Quai des Theatins, Paris, and directed his flight across the Seine,

                              AEROSTATION.                           103
towards the gardens of the Tuileries ; but just as he had advanced
half way, he appeared to lose all command of his movements, and
his wings ceasing to act, he fell against one of the floating machines
belonging to the Parisian washerwomen, which line the arches of the
Pont Royal, and had his leg broken in addition to other serious
injuries.
   Flying being found, even in early times, useless, other means of
moving in the air were next sought after, and the possibility of
rising from the earth, on the same principle that the clouds rise and
keep afloat, became the new subject of speculation. In the four
teenth century, an Augustine friar, Father Albert, of Saxony, sug
gested the first correct notion of rising in the air by means of a
balloon. The quiet of the cloisters had furnished this monk, as it
had many other inhabitants of those silent mansions of religion, with
sufficient leisure to explore the mysteries of science. He had written
a commentary upon the physical works of Aristotle, and was
probably acquainted with the doctrines of Archimedes, who had
established the principle, that a body must remain suspended in a
fluid denser than itself. However this might be, Father Albert
conceived that, " since fire is more attenuated than air, and floats
above the region of our atmosphere, a portion of such substance en
closed in a light hollow globe, would rise to a certain height." This
theory was taken up and agitated by various speculators, but mostly
in the cloisters, until Stephen and Joseph Montgolfier, brothers,
paper makers of Ammonay, near Lyons, in' France, put it into prac
tice about the latter end of the last century. Though not favoured
by a liberal education, the Montgolfiers were impelled by natural
ingenuity to acquire more knowledge than is generally met with in
the class of manufacturers to which they belonged. Stephen was
attached to chemistry, Joseph to mathematics ; but both of them
had directed their attention to the ascent and floating of clouds in
the atmosphere. The result of their speculations was the supposition
that a factitious cloud, formed of very thin vapour and enclosed in a
light bag of great dimensions, would ascend into the higher regions.
Their first experiment was made in November, 1782, with a bag of
fine silk filled with rarefied air, which answering perfectly, they tried
the experiment on a larger scale ; and on the 19th of October, 1783,
exhibited before the king and court of France, at Versailles, a
balloon, having a basket attached to it, in which were a sheep, a
cock, and a duck ; in about eight minutes the fire which supplied the
balloon with rarefied air went out, and the apparatus descended
without injuring the aeronauts. This last trial being so completely
successful, Monsieur Pilatre de Rosier offered to ascend in a similar
machine ; and on the 21st of November, 1783, accompanied by the
Marquis d'Arlandes, he made the first aeronautical voyage ever
attempted by man.
   The balloon used by Monsieur Rosier was highly ornamented,
being composed of silk, decorated with gold and spangles, and scarlet
 velvet ; the car was a gallery large enough for the voyager to walk
round, and the centre of it was hollow, containing an iron grate or

104                           AEROSTATION.
brazier. The principle of the machine was that of a fire-balloon,
its ascensive power being produced by the rarefaction of atmospheric
air, by means of a large fire being kept burning in the grate, under
the lower part of the balloon, which was open for the purpose of
receiving the heated air ; and that the fire and supply of rarefied air
might be regulated at pleasure, port-holes were made in the gallery
towards the grate. So long as the aeronaut wished to remain in the
air, he was obliged to furnish this fire with fuel ; and when he pur
posed descending, he suffered it to decline. This species of balloon
is known by the title of the Montgolfiere, from the original inventors,
the Montgolfiers, and is an exceedingly dangerous one, on account
of its liability to take fire from the burning materials in the grate,
and indeed the greatest number of accidents which have befallen
aeronauts have been through its perilous construction ; Monsieur
Rosier himself perished, on the 15th of June, 1785, through the
conflagration of the machine in which he and a fellow voyager,
Monsieur Eomain, were travelling, with the intention of crossing
from Boulogne- sur-Mer to England. The apparatus was consumed
in the air, and both the luckless gentlemen were dashed to pieces
upon the rocks by the seashore from Calais to Boulogne.
   At the same time that the Montgolfiers were experimenting upon
balloons filled with rarefied air, Monsieur Charles, professor of philo
sophy in Paris, was endeavouring to inflate one with hydrogen gas;
and, after enduring much ridicule for attempting to invent another
mode of doing that which was already done, achieved his design, and
on the 1st of December, 1783, accompanied by Monsieur Robert, he
ascended from the Champ de Mars, and landed in safety, after a
completely successful voyage.
   To these original discoveries of the science of aerostation many
adventurers succeeded in different parts of Europe, and the superi
ority of the hydrogen gas over the Montgolfiere, or heated air bal
loon, was fully established ; for five persons perished in the space of
a few years, through the accidental combustion of their machines, but
too appropriately termed fire balloons.
   At the present time balloons are filled with carburetted hydrogen
gas, the common coal gas, which is considerably cheaper than the
hydrogen, and can be procured far more readily, inasmuch as the
filling of a balloon, which in former periods cost the labour of two or
three days at an enormous expense, can now be done in as many
hours. For the discovery of the applicability of this gas to aeronau
tical purposes, we are indebted to Mr. Charles Green, the intrepid
voyager of our own days, and who has also invented what he terms a
guide rope, that is, a rope of a thousand feet in length and upwards,
which, when the balloon has quitted terra firma, and circumstances
render its use advisable, is lowered from the car by means of a wind
lass. When the specific gravity of the machine is increased, and he
begins to descend, the tail of the guide rope, trailing on the ground,
acts like the discharge of a quantity of ballast, and checks her fur
ther descent, and she continues progressing on the level so produced,
until she attains a reascensive power, and quits the earth with all

                             AEROSTATION.                          105
her resources of ballast and gas the same as she had before her
course was arrested by the increased weight. This contrivance,
simple as it is, is of invaluable benefit to the aeronaut, who by aug
menting or diminishing the quantity of roue he lets out, proportion
ately increases or lessens the space between himself and the earth,
and so does away with the necessity of employing ballast to such an
extent as heretofore ; indeed, according to the old system of discharg
ing ballast, whenever the balloon became so heavy with moisture as
to descend, and to release some portion of the gas, when, from the
 diminution of the ballast, she rose too high, it was impossible for an
aeronaut to prolong his voyage beyond thirty-Bix hours ; now, however,
 he may continue it for almost as many days, should it be requisite.
    The honour of making the first aerial expedition in England has
usually been ascribed to a foreigner, Signor Vincenzo Lunardi, but
in reality a Mr. James J ytler claims the merit, he having ascended
in a Montgolfiere from Comely-gardens, Edinburgh, on the 27th of
August, 1784, nineteen days before the signor, who ascended from
the Artillery-grounds, Moorfields, on the 15th of the following Sep
tember. Lunardi repeated his ascents in various parts of England
and Scotland, and afterwards returned to Italy. Monsieur Blan-
chard visited England after Lunardi, and made many ascents, and
in company with Dr. Jefferies, on a clear frosty day, the 7th of Janu
ary, 1785, crossed the British Channel from Dover, and landed in
safety, after a dangerous voyage of two hours and a half, on the
confines of a forest near Calais. This aeronaut made thirty-six
voyages through the air, and gained a large sum of money by them.
Monsieur Garnerin, another distinguished French aeronaut, who
visited England, is celebrated for having been the first person who
successfully descended from a balloon in a parachute. This ma
chine consisted of thirty-two gores of white canvas, formed like an
umbrella, of twenty-three feet in diameter, at the top of which was
a round piece of wood of ten inches in breadth, having a hole in its
centre to admit short pieces of tape to fasten it to the gores of the
canvas ; about four and a half feet below the top was a hoop of eight
feet in diameter, affixed by a string from each seam, and below the
hoop the car, made of basket-work covered with canvas, was sus
pended. The parachute is by no means that modern invention which
is generally supposed, for Father Loubere, in his account of Siam,
published nearly two hundred years since, describes a machine of the
same kind as being in use there, as a means of descending from great
heights ; in Europe it certainly was not employed for that purpose
till the year 1783, when M. le Normand proved its efficacy by letting
himself down from the windows of a lofty house in the city of Lyons.
The aeronaut Blanchard was the first who applied it to the balloon,
and after trying several experiments by letting down dogs and various
animals from different heights, during some of his excursions, he
attempted the descent himself at Basle, in 1793 ; but through some
mismanagement the parachute did not expand fully, and the travel
ler coming to the ground too rapidly, had the misfortune to have his
leg broken. Garnerin's first successful descent was on the 21st of

106                         AEROSTATION.
October, 1797, at Paris, and on the 21st of September, 1802, he
made his third trial with a parachute, the first time such a machine
was ever used in England. Various aeronauts have since endea
voured to diminish the inherent perils of parachute descents by dif
ferent inventions, but without success.
   On the 24th of July, 1837, Mr. Cocking made an ascent from
Vauxhall-gardens in a parachute appended to Mr. Green's balloon :
this parachute was of a shape exactly the reverse of Mr. Garnerin's,
that is, it was like an umbrella turned upside down, and so con
structed as always to remain expanded. This shape was adopted in
order to correct two great defects in the old fashion, viz., its oscilla
tory motion when descending, and the time which frequently elapsed
ere the machine fully expanded to its umbrella-like form ; but so far
from remedying these faults, its principles were perfectly erroneous,
and when the unfortunate aeronaut detached himself from the bal
loon, the strings of his parachute gave way, and he was precipitated
to the earth and killed upon the spot.
   The aerial voyager has sometimes opportunities of observing the
grandest effects in the clouds which it is possible for the human
mind to contemplate. The rising and setting of the greater and lesser
lights of the universe in regions too remote for him to penetrate, the
forked lightning flashing its unearthly blaze, and the tempestuous
clouds beneath his feet, rolling in mighty masses as far as the eye
can reach, are seen by him in all their magnificence ; whilst the
thousand beauties of the panoramic view stretched below him in all
the brilliancy of a noontide sun, or the quiet twilight stealing gently
over the face of the earth, receive additional charms from the eleva
tion from which they are viewed. In 1785 Monsieur Charles be
held a most magical spectacle during a voyage he made ; for, just as
the sun had set, the machine in which he was, shot upwards with
such celerity as to rise nearly two miles in ten minutes. At this
height he saw the sun again in its full glory, and from his lofty sta
tion in the heavens he once more contemplated the parting beams
of the fading luminary, until it sunk below the horizon. The evening
mists, gradually rising from the ground, collected into clouds and,
hanging in dense masses, screened the earth from his sight ; and
when the moon rose in silent majesty, and poured forth her mild
beams, her rays tinged with various hues the everchanging forms of
the accumulated vapours which floated beneath him. A voyage per
formed by Monsieur Tester, in 1786, is remarkable for the various
events which attended it, and is deserving of a slight notice. After
having risen to the height of two thousand eight hundred feet, he
descended at half-past five in the afternoon, and alighted in a corn
field in Montmorency, where, being employed in gathering stones
for ballast, without leaving his car, he was surrounded by a great
number of peasants. The proprietor of the field, seeing his corn
thus trampled upon, insisted on being paid for the damage his visitor
had occasioned, and holding fast the balloon by the stay, proceeded,
assisted by the peasants, to parade his prisoner through the village.
Tester seized the first opportunity to cut the cord, and taking an

                             AEROSTATION.                           107
unexpected leave of the astonished peasants, rose again to the region
of the clouds. At about seven o'clock he heard the blast of a horn,
and descried huntsmen below in full chase, to contemplate which
scene he opened the valve, and descended between Etuan and Var-
ville. He was again collecting some ballast, when the huntsmen
galloped up to him ; and for the third time he rose into the air, pass
ing through a dense body of clouds, where thunder and lightning
followed each other without intermission. The balloon reached the
altitude of three thousand feet, and in this region the intrepid aero
naut sailed until half- past nine o'clock, when he observed the final
setting of the sun, and remained enveloped in darkness, amidst a
mass of thunder-clouds. The lightning flashed on all sides, the loud
peals of thunder were incessant, and snow and sleet fell copiously
around him for the space of three hours ; after which period, to his
inexpressible pleasure, the stars showed their pale fires. At a quar
ter before four o'clock he made his final descent, having seen the first
grey dawn of morning and rising of the sun.
   The most memorable voyage ever attempted, was that performed
by Messrs. Holland, Monck Mason, and Charles Green, on the 7th
of November, 1836. The balloon, called the Royal Vauxhall Bal
loon, was of stupendous size, being sixty feet in height and fifty in
breadth, and every arrangement was made by the travellers for a.
long voyage, in the shape of cloaks, carpet-bags, lamps, barometers,
wine-jars, spirit-flasks, coffee, and other necessaries. At half- past
one in the afternoon the cords were cut, and the mighty vessel rose
proudly into the air, and at five minutes past four she neared the
city of Canterbury, when the travellers indited a short letter to the
mayor of that city, and dispatched it by a small parachute, a novel
kind of post conveyance. At forty-eight minutes after four, the
waves breaking on the beach gave evidence that they were near the
British Channel ; and as they proceeded on their quiet way, the
twilight, deepening into murky gloom, hid the English coast from
their view, save that, through some scattered lights and the brilliant
glare of the lighthouse, they were certain that Dover was yet
within their ken. The evening shades had fully set in ere they
gained a glimpse of the Calais lights ; and there being no moon to
define objects by the soft touches of her silvery rays, the effect was
one of great grandeur ; and when, still later in the night, when it was
perfectly dark, they passed over the city of Liege, the streets and
houses marked out by the lights in them, and the numerous fires
blazing in the iron works in the neighbourhood, formed a picture of
consummate beauty. As the hours rolled on, and midnight passed
silently by, the heavens assumed a depth of colour rivalling a posi
tive black in intensity of tint, from out of which the stars glittered
with additional lustre ; earthwards no object was to be seen, the
weary artisans having long before betaken themselves to their repose.
Towards five o'clock in the morning the dawn gradually broke, and
disclosed to the travellers the mighty river Rhine, which seemed to
lose itself in the vapours which enshrouded the valleys and rested
upon the hills ; and as the brightness of the light increased, the stars

108                          AEROSTATION.
by degrees disappeared, the morning star being the last to make its
exit. At a quarter-past six, when at the height of nearly twelve
thousand feet above the earth, the first sight of the sun was obtained,
and the view at that moment spread before the aeronauts was magni
ficent beyond description. A rapid descent, which shortly after took
place, again brought them into the gloom of night, the bright morn
ing beams not having illumined the lower regions of the air, and
again did they rise and see the full glory of the rising luminary.
Three times did they thus rise, and behold the sun, and twice did
they, by descending into the mists and vapours which dimmed the
scenery, lose sight of it ere it appeared fully above the horizon.
Great was the pleasure of the voyagers when they perceived, as the
mists cleared away, every indication of a well-peopled country and
industrious population ; and they made all possible preparations for
descending, when, just as they were hastening their descent in a spot
well suited for the purpose, the wind freshened, and before the grap
nel could take a secure hold, the balloon was hurried towards a
 wooded declivity. To throw out a sufficiency of ballast to carry the
 machine over that danger was the only remedy, but the sand used
 as ballast was found to have been frozen during the night into a
 solid mass, consequently all that could be done was to throw a sack
 with all its contents out of the car, and fifty-six pounds of sand
 were instantly dismissed. The balloon immediately sprang up and
 cleared the declivity, and, to avoid passing by another spot suited to
 the descent, the valve was again opened, to allow a large quantity of
 the gas to escape. After various baffling occurrences, on reaching
 the edge of the wood, the valve was opened to its utmost extent, and
 the grapnel taking hold almost immediately after, the machine came
 to the ground in the valley of Elbern, two leagues from Weilburg,
 in the Duchy of Nassau, at half-past seven in the morning, after a
 voyage of eighteen hours' duration, in which time it had passed over
 a great part of five kingdoms, England, France, Belgium, Prussian
 Germany, and the Duchy of Nassau. The travellers were most hos
 pitably entertained at Weilburg, and the machine was rechristened
 the Vauxhall Nassau Balloon.
                         AIR AND FIRE BALLOONS.
   The air balloon should be made of taffeta or lutestring, and in shape
 similar to a pear ; the best method of making it being by joining
 many slips together, from end to end : if you take a pear and
divide it into twelve or fourteen slices, one of those pieces is the best
pattern you can have for the shape of the slips of your balloon.
    Having cut them out, each piece must be prepared with drying oil,
 which you may make yourself, by boiling in every pint of linseed oil
 two ounces of sugar of lead, and three ounces of litharge, for about
 half an hour. This composition is very drying, and you may then
 apply it to the slips ofyour balloon : after which, sew them together,
 and fell the seams. That the stitching may not have any interstices for
 the escape of the gas, you must place a piece of brown paper beneath
each seam, and another piece above, and then pass a heated poker or

                               AEROSTATION.                            109
flat iron several times over it, by which means the oil will be softened,
and the seams rendered perfectly air-tight. When this process is
completed, you must give your balloon a coat of varnish. This may
t>e prepared by boiling in a copper or iron gallon saucepan, over a slow
charcoal fire, for about half or three-quarters of an hour, a pound of
birdlime, and half a pint of the drying oil. When the birdlime has
ceased to crackle, pour in two pints and a half more of the drying oil,
and let the mixture boil an hour longer, often stirring it with an iron
or wooden spoon. You must be cautious not to let the varnish boil
over, which it is very apt to do when nearly ready, taking the saucepan
from the fire, as the varnish swells, and replacing it when its bubbling
 subsides ; and, for greater caution, it will be well to have some wet
 cloths at hand to clap over the vessel, in case the contents should
 happen to boil over and take fire. To ascertain whether your varnish
 is ready, rub some between two knives ; if, on separating them, it
 forms threads, remove the vessel from the fire, and when nearly cool,
 add to it about as much of oil of turpentine as the quantity of the
 mixture within. The varnish must be lukewarm when applied, and
 the balloon stretched out, and it will be dry in twenty hours. It
 should be the aim of the aeronaut to make his miniature balloon as
 much like a real one as possible : he must make a net to the shape of
 the machine, so as to come down to about the middle of it, and from
 thence cords must depend for the purpose of sustaining a light hoop,
 which should hang a little below the balloon itself ; from this hoop
 other strings must proceed to support the car, which may be made of
 any light material and elegantly painted.
    When the balloon is finished, it may be filled with gas : for this
 intent put into a glass bottle, or jar, a pound of iron filings and two
 quarts of water ; to which add gently, and by a little at a time, one
 pint of sulphuric acid. This done, stop the bottle or jar with a cork ;
 then take a glass tube, introduce one end of it into the bottle, through
 the cork, and the other end into the neck of the balloon, and the
 gas resulting from the decomposition of the water will pass through
 the glass tube into the balloon. When this is full, withdraw the
 tube, and tie the neck of the balloon very tight. If let free, it will
 rise very pleasingly.
    In making a tire balloon you may use India, Bank post, or tissue
 paper, and omit entirely the drying oil and varnish. If, after having
 joined and pasted the seams with good strong paste, you perceive any
 interstice or hole, paste over it a little piece of paper, and let it dry
 in the open air, or by the fire, but not too near it.. A wire must
 be secured round the neck of the balloon, either by pasting or
 sewing it, and another put horizontally across it, to the middle of
 which a piece of sponge dipped in spirit of wine is to be attached.
 Half a gill of the spirit is sufficient to make the balloon rise. After
 you have dipped your sponge, set fire to what spirit remains in the
  cup, holding the neck of the balloon over it, but not so close as to
  endanger its safety. When you think it is sufficiently filled with
 heated air, set fire to the sponge, and the machine will briskly ascend,
  and keep afloat so long as the spirit continues burning.

110                           AEROSTATION.
   Very small balloons may be made of goldbeaters' skin, by using
gum-arabic to join the seams and any little fissures which may be in
the material, filling them with gas from a jar or bottle, as before
described, and tying the mouths of the little machines with a piece
of cotton, to prevent the escape of the gas : small cars may be also
attached to them, and when they are let off in a room, they will rise
to the ceiling, and remain floating in the air for some time.
   At the shops of philosophical instrument makers, in bazaars, and
at toy-shops a very pretty balloon made of the maw of a turkey can.
be purchased : when filled with hydrogen gas, in the manner described
for air-balloons, it will ascend beautifully, on account of its extreme
lightness.
                               PARACHUTES,
Which are generally the first things a juvenile aeronaut per
petrates, may be made in two ways : the first and simplest is
achieved by cutting a piece of tissue paper into a circular form, put
ting eight or twelve pieces of thread at regular distances and of equal
lengths to it, drawing them all up evenly to a centre and knotting
them together, and completing the apparatus by affixing a cork or a
wisp of paper to the end of the strings : the second mode of para
chute-making 13 more complex, and must be done on a principle simi
lar to that we have described for constructing the air-balloon, but
cutting the slips of silk so as to form, when united, the segment of a
circle only ; the strings must of course be added, and brought to a
centre, and a pill-box-shaped car, painted and embellished as taste
fully as the genius of the contriver will allow, suspended from the
aforesaid centre.
                            BALLOON SIGNALS.
   In the days of the Directory and of the consulate of Napoleon,
balloons were much used for taking observations. Buonaparte in
tended to take some with him to Egypt, but the vessel in which the
balloons and materials were stowed away was captured by Nelson's
fleet, and the balloons were exhibited to the inhabitants of Cairo for
their amusement, and were not employed (as was intended) to the
disadvantage of the English.
   The Americans have done little in ballooning. One was con
structed on quite a different principle to those of the " Old World."
 It had forty-seven bags for the gas instead of one. The American
savants proceeded to try their experiment very cautiously, first
 letting the balloon up alone, then a man in it, whilst fastened with
ropes. At last a carpenter named Wilcox was bribed to ascend.
 He did so, but soon became frightened and began to cut the bags
 nearest to him. Wilcox cut five, and in consequence of ripping them
 open all on one side, the balloon turned over and came to the ground
 very fast, dislocating his wrist only, to the great surprise of the spec
 tators, who fully expected that the carpenter was killed with the
 concussion.
    The object ofNapoleon's balloon was partly to examine the surround
 ing country, and also to communicate to distant parts by signals ; and,

                               AEROSTATION.                                Ill
should war unhappily continue, it is quite possible to suppose that
balloon corps may be attached to the various European armies,
although the monstrous range of the Enfield and other rifles might
probably make personal ascents for observation somewhat perilous.
     One of the most interesting applications proposed for balloons was
made in March, 1848, by Mr. J. Wallace, of Leith, to Sir F. Baring ;
viz. , to make a survey of the icy regions with the help of a captive
balloon, which was to have been sent to the greatest possible height
the weight of the cord would permit, in order that the person seated
in the car might be able, with the help of a telescope, to survey a
larger range of country, with the hope of discovering the missing
expedition of the unfortunate Sir John Franklin.
     For many reasons this scheme with the captive balloon (a la Na
poleon) was abandoned, and one substituted for it, which Mr. Shep
 herd has the credit of having first offered to the Admiralty. The
 arrangement consisted of a number of printed packets of oiled silk or
 paper, upon which directions were printed stating the latitude and
 longitude of the exploring ships, where they were going to, and the
 localities at which provisions had been left. These were attached at
 proper intervals to a long slow match made of rope dipped in nitre ;
 and as the balloon tra
 velled over the country,
 the match burnt gra
 dually away, and when
 the fire reached the
 packets, they were de
 tached, and would, by
 the action of the winds,
 be dispersed over a
 large space of ground.
       About the same time
  Mr. Darby, the very
  eminent pyrotechnist,
  of Lambeth, turned his
  attention to the same
  subject, and construct
  ed some very ingenious
  signals, which were at
  tached by string to a
  hollow fuse, and as this
  burnt away the string
  was detached. By the
  same means the "petard
  signals," or explosive
  shells, giving a report                                             _
   equal to a seven -pound-                             '
  er cannon directly they      Fig. 96. Darby's land and water signal. A. The
   touched the ground.and she11' made of gutta-percha containing the message.
    ,.         . & . ,'      - b, B, B. Four pieces ot stout cane with corks at
   dispersing hundreds of the extremities,
   little notices in tinfoil,  c. Top cane, with little bunting-flag.

112                           AEROSTATION.
were detached, and used with great success as a means of directing
attention, by sound, to the little bills containing the desired in
formation for the missing party of Sir J. Franklin. Mr. Darby
also constructed a "bill distributor," attached to his hollow
fuse, capable of delivering 100,000 bills or notices over a great
space of country; likewise a "land and water signal," which
remained erect whether dropped on the sea or terra firma. The
whole of the signals were tried with great success, and three of the
"land and water signals" were picked up after being detached
from a balloon launched from Vauxhall. One was picked up at
Harwich, another at Brighton, and a third near Croydon : the last
was discovered by a poor man, who, fearful of something explosive,
did not open it ; but, calling in a gentleman who resided in the
neighbourhood, the shell was cut open and a polite note discovered
requesting the finder to state where the signal had fallen, and to
address a letter to Mr. Darby, at Vauxhall Gardens.
                    Fig. 97. Flying Machine (theoretical).

                                   113
The science of Abitkmetic is supposed to be coeval with the
earliest inventions. According to Diogenes Laertius, the Egyptians
may lay claim to the merit of being its discoverers, but other
authors ascribe it to the Phoenicians. The Phoenician system was
perfected by the Grecian astronomers, and transmitted by them to
the Romans, who, however, invented a fresh one instead ; but
both systems merely combined the different divisions of numbers,
and went no further. Counters, to assist in reckoning, are without
doubt, as old as the science of Arithmetic itself, as we find that the
Egyptians used stones for that purpose, and in calculating by their
aid, placed them from left to right. The Greeks likewise employed
stones, flat, rounded, and polished, and they sometimes signified a
large number, and sometimes a small ; when counting up, the Greeks
ranged their counters the reverse way to that of the Egyptians, put
ting them from right to left.
   The Romans denominated their counters calculi, and when
luxury taught them to embellish even the smallest articles in use,
they then made the counters of bone, and ivory, slightly convex,
and likewise of porcelain covered with green or blue enamel, and
ornamented with elegant devices. The Romans also used the
abacus as an arithmetical assistant ; this instrument consisted of a
wooden frame divided into small bars, of which there were two
compartments, each bar containing beads, which could be moved
up and down. The mode of using it was to consider every bead
 either as a unit or a decimal, adding being performed by uniting,
and subtracting by separation, as might be necessary. Besides the
counters, and the primitive mode of finger-reckoning, the Romans
had a plan of keeping accounts by three different methods, based
upon imaginary money ; and these methods, styled the terariariui,
sestertiarius, and denariarius, required a particular abacus or table
for each.
   From the accounts remaining of the Roman method of Arithmetic,,
their rules were perplexing and incongruous, and the science made
but little advancement under their management.
   Numeral characters seem to have preceded letters, and the figures
 we call Roman characters, are considered specimens of the earliest
                                                              I

114                          ARITHMETIC.
attempts at a system of notation, a surmise founded on the sim
plicity of their forms, which are, in fact, only a combination of
straight strokes drawn either perpendicularly, horizontally, or trans
versely ; and indeed, the figures representing a hundred, and five
hundred C, D, which are now circular, were originally composed of
three straight lines combined thus, [. ]. With these rude symbols,
the Grecian philosophers performed their arithmetical calculations,
and established a system to which Archimedes and other men of
most transcendant abilities contributed. Two species of numerical
characters seem to have existed from the first ; the decimal, men
tioned by Pliny, Quintilian, &c., which took its origin from the plan
 of finger counting, consisted of the numbers counted up to ten ;—
 and the duodecimal, or numbers reckoned to twelve. The former
 was common with the Anglo-Saxons, and the latter with the northern
 nations, and from this last also we derive our little hundred, great
 hundred, dozens, and grosses.
    Arithmetic was studied as a science by the Anglo-Saxons, for
 Aldhelm, Bishop of Sherborne, who flourished in the 7th century,
 wrote a tract de Arithmetical, and at a later period, Hugh, the
 Lincoln saint, lectured upon it at Oxford. The want of numerals
 better adapted for complicated accounts than the Roman, ren
 dered summing a miserable task, and the use of counters indis
 pensable, until the fourteenth century, when the characters known
 by the name of the Arabic numerals were introduced into Europe.
 The Arabs were not inventors of the system, but were indebted
 for it to the natives of India, though at what period they acquired
 it is extremely doubtful, neither can we determine whether the
  Indians themselves invented or received it from some other na
  tion ; yet from their own assertions, it would seem that the honour
  is due to them ; for according to Alsephaide, a learned Arabian
  doctor, they boast of three different inventions, the composition
  of Pilpay's fables, the game of chess, and the nine digital characters.
  The forms of the ciphers were not fully settled till after the year
  1531 ; and perhaps no characters were ever planned more adapted
  for the various uses to which they are applied than the Arabic
  numerals though we doubt not that some few of our readers
  have frequently wished in their hearts that they never had been
  invented.
  TO FIND THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TWO NUMBERS, THE GREATER
                          OF WHICH IS UNKNOWN.
     Take as many nines as there are figures in the smaller number,
   and subtract from them the amount of the number. Eequest
   some one to add the difference to the larger number, to take
   away the first figure of the total, and add it to the last one, and
   the sum then produced will be the difference between the two
   numbers.
      For example :—John, who is 22, tells George who is some years
   older, that he can find out the difference in their ages ; he therefore

                            ARITHMETIC.                             115
deducts in his mind 22 from 99, and the difference, 77, he tells
George to add to his own age ; to take away the first figure from the
sum so obtained, and to add it to the last figure ; the last amount
gained being the difference between their respective ages.
         Thus, the difference between John's age and
               99, is                                       77
         To which George adding his age                     35
                        produces a total of                112
         From which if we take away the first figure
               1, and add it to the last figure 2, the
               product is                                   13
          Which if added to John's age                      22
                  exactly gives that of George              35
                  THREE COUNTRYWOMEN AND KGGB.
  Three countrywomen went to market with eggs : the first
had 50 to dispose of, the second 30, and the third no more than
10. All three sold out at the same rate, and each made the
same quantity of money of her eggs.           How were they sold ?
Upon coming to market, they found that eggs were selling at
seven a-penny, at which rate the first woman sold 49, and received
seven-pence ; the second sold 28, and of course received four-
pence ; and the third woman sold only a single penny worth, so
that she had three eggs remaining, whilst her companions had but
one and two respectively. In the course of the day the demand
greatly increasing, she advanced her price to three-pence per egg,
at which rate she sold the remainder of her stock, and received
ninepence for it.
   Her companions following her example, sold off theirs also at
the same price, so that they each realized the sum of ten-pence.
           1st woman for 49 eggs, received            ...     7
               and for 1 egg                          ...     3
                                                             10
           2nd woman for 28 eggs                   .  ...     4
               andfor2eggs                         ,  ...     6
                                                             10
           3rd woman for 7 eggs                    .   ...    1
               and for 3                           .   ...    9
                                                             10
                                                                I 2

 116                           ARITHMETIC.
      TO MAKE ANY NUMBER DIVISIBLE BY NINE, BY ADDING A
                               FIGURE TO IT.
    Suppose, for example, that the number named is 72,857, desire
the person naming it to place the number 7 between any two
figures of that sum, and it will be divisible by 9 ; for if any
number is multiplied by nine, then the sum of the figures of the
product, will either be nine, or else the number which is divisible
by it.
THE    DIGITAL 'NUMBERS ARRANGED          SO AS TO GIVE THE SAME
      PRODUCT, WHETHER COUNTED            HORIZONTALLY, DIAGONALLY,
      OR PERPENDICULARLY.
                        THE BASKET AND ST0NE3.
   If a hundred stones are placed in a straight line, a yard distant
from each other, how many yards must a person walk, who
undertakes to pick them up, one by one, and put them into a
basket, placed also a yard from the first stone ? It is clear that to
pick up the first stone and put it into the basket, the person
must walk two yards, one in going for the stone, and the other in
returning with it ; that for the second stone, he must walk four
yards, and so on, increasing by two, as far as the hundredth,
when he must, of necessity, walk two hundred yards : so that the
sum total will be the product of two hundred and two, multiplied
by fifty, or 10,100 yards, which amounts to more than five miles
and a half.
                             A MAGIC SQUARE.
    A magic square, is a square figure formed of a series of num
 bers in mathematical proportion, so arranged in parallel and equal
 ranks, as that the sums of each row, whether taken perpendicularly,
horizontally, or diagonally, are exactly equal.
    The several numbers which make any square number (for instance,
 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, &c., to 25 inclusive, which compose the square number
25), being arranged one after the other in a square figure of 25 cells,
 each one in its cell, if you alter the order of these numbers, and put
them in such a manner that the five numbers which fill a perpen
dicular rank of cells being added together, shall make the same
number with the five numbers in any other rank, whether horizontal
or vertical, or with the five in each of the two diagonal rows, then
the square so formed is called a magic square, in opposition to the
former arrangement, which is called a natural square.

                            ARITHMETIC.                            117
           A NATURAL SQUARE.               A MAGIC SQUARE.
      A            G             B    A                          B
          1    2    3    4     5        11    24     7   20    3
          6    7    8    9    10         4    12   25     8   16
    E 11      12   13   14    15        17     5   13    21    9
        16    17   18   19   20         10    18     1   14   22
        21    22   23   24   25         23     6   19     2   15
                   H            D                               D
  Any five of the sums in the magic square, taken in a right line,
will make 65. It will be observed, that the five numbers in the
diagonals, A D and B C of the magical square, answer to the ranks
E to F and G to H in the natural square, and that 13 is the centre
number of both squares.
  To form a magic square, first transpose the two ranks in the
natural square to the diagonals of the magic square ; then put the
number 1 under the central number 13, and the number 2 in the
next diagonal, downwards. The number 3 should be placed in the
same diagonal line ; but as there is no room in the square, you are
to place it in that part it would occupy were another square placed
under it. For the same reason, the number 4, by following the
diagonal direction, falling out of the square, it is to be put into the
part it would hold in another square ranged by the side of this. You
next proceed to numbers 5 and 6, still descending, but as the square
in which 6 should be put is already filled, you must then go back to
the diagonal, and consequently place the 6 in the second place under
the 5, so that there may remain an empty square between the two
numbers. The same rule is to be observed whenever you find a
square already filled.
   You proceed in this manner to fill all the empty squares in the
angle, where the 15 is put ; and as there is no space for the 16 in the
same diagonal, descending, you must place it in the part it would
hold in another square, and continue the same plan till all the squares
are filled. This method will serve for all sorts of arithmetical pro
gressions composed of odd numbers ; even numbers being too com
plicated to afford any amusement.
A PERSON HAVING AN EVEN NUMBER OP SHILLINGS IN ONE HAND,
     AND AN UNEVEN NUMBER IN THE OTHER, TO TELL IN WHICH
     HAND THE EVEN OR ODD NUMBER IS.
   Bequest the person to multiply the number in his right hand by
an odd figure, and the number in his left by an even one, and let you
know whether, when the products are added together, they produce
an odd or even sum. If odd, then the even number is in the lelt

118                          ARITHJIETIC.
band, and if even, the even number is in the right.               As for
instance :
The number in the right hand          In the left hand, even           18
   being odd                        7 Multiply it by                     2
Multiply it by                      3                                  —
                                  —                           Product  86
                         Product 21
Add the product of the left
   hand                            36
and the total is                   57
The number in the right hand          In the left hand, odd              7
   being even                      18 Multiply it by                     2
Multiply it by                      3          "                       —
                                   —                          Product   14
                         Product 54
Add the product of the left
   hand                            14
and the total is                   68
                       COUNTRYWOMAN AND EGGS.
   A countrywoman carrying eggs to a garrison, where she had three
guards to pass, sold to the first guard half the number she had, and
half an egg more ; to the second, the half of what remained, and half
an egg besides ; and to the third guard, she sold the half of the re
mainder, and half another egg. When she arrived at the market
place she had three dozen still to sell, how was this possible without
breaking any of the eggs ? It would seem at the first view that this
is impossible, for how can half an egg be sold without breaking any
of the eggs ? The possibility of this seeming impossibility will be
 evident, when it is considered, that by taking the greater half of aa
odd number, we take the exact half + J. When the countrywoman
 passed the first guard, she had 295 eggs ; by selling to that guard
 148, which is the half + J, she had 147 remaining ; to the second
guard she disposed of 74, which is the major half of 147 ; and, of
 course, after selling 37 out of 73 to the last guard, she had still three
 dozen remaining.
           TO TELL THE NUMBER THOUGHT OF BY A PERSON.
   Request a person to think of a number, and when he has done so,
to triple it, and to take the exact half of the triple, if it be even, or
the greater half if it be odd. Next desire him to triple that half,
and ask him bow many times it will contain nine, for the number
thought of will be the double of the number of nines, and one more,
if it be odd. Thus suppose that 5 is the number thought of, its
triple is 15, which cannot be divided by two, without a remainder.

                             ARITHMETIC.                            US'
The greater half of 15 is 8, and if this is multiplied by 3, we shall
have 24, which contains two nines ; the number thought of will
therefore be twice the number of nines, with one added, as before-
mentioned, for an uneven number, or i + 1, that is 5.
                           ANOTHER METHOD.
   When the person has thought of a number, tell him to double it,
then to add four to it, to multiply the whole by five, and to the pro
duct add twelve, and afterwards multiply the total by ten. From
the sum thus produced, bid him deduct 320, and inform you what is-
the remainder, which, if you take away the two last figures from it,
will give you the number he thought of. Thus :
         Suppose the number selected is                         7
        The double of that is                                 14
        Which with the addition of 4 is                       18
        And that multiplied by 5 is                           90
        To which 12 added produces                           102
        Which multiplied by 10 is                           1020
        From which, by deducting 320, there remains ... 700
        And which, by taking away the two ciphers, is
           reduced to the number thought of                    7
      TO TELL TWO OR MORE NUMBERS WHICH A PERSON HAS
                              THOUGHT OF.
   If either of the numbers thought of do not exceed nine, they may be
found as follows : —-Make the person add 1 to the double of the first
number thought of, and then request him to multiply the whole by
5, and then add to the product the second number. Should there be
a third number, make him double the first sum, and add 1 to it ; re
quest him then to multiply the whole by 5, and to add the third
number to it. If there is a fourth number, you, of course, proceed
in the same way, requesting him to double the preceding sum ; to
add 1 to it, then to multiply it by 5, and thereto add the fourth
number, and so on. You must next ask the number arising from
the addition of the last number thought of, and if there were two
numbers, subtract 5 from it ; if three, 55 ; and if four, 555, and so
on ; for the remainder will always be composed of figures, of which
the first on the left hand is the first number thought of, the next the
second, and so on of the rest. Suppose, for instance, the numbers
thought of are 3, 4, 6, by adding 1 to 6, which is the double of the
first number, we have 7, which being multiplied by 5, gives 35 ; if
4, the second number thought of is then added, we shall have 39.
which doubled gives 78, and if we add one, and multiply 79 by 5, the
result will be 395. Finally, if we add 6, the third number thought
of, the sum total will be 401, and if we deduct 55 from it, we shall'
have for the remainder 346 : the figures of which, 3, 4, 6, are the-
three numbers thought of in their correct order.
                                                                        '

120                         ARITHMETIC.
 A PERSON STRIKING A FIGURE OUT OF THE SUM OF TWO GIVEN
             NUMBERS, TO TELL WHAT THAT FIGURE WAS.
   Peremptorily command such numbers only as are divisible by 9, as,
for instance, 36, 63, 117, 126, 162, &c. Then allow a person to
choose any two of these numbers ; and after adding them together,
in his mind, to strike out from the total any one of the figures he
pleases. When he has done this, desire him to tell you the sum of
the figures, and it follows that the number you are obliged to add to
this amount, in order to make it 9 or 18, is the one ho struck out.
For example, he chooses the numbers 126 and 252, whose aggregate
sum is 378. Then if he strikes out the 7 from this amount, the re
maining figures, 3 and 8, will make 11, to which must be added 7 to
make 18 ; but if he strikes out the 3, the sum of the remaining
figures, 7 and 8, will be 15, add to which 3, to make 18 ; and so, in
like manner, for the 8.
                    THE HORSE-DEALER'S BARGAIN.
   A horse-dealer, wishing to dispose of a horse at as high a price as
he could, induced a gentleman who admired it to become the pur
chaser, by offering to let him have the animal for the value of the
twenty-fourth nail in his shoes, reckoning one farthing for the first
nail, two for the second, four for the third, and so on, to the twenty-
fourth. The gentleman, thinking it a bargain, gladly accepted the
offer ; the value of the horse was therefore necessarily great. By
calculation, the twenty-fourth term of the progression, 1, 2, 4, 8,
&c., will be found to be 8,388,608, equal to the number of farthings
the purchaser gave for the horse ; the price consequently amounted
to £8738 2s. 8d.
TO FIND THE LEAST NUMBER OF WEIGHTS WHICH WILL WEIGH ANY
     INTERMEDIATE WEIGHT, FROM ONE POUND TO FORTT, EXCLUSIVE
     OF FRACTIONS.
   This problem may be solved through the means of the geometrical
progression, 1, 3, 9, 27, &c., the peculiar property of which is, that
the last number is twice the sum of all the rest, and one more ; so
that, the number of pounds being 40, which is likewise the amount
of 1, 3, 9, 27, these four weights will answer the purpose. For
example, if it be necessary to weigh eleven pounds by these weights,
the three and the nine pound weights must be put into the one
scale, and the one pound weight into the other, therefore, any sub
stance put into this last scale, with the one pound weight, and it
remains in equipoise with the other scale, it must consequently
weigh eleven pounds. Again, if a weight of fourteen pounds is re
quired, the one, the three, and the nine pounds weights should be
put into one of the scales, and the twenty-seven pounds weight into
the other, which will then outweigh the first scale by the exact
number needed. Any other weights may be made by similar
combinations.

                            ARITHMETIC.                            121
THE FIGURES, DP TO 100, ARRANGED SO AS TO MAKE 505 IN EACH
     COLUMN, WHEN COUNTED IN TEN COLUMNS PERPENDICULARLY,
     AND THE SAME WHEN COUNTED IN TEN FILES HORIZONTALLY.
         10   92   93     7    5    96    4   98   99     1
         11   19   18   84    85    86   87   13   12   90
         71   29   28   77    76    75   24   23   22   80    Si £
         70   62   63   37    36    35   34   68   69   31
         41   52   53   44    46   45    47   58   59   60    «
                                                              V. 3
                                                                 ~
         51   42   43   54    56   55    57   48   49   50
         40   32   33   67    65   66    64   38   39   61
         30   79   78   27    26   25    74   73   72   21   "gT3
         81   89   88   14    15   16    17   83   82   20
        100    9    8   94    95      6  97    3    2    91  .si
        Each of these ten columns, when added up, makes 505.
TO FIND HOW MANY SQUARE YARDS IT WOULD REQUIRE TO CONTAIN
     IN WRITING ALL THE CHANGES OF THE ALPHABET, EACH LETTER
     WRITTEN SO SMALL AS NOT TO OCCUPY MORE THAN THE HUN
     DREDTH PART OF A SQUARE INCH.
   By multiplying the numbers from 1 to 24, continually into each
other, thus—
                                    2
                                    2
                                   3
                                   6
                                    4
                                  24
the changes of the twenty-four letters will be found to be, —
                  62,044,840,175,323,943,936,000.
Now, as there are 1296 inches in a square yard, if we multiply that
number by 100, we shall obtain 129,600, which is the number of
letters each square yard will contain ; if we afterwards divide the
above row of figures, —the number of changes, —by the 129,600, the
quotient, which will be 478,741,050,720,092,160, is the number of
yards required to contain the before stated number of changes. But,
as all the twenty-four letters are contained in every permutation, the
space must necessarily be twenty-four times as large, viz.
                     11,849,785,210,282,211,840.
As the surface of the whole earth contains but 617,197,435,003,000,
square yards, it would consequently require, to make a space of suffi

 122                          ARITHMETIC.
cient dimensions to contain all the changes of which the alphabet is
susceptible, a surface 18,620 times larger than that of the globe.
                        THE KUMBEK FORTY-FIVE.
   How can the number 45 be divided into four such parts that if you
add two to the first part, subtract two from the second part, multiply
the third part by two, and divide the fourth part by two, the total
of the addition, the remainder of the subtraction, the product of the
multiplication, and the quotient of the division, are all equal ? The
four parts are as follows :
     The first is 8, to which 2 being added, makes ... 10
     The second is 12, from which 2 being subtracted, leaves 10
     The third is 5, which being multiplied by 2 produces 10
     The fourth is 20, which, divided by 2, the quotient is 10
                            PROFIT AND LOSS.
   A man purchased ninety-six apples at the rate of three a penny,
and likewise the same number at two a penny ; he sold them again at
five for two pence, did he gain or lose ? He lost, for as the ninety-
six apples at three a penny cost him 2s. 8d. and the ninety- six at two
a penny, 4s., the sum he laid out was 6s. 8d. for the one hundred and
ninety-two apples. Now, after he sold thirty-eight two-pennyworths,
for which he received 6s. 4d., he had but two apples remaining, and
therefore he lost a fraction above 3£d.
                      THE PHILOSOPHER'S PUPILS.
   Tell me, illustrious Pythagoras, how many pupils receive instruc
tion from thy lips ? Nay, said the philosopher, compute the number
thyself ; one half of my pupils study mathematics, one fourth natural
philosophy, one seventh observe silence, and besides those I have
three female pupils. The question is to find out a number, the one-
half, one-fourth, and one-seventh of which, + 3, shall be equal to
that number. The number required is 28.
                  THE COMPANY OF FOUR MERCHANTS.
   Four partners engage to trade in company—Smith's stock is £150 ;
Brown's stock is £320 ; Collins's stock is £350, and Jenkins's stock is
£500 ; with their money they buy indigo, and gain £730. How much
belongs to each, if the profit be divided in proportion to their re
spective stocks.
                         £                           £ *. d.
         Smith's stock 150 1320 150 : : 730          82 19 V
         Brown's „ 320 1320 320 : : 730             176 19 4
         Collins's ,, 350 1320 350 : : 730 193 11 2
         Jenkins's,, 500 1320 500 : : 730           276 10 3
      Whole stock... 1320                         £730
                            • Fractions omitted.

                              ARITHMETIC.                             123
                     Smith                     82 19    1
                     Brown                    176 19    4
                     Collins                  193 11    2
                     Jenkins                  276 10    3
                                             £730
                              ROAD MAKING.
   If 100 men make three miles of road in twenty-seven days, in how
many days will 150 men make five miles ?
                    Men 150 : 100 :: 27 days.
                    Miles    3          5
                           450       500
                                       27
                             450)13500(30 days.
                           THE TWO TRAVELLERS.
   Two poor boys, Tom and Ned, walk between London and Wolver
hampton ; Tom leaves the latter at eight o'clock in the morning, and
walks at the rate of three miles an hour without intermission, and
Ned sets out from London at four o'clock the same evening, and
walks for Wolverhampton at the rate of four miles an hour constantly.
Now supposing the distance between the two places to be 130 miles,
and supposing the boys capable of continuing their journeys, where
abouts on the road will they meet ?
                Answer— 69£ miles from Wolverhampton.
  TO DISCOVER THE BREADTH OF A RIVER BY MEANS OF THE BRIM
                       OF A HAT, OR PEAK OF A CAP.
    The person seeking to ascertain this fact must place himself at the
 edge of one bank of the river and lower the brim of his hat, or peak
 of his cap, till he finds the edge just cuts the other bank ; then after
 placing the hand under the chin, he must turn round steadily till he
 faces some level ground on his own side of the river, and observe
 when the edge of the peak again meets the ground, the measure of
 this distance will be very nearly the breadth of the river.
            Fig. 98. Showing that the angles abb and c b b are equal.

124                           ARITHMETIC.
   How many dinners would be necessary for a club of seven persons
who had agreed to dine with each other as long as they could be dif
ferently arranged when they sat down to table ?
   The number of dinners is 5040, and thirteen years and more than
nine months would be the space of time in which the club would eat
the dinners.
   How much mahogany would be required to produce sixty-four 3-
inch cubes ?
   The quantity is a 12-inch cube.
   According to Vitruvius, Hiero's crown weighed 201bs. and lost 1 Jib.
(nearly) in water.
   Suppose it consisted of gold and silver only, and that 19-641bs. gold
lost 1 lb. in water, and that 10-51bs. of silver lose lib. : find the actual
quantity of gold in King Hiero's crown and also the weight of the
silver with which it was adulterated.
                Answer a:=the lbs. of gold in crown.
                        20—a;=the lb. of silver in crown.
   Hence we immediately have—
                            x           20—a;
                               ,   x          = ljlbs.
                         19.64          10.5
   And solving this equation, we have—
                 Answer—£=14.77 lbs. of gold in crown
                 and 20—x= 5.22 lbs. of silver in do.
                                                       il'tti';



r

