This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
http://books.google.com

            <•    '
                                   S3T10M3H
                     tfQVUQ
                              "°M/»V   J}
                            **«,       a^r
                                 'aaf*
                      ERIOANUS
By ft-A- fmim, &A- IP.1
 Lorloor*. f\0BEi\T HahdWicke, 192, Piccadilly.




           GUIDE
             TO THK
KNOWLEDGE OF THE CONSTELLATIONS.

           LONDON : PRINTED BY
SPOTTXSWOODB AND CO., NEW.STREET SQCASK
         AND PARLIAMENT STREET
                      >

HALF-HOURS WITH THE STARS:
                                 A PLAIN AND EASY GUIDE
                                                      TO
         THE KNOWLEDGE OF THE CONSTELLATIONS,
                   SHOWING, IN 12 MAPS, THE POSITION OF THE PRINCIPAL
     STAR.GROUPS NIGHT AFTER NIGHT THROUGHOUT THE YEAR, WITH INTRODUCTION
                         AND A SEPARATE EXPLANATION OF EACH MAP.
                               TRUE FOR EVERY YEAR.
                                                    BY
                   RICHARD A. PROCTOR. B.A., F.R.A.S.
  I ATE SCHOLAR OF ST. JOHN'S COLLEOE, CAMBRIDGE, AND MATHEMATICAL SCHOLAR OF KINO'S COLLECE, LONDON :
      AUTHOR OF 'SATURN AND ITS SYSTEM,' ' HALF.HOURS WITH THE TELESCOPE,' 'THE HANDBOOK OF THE STARS,'
                                      ' SUNVIEWS OF THE EARTH,' ETC. ETC.
                                                LONDON :
           ROBERT HARDWICKE, 192 PICCADILLY.
                                                   1869.
                                     /St,. ~h.                       Z/


                                           PREFACE.
The object which I have proposed to myself in the preparation of this work has been to teach
the beginner the stars in a manner which there can be no misunderstanding.              I had the same
object in view in preparing my Constellation-Seasons ; but experience has shown me that to attain
that object it is necessary to consult the beginner himself. I found on doing this that my Constella
tion-Seasons were not so well suited to the purpose I had in view as I had expected.          Meridians
and parallels, equator, ecliptic, and tropics, which had seemed to be absolutely necessary to the
completeness of the maps, tended only to confuse the beginner.          So also did the introduction of
fourth-magnitude stars and the less important constellations.        Other features of those maps, also,
while increasing their utility (I think) to the more advanced student, rendered their meaning less
obvious than is desirable for the beginner.    In these maps I have discarded everything which could
by any possibility be confusing.     In place of letters indicating the points of the compass, the words
eastern lwrizon, north-eastern horizon, &c. are written in full, and natural features round each map
indicate the fact that the circumference of the map really corresponds to the horizon of the
observer. The word ' overhead ' is put on the centre of each map in place of ' zenith.' The hours to
which each map corresponds for different days are written in according to the simplest mode of
expressing them.     And, lastly, the days proper for the use of each map will be found to run without
interruption from the beginning of the year in Map I., to the end of the year in Map XII. ; the
interval between successive dates never exceeding four days.
     I believe I am not claiming too much for these maps in saying that they are the first series
ever published, which the beginner could not possibly misinterpret, even if he paid no attention to the
accompanying letterpress.
                                                                                           E. A. P.
    South Lambeth : 1809.


                     HALF-HOUR ON THE USE OF THE MAPS.
It is veey east to gain a knowledge of the stars, if the learner sets to work in the proper manner.
But he commonly meets with a difficulty at the outset of his task.         He provides himself with a set
of the ordinary star-maps, and then finds himself at a loss how to make use of them.            Such maps
tell him nothing of the position of the constellations on the sky.        If he happen to recognise a con
stellation, then indeed his maps, if properly constructed, will tell him the names of the stars forming
the constellation, and also he may be able to recognise a few of the neighbouring constellations.
But when he has done this, he may meet with a new difficulty, even as respects this very constella
tion.    For if he look for it again some months later, he will neither find it in its former place nor
will it present the same aspect, —if indeed it happen to be above the horizon at all.
      It is clear, then, that what the learner wants is a set of maps specially constructed to show him in
what part of the sky the constellations are to be looked for.       He ought on any night of the year to
be able to turn at once to the proper map, and in that map he ought to see at once what to look for,
towards what point of the compass each visible constellation lies, and how high it is above the
horizon.     And, if possible (as the present work shows is the case), one map ought to suffice to
exhibit the aspect of the whole heavens, in order that the beginner may not be confused by turning
from map to map, and trying to find out how each fits in with the others.
     It is to fulfil these requirements that the present maps have been constructed.                 Each
exhibits the aspect of the whole sky at a given day and hour.             The circumference of the map
represents the natural horizon, the middle of the map representing the part of the sky which lies
immediately overhead.        If the learner hold one of these maps over his head, so as to look vertically
upwards at it, the different parts of the horizon marked in round the circumference being turned
towards the proper compass points, he will see the same view of the heavens as he would if he were
to lie on his back and look upwards at the sky, only that the map is a planisphere and the sky a
hemisphere.
     But although this illustration serves to indicate the nature of the maps, the actual mode of
using them is more convenient.

8                                    ITALF-IIOUR ON THE USE OF THE MAPS.
      Let it first be noted that properly speaking the maps have neither top, bottom, nor sides.                 Each
map may be held with any part of the circumference downward, then the centre of the map is to be
looked upon as the top for that part of the circumference.                The portion of the map lying beneath
the centre represents the portion of the sky lying between the point overhead and a certain portion
of the horizon—the part in fact corresponding to the particular part of the circumference which is
turned downwards. Thus if on any night we wish to learn what are the stars towards the north, we
look for the map corresponding to that night.               At the hour named the stars towards the north will
be those shown between the centre of the map and the top ; and, of course, we hold the map upside
down so as to bring the centre above the northern part of the circumference.
      But this matter will be more clearly understood by comparing the account of any of the accom
panying maps with the map itself.
      Again, it must be noted that although the maps are necessarily arranged in a certain order,
there is in reality no first or last in the series.          The map numbered I. follows the map numbered
XII. in exactly the same manner as the latter follows the map numbered XI.                        The maps form a
circular series, in fact.
      The only reason for numbering the maps as at present, is that the map numbered I. happens to
exhibit the aspect of the sky at a convenient hour on the night of January 1.                 It will be found that
the dates follow on with intervals of three or four days right round the year, the end of the year
falling in the left-hand column of map I., while the beginning of the year is in the middle column of
the same map.*
      It will be seen at once that a map can always be found corresponding to a convenient hour on
any night of the year—except only in Midsummer, when on a few of the dates, night has not begun
at the hour named.        It was impossible without spoiling the regularity of the dating, or adopting an
inconveniently late hour for all the maps, to avoid this difficulty.                But as a matter of fact the
difficulty disappears at once when the student is told that on any date named under a map, the
aspect of the sky two hours later than that named is that represented in the following map.                      Thus
at eight o'clock in the evening of June 21, the aspect of the stars is as shown in map VI., but the
stars cannot be seen because it is still broad daylight : at ten o'clock, however, on the same night,
the aspect of the sky is that shown in map VII., as indeed the first date under that map shows.
Applying this rule to the few occasions on which the hour named is not available for observation (five
or six in all out of ninety-six dates) the observer can manage as well for those occasions as for any
 others.
   * It may be mentioned in pausing, that the dates have not been thrown in so as to fall regularly round the year, but
correspond with the variations due to the earth's variable motion round the sun.

                                HALF-HOUR ON THE USE OF THE MAPS.                                      9
     Next as to finding the north point, or any point of the compass which will enable the observer to
determine the rest.    If he is only familiar with the aspect of those seven bright stars of the Great
Bear which have been called Charles' Wain, the Butcher's Cleaver, and by other names, he can always
determine the north point by means of the two stars called the pointers, since these seven stars
never set.   In the explanation of each map I have shown where the Great Bear is to be looked for
on each night, the observer being assumed to have such a general knowledge of the direction of the
compass-points as will suffice for the purpose of finding so marked a collection of stars.     Thus the
pole-star is found, and for the purpose of such observations as are here considered, this star may be
looked upon as marking the exact direction of the north.
     Perhaps nothing further is required, but if the observer prefer it he can determine the north point
conveniently at noon by setting up a vertical stick in the sunlight and noting the direction in which
the shadow lies. But this must be done at true noon ; that is, when the sun is due south, and this
does not agree with clock-time. However, if the observer notices that from December 25th to April
15th he must make the observation in the afternoon, thence to June 14th in the forenoon, thence to
August 31st in the afternoon, and thence to December 25th in the forenoon ; the time after or before
noon being taken from the column in Hannay's Almanac, headed ' equation of time ' (the fourth
column after the calendar for each month), he can learn the north point on any day of the year with
the utmost nicety.   Once the observation has been made, he can note what objects (these should be
distant) lie towards the different points of the compass, and from that time he can use the accom
panying maps without any reference to the Great Bear and the pointers.
     It is worth noticing that the stars called the Guardians of the Pole form no bad time-piece when
used with the aid of such maps as the present. They revolve round the pole once in twenty-four
hours (less about four minutes), in a direction contrary to that of a clock's hands. But stars near
the equator, whose motions are much more rapid, afford a yet better measure of time, if the direc
tion of the south point is well determined.
     Of course, the observer who really wishes to become an astronomer, will not rest satisfied by
learning only the principal stars shown in these maps.       By means of regular star-maps he will be
able to explore the depths of all the constellations, having once learned their position and general
appearance from the accompanying maps.          It will be well for the student to remember that the
planets Venus, Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn, will at times appear among the constellations here shown.
But besides that Venus and Jupiter can always be recognised by their superior light, and Mars and
Saturn by the steadiness with which they shine, Hannay's Almanac will always show when those
stars are above the horizon, their hours of rising, southing, and setting, and so on. As they never
appear save among the zodiacal constellations, also, it becomes very easy to recognise them.
                                                     B

   10                             HALF-HOUR ON THE USE OP THE MAfS.
         The following table exhibits the names of all the stars of the first three magnitudes to which
   astronomers have given names ; at least, all those whose names are in common use :—
   o Andromedre, Alpheratz             s Ceti, Baten Kaitos              a Ophiuchi, Pas Alhague
  0            , Mirach, Mizar         o           , Mira                P          , Cebalrai
   y          , Almach                 a Columbse, Phact                 a Ononis, Betelgeux
   a Aquarii, Sadalmelik               a Coronse Bor., Alphecca          fi         , Pigel
  fi          , Sadalwnd               a Corvi, Alchiba                  y          , Bellatrix
  S          , Skat                    S          , Ali/ores             I          , Mintaka
  a AquilsB, Altair                    a Crateris, Alkes                 i        ¦, Alnilam
  $           , Alshain                a Cygni, Arided, Deneb Adige     a Pegasi, Markab
  y           , Tarazed               fi           , Albireo            fi          , Scheat
  a Arietis, Hamal                    a Draconis, Thuban                 y         , Algenib
  li         , Sheratan               (i          , Ahcaid               f          , Enif
  y          , Mesartim               y          , Etaiiin               J          , Homan
  a Auriga!, Capclla                  li Eridani, Cursa                 a Persei, Mirfak
 /3          , Meiikalinan            y           , Zaurac              li          , Algol
 a Botitis, Arcturus                  a Geminorum, Castor                a Piscis Aust, Fomalhaut
 0          , Nekkar                  /3          , Pollux              i Sagittarii, Kaus Australis
 t          , Izar, Mizar, Mirach     y          , Alhena               a Scorpionis, Antares, Cor Scorpionis
 i)         , Muphrid                 S         , ll'asat               a Serpentis, Unukalhai
 a Canum Ven., Cor Caroli             i          , Mebsuta              a Tauri, Aldeboran
 a Canis Majoris, Sirius              a Ilerculis, Pas Algethi          li         t Nath
li          , Mirzam                 li          , Korneforos           i]         , Alcyone (Pleiad)
 i          , Adara                   a Hydra!, Alphard, Cor Hydra:     a Ursffl Majoris, Dubhe
a Canis Minoris, Procyon             a Leonis, Regulus, Cor Leonis     P           , Merak
 li          , Gomeim                                                  y          , Phecda
aa Capricorni, Secunda Giedi         y          , Alyeiba              e           , Alioth
I          , Deneb Algiedi           S          , Zosma                X,          , Mizar
a Cassiopeia!, Schedar               a Leporis, Arneb
li          , Chaph                  a Libra!, Zuben el Genubi         . _            Tiili'hn
a Cephei, Alderamin                  (i          , Zuben el Chamali    a UresB Minoris, Polaris
fi         , Alphirk                 y          , Zuben Hakrabi        ji         , Kochab
y          , Errai.                  a Lyne, Vega                      a Virginis, Spica Azimech, Spica
a Ceti, Menkar                       fi         , Sheliak              (i —       , Zavijava
ii         , Diphda                  y          , Sulaphat             i          , Vindemiatrix

                                            ,Southern, Wonxcn
                                             THE SKY.
on Dec 2/ al W o'clock;             on, dan,: 7 at/ 9ho clock;       on Jan.- /2 al/ 8\ o 'clock,
on Deo Z4~ al Si o'clock,;          on Jcuv. S at/ 9 o'clock;        on Jan- /6 al/ 8k c 'clock,
on, Dec. 28 al/9\ o'clock;          on Jan, 8 al 8% o'clock;         on .Jan/ 20 al/ 8 o 'clock;
                                          IN THE EVENING.
 "for the- names of the/ stars, corresponding to tfw above lettering, reler, to the/ list/ al p. Jt'
                                                                                          Vincent Brooks S&y & Son Lith


                                                   JANUARY,                                               11
                 HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN JANUARY.
                                                   MAP I.
  The Geeat Beab lies towards the north-east. The pointers are uppermost, and the pole-star is
  towards the left.
       The two stars known as The Guardians of the Pole (/3 and 7 of the Little Bear) hang below the
 pole-star, slightly towards the right. The Dragon forms a loop of stars below the Little Bear.
 Observe the Dragon's Head,
                                     With eyes oblique retorted, that aslant
                                     Shoot gleaming fire—
 the eyes being the two stars # and 7 towards the left, and not far raised above the north-north-west
 horizon.
      The Lyre is low down on the left, its chief star, Vega, scintillating brilliantly. Still further on
 the left, almost due north-west, is the fine cross of Cygnus, standing upright. Following the direction
 indicated by the upright of the cross, raise the eyes towards the point overhead, and recognise the
 constellation Cassiopeia, by the five bright stars forming a figure resembling the letter W (now
raised on end, the points of the W to the left).
      Returning to the horizon, and looking further round to the left, we see due east the constellation
 Pegasus, or the Winged Horse. He is now inverted, his head being close to the horizon on the
right. The square of Pegasus, formed by the bright stars, /3, a, 7, and Alpherat, will attract the
observer's notice, and lead him to the constellation Andromeda, Alpherat being in Andromeda's head.
The length of this constellation is now almost vertical ; and between the feet of Andromeda and the
point overhead lies the constellation Perseus. Notice Algol (the Demon Star, as the Arabs termed it,)
 lying due south-west, close up to the point overhead. Of the variations of this remarkable star a
full account is given in ' Half-hours with the Telescope.' Usually the observer will see it of the
second magnitude, however; as it only remains a fourth-magnitude star for about twenty minutes.
Immediately below Perseus is Aries, recognisable by the three stars which form the Ram's head.
Below that again is Cetus, the Whale.
      Due south lies Eridanus, consisting chiefly of small stars, which cover a wide expanse of sky.
Above is Taurus, recognisable at once by the Pleiades and Aldeboran. Still turning towards the
left, we see Orion, nearly upright, but with his shoulders slightly thrown back. Immediately below
Betelgeux (Ibt-al-Jauza, the Giant's Shoulder,) is Canis Major, on his hind feet, and throwing a
fore-paw towards the Little Hare (a constellation of small stars directly below Orion). Observe the
leading star of the Dove (a Columbse), directly below a Leporis. Almost due west, and midway
between the horizon and the point overhead, are the twin stars Castor and Pollux, Castor being
uppermost. Still higher lies Auriga, the star Capella, always a very conspicuous object, shining very
brilliantly at this elevation. Canis Minor lies below the feet of The Twins.
      Observe the small cluster, Prsesepe, or the Beehive (only visible on very clear nights) : it lies now
almost exactly midway between Castor and the horizon. Further to the left, and near the horizon,
is the Lion. It is well to notice ' The Sickle ' (the group of stars formed by Regulus, 77, 7, ft, e, and
two small stars), as this is a well-marked object.
                                                    b2

22                                           FEBRUARY.
               HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN FEBRUARY.
                                              MAP II.
The Geeat Bear is now midway between the horizon and the point overhead, and towards the north
east. The ' pointers ' are uppermost, and the pole-star lies towards the left (as shown in the
map).
    The Guardians of the Pole are seen below, and towards the right. Immediately below the pole
lies the Dragon's Head, the body and tail extending towards the right, to a point between the
pointers and the Guardians of the Pole. Vega is seen just above the horizon, slightly to the left
of the north point. Further to the left is the upper part of Cygnus, above which is the inconspicuous
Cepheus. Due north-west, and high above the horizon, is Cassiopeia, the W being now in this
position ^. Further to the left, and close to the horizon, is the Flying Horse. The square of
Pegasus stands on a corner (a Pegasi), just above the horizon. The upper corner (Alpherat) of the
square belongs to Andromeda, still inverted; and above the feet of Andromeda we see Perseus,.
Algol is now due west.
      Below Algol, but slightly to the left, is Aries ; and still lower, and further to the left,
Cetus appears, the figure presented by its principal stars reminding one of the Mantis insect.
It is now setting. The star Mira may not be visible, as this is a variable, invisible at regular
intervals for months together.
      Notice Eridanus setting towards the south-west, and Taurus above ; and then turn to Orion,
almost due south, standing erect in all his glory, at the greatest elevation he ever attains in our
latitude.
      To the left, low down, we see the Greater Dog, Sirius, now shining with his full splendour.
The dog is still rampant ; indeed he is never seen otherwise in our latitudes.
      Looking upwards, and somewhat further to the left, almost due south-east we see the Twins,
their feet resting on the borders of the Milky-Way. Still higher is Auriga, now, in fact, overhead.
      Below the Twins see the Little Dog.- Below this constellation the stern of the ship Argo is
 rising into view. But as the part of this constellation which rises above our horizon contains no
 conspicuous stars, we need not pay much attention to it at this stage of our star-gazing.
      Somewhat to the east of south-east we see a single conspicuous star—though several small
 stars are seen in the neighbourhood. This is Cor Hydrse, the Heart of the Sea Serpent. The
Arabian astronomers gave to this star the name of Alfard, or The Solitary One.
      Leo lies towards the east, and between the Sickle in Leo and the Lesser Dog we recognise
Praesepe, and the two small stars on either side, known to the ancients as the Aselli.
      We have now come round again to the Great Bear. Observe how much larger an extent of
sky this constellation covers, than is commonly assigned to it by beginners. In its present aspect,
the constellation reminds the unpoetical observer of one of those figures of a monkey turning over a
pole which used to amuse our childhood,—the pole being supposed to run vertically through the paws
 (at the stars \ and t).
      Below the Bear's tail the head and shoulders of Bootes are rising into view.

                                           THE SKY.
on Jan 20 at' W o'clock:           on Jan : 3/ at; 9k o'clock;      ow Feb II tils Si o'clock;
on Jan.. 23 at 9$ o'clock;         on Feb ; -/ at 9 o'clock;        on Feb J5 at 8h o cl^ck.
on/ Jan . 27 at9\ o'clock ,        on Feb : 7 at 8% o'clock;        ow Feb 19 at 8 o'clock;
                                        IN TH E EVENINC.
""For the tuwies of the stars, corresponding to the; abene kticruig, retcr, to the? list al* p. 10.
                                                                                        Vinton BrooJcsDs.y t Scnl-itk


                                                 MAP 3.
                                            'Southern Konxcn
                                             THE SICY
en Feb /3 at W o'clock;             ow Mar . Z      at 9i o'clock;     ow Mar - 13 til Si o clock,
on Feb -. 22 al 91 o'clock, ;       on- Mar 6      at 9 o'clock;       on/ Mar . 17 at 8k o 'clock,
crv Feb . 26 at9h o'clock;          on' Mar 3       at 8*o clock ;     ow Mar-. 21 at 8 o'clock;
                                          IN THE EVENING
**Jbr the/ names of the/ stars, corresponding tc the/ above/ lettering, reier to the list/ at p. 10.
                                                                                          Vincent Brooks Illy I Sm> '


                                                MARCH.                                              131
                 HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN MARCH.
                                              MAP III.
The Geeat Beae is now approaching the point overhead, but is easily recognised towards the
north-east. The pointers, as shown, indicate the pole-star towards the left, and considerably
below them.
     The Guardians of the Pole now lie on the right of and somewhat below the pole-star, Vega
shines just above the horizon, immediately below them. Between lies the Dragon's head ; and we
see the body and tail of the Dragon curving round between the head and the Guardians of the
Pole.
     The upper part of Cygnus is now all that can be seen of this constellation, almost due north
on the horizon. Further to the left, and well raised above the horizon, we see Cassiopeia. Andro
meda is now approaching the horizon, her head almost touching it towards the north-west. Next
on the left is Aries, and above Aries is Perseus.
      Above Perseus is Auriga, Capella being almost due west. Cetus has nearly set, only its head
being visible above the horizon.
      Above Eridanus (now nearly set) is Taurus, very favourably situated for observation. The
Pleiades lie due west, and Aldeboran—the brilliant red star—to their left.
      Orion is towards the south-west, bending forwards towards the west. Above him, but some
what to the left, are the Twins, Castor still uppermost.
      Below the Twins are the two dogs, Canis Major towards the south-south-west, and low down.
      Alfard (The Solitary One), or Cor Hydrse, as he is called in the map, lies midway between the
south and the south-east, and is well raised above the horizon. It is interesting to notice how
blank all this part of the heavens appears—so far, at least, as conspicuous stars are concerned.
      Towards the south-east is Alkes, the chief star in the Cup ; and we notice the Crow just rising
into view towards the left.
      Above, we recognise Leo, the Sickle being now a conspicuous object.
      Virgo has risen partially into view above the eastern horizon. The cup-shaped group formed
by the five stars shown in the map was called by the Arabian observers, for reasons not yet explained,
 ' The Eetreat of the Howling Dog.'
      Bootes has now risen entirely above the horizon, though as yet in a recumbent position.
Arcturus is a conspicuous object on the right of this constellation.
      Below the head and shoulders of Bootes notice the Crown, one star only of which (Alphecca) is
shown in the map. Doubtless this group of stars originally formed the right arm of Bootes. The
constellation recently attracted much notice as the region in which a new star (or rather, an irregular
variable) made its appearance a year or two ago.
      Hercules is gradually rising into view towards the north-east.

  14    "•                                         APKIL.
                    HALF-HOUR WITH THE STAES IN APRIL.
                                                MAP IV.
 The Great Bear is now easily found, being nearly overhead. The pole lies below the pointers.
       The Guardians of the Pole are now somewhat higher than the pole towards the right. Below
 the pole-star is Cepheus, and due west of him is Cassiopeia, the W gradually approaching its
 natural position. Andromeda's feet are to be seen above the south-western horizon, and towards
 the left, Aries is setting.
      Above Aries is Perseus, now well situated for observation. The brilliancy of the Milky Way in
 this neighbourhood is worth noticing.
      Due west is the Bull, above which lies Auriga.
      Orion is now approaching the horizon, and is prone towards his ' western grave ; ' above him
hang ' the starry Gemini.'
      Towards the left are the two Dogs. . The Greater Dog is now setting.
      Alfard (Cor Hydrse), is somewhat to the west of south. Above is the Sickle in Leo, due south,
and with its handle vertical.
      The length of Hydra is now nearly raised above the horizon. We may notice in passing that
the Sea Serpent originally extended along the equator, and we believe that the epoch at which the
ancient constellations were formed may be more correctly deduced from this correspondence than
from any other, since few ideas of antiquity are more commonly recognised than that of the equa
torial (and also oceanic) Serpent. It is strange, by the way, that sea monsters form so large a part
of the mythology of the ancients, and a fanciful mind might incline to the notion that the ancients
preserved in their celestial globes the records of sea. creatures once well known but now extinct.
The reader if he have a taste for fanciful speculations may here refer to Gosse's chapter on the
' Great Unknown,' in which he argues that the Sea Serpent (despite Professor Owen's arguments
to the contrary) is a true Dolichodeiros—that is, not a serpent but a paddling long-necked lizard.
Certainly the Cetus and Hydra of ancient globes might not unreasonably be urged in support of this
view ; and the Dragon would figure as a respectable pterodactyl.
      Virgo has now risen, and the brilliant Spica is a conspicuous object towards the south-east.
Just above the horizon is the star /3 of the Scales.
      Due east is the Serpent just above the horizon. It must be noticed, however, that a part of this
 constellation lies on the further side of the as yet unrisen Ophiuchus. Serpens is the only constella
 tion thus divided.
      Above Serpens is Bootes, still nearly recumbent. Coma Berenices and Cor Caroli occupy the
positions severally accorded to them in the map.
      To the left of Serpens is Hercules, or Engonasin, the Kneeler, supposed by many to represent
 Adam kneeling on the head of the Serpent, Draco.
      The Lyra has now nearly risen, in the north-east, immediately beneath the Dragon's head.

                                           teuthern Hbrixin
                                            THE SKY.
on. Mar 27 al 10 o'clock;          on/ Jtpr. / at/ 9i o'clock;         on/ dpr. /2 ti& 8\ o'clock;
on Afar. 21 a./. 94 o'clock;       on dpr. S at' 9 o clock;            on/ Apr 16 at 8h o'clock;
en, Mar. 28 al/,9^ o'clock;        on Apr. 8 a/, 8% o'clock;         * on/ Apr 2O at 8 o'clock;
                                         IN THE EVENING
 *For the, name* of the stars, corresponding to the/ above, lettering, re/er to the/ list. al' p. JO.
                                                                                          V  l' ;i jotj J ay I S, t» LiUi


                                               ctTK fi
                                             ZHI JOTS
                                   no A'oj£ ^ ipapofa/fn
                                   1/,) .vojp j' jo q qfs>¦/fy,o       fO .&>Jg j/    ft) %$ j ,3pop¦
                                          HI 3H1 M INI ON
.jjj &t{) s'fiuvu ifljo s,u&fs 6urpuad.nurjj ay Gift ^3L\oqn> ,fhnjvfp] Uffdr 02 vy? Wrl 7D Old
                                                                                          VBTXlh ^""Jg *»C 1 U°S Wl


                                                                                    •
                                                       MAY.                                         15
                    HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN MAY.
                                                   MAP V.
The Geeat Beae still overhead is found immediately, and the pointers, which have now crossed
over to the west of the zenith, point downwards to the pole-star.
      The Guardians of the Pole are now higher than the pole, towards the right.
      Below the pole, Cepheus and Cassiopeia are seen, the former on the right. Andromeda has
nearly disappeared ; and Perseus has passed the north-west, and is approaching the horizon. The
Pleiades are just setting, almost due north-west ; and above is Auriga.
      In the west we see Betelgeux, the sole star belonging to Orion now visible. Above, and due
west, are the twin-stars Castor and Pollux. We have, in fact, the configuration described by
Tennyson, speaking of the season we are considering :—
                                                     ' It fell on a time of year
                               When the shining daffodil dies, and the Charioteer
                                And starry Gemini hang like glorious crowns
                                Over Orion's grave, low down in the west.'
Canis Major has set, but the Lesser Dog is still above the horizon, to the left of and below
the Twins.
      Cor Hydrae (The Solitary One) is almost exactly towards the south-west, and above is Leo.
      Due south, the small quadrangle of Corvus is seen, above which is ' The Eetreat of the Howling
Dog,' Spica shining conspicuously on the left, towards the south-south-east.
      Libra has risen into view, and somewhat to the east of south-east we see the first indications of
the interesting southern constellation Scorpio.
      The vertical row of conspicuous stars, formed by a part of Ophiuchus and the body of Serpens, is
well worth noticing. Above it is Bootes ; to the left of which, and lower down, we see Hercules,
inverted. His head is marked by the upper alpha, the lower representing the head of Ophiuchus,
the Serpent-holder—typical, some suppose, of the Messiah. The feet of the kneeling Hercules are
on the head of Draco, whose body and tail extend upwards, between the Guardians of the Pole and
the Greater Bear. It is impossible not to recognise, from the configuration of this constellation as
now seen, that the ancients looked on the stars which form the Lesser Bear as forming a wing of
Draco.
      Beneath the Dragon's head we see the Lyre. The Swan has now risen above the horizon, and
 the cross belonging to this constellation is seen in an almost horizontal position. The brilliancy of
the Milky Way at this part of its extent is well worth noticing. In the space between the stars a,
 /S, and y Cygni, there is a distinctly-marked black gap in the Milky Way, which has been termed
 the Northern Coalsack. The extension of the Milky Way towards Cepheus should also be noticed.

16                                                      JUNE.
                    HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN JUNE.
                                                 MAP VI.
The last stab of the Great Bear's tail is now just passing the point overhead. The pointers are
lowermost, and the pole-star is below, towards the right.
      The Guardians of the Pole are above the pole-star a little towards the right. Below them is
Cassiopeia, the W being now almost in the proper position of the letter. To the left is Perseus,
Algol being quite close to the horizon. Further round to the left we see Capella and the other stars
 of Auriga low down towards the horizon. Not much higher are the twin stars Castor and Pollux,
 Castor to the left, the feet of the twins resting on the horizon. It is interesting to compare the
 splendour of the sky near the horizon, from Gemini in the west-north-west, to Cassiopeia in the
 north, with the comparative blankness of the part of the sky immediately above these constel
lations.
      Prsesepe is almost due west, about as high as Castor. Leo has come round so far towards the
west that the tip of the Sickle just reaches that point of the compass. Below Regulus is Alfard, now
near setting.
      Virgo is now at her highest, Spica shining resplendently a little towards the west of south.
      Below Virgo notice Corvus and Crater, two of the neatest small constellations in the heavens.
      Due south, just above the horizon, is the head of the southern constellation the Centaur. Above
Virgo, and almost due south, we see Bootes, now nearly upright, and presenting a fine figure, as with
uplifted arm (the stars belonging to the Crown) he chases Ursa Major past the zenith.
      Returning to the neighbourhood of the horizon observe the brilliant red star Antares, or Cor
Scorpionis, lately risen above the south-eastern horizon. Due south-east we see a fine line of bril
liant stars formed by J, e, and 8 Ophiuchi, and e, a, and 8 Serpentis. These stars, with r\ Ophi-
uchi, and the stars y and fi Serpentis, form a figure much resembling a sabre, the cross-handle
being formed by two stars not shown in the map. Nearly the whole of the large constellation Ophi-
uchus (the reader will remember how Milton says of a comet, that it
                                    ' Fired the length of Ophiuchus large ')
has now risen above the horizon. It requires some imagination to recognise in it the figure of a
man holding a serpent ; but this is not the only instance in which the stars of a Constellation bear
little resemblance to the figure from which the constellation is named.
      Hercules is now nearly due east and high above the horizon. Towards the same quarter, but
quite close to the horizon, Aquila is coming into view, the brilliant Altair scintillating finely. Lyra
is above, Vega being almost exactly midway between the horizon and the point overhead.
      The leading star of Cygnus is towards the north-east, the length of the cross being still nearly
horizontal. Between Cygnus and the point overhead, is the head of the Dragon, the body and tail
winding off towards the left and upwards, above the Guardians of the Pole.
      On the dates named in the third column under this map the stars cannot be seen, as it is not
yet dark. Therefore use Map VII. two hours later. For instance, on June 21, use map VII. at ten
o'clock, and similarly for other days at the end of June.

                                             ¦Soitdtern Hmxi"
                                               THE SKY.
on Mzr 2/    at 10 o 'deck ;        on (7ttties 7 at/ ,% r clock ;    on/ >JUne/73 als 8h o 'clock,
on Mai ZS    ft/ ,9i o Hock .       on tJUriey S at' ft o'clock:      on i/usw/7 at/ 8k o'clock,
on Mar £8     at 9\ c 'clock;       on i/iiTie. & at S\ o'clock;      on. Juste 2/ at 8 c 'clock;
                                           IN THE EVENI NG
"J.br the name,? of the star,?, corresponding to the, above lettering, reler to the list/ al p . tO.
                                                                                         YinreU Brooks I-ty t Son Lith
                                                                                                                     .*


                                             '^/Uhern Hcn~cn
                                              THE SKY.
« June/2/ af 10 o'clock;              on/ July J at/ Hie clock;      on July 14 of 8\ o'clock,
<*, June25 a/ tH o'clock.             otv July 7 at 9 o'clock;       oro Judy 7S at/ 8k o 'clock;
« June/W at$k o'clock,;               on, July 10 at 8% o'clock;     ow July 22 al 8 c 'clock;
                                           IN THE E.VLNINC
  ¦fir (he, ruurus of the, stars, corresponding to the abwe leUcruig, relcr, to the list/ al n.10.
                                                                                         Yutcal, 3rooks 3»j I S ju Uft


                                                   JULT.                                            17
                    HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN JULY.
                                                MAP VII
The Geeat Beae is now descending towards the north-west. The pointers lie nearly halfway
between the point overhead and the horizon, towards the north-west. Thus the pole-star lies to the
right of the pointers.
       The Guardians of the Pole have passed above the pole towards the left. Below the pole, and
close to the horizon, we see Perseus on the right, and Auriga on the left. Capella is scintillating
brilliantly, as are Castor and Pollux, which are now setting near the north-west, Pollux lowest, and
on the left.
       Prsesepe is nearly set, and will probably not be visible in the thick air so low down.
     . Leo is approaching the horizon, the Sickle being inclined forwards. Above /S Leonis notice the
Hair of Berenice, halfway between the horizon and the point overhead, and forming an interesting
object at this elevation.
       Bootes stands now in the north-west, high up above the horizon. Below Arcturus is Spica,
and lower still, towards the right, the Crow and Cup are setting.
       The constellation Scorpio forms a magnificent object in the south. The stars which are
assigned to this constellation in maps form but a portion of the original constellation, and it is not
difficult to recognise in the arrangement of the stars now lying towards the south a resemblance to
the figure of a scorpion with extended claws.
       Above Scorpio we see the group of stars compared to a sabre, now no longer vertical, but
inclined forwards. ' Ophiuchus large ' is fully raised, and reaches from the horizon more than half
way to the point overhead, and from the south to the south-east. Below his head (a) we see
 Sagittarius just rising above the horizon ; and above Ophiuchus, Hercules extends right up to the
point overhead.
       The three bright stars in the body of Aquila are now midway between south-east and east ; the
uppermost is 7, the lowest /3, and the middle star is Altair. Above, towards the left, is Lyra, Vega
being now raised far towards the point overhead. Below Vega is the head of Cygnus, and the cross
 of Cygnus is now in a position exactly horizontal, and also exactly midway between the point over
head and the horizon ; in other words, each of the stars a, 7, and /9 Cygni now has an elevation
 of forty-five degrees above the horizon.
       Below Cygnus, Pegasus is rising into view, three stars of the square being visible, and the nose
 of the horse (s) due east. Andromeda has just risen above the north-eastern horizon. Above her
 feet we see Cassiopeia, the W still in its natural position.
       Draco forms a curve round and above the Guardians of the Pole, his head being to the
 east, and close to the point overhead.
       On the dates mentioned in the last column under this map it will be better to use Map VIII.,
 two hours later.
                                                       c

18                                                 AUGUST.
                 HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN AUGUST.
                                                MAP VIII.
 The Geeat Beae is now in the north-west and midway between the point overhead and the horizon,
 the pole to the right of the pointers.                                            . .
      The Guardians of the Pole have swung round above the pole-star towards the north-north-west.
 Below the pole is the head of the Charioteer, Capella still low down towards the right of the north
 point. Above the Lesser Bear is the body of Draco. His head is almost exactly overhead.
      Below the Great Bear, and somewhat towards the left, Leo is setting, only a part of the Sickle
 being visible. Coma Berenices lies immediately above the tip of the Lion's tail (/S), and above
 Coma again is Cor Caroli and the poor constellation the Hunting Dogs, of which Cor Caroli is the
 leading brilliant.
      Virgo is setting, ' The Retreat of the Howling Dog ' having already lost one of its stars. To
the left Spica is scintillating brilliantly, close to the horizon in the west-south-west.
      Bootes is now midway between the horizon and the point overhead, and inclining forwards, his
head and shoulders due west, his feet above Spica.
      In the south-west is Libra, close to the horizon. Above is Serpens, reaching to a point midway
between the horizon and the point overhead. Between the head of the Serpent (7, /3) and the
zenith we see Hercules, reaching round from the south to the west, and still inverted. In fact,
Hercules is never seen upright in our latitudes. This kneeling figure must have been conceived by
astronomers living in other latitudes and at a time when the pole was very differently situated.
     Ophiuchus has now passed the south towards south-south west ; and Antares with the other
stars of Scorpio lie towards the same quarter low down towards the horizon. It is interesting to
notice the portion of the Milky Way now brought into view towards the south. We see here the
commencement of that part of the Milky Way which by its superior brilliancy as seen in southern
latitudes, indicates the greater proximity of the galaxy in that direction. It is also interesting to
notice how singularly the two branches of the Milky Way vary in splendour along the southern half
of the semicircle now above the horizon. For in Cygnus the upper branch is much the brightest,
yet this branch vanishes altogether away in Ophiuchus. On the other hand the lower branch,
faint in Cygnus, becomes very bright in Aquila and Sagittarius.
     Lyra is high up towards the point overhead, the stars /3 and 7 forming a pendent to the
brilliant Vega. Below them, towards the south-east, and about half-way between the horizon and
the point overhead, is Altair, 7 and /8 Aquila? lying almost in a vertical line, one above, the other
below, Altair. Low down towards the horizon are the zodiacal constellations Sagittarius (extending
from south to south-south-east), Capricornus (extending past the south-eastern quarter) ; and
Aquarius, reaching nearly to the east. It is, indeed, noteworthy that from the north-west right
round through south to the north-east, the horizon is occupied by zodiacal constellations, no less
than eight of which are thus situated —though Pisces, having no conspicuous stars, is not marked-in
in Map Vin.
     Cygnus is high up towards the east, and below Arided is the square of Pegasus. The left-hand
star of the square is Alpherat, and Andromeda lies in a nearly horizontal position, her feet being
towards the north-east. Above these is Cassiopeia, the right-hand side of the W beginning to be
the highest. Below, and close to the horizon, is Perseus.

                                         MAP 8.
                                      Southern ttcrixcn
                                        THE SKY
m July 22 at IV o'clock;       en Aug 3      at Ok o'clock;     on Aug. J5 Ut Sh o clock;
m Juty Z6 at 9$ o'clock, ;     on Aug. 7     at 0 o'clock       on. Aug: 79 at Sh o clock,
en July 30 at/9h o'clock,;     on Ana It     at 8% o'clock;     on Aiig 23 at 6 o'clock,
                                    'in the ev eni no
"Ibtfke name? of Uw stars, corresponding to the above lelteruig, refer to th* list itl p 10
                                                                                  Vincent Brooks D»; k S¦o I
                                                                                                        -J



                                          Southern ttenxcn
                                           THE SKY.
orv ^uy £J cot W o'clock;         orv Sep . 7 at/ 9i o clock ;      orv Sep. 75 at. 8$ o 'clock,
orv Jus/. 27 at B$ o'clock,;      orv Sep. 8 at 9 o'clock;          orv Sep. 7$ rib 8k o'clock
orv slnq. J/ at/Si o'clock,       orv Sep, 12 at'/St o'clock;       orv Sep. 23 at/ 8 o'clock-
                                        \H THE EVE.NINC
"Fcr the/ nanves of the stem, corresponding to the/ above lettering, reter, to the/ Ustt al p. 10.
                                                                                        '*!;. ent Brooks Day t 5

                                                 SEPTEMBER                                             19
                 HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN SEPTEMBER.
                                                    MAP IX.
  The Gbeat Beae is now passing towards the north, and getting low down. The pointers are to the
jnSght of the seven stars, and the pole-star lies above them and towards the right.
       The Guardians of the Pole are to the left of, and scarcely higher than, the pole-star. The
  Dragon passes between the two Bears towards the west, his head being still high above the horizon.
  Coma Berenices is setting between north-west and west-north-west. Bootes has passed the west,
  and forms a fine figure above that part of the horizon. The Northern Crown, with the brilliant
  Alphecca, is due west, about midway between the horizon and the point overhead.
       Above the Crown are the feet of Hercules. His head and shoulders are to the left of the Crown,
  wd at about the same height above the horizon. The Serpent lies between the shoulders of Her
  cules and the horizon. On the left is ' Ophiuchus large ' towards the south-west, and extending from
  the horizon halfway to the point overhead. The brilliant Vega lies towards the same quarter, but
  moch higher up.
       Aquila is due south, Altair being about midway between the horizon and the point overhead.
  Close to the horizon, and extending from south-south-west to south, is Sagittarius. Next to him on
  the left is Capricornus, and next to that again is Aquarius, now covering a wide range of sky between
  Capricornus and Pegasus. In the zenith is Cygnus, the upright and cross-rod of the cross being
  now about equally inclined to the horizon. The square of Pegasus has passed the east, the left-hand
  star being still Alpherat, and Andromeda still in a horizontal position. Cassiopeia is in the north
  east, and raised somewhat more than halfway from the horizon towards the point overhead.
       Below Andromeda, Aries has fully risen ; and towards the north-east, low down, we see the
  Pleiades again. Between them and Cassiopeia lies Perseus. It is well to notice this constellation
  while in its present position, and also the richness of the background of milky light in this neigh
   bourhood. The whole of this part of the heavens is full of beauty, and contrasts strangely with the
   barren region close by, between the north point of the horizon and Cassiopeia.
        Auriga is rising above the north-north-east horizon, and Capella is beginning to scintillate less
   brilliantly as it rises above the denser strata of the atmosphere.
                                                          c 2

20                                               OCTOBER
                  HALF-HOUR WITH THE STAES LN OCTOBER.
                                                 MAP X.
The Gbeat Beak is low down towards the north-north-west ; the pole-star lying above and very-
 little to the right of the pointers.
       The Guardians of the Pole are now below the pole-star on the left, and almost exactly midway
 between the horizon and the point overhead. The Dragon passes between the two Bears, and round
 to the left of the Guardians of the Pole. His head is towards the west-north-west, high up above
 the horizon.
       Cor Caroli is approaching the horizon, and Bootes is already half set. So also is Serpens in the
 west. But Corona is still well raised above the west-north-west horizon. Hercules is in the west,
 but extends over a wide range from side to side. Vega is due west, and high above the horizon, the
 stars /9 and 7 lying to the left at about the same height. Also at about the same height is the
 star /9 of the Swan, and the cross of Cygnus is now upright again, Arided lying near the point
 overhead.
        Altair is in the south-west, raised somewhat less than halfway from the horizon towards the
  point overhead. Below Aquila is Sagittarius. Next, to the left and somewhat higher, is Capri-
 cornus ; and, next, Aquarius in the south.
        A noted star, Fomalhaut, the most southerly first-magnitude star ever seen in this countrv, is
  now visible towards the east of south, and very low down. It is the chief star of the Southern Fish,
  a constellation not to be confounded with the southernmost of the Fishes.
        The square of Pegasus is towards the south-east, raised high above the horizon. Alpherat is
  still the most easterly star of the square, and Andromeda is still horizontal, though now well raised
  above the eastern horizon.
        The sea-monster, Cetus, covers a wide range of the sky, low down towards the east-south
  eastern horizon. The limits of the constellation, indeed, as defined by astronomers, extend from the
  east to the south-south-east.
        Aries is in the east, about halfway between Andromeda and the horizon.
         Taurus has now risen in the east-north-east, Aldeboran, the brightest red star in the heavens,
  scintillating brilliantly low down towards the horizon.
         Above the head and horns of Taurus, is Perseus, and immediately above Perseus, raised three-
  quarters of the way from the horizon towards the point overhead, is Cassiopeia, the W now almost
   on end, and having the points towards the right.
         Auriga has now risen in the north-east, Capella being almost exactly in that quarter, and raised
   somewhat more than one-fourth of the way towards the point overhead.
         Castor is just rising between the north-east and north-north-east.

                                           MAP 10
                                        Southern ITorixrn
                                          THE SKY.
on Sep 23 at 10 o clock ;        on Oct 4      at/ 9h o'clock;     on Oct 15 UV 8\ o clock,
on Sep 26 at Si o'clock;          on Oct/ S    at' 9 o'clock:      on Oct 19 tit Sh o'clock,
m Sep :3C at/9k o'clock-          on Oct. II   at 8% o'clock;      en Oct/ 23 at H o 'clock ,
                                       IN THE EVEN I NC
""Fir the names. of the stars corresponding tc the above lettering, refir. to the list at ft 1C .
                                                                                       Vin.¦i*rt
                                                                                                 r



                                               Outturn Btrhin
                                                THE S£Y
 ow Oct* 23    alW o clock ;         ow jtfi'v. J    at/ 9i c clock /  on/ M/v. 74. at? 8k o 'clock,
 on Oct 26     alSi o'clock.         ow M>y. 7       at 8 o'clock;     on/ JVbv: 78 at 8k c 'clock,
 on Oct?: 30   at/9k o'clock;        on, JVbr. 70    at 8% o 'clock ;  owJtfov. 2Z at/ 8 o'clock,
                                             IK TH E EVENINC
**mFcr the/ names of the/ stars, corresponding to the; above lettering, reter to the, list/ al, p. 10.
                                                                                           Vincent Brooks .Da.) I 5« Wl

                                                 NOVEMBER.                                             21
               HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS LN NOVEMBER.
                                                MAP XL
The Great Bear is now due north, and at its lowest ; the pole-star lying above, and somewhat to
to the left of, the pointers.
     The Guardians of the Pole are below and to the left of the pole-star, and immediately above
the last star of the Great Bear's tail.
      The head of Draco has now come to the north-west, and is not nearly so high above the
horizon as it was a month ago.
      Due north-west, and almost on the horizon, is Alphecca, the other stars of the Crown being also
very close to the horizon. Between Alphecca and the Great Bear the head and shoulders of Bootes
are still to be seen above the horizon.
     In the west-north-west, close to the horizon, are the heads of the two giant constellation-
figures, Hercules and Ophiuchus. The left-hand and brighter a marks the place of the head of the
Serpent-bearer, who is now passing below the horizon. The whole of Hercules, on the other hand,
is still above the horizon, and, as usual, inverted. Above is Lyra; and Cygnus now occupies a
conspicuous position in the west, midway between the horizon and the point overhead, the cross
being still nearly vertical.
     Aquila, the Eagle, is approaching the western horizon, Altair being in the west-south-west,
and raised almost exactly one-fourth of the way towards the point overhead. Above Altair, and
towards the left, is an interesting little constellation not marked in the map—Delphinus. It will be
recognised at once, though consisting only of small stars, by the resemblance it presents to the
figure of a dolphin leaping from the sea.
      Capricornus is in the south-west, low down ; and next to it is Aquarius, covering a wide range
of the sky, and reaching almost to the south.
      Below is Fomalhaut, nearing the south-south-west horizon.
      The square of Pegasus is now at its highest, the left-hand side of the square vertical, the highest
star on that side being Alpherat. Andromeda is still horizontal,—in fact, it is a peculiarity of this
constellation that throughout its rise, from near the horizon to near the point overhead, the star
Alpherat is always very nearly on the same level with a portion of the line joining the two stars 7
and 51, which mark the feet of Andromeda. This is true from the epoch indicated in Map VII.
to that indicated in Map XI., or through one-third part of the constellation's course round the pole.
      Cetus is now well raised above the south-south-east horizon. The star a (Menkar) lies to
the east of south-east. Immediately above this star is the head of Aries ; below it is Eridanus, now
rising in the south-east.
      Orion also is rising, the three stars forming his belt almost upright towards the east. Above
them is Aldeboran, and above that star are the Pleiades. Near the point overhead is Cassiopeia .
 below Cassiopeia, and somewhat to the right, is Perseus ; below Perseus, and to the left, is Auriga,
 with the brilliant Capella ; and below Auriga the twin-stars Castor and Pollux have risen, Castor
 vertically above Pollux.

22                                                  DECEMBER.
              HALF-HOUR WITH THE STARS IN DECEMBER.
                                                    MAP XII.
 The tip of the Great Bear's tail lies almost due north, and low down. The pointers are towards
the north-north-east, and the pole-star is above, and towards the left.
      The Guardians of the Pole hang below the pole-star, slightly towards the left. Draco hangs
below the Lesser Bear, extending around from right to left, where his body bends downwards again.
The head of Draco lies between north-west and north-north-west, raised almost exactly one-fourth
of the way from the horizon towards the point overhead. Towards the left, slightly lower, is Vega,
the companion stars /8 and 7 lying on the left.
      Cygnus is in the west-north-west, the cross again upright, and Arided raised somewhat
less than halfway from the horizon towards the point overhead. Above, very near the point
overhead, is Cassiopeia.
      Low down, and somewhat to the right of the western point of the horizon, is Altair, with his
companion stars /S and 7, the former on his left, the latter on his right.
      The square of Pegasus is still high above the horizon, towards the west-south-west. The
highest star of the square is Alpherat, and Andromeda now extends from this point to the point
 overhead, close to which are both her feet.
      Aquarius is setting in the west-south-west. Cetus is due south, well raised above the horizon.
 The space below Cetus, quite bare of conspicuous stars, belongs to the southern constellations
 Sculptor and Fornax. Above Cetus is Aries, the star a due south, and raised nearly three-fourths
 of the way from the horizon towards the point overhead.
      Above the south-south-east horizon is Eridanus, covering a large space of the sky. Orion has
 now risen well above the South-eastern horizon somewhat easterly. Above him is Taurus, the
 Pleiades now shining very conspicuously.
      Near the point overhead is Perseus, the star a being towards the east, and Algol towards the
 south-east.
      Below Perseus, somewhat to the left, is Auriga ; and below the brilliant Capella are to be seen
 the twin-stars Castor and Pollux, the constellation Gemini being now in a horizontal position, the
 feet of the twins (ji and 7) resting on the Milky Way. Procyon has just risen above the eastern
 horizon.
      Towards the north-east the sky is almost blank. But low down may be seen two stars belonging
 to the Sickle in Leo, now rising above the north-eastern horizon.
                                             LO!TDOW: PaiimCD BY
                                  6FOTTISTCOOPH AND CO., NEW.STBEBT SQUIBB
                                            AXD rULUXXHT 6TEEET

                                                  .ML .A.jr ±£.
                                              UMUO&'UJtifiiqg
                                             southern. Hcrixcn
                                              THE SKY.
on Nov 22 at' 10 o'clock;           on, JJec. 3      at/ 9i c clock ; on/J)e&.. 74- at/ 8\ o 'clock,
on Nov: 2S at 9$ o'clock,           on, Dec/: 7      at' 9 o'clock:   on?Dec/. 77 at 8k o'clock;
on My.. 29 at/9\ o'clock;           orv Dec/: 10     at 8% o clock ;  on/Dec 27 at/ 8 c 'clock;
                                           IM THE E.VENIHC
 "For the, names of the. stars, corresponding to tfw above; lettering, reter, to the/ list/ at/ p . 10.
                                                                                           Vincent Brooks D«* l&pr/CXJ \
                                                                                                           cent Brooks olixnfL.fi
                                                                                                 J"






^
*
  1

