The universe of suns : and other science gleanings / by Richard
A. Proctor.
Proctor, Richard A. (Richard Anthony), 1837-1888.
London : Chatto & Windus, 1884.
http://hdl.handle.net/2027/uc1.$b278953
                               Public Domain, Google-digitized
                               http://www.hathitrust.org/access_use#pd-google
                               We have determined this work to be in the public domain,
                               meaning that it is not subject to copyright. Users are
                               free to copy, use, and redistribute the work in part or
                               in whole. It is possible that current copyright holders,
                               heirs or the estate of the authors of individual portions
                               of the work, such as illustrations or photographs, assert
                               copyrights over these portions. Depending on the nature
                               of subsequent use that is made, additional rights may
                               need to be obtained independently of anything we can
                               address. The digital images and OCR of this work were
                               produced by Google, Inc. (indicated by a watermark
                               on each page in the PageTurner). Google requests that
                               the images and OCR not be re-hosted, redistributed
                               or used commercially. The images are provided for
                               educational, scholarly, non-commercial purposes.

of
The
suns
universe
Anthony
Proctor
Richard

   GIFT OF
MICHAEL REESE



r

        THE
UNIVERSE OF SUNS
         ETC.

       WORKS          BY    RICHARD A. PROCTOR.
FLOWERS OF THE SKY.                    With   55 Illustrations.     Small
   crown 8vo. cloth extra,   4s. 6d.
EASY STAR LESSONS.                  With Star Maps for Every Night
   in the Year,   Drawings of the Constellations, &c.      Crown 8vo. cloth
   extra,  6s.
FAMILIAR SCIENCE STUDIES.                      Crown 8vo. cloth extra,
   js. 6d.
ROUGH WAYS MADE SMOOTH                         : a Series     of Familiar
    Essays 0n Scientific Subjects.    Crown 8vo. cloth extra,  6s.
OUR PLACE AMONG INFINITIES                        : a Series of Essays
   contrasting our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities
   Around us. Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6s.
THE EXPANSE OF HEAVEN                     : a Series of Essays on the
   Wonders of the Firmament.        Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6s.
SATURN AND ITS SYSTEM.                     New and Revised Edition,
   with  13 Steel Plates, demy 8vo. cloth extra,  10s. 6d.
THE GREAT PYRAMID                 :  Observatory, Tomb, and Temple.
   With Illustrations.    Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 6s.
MYSTERIES OF TIME AND SPACE.                          With Illustrations.
   Crown 8vo. cloth extra,    ys. 6d.
THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS,                   and other Science Gleanings.
   With Illustrations.    Crown 8vo. cloth extra,  ys. 6d.
WAGES       AND WANTS                OF    SCIENCE          WORKERS.
   Crown 8vo. is. 6d.
           CHATTO        &   WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

                             THE
UNIVERSE                              OF SUNS
      OTHER        SCIENCE GLEANINGS
                                 JSY
          RICHARD A. PROCTOR
                           AUTHOR    OF
 'THE EXPANSE OK   heaven'     'familiar SCIENCE studies' ETC.
        WITH. ELEVEN ILL V SI RATIONS
                            JTcrabcur
 CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY
                              1884
                 [ A 11 r tg hts reserved}

            LONDON I   PRINTED  BY
SrOTTISWOODR   AND   CO.,  NEW-STREET SQUARE
          AND  PARLIAMENT    STREET

                 CONTENTS.
                                                      PAGE
Voices  of the Suns                                       i
The Universe of Suns                                      5
The Sun's Corona                                        77
A Great Sun-spot                                        9 J
The Last Great Solar Eclipse                           ioS
Great Nebula in Argo                                   112
The Photographic    Eyes  of Science                   124
Solar Surroundings                                     153
The Planet Mars                                        160
Life  in Mars                                          163
The Ring of Small Planets                              175
The Zone of Small Planets                              179
The Star in the East                                   186
Greek Fire                                             192
Flying Machines                                        198
                                        ....
Sent to the Bottom                                     204
Earthquakes in the British Isles                       219
The South European Volcanic System                     237
Earth   Movements   in Java                            242
Earth Shakings, their    Cause and   Work   .   .   .257
The Influence of Food on Civilisation     .   .   . .  268
                         285561

vi                     CONTENTS.
The Pyramid of Cheops            28S
Dream  Space                     303
The Three Cold Days of May       318
Are Women Inferior to Men?       328
Upright Man                      339
Effect of Marriage  on  Life     354
Stimulants and Study             363
Poker Principles and Chance Laws 368
The Laws  op Probability         392
Strange Coincidences             395

         VOICES OF THE SUNS.
I watched the depths of darkness infinite
Bestrewn with stars, till dreaming I beheld
From out the mystic realms beyond my ken
A  star come forth with even gliding rush :
Till sweeping onwards shone its glorious orb
With all the mighty meaning of a sun, —
A sun girt round by many-peopled worlds,
And worlds   as yet not peopled being young,
And worlds long since unpeopled being old
And dead. —Their ruling sun shone on them —
On the living, on the yet unfashioned,
On the dead : on all it shone, though idly
Where as yet life had not sprung from forth
The teeming womb of time ; and idly too
Where life had ceased to be. On all those worlds
The mystic force which lives in matter worked
Its mighty will. Dead worlds and worlds scarce born
And worlds alive with myriad forms of life
Swept circling round that stately ruling orb.
As it sailed past I heard its solemn voice
Proclaiming through the realms of space the song,
The everlasting song of Life and Death —
Of wealth of Life and everduring waste
And dearth of Life.     It sang of present, past,
And coming plenitudes of Life ; of past
And coming wastes of Death : infinitudes
                                                  B

                  VOICES     -OF THE SUNS.
¦ ;¦  :               -          .
:. : .• : ... : : ..*. . * . ...
At once of Life and Death           ;  each without end,
Without beginning each.            '
                                      Along my path —
In front,' it said, 'and backwards whence I came —
And all around, above below my course,
Lie millions such as I, through endless realms
Of star-strewn space. There is no end to God's
Domain of suns and systems ruled by suns —
No end and no beginning through all space —
But everlasting, mystic, wonderful,
The song of us sounds ever round the throne
Of Him who reigns supreme, the Life of All —
Unknown ! yea evermore Unknowable ! '
Then     as the   Psalmist sang of old I said —
Being so moved I could not choose but speak —
'
   What, Lord, is man that Thou should'st care for him
Or for his kind, the son of man that Thou
                                               '
Should'st mindful be of him or his ?
                                                 Then rang
A voice of solemn thunder through             the spheres,
 '
   Say rather, What is Space or          Time to Me,
That thou should'st deem mere mightiness of mass
And plenitude of time can outweigh mind
 And soul ? Can worlds and suns My power know ?
 Can aeons after aeons sing My praise as man
 Gifted by Me with power to know My power, can tell
 The meaning of the music of My spheres ?
 Then     I said,
                   '
                     Nay, Lord, but if the words
  Of men are worth the utterance, they are thine.
  Lo we are but the creatures of Thy hand.
 We see but part of all Thy wondrous work.
  Could we but see the glory of Thy Light,
  Could we but hear the thunder of Thy Power,
 We should be stricken blind and deaf alike —
  Deafened by strident tones, made blind by light.
  " In Thee alone we live and move, in Thee

                VOICES OF THE SUNS.                    3
We have our being." But shall we, finite, hymn
The praises of Thine Infinite ? Shall weak man,
The creature, paint with erring brush the Sun
Of Might and Power and Wisdom evermore supreme ? '
The answer came, 'Uplift thy doubting heart,
The least of all the minds My Will has made
Outweighs a full infinity of times
The mightiest mere mass : the thoughts of human hearts
Outvie the movements of a million suns,
The rush of systems infinite through space.'
                                                B 2


              THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
  Although     we are placed at present in a far more advan
  tageous   position for forming an opinion respecting the
  constitution of the heavens, than any of those who have
  in former ages inquired into this subject, yet we cannot
 afford to neglect any of the hints thrown out by men like
  Galileo and Huyghens,        Wright,    Kant, Lambert, and
 Michell. Moreover, the account of former hypotheses
 respecting the universe is full of interest.
      The ideas of ancient astronomers respecting the staw
 were naturally very far from the truth.         Anaximenes re
 garded the stars as studs on the crystalline sphere, while
 Theophrastus supposed that the celestial sphere consists of
 two distinct halves fastened together along the Milky Way,
 but so imperfectly that we can see through the unclosed
 spaces the luminous heavens beyond.          Xenophanes taught
 that the stars are clouds collected in the upper regions of
the air, and fed from the fiery sether.       Hence the remark
of Callimachus that the circumpolar stars feed on air ; and
                                                                '
hence the question of Lucretius, ' Unde cether sidera pascit 1
Anaxagoras considered that the stars, as well as the sun, moon,
and planets, were rocks swept off from the earth by the aether,
and kindled to an intense heat in the fiery upper regions.
     Passing, however, from these vague fancies, let us turn
to those hypotheses which were formed when the Coper-
nican theory enabled men to form some conception of the
enormous distances of the fixed stars, and when telescopic
researches began to reveal vast numbers of stars hitherto
unseen by man.

6                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
     Copernicus himself occupied a somewhat exceptional
position, since he was the only astronomer who ever
theorised respecting the stars on the basis of the system
which bears his name, but without the knowledge respect
ing unseen stars which his successors obtained by means
of the telescope.     It should be noticed also, in considering
the views    of Copernicus, that though he had abandoned the
Ptolemaic astronomy, he had by no means abandoned the
artificial conceptions on which Ptolemaic astronomy had
been based.      That this is so, can be recognised even in the
account which Copernicus gave of the motions within the
 solar system ; it is still more apparent in his remarks re
 specting the universe.
                             '
                               It is to be observed in the first
                                      '
 place,' he says, in his treatise       De Revolutionibus,' ' that
 the universe is spherical ; not only because that is the most
 perfect of all figures, needing no fastening or junction, com
 plete in itself ; but because it is the most capacious figure,
Attest to enclose and preserve all things ; because the most
 perfect portions of the universe,   — the   sun, moon, and stars,
 — are seen to have that shape        ; and lastly because, as we
 see in drops of water and other liquids, all things capable
 of assuming the figure they prefer, select the figure of a
 sphere.'    Of the sphere of stars, however, he remarks only,
 that it is the outermost and chief of all the spheres, immov
 able because enclosing all other spheres.
      Galileo, the first Copernican to recognise the enormous
  extent of the stellar regions to which the unaided eye can
  not penetrate, formed no theory respecting the universe.
  He   saw clearly, however,    the extreme   importance of those
  revelations made by the telescope, and their bearing on the
  theories men had formed respecting the Galaxy.             '
                                                               It is
                                         '
  truly a wonderful fact,' he said, that to the vast number
  of fixed stars which the eye perceives, an innumerable
  multitude, before unseen, and exceeding more than tenfold
  those hitherto known, have been rendered discernible.         Nor
  can it be regarded as a matter         of small moment that all
  disputes respecting the nature of the Milky Way have been

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                              7
brought to a close, and the nature of this zone made mani
fest not to the intellect only, but to the senses.
     Kepler was the first astronomer who enunciated definite
ideas respecting the constitution of the universe.            In 1618,
or nine years after the publication of the two first of the
laws which bear his name, he published the first three
books of his 'Epitome,' the fourth in 1620,1 a year after
his third law had been published in his Harmonia Mundi.
The following statements          have   been    extracted   from the
 '           '
   Epitome     by W. Struve, and form a fair abstract of the
ideas of Kepler : —
     The sun lies farther from the fixed stars than these lie
from each other.        Within the sphere of the fixed stars there
is a vast concavity girt round on all sides by the stars. The
 sun lies within this space, so that the solar system occupies
an exceptional position in the universe.           The concavity en
closing the sun lies also near the centre of the zone called the
 Milky Way.        This is shown by the fact that the      Milky Way
appears as a great circle on the heavens, and sensibly of
 uniform brightness throughout.          The space occupied by the
 stars, limited on the inside by the concavity enclosing the
 sun, is also limited on the outside, and thus forms an
 immense spherical shell, outside of which lies space."1 The
 sun is the chief body — the heart of the universe, — whence
 flow light and heat ; he is also the ruler of the planets and
 their satellites.   The sphere of the fixed stars is as the skin
 of the universe preventing the escape of the solar heat and
 reflecting the solar light. It is therefore as of ice, by com
 parison with the fiery mass of the sun.          The stars according
 to this hypothesis are much smaller than the sun, but shine
 with their own light, the light of each having its own proper
 colour.3
     1
       Not 1622, though the title-page bears that date.
     2
       Kepler bases this conclusion on the same reasons which Coper
 nicus had already alleged.
     3
       He admits, however,   that the sun may possibly be only a star,
 brighter because nearer than the rest ; and that the other stars may be

8                   THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
     But the most remarkable part of Kepler's speculations is
that in which he determines the dimensions of the sphere
of the fixed stars. It affords a striking illustration of his
strange faith in numerical analogies ; a faith, however,
accompanied by that perfect desire to ascertain the truth
which had already caused him to abandon one after another
a series of many such relations, suggested by his poetic
imagination while he was dealing with the solar system.
     The radius of the concavity enclosing the sun was deter
mined by a simple proportion. Saturn the outermost planet
travels at a distance from the sun equal to 2,000 times the
sun's radius. Therefore by the harmony of relations, the
distance of the sphere of the fixed stars is equal to 2,000
times the distance of Saturn from the sun.                 This enormous
distance is confirmed by the observations of Tycho Brahe, which
show no    annual displacement of         the stars as the earth sweeps
round her widely -extended orbit.           But the thickness of the
crystalline shell can also be determined.               All the matter of
which the universe is formed is divided into three equal
parts.    One third is included in the body of the Sun.
Another third forms the substance of the planets and of the
celestial aether which fills up the space within the sphere of
the fixed stars.       The remaining third forms the Crystalline.
Now since the aether fills a space exceeding the sun's
volume 64 trillions of times [(4,ooo,ooo)3], its density must
be   proportionately small compared with his.                    And the
density of the crystalline must needs be a mean between
the sun's density and the aether's.              Thus the crystalline
has a density 8,000 million times less than the sun's ;
surrounded,   like our sun, with planetary    schemes.     'This, however,*
              '
he remarks,     is not a necessary inference from the Copernican system,
which decides nothing respecting the nature of the fixed stars.        We
are therefore free to admit that the fixed stars are spread, as the
Hebrew tradition asserts, within a stratum comparatively thin and of
a watery nature, and      that this stratum is crystalline, the water in it
being frozen on account of its great distance from the sun, the centre of
                            '
the heat of the universe.

                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                9
 and as its mass is equal to the sun's its volume is 8,000
 million times greater.        Hence it is easy to calculate its-
 thickness, which is found to be equal to the 6,000th part
 of the sun's radius.1 So that according to the modern
 determination      of the sun's      dimensions, Kepler's theory-
 assigns to the crystalline a thickness of but about seventy
 miles !
      Struve remarks very justly that these ideas of Kepler's,
 fanciful though they are, yet merit attention, because they
 contain the germ of modern views respecting the universe.
 This remark relates specially, it would seem, to the passage
 which is italicised, and to the admission presented as a
 note.     Struve adds that it would even seem as though
 Kepler had sought only to accommodate the Copernican
                                                                    '
 theory with the ideas entertained in his day respecting the
 waters above the firmament,' spoken of in the Pentateuch.
     In far better accordance with modern ideas, are the views-
 of the great astronomer Christian Huyghens,              as expressed
                        '
in his fine work the Cosmotheoros.'        2
                                                He held that the sun
is one of the stars and resembles them in size and structure.
    1
       Struve says 6o,ooo, probably from his own calculation, as he
proceeds to employ the modern estimate of the sun's distance.         But
the number should be 6,000.                                        —
                                  The calculation proceeds thus : The
volume of the sun is equal to one-third of a cylinder having a base
equal to the sun's surface and a height equal to his radius ; and the
volume of the crystalline is equal to a cylinder having the surface of
the crystalline for base and the thickness of the crystalline for height.
The surface of the crystalline exceeds the sun's (according to Kepler)
16 billions of times — so that the volume of the last-named cylinder
would be 48 billions of times larger than the sun's if its height were
equal to his radius.    But its volume is in reality but 8,000 million
times larger than the sun's.    Hence its height must be the 6,000th
part of the sun's radius— 48 billions containing 8,000 millions 6,000-
times.
    2
      It  is perhaps not very generally known that the Plumian Pro
fessorship of Astronomy at Cambridge was founded by Dr. Plumer as
an expression of the pleasure he had derived from the perusal of
Huyghens' Cosmotheoros.       The work was recommended        to him by
Flamsteed, the first Astronomer Royal.

10                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
The distribution of the stars he regarded             as  in a general
sense uniform, for he held that the same distance which
separates the sun from the nearest star separates that star
from the next beyond, that from the next, and so on to
infinity.     We have already seen that his hypothetical study
of the universe led to researches and results of considerable
importance.
      We owe, however, to Thomas Wright, of Durham, the
first attempt to form a complete theory of the universe.
The Milky Way was not referred to at all in the specula
tions of Huyghens, nor was the important position of the
star-cloudlets in theories of the Cosmos recognised in
Huyghens' time.         Wright's views ranged over the whole of
the sidereal universe as known in his day ; and we shall see
that by a bold effort of genius he anticipated the specula
tions which the greatest of all astronomers based a few years
later on observation.
       Wright examined the structure of the Milky Way with
a reflecting telescope only one foot in length, satisfying
 himself that the galaxy really consists of a multitude of
minute stars. Reasoning concerning the Milky Way, he
remarked that if we judge of it only by phenomena we
 must regard it as a zone of stars surrounding the heavens.
 But this conception of the Milky Way as a perfect ring is
 not in agreement with the irregular distribution of the stars
 which do not lie upon the galaxy, but seem dispersed pro
 miscuously throughout the space surrounding us on all
 sides.     It seems inconsistent with the harmony observed
                                                   '
 in all the other arrangements of nature that one scheme
     '
 of stars should be arranged with perfect symmetry, while
 another is scattered irregularly.         It is far more reasonable
 to conclude — so Wright reasoned — that the seeming incon
 gruity is due only to the imperfect nature of our survey,
 both as respects the extent of space and duration in time.
 '                                           '
   When we reflect,' 1 says Wright, upon the various con-
      1
        I quote from an abstract of Wright's views in Grant's fine History
 of Physical Astronomy.

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                     1 1
figurations of the planets and the changes which they per
petually undergo, we may be assured that nothing but a like
eccentric position of the stars could occasion such confusion
among bodies otherwise so regular : in like manner we may
conclude that as the planetary system, if viewed from the
sun, would appear perfectly symmetrical, so there may be
some place in the universe where the arrangement and
motions of the stars may appear most beautiful.          If we
suppose the sun to be plunged in a vast stratum of stars
of inconsiderable thickness compared with its dimensions in
other respects, it is not difficult to see that the actual
appearance of the heavens may be reunited with a har
 monious arrangement of the constituent bodies of such a
system     with respect to some common centre, provided it
 be admitted at the same time that the stars have all a
 proper motion.       In such a system it is manifest that the
distribution of the stars would appear more irregular the
 farther the place of the spectator was removed from the
 centre of the stratum towards either of the sides.        It is
 also evident that the stars would appear to be distributed
 in least abundance in the opposite directions of the thick
 ness   of the stratum, the visual line being shortest in these
 directions ; and that the number of visible stars would
 increase as the stratum was viewed through a greater depth,
 until at length, from the continual crowding of the stars
 behind each other, it would ultimately assume the appear
 ance of a zone of light.
      It will be observed that in these words we have a com
 plete enunciation of what has been called the Grindstone
 Theory of the stellar system. The theory is based by
 Wright on observed facts precisely as it was afterwards
 based by Sir W. Herschel on other observed facts.       What
 ever credit appertains to the invention of the theory should
 in justice be ascribed to Wright, who thus, in 1750, reasoned
 out and clearly described the views to which Herschel was
 led in 1784. Wright did not convince his contemporaries,
  but their slowness of apprehension seems to afford no just

12                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
ground for depriving him of the credit due to his sound
analysis of known facts.
     Wright further held that the Milky Way is only one of
many systems of stars ; though the other systems forming
with our galaxy a system of star-systems, may not resemble
  Fig. i. — Kepler's Idea of the Universe (the Crystalline is shown in Section only).
the    galaxy      or each       other in structure. There may be
differences as striking as those which exist between the
rings of Saturn and the belts of Jupiter.                       Some systems of
                                                              '
stars may move in perfect spheres, at different inclinations
and in different directions ; others again may revolve like

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
the primary planets     in a general level ; or more probably in
the manner of Saturn's ring ; nay perhaps, ring within ring,
to a third or fourth order.'
     Wright. believed that the common centre around which
the stars of the galaxy travel is an orb larger and more
massive than the rest.       He also considered    that  there are
sidereal systems within the boundaries of the visible uni
verse, and subordinate to the great system of the Milky
Way.     It is to such parts of the Milky Way that he refers
when he speaks of the immensity of space being occupied
                      '
by an endless succession of systems, analogous in their
                                  '
structure to the great system (the Milky Way) ' of which
the visible universe is composed (and of which they form
part).' This seems clear from the way in which he reasons
respecting other Milky Ways.        For, referring to the theory
that such systems exist, he remarks : — That this in all
                                                '
probability may be the case is in some degree made evident
by the many cloudy spots, just perceivable by us, as far
without our starry regions, in which, although visibly
luminous spaces, no one star or particular constituent body
can possibly be distinguished, these, in all likelihood, may
be external creations, bordering upon the known one, too
remote for even our telescopes to reach.'
     Kepler's quaint system is illustrated in fig. r. Wright's
may be regarded as in some sort illustrated by fig. 2, only
it must be understood that in this illustration the dis
tances between the various galaxies are very much too
small, or rather the galaxies themselves are on an enor
mously exaggerated scale as compared with the distances
between them.
     Five years later, Kant published his remarkable treatise
 '
   The Natural History and Theory of the Heavens.' It was
in this work that the philosopher of Konigsberg predicted
the discovery of planets exterior to Saturn.            His ideas
respecting the universe of stars were admittedly suggested
by Wright's
               '
                 Theory of the Universe,' which he had read in
a Hamburg journal of the year 1751, — though he is unable

I4                       THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
                               '                      his system is a repro
to indicate, he says,             to what extent
duction or amplification of Wright's.'
     Passing over some remarks — worthy of Kant's genius —
on the nature of the ideas we should form respecting the
  Fig. 2. — Illustrating  Wright's Theory of the Galaxy and its Fellow Star Systems.
Creator and His works, Kant proceeds to lay down the
following theses : —
     (i.) The stars — not only those visible to the unaided
eye, but all which the telescope                     reveals— are suns, the

                         THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                              15
centres        of systems,
                        important as the solar system, and
                             as
ruled like that system by gravitation.
    (2.) But the action of gravity not only rules within such
systems — it extends from system to system.      Thus all the
stars are associated into a single system — the galaxy.    They
are in fact planets (that          is,
                             moving orbs)  of   higher  order.         a
    (3.) As in the solar system there       general level near
                                                              is
                                                              a
to which all the planets travel, so in the system of stars we
recognise     condensation towards
                    a                    certain mean plane.  a
This condensation explains the appearance of the Milky
Way, which forms the Zodiac of the stellar system. All the
stars travel on paths but slightly inclined to the mean plane
of this stellar Zodiac, just            all the planets travel on paths
                                         as
but slightly inclined            to the mean plane of the planetary
Zodiac.
    (4.) As the planets travel around       luminous central      a
body       probable that
          it   is           vast luminous central orb exists
                                   a
round which the stars perform their circuits.     Such an orb
might be 1,000,000     times larger than our sun, and yet                                   if
                             1
removed to     distance 100 times greater than that of Sirius
                    a
(estimated on the supposition that Sirius     equal to the sun)   is
this enormous orb would appear no larger than Sirius
appears.    In fact there are reasons for believing that Sirius
is actually the central orb of the galaxy.     For the Milky
Way seems widest in the constellations of the Eagle, the
Fox, and the Swan,2 so that the sun must lie towards these
constellations.          Hence    the central orb must lie in the part
of the heavens            directly opposite to these constellations.
But Sirius  so placed, and
                    is                        as     this star        is   the brightest in
the heavens, we may infer that       the central orb and rules
                                                    it   is
 byvirtue of its superior size the motions of the rest. It                                  is
     Kant wrote 10,000— which
     1
                                              is,
                                    however, obviously erroneous.
     This argument fails in the presence of the actual fact — unknown
      2
to Kant — that the Milky Way    widest in Scorpio and the neighbour
                                     is
ing constellations. Struve remarks well also, that the argument only-                  is
sound    the Milky Way
          if              regarded as of the nature of ring— theory
                             is                                             a      a
which Kant does not appear to have entertained.

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
true that Sirius does not appear to lie in the level of the
 Milky Way ; but this is readily explained by supposing that
the sun is removed to some distance from this level.
      (5.) The oval nebulae which the telescope does not
Tesolve into stars, are systems resembling the Milky Way,
 not only in general features, but also (as their elongated
form indicates) in having a mean plane towards which their
stars congregate.
      (6.) The same sort of relation probably exists amongst
the different Milky Ways which is recognised among the
different suns of the Milky Way. These other Milky Ways
are members of a new system of a yet higher order. We
trace here the first terms of a series of worlds and systems,
and these first terms of an infinite series enable us to infer
the nature of the rest of the series.
      It is scarcely necessary to point out how closely in many
respects the ideas of Kant resemble those of Wright                 It
may, indeed, be said that Kant's theory only differs from
Wright's in passing beyond the limits of observed facts.
All Wright's theory, excepting his opinion respecting a
central sun, was based upon observation, though in saying
this I do not assert that all his inferences were just. Kant's
conceptions respecting an infinite progression of systems, or
rather of orders of systems, though undoubtedly imposing,
cannot be regarded as involving any real addition to our
knowledge.
      In   passing  from Kant's theory to Lambert's, I would
invite the reader to note with special care the points in
which the two theories differ.      It is admitted that Lambert's
theory though published five years later than Kant's (or in
1760) was formed quite independently ; but Kant himself
         1
remarked in 1763 that 'the accordance between his ideas
and those of Lambert       (cet hem me   spirituel) extends even to
    1
       More fully however in 1761.   Lambert tells  us that his theory
was formed in 1749, when he was not 21 years old.    Kant was born in
1724, four years before Lambert ; but survived him 27 years, for Lam
bert died in 1777, Kant in 1804.

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                         17
the most minute details.'      It will be found,  I conceive, that
 no such close agreement exists between the two theories.
     Lambert's theory consists of the following theses : —
     1. The stars are suns,     and like our sun they are the
centres   of planetary systems.    Each sun with its dependent
worlds forms a system of the first order. (It will be observed
that this agrees with Kant's first thesis — which, however,
was earlier enunciated by Huyghens.)
     2. Our sun belongs to a vast globular cluster of stars, a
system   of the second order,   which includes all those stars,
spread over all parts of the heavens, which do not belong to
the Milky Way.
     3. There are many systems of the second order.          They
are not spread throughout all space, but are all found near
a certain principal plane or mean level, and, being ranged
one behind the other to a great depth, they form by their
concourse the Milky Way. This is a system of the third
order, not globular but flat — forming, in fact, a disc, whose
diameter vastly exceeds its thickness. The fact that this
system of the third order consists of different systems of the
second order, is shown, says Lambert, by the irregularity
of the Milky Way, by the different richness of its various
parts, and by its branching figure.      (It will be noticed that
Lambert here adopts a view resembling a part of Wright's
theory on which Kant says nothing ; but Lambert's views
are much more definite than Wright's, and accord much
better with the results of Sir W. Herschel's later labours.)
     4. Analogy suggests that there are in the universe many
Milky Ways. Perhaps the nebula in Orion is a Milky Way,
nearer to us than the rest. Should this be the case, tele
scopic research will reveal many others,      forming together a
system  of the fourth  order.
     5. Analogy suggests that there are systems of a fifth
order, and of yet higher orders.        But so far as observation
is concerned, stellar astronomy includes — 1, suns ; 2,
clusters of suns    ; 3, the  Milky Way    ; and,   systems   4 of
Milky   Ways.
                                                            c

i8             THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
   6.  The common bond of different systems of the same
order, as well as of the successive orders of systems, is

                         THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS                                     19
gravitation, which produces concentric motions within all
the systems.
       7.    As in the solar system we observe that the distances
between           the    planets exceed incomparably the
                         several
dimensions of each planet or scheme of planet and
satellites, so the distances between sun and sun exceeds
enormously the dimensions of the several solar systems.
    8. A similar relation prevails amongst higher orders.
The cluster to which the sun belongs contains above a
million and a half of stars, forming                     a
                                             spherical cluster,
whose diameter exceeds 150 times the distance of Sirius ;
but this diameter is far less than the distance of the nearest
cluster of suns.
    Other theses which follow need not here be considered,
because they relate to matters already discussed, and are for
the most part based on imperfect evidence, and also (as the
elder Struve has shown) on incorrect ideas.    But Lambert's
conceptions respecting  central  suns are worthy of notice.
They are included in the following theses : —
    9. It seems clear from the analogy of the solar system,
that each of the clusters of suns must be ruled by a central
orb.         Not otherwise,         it would   appear,       can   the   motions
within the cluster have the requisite stability.
     10. The mass of such a central sun must be very great
Its luminosity may be faint, or it may even be an opaque
body, illuminated by the suns which travel nearest to                             it.
If suns are intended to illuminate dark orbs, we may infer
that the central orb   thus illuminated.
                               is           So that whereas in
solar systems the central body illuminates the rest, in systems
of suns the central orb receives light from the bodies over
which       it   bears sway.
       11.    The central orb may one day be detected                      by    the
perturbations which     produces within our solar system, —
                               it
much as the sun       produces perturbations in the lunar
motions. Or     may have phases, or dark spots, and so be
                        it
detected by its rotation.   On this account the nebula in
Orion, which may be the central orb of our cluster of suns
                                                                         c   2

20                  THE UNIVERSE       OF SUNS.
(since it lies in the proper direction), should be carefully-
watched.
     12.  Having accepted the belief that a central body
sways each cluster of suns, we may infer from analogy
that a central orb of yet vaster dimensions sways the Milky
Way or the system of sun-clusters.        And the analogy may
be extended to the systems of the fourth, fifth, and higher
orders.
    I cannot better close the account of Lambert's remark
able speculations than by quoting the remarks in which he
describes the wonderful grandeur of the universe of systems
as pictured in his theory : — How far soever we may extend
                                '
the scale,' he says, ' we must necessarily stop at last.'   And
where ? At the centre of centres, at the centre of creation,
which    I    should be inclined to term the capital of the
universe, inasmuch as thence originated motion of every
kind, and there stands the great wheel in which work the
teeth of all the rest.       From thence the laws are issued
which govern and uphold the universe ; or rather, there
they resolve themselves into one law of all others the most
simple. But who would be competent to measure the
space and time which all the globes, all the worlds, all the
worlds of worlds, employ in revolving round that immense
body — the      Throne of Nature     and the   Footstool  of the
Divinity   !    What  painter, what poet, what imagination is
sufficiently exalted to describe the beauty, the magnificence,
the grandeur, of this source of all that is beautiful, great,
and magnificent ; and from whence order and harmony
flow in eternal streams through the whole bounds of the
              '
universe    !
    Michell did not enumerate any complete theory respect
ing the universe or even respecting the galaxy.          We have
seen how skilfully he discussed the observed laws of stellar
distribution.      His inquiries into this subject naturally led
him into speculation respecting the arrangement of the star
system into systems or groups ; but he did not extend these
considerations beyond those parts of the sidereal heavens

                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                       21
¦which he   regarded as probably nearest to us.     He indeed
mentions the nebulae, but not so particularly as to determine
their position in the scheme of creation.
     The most important of Michell's theories is that which
relates to the existence  of laws of arrangement (even among
the stars visible to the unaided eye), according to which the
stars form systems, separated from each other by relatively
vacant spaces.     'We may conclude,' he says, 'that the stars
are really collected together in clusters in some places,
where they form a kind of system, whilst in others there
are either few or none of them, to whatever cause this may
be owing, whether to their mutual gravitation, or to some
other law or appointment of the Creator.'         He then pro
ceeds to inquire whether the sun 'likewise makes one of
some system.'     He considers that this is probably the case,
and it is in endeavouring       to separate  those stars  which
 probably belong to the same system as the sun from those
which do not, that he has occasion to speak of the nebulae.
*
  There are some marks,' he says, ' by which we may with
great probability include some and exclude others, while
 the   rest remain  more doubtful.      Those stars which are
 found in clusters and surrounded with many others at a
small distance from them belong probably to other systems
and not to ours. And those stars which are surrounded
 with nebulas, are probably only very great stars which upon
account of their superior magnitude are singly visible, whilst
 the others, which compose the remaining parts of the same
 system, are so small as to escape our sight.        And those
 nebulas in which we can discern either none or only a few
 stars, even with the assistance of the best telescopes, are
 probably systems which are still more distant than the rest.'
 On the other hand, he infers that those stars ' which being
 placed at a greater distance from each other compose the
 larger constellations, and such as have few or no smaller
 stars near them when examined with telescopes, belong
 probably to our own system.'          Variable stars, also, he
 regards as in all probability members of the system of stars

22               THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
to which our sun belongs.        He does not assign a reason
for this opinion, but from the place in which it appears we
may infer that he regarded the changes of brightness among
such stars as due to changes of distance, a cause which
would necessarily be more effective in the case of stars
relatively near to us.     He judged that red stars are in
reality much larger than we should infer from their bright
ness ; ' many of them also have been observed to have a
proper motion of their own, which with several other con
current circumstances tends to make it highly probable that
they are some of the nearest to us,' and therefore belong to
our own system.
     Michell makes some very interesting remarks on the
probable appearance of the particular star-cluster to which
our sun belongs, as supposed to be seen from the Pleiades.
He considers two hypotheses respecting the extent of this
cluster.   According to one the cluster contains about 1,000
suns, according to the other about 350.    He considers also
two hypotheses respecting the relation which our sun-
cluster bears to the Pleiades — making the mean distances
between sun and sun in the two clusters equal in one
theory, and the mean magnitudes equal in the other.       We
need not follow him in his reasoning on these considera
tions.   Let it suffice to mention that adopting one   set  of
considerations he infers that our cluster would subtend
about two degrees as seen from the Pleiades, with no star
bright enough to be seen by the naked eye and only about
ten in a two-inch telescope ; while if the other be adopted
our cluster would subtend about twelve degrees as seen
from the Pleiades, some ten stars would be visible to the
naked eye, and all the stars down to the fourth magnitude
belonging to the cluster would be seen in a telescope two
inches in aperture.
    It will be noticed that, although Michell formed no defi
nite theory of the Milky Way, his ideas respecting the stars
spread over the celestial sphere imply a theory of the stellar
system (including the Milky Way) somewhat resembling

                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                        23
 Lambert's.    For Michell clearly understood that the stars
 are gathered into definite aggregations which are separated
 from each other by vacant or comparatively vacant spaces ;
 and doubtless his opinion respecting the Milky Way was
 that that zone consists of a congeries of such aggregations,
 lying at different distances, but fore-shortened so as to
 resemble a connected stream or series of streams. Michell's
 ideas differed from those of Lambert, however, in this
 respect, that Michell did not regard the different systems of
 stars  composing the complete sidereal system, as either
 regular in shape, or similar to each other in figure, dimen
 sions, or constitution.    He judged rather from observed
 facts, and attentive reasoning thereon, than from precon
 ceived opinions as to the uniformity of creation.       In this
respect he appears to me to have had the advantage of all
who had preceded him in theorising respecting the universe.
 His views also appear altogether more worthy of attention
than the theories commonly ascribed to the Herschels in
our text-books of astronomy.       Regarded as theorisers re
specting the sidereal universe, the Herschels deserve the
 pre-eminence assigned to them, but not for the reasons
commonly assigned.       If Sir W. Herschel, in particular, had
in reality maintained even to the close of his career as an
observer the theory of the universe commonly associated
with his name, I believe that we should have to assign a far
higher place to Michell than to Herschel, as well for acumen
in interpreting observed facts as for skill in combining such
facts into a consistent history.
     In passing to the work of Sir W. Herschel as a student
of the constitution of the universe, I cannot but express
some degree of surprise that so little has been done to bring
the records of his labours properly before the students of
astronomy. His papers merely collected into a volume
would form a most important accession to astronomical
literature.   But if suitably edited and illustrated by the
work of his son and of others who have succeeded him in
his own field of labour, the volumes would do more to

24                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
advance the study of sidereal astronomy than any work
which has been published during the last century. What has
hitherto been done in making Herschel's words and work
public (in England at least) has been rather an injustice
than otherwise to his memory.1     It seems to have been
supposed that Herschel's own account might be treated as
we should treat such a work as his son's ' Outlines of As
tronomy,' that extracts might be made from any part of
any paper without reference to the position which that paper
chanced to occupy in the complete series. It does not seem
to have been noticed that not only was there a progression
in the ideas (as well as in the work) of the great astronomer,
but that there was a complete change in his opinions during
the -long course               Hence views expressed by
                        of his labours.
him in his earlier papers are not uncommonly in strong
contrast with those which he advocated in later years ;
opinions which he regarded as almost certainly just at one
time were rejected as most probably incorrect after a few
years of fresh labour; and whereas in 1785 he-enunciated
with some definiteness a theory respecting the constitution
of the universe, he not only abandoned this theory (im
plicitly) in 181 1, not only gave up the very principles on
which it had been based, but he did not consider- himself in
a position during any subsequent part of his career to state
with the same degree of definiteness any theory whatever
respecting the constitution of the heavens.
     It      is   to be premised, however,       that    of
                                                        even the theory
1785 is not properly described in most of our text-books of
astronomy, and that some of the descriptions are the merest
travesties of the noble conceptions of Sir W. Herschel.
This will appear from his own words, which I shall quote as
freely as space will permit.
     1
         I
        except of course the account given by Sir J. Herschel of his
father's work, as well as the account in Grant's History of Physical
Astronomy.     Neither of these accounts   is,   however, complete, though so
far as they extend they are accurate.

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                             25
    In  the year 1784 Sir W. Herschel advanced, but only in
a preliminary way, the hypothesis that the Milky Way is to
            Fig. 4.
                    — Illustrating Sir W. Herschel's views in 1784.
be regarded as the projection of our stellar system on the
celestial sphere. ' We gather this,' he said, ' from the appear

26                THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
ance    of the galaxy, which seems to encompass the whole
heavens,    as it certainly must do if the sun is within the
same ; for suppose a number of stars arranged between two
parallel planes indefinitely extended every way, but at a
given considerable distance from one another, and calling
this a sidereal stratum, an eye placed somewhere within it
will see all the stars in the direction of the planes of the
stratum    projected into a great circle, which will appear
lucid on account of the accumulation of the stars, while the
rest of the heavens at the side will only seem to be scattered
over with constellations, more or less crowded, according to
the distance of the planes or number of stars contained in
the thickness or sides of the stratum.'
     '
       Thus, if the solar system be supposed at S, in the
middle of the nebula a bcdef, with two branches, ac,bc
(Fig. 4), the nebula will be projected into a circle A B C D,
the arches ABC, A E C, being the projection of the
branches a c, be, while the stars near the sides of the
stratum will be seen scattered     over the remaining part of
the heavens among the spaces F, I, H, K, G.          If the eye
were placed somewhere without the stratum, at no very great
distance, the appearance of the stars within it would assume
the form of one of the lesser circles of the sphere, which
 would be more or less contracted according to the distance
 of the eye ; and if this distance were exceedingly increased,
 the whole stratum might at last be drawn together into a
 lucid spot of any shape, according to the position, length,
 and height of the stratum.'
     Such was the idea broached in the paper of 1784, which
 has been absurdly combined with the paper of 1785, as if
 the two presented the same views.      There can be no ques
 tion that Herschel himself regarded the earlier paper as
 merely preliminary.     The observed results described in the
 paper of 1785, as well as most of the inferences, are by no
 means in strict agreement with the paper of the preceding
 year.    But Herschel has not thought it necessary to dwell
 on this point, not supposing it would seem that the paper

                   THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                           27
                                                with that   of 1785,
of   1784 would one day be amalgamated
as though the two were on the same footing.1
                                                      S
                                                     a
     1
       Even Arago in his Analysis of Herschel's Life and Labours, has
fallen into this strange mistake ; and he has been followed by all the
French writers of popular treatises on astronomy.   At p. 456, he says

28                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
     This may be inferred from his remarks in the paper of
 1785 respecting the relative position of observation and
theory — remarks which are in other respects well worth
quoting.
                '
                  First let me mention,' he says, ' that if we would
hope to make any progress in an investigation of this
delicate nature, we ought to avoid two opposite extremes,
of which it would be hard to say which is the more danger
ous.       If we indulge in fanciful imagination, and build
worlds of our own, we must not wonder at our going wide
from the path of truth and nature ; but these will vanish
like the Cartesian vortices, that soon gave way when better
theories were offered.            On the other hand, if we add obser
vation on observation without attempting to draw not only
certain conclusions, but also conjectural views from them,
we offend against the very end for which only observations
ought to be made.                I   will endeavour to keep a proper
medium ; but if I should deviate from that I could wish
not to fall into the latter error.'
     In accordance with the sound principles he had enun
ciated (see p. 24) Sir W. Herschel proceeded, in 1785, to
develop his ideas of the universe, noting that for this pur
         '
pose       it will be best to take the subject from a point of
view at a considerable distance both of space and of time.'
 that our galactic system is a hundred times more extended in one
-direction than in another ; and then he refers to a figure of three
dimensions, constructed by Herschel on the basis of his observations.
Struve justly remarks that there is a misapprehension here, since the
proportion of the greatest extension to the least, in the only section
 Herschel based on observation, is not 100 to 1, but barely 5$ to 1.
                                                           '
 '
   There is also another mistake, it appears to me, adds Struve, ' in
Arago's Analysis.        Herschel only gives a section of the Milky Way in
the Memoir of 1785 ; in that of 1784 there is indeed a figure of three
dimensions    ;   but this figure is only given to explain the theory, though
it does in some sense correspond with the ideas Herschel had formed
respecting the Milky Way.'           For comparison with the fanciful figure
here referred to, I give here, a little before its time, a picture (Fig. 5)
illustrating the results which Sir W. Herschel was able to announce in
 1785.

                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                       29
I   would invite the reader's special attention to this pre
liminary matter — absolutely omitted, so far as   I am aware,
from every published account of Herschel's views, and yet
absolutely essential to their adequate interpretation.
                                         '
     '
       Let us suppose, then,' he says,     numberless stars of
various sizes, scattered over an indefinite portion of space
in such a manner as to be almost equally distributed through
out the whole. The laws of attraction, which no doubt
extend to the remotest regions of the fixed stars, will operate
in such a manner as most probably to produce the following
remarkable effects.'
     '
       Form I. — In the first place, since we have supposed
the stars to be of various sizes, it will frequently happen
that a star being considerably larger than its neighbouring
ones will attract them more than they will be attracted by
others   that are immediately round them ; by which means
they will be in turn, as it were, condensed about a centre ;
or, in other words, form themselves into a cluster of stars of
almost a globular figure, more or less regularly so, according
to the size and original distance of the surrounding stars.
     '
       Form II. —The next case, which will also happen
almost as frequently as the former, is where a few stars,
though not superior in size to the rest, may chance to be
rather nearer each other than the surrounding ones ; for
 here also will be formed a prevailing attraction in the com
bined centre of gravity of them all, which will occasion the
 neighbouring stars to draw together, not indeed so as to
 form a regular or globular figure, but, however, in such a
 manner as to be condensed towards the common centre of
 gravity of the whole irregular cluster. And this construc
 tion admits of the utmost variety of shapes, according to the
 number and situation of the stars which first gave rise to
the condensation    of the rest.
     '
       Form III. — From the composition and repeated con
junction of both the foregoing forms, a third may be derived,
when many large stars, or combined small ones, are situ
 ated in long-extended, regular, or crooked rows, hooks, or

30                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
branches    ;  for they will also draw the surrounding ones, so
as to produce figures of condensed stars ; coarsely similar to
  he former which gave rise to these condensations.
     '¦Form IV. — We may likewise admit of still more exten
sive combinations ; when, at the same time that a cluster of
stars is forming in one part of space, there may be another
collecting in a different, but perhaps not far distant quarter,
which may occasion a mutual approach towards their common
centre   of  gravity.
     '
       Form V. — In the last place, as a natural consequence
of the former cases, there will be formed great cavities or
vacancies by the retreat of the stars towards the various
centres which attract them.
     '
       So that upon the whole there is evidently a field of the
greatest variety for the mutual and combined attractions of
the heavenly bodies to exert themselves in.'
     Herschel then considers the objection that during the
progress of the condensations he had described, there would
by repeated catastrophes,      caused by the shock   of star against
star and cluster against cluster.      He shows that, as regards
the several clusters, 'the indefinite extent of the sidereal
heavens must produce a balance which will effectually secure
all the great parts of the whole from approaching to each
other.'    And    as respects  the several clusters, the particular
stars may be saved from collision        by the action of original
projectile forces, which Herschel 'had not intended to
exclude,' when, 'by way of rendering the case more simple
                                                      '
he considered the stars as originally at rest.'         The admis
sion of such forces will prove such a barrier,' he remarks,
'
  against the seeming destructive power of attraction as to
secure from it all the stars belonging to a cluster — if not
for ever, at least for millions of ages.        Besides,' he adds,
'we ought perhaps to look upon such clusters, and the
destruction of now and then a star in some thousands of
ages,   as   perhaps the very means by which the whole is
preserved and renewed.         These clusters may be the labora
tories of the universe, if I may so express myself, wherein

                          THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                   3>
the most salutary remedies for the decay of the whole are
prepared.'
    Herschel then considers the position of the terrestrial
                 '
observer in his own retired station, in one of the planets
attending a star.'   He shows that to such an observer,
placed in a much extended stratum or branching cluster of
millions of stars, such as may fall under Form III. of
nebulae considered              above,   the   following     appearances         will
                                                     '
be presented : —To the naked eye the heavens will not
only be richly scattered over with brilliant constellations,
but a shining zone or Milky Way will be perceived to sur
round the whole sphere of the heavens, owing to the com
bined light of those stars which are too small — that    too               is,
remote — to be seen. Our observer's sight will be so con
fined, that he will imagine this single collection of stars, of
which he does not even perceive the thousandth part, to be
the whole contents of the heavens.     Allowing him now the
use of   acommon telescope he begins to suspect that all the
milkiness of the bright path which surrounds the sphere
may be owing to stars.        He perceives     few clusters of
                                                             a
them   in various   parts of the heavens, and finds also that
there are     kind of nebulous patches
                 a                          but still his views
                                                         ;
are not extended so far as to reach to the end of the stratum
in which he     situated, so that he looks upon these patches
                     is
as belonging to that system which to him seems to com
prehend every celestial object     He now increases his power
of vision, and applying himself to close observation, finds
                                                 a
that the Milky Way         indeed, no other than
                                  is,                 collection  a
of very small stars. He perceives that those objects which
 have been called nebulae are evidently nothing but clusters
of stars. He finds their number increase upon him, and
 when he resolves one nebula into stars he discovers ten
new ones which he cannot resolve.          He then forms the
 idea of immense strata of fixed stars, of clusters of stars,
and of nebulae            ;
                           1
                               till, going on with such interesting obser-
   1
       It   is   an important point to determine whether Herschel here
 means      (i.) the idea of immense strata — composed of fixed stars,

 32                   THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 vations, he now perceives that all these appearances must
 naturally arise from the confined situation in which we are
 now placed.        Confined it may justly be called, though in no-
 less a space than what before appeared to be the whole
 region of the fixed stars ; but which now has assumed the
 shape of a crookedly-branching nebula ; not, indeed, one
 of the least, but perhaps very far from being the most con
 siderable of those numberless clusters that enter into the
 construction of the heavens.'
     Noticing that our star-system is here described as of the
Form III., and that systems of Form III. are made up of
clusters and nebulae of Forms I. and II., it will be inferred
that by the clusters and nebulas        of the preceding paragraph
 Herschel signifies component parts of our stellar system.
This is further shown by the sentence following almost
immediately after the paragraph above cited.                   '
                                                                 It will
                               '
appear,' says Herschel, that many hundreds of nebulas of
                                 '
the  first and   second  forms (the italics are mine) are actually
to be seen in the heavens, and their places will hereafter be
pointed out.        Many of the third form will be described,' — ¦
he actually describes ten such nebulae, speaking of them as
external Milky Ways, — ' and instances of the fourth related.
A few of the cavities mentioned in the fifth will be par
ticularised, though many more have already been observed ;
so that, upon the whole, I believe, it will be found that the
foregoing theoretical view, with all its consequential appear
ances as seen by an eye enclosed in one of the nebulae, is
no more than a drawing from nature, wherein the features
of the original have been closely copied           ; and   I hope the
clusters, and nebulae, or (ii.) the idea of immense stellar strata, star-
clusters, and nebulae.    The sentence will unfortunately bear either
interpretation.     Commentators seem usually to have regarded the
second as Herschel's meaning, supposing the clusters and nebulae
to be something external to the Milky Way.       Even Sir J. Herschel
has adopted this interpretation.      The context, as well as sequent
remarks of Sir W. Herschel's, show, however, that the first reading
expresses  his real meaning.

                    THE UNIVERSE OF               SCATS                  33
resemblance will not be called a bad one, when it shall be
considered how very limited must be the pencil of an
inhabitant of so small and retired a portion of an indefinite
system,     in attempting the picture of so unbounded                   an
extent.'
      Then follow the gauges already described, and the
 section of the galaxy as pictured in Fig. 5 is deduced
from a certain number of the gauges.                   On the scale on
which Fig. 5 is drawn the sphere enclosing all the stars
visible to the unaided eye was considered by Herschel to
have probably no greater extent than the small circle
around S. It will also be remembered that this is only
a section of our sidereal scheme according to Herschel's
views in 1785.          But it is now also to be particularly
noticed that Herschel, even at this time, by no means re
 garded the stellar system thus figured in section as com
posed of stars spread with a general uniformity throughout
the space      occupied by the system.             He fully recognised
the fact that our own star-system is made up of clusters and
nebulce, with relatively vacant spaces between, as well as
many isolated stars. He describes the star-system of the
theory,    not as of that relatively-simple form which has
been almost invariably assigned to it since, in our text
books of astronomy,1 but as '« very extensive, branching,
    1
       The star system has been so described even by     Sir John Herschel.
It  may seem perplexing that though he had many opportunities of
conversing with his father upon this and kindred subjects, Sir John
Herschel   should to any extent misapprehend the meaning of Sir W.
Herschel's   papers.   I would point out, however, that we have no
evidence whatever tending to show that the view of 1785, and the
progress of the elder Herschel's theorising from that date until the
year 1818 (when his last paper appeared) were the subject of discus
sion or conversation between the elder and younger Herschel,— or were
likely to be so. I fancy Sir W. Herschel talked little about his theories
within his family circle.    I cannot recall a single instance in which Sir
J. Herschel has written, I remember that my father used to say so-
                           '
and-so respecting the universe.     In his Outlines of Astronomy, as well
as in the Observations at the South    Cape,  Sir John Herschel invariably

34                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
compound congeries of many millions of stars ; which most
probably owes its origin to many remarkably large as well
as  pretty closely scattered small stars that may have drawn
 together the rest.'
     Let the reader carefully study the following extract, and
he will find that whereas it is perplexing in the extreme if
the sidereal system          be regarded as a mere cloven stratum
of stars, pretty uniformly distributed, it becomes perfectly
clear (and wonderfully striking) when we remember that
Sir W. Herschel considered the Milky Way to be com
pound in structure and branching in figure.
     'If    it   were   possible,' says     Herschel,    'to distinguish
between        the parts   of an indefinitely extended        whole, the
nebula we inhabit might be said to be one that has fewer
marks of profound antiquity upon it than the rest. To
explain this idea, perhaps, more clearly, we should recol
lect that the condensation of clusters of stars has been
ascribed to a gradual approach, and whoever reflects
upon the numbers of ages that must have passed before
some of the clusters could be so far condensed as we find
them at present, will not wonder if I ascribe a certain air
of youth and vigour to many very regularly scattered
                                                '
 regions of our sidereal stratum.'                There are, moreover,
many places in the stratum where there is the greatest
reason to believe that the stars, if we may judge from
appearances,        are now drawing towards various secondary
centres, and will in time separate into different clusters,
so as to occasion many sub-divisions.                Hence we may sur-
refers to his father's published statements.      I might also refer to pas
sages  in letters  of his to  myself, in which  he  seems to imply that his
knowledge of his father's theories came from a study of Sir W. Her-
schel's papers.     I would venture indeed to express my belief — which
may, however, be a mistaken one — that Sir          John Herschel had not
studied any portion of his father's work, save only that relating to the
double stars, during his father's lifetime.    It is known that his under
taking to continue the labours commenced by his father was prompted
by filial piety, his own tastes tending rather to chemical and mathe
matical research.

                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                      35
mise    that     when a nebulous stratum consists chiefly of
nebulas of the first and second form, it probably owes its
origin to what may be called the decay of a great com
pound nebula of the third form ; and that the sub-divisions
which happen to it in the length of time occasioned all
 the small nebulae which spring from it to lie in a certain
 range, according as they were detached from the primary
 one.     In   like manner our system, after numbers of ages,
 may very possibly become divided so as to give rise to a
 stratum of two or three hundred nebulas ; for it would not
 be difficult to point out so many beginning or gathering
 clusters in it.     This view of the subject throws a consider
 able light upon the appearance of that remarkable collec
 tion of many hundreds of nebulae which are to be seen in
 what   I  have called the nebulous stratum  of Coma Berenices.
 It appears from the extended and branching figure of our
 nebula,     that   there  is  room  for the decomposed small
nebulae of a large, reduced, former great one to approach
 nearer to us in the sides than in other parts.    Nay, possibly
 there might originally be another very large    joining branch,
which in time became separated by the condensation of
the stars ; and this may be the reason of the little remain
ing breadth of our system in that very place ; for the
nebulae of the stratum of Coma are brightest and most
crowded just opposite our situation, or in the pole of our
system.       As soon as this idea was suggested I tried also
the   opposite pole, where accordingly I have met with a
great number of nebulae though under a much more
scattered form.'
     It will thus appear that even at this early stage of his
researches Sir W. Herschel was so far from regarding all
the nebulae and clusters as external Milky Ways, that he
felt free to broach the striking theory that the vast groups
and clusters of nebulae seen in certain regions of the heavens
are decayed (or at least ancient) branches of our own star-
system.
     In   the following   passage he even  more clearly indicates
                                                          D 2

36                THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
his belief that nebulae and clusters may be formed in pro
gress of time from portions of the Galaxy : —
    'Some parts of our system seem indeed,' he says, 'to
have already suffered greater ravages of time than others,
if this way of expressing myself may be allowed.       For
instance, in the body of the Scorpion is an opening, or
hole, which is probably owing to this cause.' He describes
the opening— a place where close by rich galactic fields
he found none but a few scattered   and pretty large stars.
                         '
Then he proceeds :    This opening is at least four degrees
broad ; but its height I have not yet ascertained.     It is
remarkable that the nebula 80 Messier, which is one of the
richest and most compressed clusters of small stars      re I
member to have seen, is situated just on the western
border of it ; which would almost authorise a suspicion
that the stars of which it is composed were collected from
that place, and had left the vacancy.   What adds not a
little to this surmise       is,
                           that the same phenomenon    is  once
more repeated with the cluster of stars        Messier, which
                                                   4            is
also on the western border of another vacancy, and has
moreover     a  small miniature cluster, or easily resolvable
nebulae, following  it at no very great distance.'
      In fact Sir W. Herschel clearly distinguishes from among
the rest those nebulas which .he regards as Milky Ways like
our own. He mentions that there are some very remark
                                      '
able nebulae which cannot well be less but are probably
much larger than our - system  and being also extended,
                                          ;
the inhabitants   of the planets that attend the stars which
compose these      nebulae         must likewise
                                       perceive the same
phenomena.    For which reason these nebulae may also be
called Milky Ways by way of distinction.'   He limits this
term to those nebulae which are of considerable apparent
extent, but shine either wholly or in part with      milky
                                                       a
light not resolvable into stars even in his most powerful
telescope.
   Before passing from the celebrated Memoir of 1785, —
which I  have been careful to discuss at some length, on

                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                       37
account of the imperfect nature of the description usually
          I
given, — deem it well to quote yet one more passage,
partly because it contains sentences calculated to remove
all doubt as to the nature of Herschel's ideas in 1785
respecting the galaxy, but chiefly because the closing words
 show that he was prepared for the possibility that later
researches might lead to modifications of his theory: — 'The
rich parts of the Milky Way,' he says, - 'as well as those in
the distant broad part   of the stratum, consist   of a mixture
of stars of all possible sizes, that are seemingly placed
without any apparent order. Perhaps we might recollect
that a greater condensation towards the centre of the system
than towards the borders of it should be taken into con
sideration ; but with a nebula of the third form, containing
such various and extensive combinations as I have found to
take place in ours, this circumstance, which in one of the
first forms would be of considerable moment, may, I think,
be safely neglected.    However, I would not be understood
to lay a greater stress on these calculations than the prin
ciples on which they are founded will permit ; and if here
after we shall find reason, from experience and observation,
to believe that there are parts of our system where the stars
are not scattered in the manner here supposed, we ought
then to make proper exceptions.'
     In  the  year 1789, Herschel prefaced a list of 1,000
nebulae by an essay of considerable interest, relating to the
formation of nebulae.    His reasoning does not readily admit
of condensation ; and to give it at full length would occupy
more space than can here be spared.          I would, however,
advise the student of Herschel's theories to pay close atten
tion to this paper, as it contains a very distinct description
of the ideas entertained by Herschel at this comparatively
early stage of his progress as an observer of the sidereal
heavens.     He enumerates     at the  close   the  theory that
nebulae are stellar systems in various stages of development,
the planetary nebulae in which the (supposed) component
stars seem most equally distributed being the most aged,

38                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
and even approaching towards a period of change or disso
           '
lution.      This method of viewing the heavens,' he remarks,
'
  seems to throw them into a new       kind of light.   They now
are seen     to resemble a luxuriant      garden,  which contains
the greatest variety of productions in different flowering
beds ; and one advantage we may at least reap from it is
that we can, as it were, extend the range of our experience
to an immense duration.          For to continue the simile I
have borrowed from the vegetable kingdom,               is it not
almost the same thing whether we live to witness           succes
sively the germination, blooming, foliage, fecundity, fading,
withering, and corruption of a plant, or whether a vast
number of specimens, selected from every stage through
which the whole plant passes in the course of its existence,
                                     '
be brought at once to our view ?
     But the time was now approaching when Herschel was
to abandon almost wholly the theory which he had enun
ciated in 1785, not only in its relation to the sidereal
system, but to nebulas and star-clusters.       Already, in 1796,
he pointed out that the hypothesis of a general uniformity
of structure in the galaxy is too far removed from the
truth to be depended upon. This, indeed, does not imply
a distinct withdrawal from the theory of 1785, which was
not in reality based on a general uniformity of stellar distri
bution   ;  but the stress now placed by Herschel on probable
varieties    of structure is a novel feature in his theoretical
treatment of the subject.      I pass on to the memoir of 1802,
which is the first in which Herschel distinctly states that his
ideas had undergone a change.
     It was in this paper that Herschel enunciated his views
respecting binary stars. Such stars, as well as all forms
of multiple stars, are now for the first time distinguished
from insulated stars. But it is specially worthy of notice,
here, that Sir W. Herschel speaks of the insulated stars as
alone, in all probability, the centres of planetary systems
resembling our own.         'The question will now arise,' he
says,   'whether    every  insulated   star be a sun like    ours,

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                     39
attended with planets, satellites, and numerous comets?
And here, as nothing appears against the supposition, we
may from analogy admit the probability of           But, wereit.
we to extend this argument to other sidereal constructions,
or still farther, to every star of the heavens, as has been
done frequently,    Ishould not only hesitate, but even think
that from what      will be said of stars which enter into com
plicated sidereal systems, the contrary   far more likely to
                                                    is
be the case   and that probably we can only look for solar
                ;
systems among insulated stars.'
                                         1
    Now will be obvious, from consideration of Herschel's
           it                            a
theory of 1785, that though he by no means regarded the
stellar system as spread with that general uniformity of dis
tribution described in the popular travesties of the theory,
yet he was    equally far from regarding the stars of the
Milky Way — taken in        body — as differing from the stars
                               a
forming our constellations.     The very principle on which
his star-gauges were based requires that any considerable
portion of the Milky Way should resemble in general
respects   acorresponding portion from regions of the stellar
system nearer to the earth.   There would be irregularities, —
large stars and small stars, aggregations and segregations, —
in one portion as in the other, and though the details of one
would not resemble those of the other, yet         general rea
semblance Herschel undoubtedly supposed to exist between
all such portions of the sidereal system.       Now, however,
in 1802, he entertains    widely different view.
                             a                     'The stars
we consider as insulated,' he writes,    are also surrounded
                                                   '
by a magnificent collection of innumerable stars, called the
   1
       Sir \V. Herschel mentions among          the stars which he supposes    to
be far removed from the disturbing  influence of other orbs— Arcturus,
Capella, Vega, Sirius, Canopus,   Markab,   Bellatrix, Menkar, Schedir,
Algorab, and Propus.      Icannot see why Propus —         fifth magnitude
                                                            a
star on the borders of the Milky  Way  —  should be   included   in the list.
All the others are bright   stars more  or less isolated, even Algorab being
of third   magnitude as well as    in an exceptionally barren region. Pro
pus was probably    a   misprint for Procyon.

 40                       THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 Milky Way, which must occasion a very powerful balance
 of opposite attractions, to hold the intermediate stars in a
 state of rest.  For though our sun, and all the stars we
             I
 see, may truly be said to be in the plane of the Milky Way,
 yet                                           and continued
                 am now convinced by a long inspection
 examination of     that the Milky Way itself consists of stars
                          it,
 very differently scattered from these which are immediately
 about us.'
                    1
    And when, having described the various orders of star
systems, he passes on to the consideration of the Milky
Way, Herschel shows clearly in what this difference of con
struction consists, according to his new views.  On    very
                                                                     '
                                                                          a
slight examination,' he says,        will appear that this im
                                                  '
                                                  it
mense starry aggregation       by no means uniform.
                                             is           The
stars of which        composed are very unequally scattered,
                          it   is
and show evident marks of clustering together into many
separate allotments.     By referring to some one of these
clustering collections in the heavens, what will be said of
them will be much better understood than          we were to    if
treat of them in       general way.
                                a     Let us take the space
between     and     Cygni for an example, in which the stars
                   ft     y
are          clustering    with     a   kind of division        between   them
                                                                                 '
(Fig. 6), 'so that we may suppose them to be clustering
towards two different regions.   By    computation founded
                                                       a
on observations which ascertain the number of stars in
different fields of view,   appears that our space between
                                        it
   and y, taking an average breadth of about five degrees of
it, ft
    contains more than 331,000 stars    and admitting them
                                                       ;
      As some writers who have either not studied Sir William Her-
         1
schel's original papers at all, or have paid but superficial attention to
them, have bluntly contradicted my statement (which Struve also made)
that he gave up later in his career the theory which he had adopted in
1785, and the principle of generally uniform distribution on which            it
was based,   have emphasised the closing words of the above passage.
                   I
Writing  seventeen years after the theory of 1785 had been advanced
(even then  only tentatively) and sixteen years before the close of his
wonderful series of researches, the statement    unmistakably clear in
                                                           is
purport.

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 to be clustering two different ways, we have                 165,000 stars
for   each   clustering      collection.      Now     the  above-mentioned
milky appearances deserve the name of clustering collections,
as they are certainly much brighter about the middle and
fainter near their undefined borders.               For in my sweeps of
         Fig. 6. — The Clustering Region of the Milky Way in Cygnus.
the heavens    it has been fully ascertained that the brightness
of the Milky Way arises only from stars ; and that their
compression increases in proportion to the brightness of the
Milky Way:
     Let the reader note the reasoning here very carefully                ;

42                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
for the passage is most important and Herschel's condensed
style and the absence of any direct reference to the theory
he had enunciated seventeen years before has caused the
significance of this passage to be commonly overlooked.
 Observe — Herschel now regards the important portion of
the Milky Way (the brightest part in the northern hemi
sphere), as composed            of two clustering collections — that       is,
as surrounded on all sides by comparatively vacant spaces.
Between us and this region of the Milky Way there lies,
then, a vast space not so richly filled with stars.    Now in
the theory of 1785 Herschel explained rich regions of the
Milky Way, such as those between       and   Cygni, by sup
                                               /3         y
posing    great extension from the sun at
          a                                      (Fig.        S       7,   I.)
towards the heart of each rich region as along the lines
Sa and S6, with relatively small extensions in directions
Sir, Sd, Se. It involved   perfect change in the very con
                                  a
ception of the Milky Way (as     whole) to explain the rich
                                         a
ness of these regions (typical, be    remembered, of many
                                              it
such regions) as due to            a                  of stars as at A
                                       real aggregation
and   B   (Fig.   7,   II.)   with such varying ranges of stars along
the lines Sa, S£, Sc, Sd, and Se as are shown in this second
figure.   The gauges can no longer be understood to indi
cate the extension of the sidereal system from the sun.
Sir William Herschel here abandons in     special case the
                                                     a
very principle on which he had based the interpretation of
the gauges.   He had already in the same paper, as we have
seen, abandoned the same principle as regards the Milky
Way generally. Yet although he thus definitely gave up
that principle generally, and specifically indicated by                     a
remarkable illustrative case how and where he had 'aban
doned      that principle and the theory based (tentatively)
          it,
on its application are calmly quoted in works on astronomy
as   ifSir William Herschel had definitely said the very
reverse— or as         if          thus: — 'In 1784
                            he had spoken               provi     I
sionally adopted      principle, and in 1785
                            a                    indicatedI                 a
theory, which seemed suggested by the first application of
that principle to the Milky Way.     Now after a long inspec

                       THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                       43
tion and continued examination                 I   am convinced the theory
and principle are both sound, and that                   the   Milky Way con
sists of stars      scattered    like those around us.' Compare this
with what he actually said (see the italicised passages
above), and the absurdity becomes manifest.
     We can understand, then, so much the more clearly what
Herschel means when in this paper of 1802 he says that he
      Fig. 7.
              — Illustrating the views of Herschel (I.) in 1785 and (II.) in 1802.
now finds the Milky Way to consist of stars very differently
arranged from those around us.                        But he makes further
remarks respecting the clustering aggregations in Cygnus,
which show yet more clearly what his new views were,
though by a strange misconception those additional remarks
have been supposed (even by the few who recognise his
change     of view) to signify that he regarded                      the question

44                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
                                                                     '
between the two views as an open one.            He proceeds    :        We
may, indeed, partly ascribe the increase   both of brightness
and of apparent compression — in these clustering regions —
to a greater depth of the space which contains these stars ;
but this will equally tend to show their clustering con
dition ; for, since the increase of brightness is gradual, the
space containing the clustering stars must tend to a sphe
rical form, if the gradual increase of brightness is to be
explained by the situation of the stars.'   Here clearly what
Herschel means      is,
                      that we must take into account not only
the clustering condition of two such groups as are shown at
A  and B   (Fig. 7, II.), but also the fact that line from the
                                                       a
sun at S  through the heart of each cluster (as Sa through
the cluster A, and Sb through the cluster             B)
                                                 passes through
a greater range  of  stars than   line
                                   a    nearly towards the edge
of either cluster               (We see that aa! and bV are
                    as Sc, Sd, Se.
greater than cd, dd, and ee1.)    The gradual increase of
brightness towards the middle       implies, he asserts, as
strongly as the richness of the whole of these regions, that
they are due to real clusters somewhat round in shape.    He
as explicitly accepts this view, in fact, as he implicitly
rejects the view that the increase of brightness towards the
centre is  due to the state of things illustrated in the first
drawing (I.) of Fig.     For in the latter case the increase
                          7.
would neither be gradual nor regular, unless we assumed a
highly improbable adjustment of the two extensions in
directions tending exactly from        S.
    In the paper of 1802, Herschel also for the first time
advocates the theory that some of the nebulae are not
clusters of stars, but formed of some substance possessing
'the quality of self-luminous milky nebulosity,' and 'pos
sibly at no great distance from us.'             It
                                              interesting to
                                                      is
notice that he now no longer regards the light of the great
nebula in Orion as arising from immensely distant regions of
fixed stars. '
               Even Huyghens, the discoverer of         was    it,
already of opinion that in viewing    we saw, as
                                            it    were,    it
through an opening into     region of light. Much more
                               a

                   THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                         45
would he be convinced now, when changes in its shape and
lustre have been seen, that its light is not, like that of the
Milky Way, composed of stars.         To attempt    even a guess
at what     this light may be would be presumptuous.         If it
should be surmised, for instance, that this nebulosity is of
the nature of the zodiacal light, we should then be obliged
to admit the existence of an effect without its cause —
                                                               '
meaning probably that the zodiacal light is due to solar
illumination, and that there is no sun which can be sup
posed adequate to the illumination of a region so large as
that occupied by the Orion nebula.              'An idea of its
                                              '
phosphorical condition,' Herschel adds, is not more philo
sophical, unless we could show from what source of phos
phorical     matter   such immeasurable tracts of luminous
phenomena could draw their existence and permanency ;
for, though minute changes have been observed, yet a
general resemblance, allowing for the difference of telescopes,
is still to be perceived in the great nebulosity of Orion, even
 since the time of its first discovery.'
      It was not, however, until 1811 — nine years later be it
 noticed, and more than a quarter of a century after the
 examination of the theory of 1785 — that Herschel first pro
 pounded a definite theory concerning the milky nebulosity.
 I have elsewhere had occasion to refer to his analysis of the
 various orders of nebulae, in the masterly essay of 181 1,
 and shall here, therefore, merely give a summary of his
 ideas.    But before doing so it is essential to quote the words
 with which Herschel opens this memoir, because they will
 serve to remove any lingering doubts which the reader may
 still entertain respecting the truth of my assertion that
 Herschel's ideas underwent a marked change during the
 later part of his career as an observer.
      '
        I must freely confess,' says Herschel, speaking of the
 disagreement between his new views and those he had
                           '
 formerly entertained,       that by continuing my sweeps of
  the   heavens   my opinion of the arrangement of the stars
 and their magnitudes, and of some other particulars, has

46                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 undergone a gradual change ; and, indeed, when the novelty
 of the subject is considered, we cannot be surprised that
 many things formerly taken for granted should, on ex
 amination, prove to be different from what they were
 generally but incautiously supposed to be. For instance,
 an equal scattering of the stars may be admitted in certain
calculations ; but when we examine the Milky Way, or the
closely compressed clusters of stars, of which my catalogues
have recorded so many instances, this supposed equality of
scattering must be given up. We may also have surmised
 nebulae to be no other than clusters of stars disguised by
their very great distance ; but a longer experience and a
 better      acquaintance with the nature of nebulas will not
allow a general admission of such a principle, although
undoubtedly a cluster of stars may assume a nebulous
appearance when it is too remote for us to discern the stars
of which it is composed.' 1
       Herschel then proceeds to exhibit his ideas respecting
the gradual evolution          of stars from truly nebulous matter.
 He    shows that diffused nebulosity exists in great abundance
over the heavens,           insomuch that notwithstanding the ex
treme difficulty of detecting it he recognised its presence
over more than 150 square degrees of the heavens, 'its
abundance,' as he said, ' exceeding all imagination.'                    He
shows that this diffused nebulosity is often associated with
real nebulae, citing as a particular instance the great nebula
in Orion ; and that often detached nebulosities of this kind
can      be   recognised.      He points out       that  such detached
     1
        It will be observed that in this   passage  Herschel abandons two
of the views he had formerly entertained — the general uniformity          of
stellar distribution,   and the theory that all the nebulae are systems of
stars.     Presently I shall have occasion to show that yet a third essential
point in the views of 1785 was abandoned by Herschel quite as de
finitely ; but I would invite special attention to the circumstance that
each of the two views here given up was of itself essential to the theory
of 1785.      Two links of the chain of ideas then enumerated were in
effect   rejected by Herschel, in 181 1, as broken (under the strain of
observations) ; so that the chain itself was broken.

                        THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                        47
nebulosities when small must be classed as nebulas.     Then
he mentions instances in which nebulae of this sort — that                           is,
              —
milky nebulae show signs of condensation, either in one
place or in several.   Regarding these signs as indicating
the formation of one or more nebulae from          region of          a
diffused nebulosity, Sir W. Herschel   careful to show that
                                                        is
the idea derives support from the remarkable association of
many nebulae which are thickly spread in certain regions
of the heavens, while other regions are as remarkably free
from nebulae.   He next considers the form of the discrete
nebulae, describing some which appear to be extended only
in one direction, others that have length and breadth but no
great thickness, others              that are irregular, and others which
have an irregular round figure.                He infers         that these various
figures indicate the successive figures which one and the
same nebula assumes during the process of condensation,
the further effects of this process being illustrated in order
— by round nebulae by nebulae that are gradually
                             ;                            little            a
brighter in the middle       brighter in the middle
                                     ;                   much               ;
brighter in the middle and suddenly much brighter in the
                                 ;
middle    by nebulae increasing gradually in brightness up to
            ;
a   nucleus      ;   by nebulas      that   have  nucleus
                                                    a    well-marked                 ;
by planetary nebulas which are uniformly bright but whose
light must be considerably more condensed than that of
        '
the foregoing sets    and lastly
                         ;
                          '  1
                                                   by
                                    nebulous stars more or
less clearly recognisable as such, those   only barely to be
distinguished from stars being but one stage from the final
stellar condition to which the whole series has tended.
    Such, briefly stated, the famous theory of the formation
                                  is
of stars from nebulous matter.         will be observed that
                                                   It
 Herschel here extends (and also illustrates from the heavens
themselves) the ideas he had first enunciated in 1789.    He
    1
        Thisthe weakest part of Herschel's chain of reasoning.
                is                                                              It   is
not easy to recognise the systematic nature of   process of change,
                                                             a
which after converting round nebulae of uniform lustre into nebulte
with a nucleus leads next to the small round planetary nebulae of
uniform lustre, and thence to nebulae with          a   star for nucleus.

48                   THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
pictures every stage of the progress of such matter from
its most diffused state up to the last state in which the
condensing nebula can be distinguished from the star itself ;
and he remarks that there is perhaps not so much difference
between these different states, as there would be in the
condition of the human frame from one year to another,
                        '
were it described from the birth of a child till he comes to
be a man in his prime.'
                                 '
                                   The end I have had in view,' he
         '
says,      has been to show that the above-mentioned          extremes
 may be connected by such nearly allied intermediate               steps
 as  will make it highly probable that every succeeding state
 of the nebulous matter is the result of the action of gravita
 tion upon it while in a foregoing one, and by such steps the
 successive condensation of it has been brought up to the
 planetary condition.         From this the transit to the stellar
 form, it has been shown, requires but a very small additional
 compression of the nebulous matter, and several instances
 have been given which connect the planetary to the stellar
 appearance.       The faint stellar nebula have also been well
 connected with all sorts of faint nebulae of a larger size ;
 and in a number of the smaller sort their approach to the
 starry appearance is so advanced, that in my observations
 of many of them it became doubtful whether they were not
 stars already.'
       In   the memoir     of  1811  Herschel    does not discuss the
 condition     of star-clusters of any orders.          In fact, as he
 points out, the paper does not deal at all with the sidereal
 part of the construction of the heavens.            We must pass on
 to the paper of 1 814 to ascertain the direction in which
  Herschel's ideas on this part of his subject had been tending
  since he had first seen reason to question the ideas         of 1785.
  It will    be well   to quote Herschel's        own account of his
  purpose in the memoir of 1814, since in this case as in many
  others his meaning has been misapprehended.1               'The ob-
      1
        Not from any real indistinctness   in his mode of expression but
  (here as in other cases) because the attempt has been made to reconcile
  the views expressed at one time with views expressed much earlier,

                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                              49
servations  contained in this paper,' he says, ' are intended
to display the sidereal part of the heavens, and also to show
the intimate connection between the two opposite extremes,
one of which is the immensity of the widely diffused and
seemingly chaotic nebulous matter ; and the other the
highly-complicated and most artificially constructed globular
clusters of compressed stars. The proof of an intimate
connection    between    these extremes     will greatly support the
probability of the conversion of one into the other.' It will
be observed that Herschel here definitely describes as the
extremes of observable creation, the self-luminous nebulous
matter on the one hand and the compressed globular
clusters on the other.
    He then proceeds to show how stars are sometimes
'
  remarkably situated with regard to milky nebulosity,' citing
specially double stars connected by nebulous matter, stars
with nebulous appendages, and those nebulous stars which
closed the series considered in the memoir of 1811. Fur
thermore, there are stars connected with extensive windings
of nebulosity, as well as ' small patches consisting of stars
mixed with nebulosity.'     'Admitting from what has been
said,' he remarks, ' that stars may be formed of nebulous
matter, it may happen that the nebulosity still mixed with
them is some remaining unsubsided part of that from which
                     '
they were formed ; or 'a union of stars and nebulosity,
originally at a distance from each other, may have been
effected by the motion of either the stars or the nebulosity.'
'
  Every nebulosity which is carried into the region of a small
patch of stars will probably be gradually arrested and ab
sorbed by them, and thus the growth of stars may be con
tinued.'   This part of the paper, forming a connecting link,
as it were, between the subjects of the Memoirs of 181 1 and
1 8 14, concludes with the consideration of objects of an
ambiguous construction, — that       'of such
                                      is,       construction
                                                     a
or at such   a  distance from us that the highest power of
and when as yet the available evidence had not been even collected, far
less examined.
                                                                E

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 penetration which hitherto has been applied to them leaves
 it undetermined whether they belong to the class of nebulae
 or stars.'
     For much of what relates to the sidereal heavens,
 Herschel refers to the paper of 1785, and it may be that
 this reference has prevented most of his commentators from
 noticing that his ideas as to the distribution of the stars
differ markedly in 1814 from those he had adopted in 1785.
 He refers back to the earlier paper only with regard to
individual suns.       So soon as he deals with the aggregation
of the stars, we find that though he still refers to the star
gauges of 1785 he interprets them on principles altogether
different from those he had formerly adopted. He dwells
afresh on what he had written in 1802 respecting the
clustering condition of portions of the stellar heavens.        He
                                   '                            '
explains that his expression forming clusters,' was used to
denote that some peculiar arrangement of stars in lines
making different angles, directed to a certain aggregation of
                                                             '
a few central stars, suggested           the idea that they    (the
            '
former)       might   be   in  a  state of progressive approach   to
       '                    '
them      (the latter).       This tendency to clustering seems
chiefly to be visible in places extremely rich in stars.          In
order, therefore, to investigate the existence of a clustering
power, we may expect its effects to be most visible in and
near the Milky Way.'           I would invite the reader's special
attention to the circumstance that the Milky Way is here
pointedly referred to as a stellar region distinct in its
characteristics from the region of the stars forming our
constellations.      In studying Herschel's     papers  we have to
be continually      on the watch for indications of the sort ;
since he does not always judge it necessary to make definite
assertions of his views on such points.
     He then describes irregular clusterings of stars, noting
                       '
in particular that       though they are in general very promis
cuously scattered they are yet sufficiently drawn together to
show that they form separate groups,' while in many places
a falling off in the number of stars surrounding the clusters

                     THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                 51
indicates ' a tendency to future insulation.'               '
                                                              Those which
                                                          '
are in, and very near the Milky Way,' he says, may be looked
upon as so many portions of the great mass drawn together by
the action of a clustering power, of which they tend to prove
the existence.'
                   1
                       In describing the various orders of irregular
clusters, Herschel is particular to notice rows and streams,
ridges and shelvings       of stars,   as   indications of a preponder
ating clustering power.
       Herschel then proceeds from class to class of well-
marked clusters, to the most compressed and presumably
the most distant clusters, and thence to globular nebulae
 which are probably sidereal, but are ambiguous on account
 of their faintness or distance.              He remarks that precisely
        '
 as       in passing from faint nebulosity to the suspected
 sidereal condition we cannot avoid meeting with ambiguous
                               '
 objects,' so a similar          critical situation will again occur,
 when from the distinctly sidereal appearance we endeavour
 to penetrate gradually further into space.'                  The former
 sort of ambiguity results from the really ambiguous condi
 tion of the observed objects, the latter from the effects of
 an increase      of distance.
        In closing this remarkable          paper, Sir W. Herschel (then
 in his seventy-sixth year) says          :  'The extended    views   I have
 taken      in this and my former papers, of the various parts
 that enter into the construction of the heavens, have pre
 pared the way for a final investigation of the universal
 arrangement of all these celestial bodies in space ; but as I
 am still engaged in a series of observations for ascertaining
 a scale      whereby the extent of the universe, so far as it is
 possible for us to penetrate in space, may be fathomed, I
 shall conclude this paper by pointing out some inferences
 which the continuation of the action of the clustering
 power enables us to draw from the observations that have
      '
          The passage I have here emphasised deserves as careful study as
  the passage similarly emphasised in the paper of 1802.          It is as ob
  viously inconsistent with the theory of uniform distribution of stars
 throughout the galaxy.
                                                                      E 2

                       THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
   been given.     1
                     ...   It  is evident that  if ever the   Milky Way
   consisted    of equally scattered stars,  it does so    no longer,' and
   our observations      '
                           authorise  us to anticipate    the  breaking up
  of the Milky Way, in all its minute parts, as an inevitable
  consequence of the clustering power arising out of those pre-
  pondering attractions which have been shewn to be everywhere
                                  '
  existing in its compass.'         Now, since the stars of the Milky
  Way are permanently exposed to the action of a power
  whereby they are irresistibly drawn into groups, we may be
  certain that from mere clustering stars they will be gradu
  ally compressed through successive stages of accumulation,
  ....      till they come up to what may be called the ripening
  period of the globular form, and total insulation ; from
  which it is evident that the Milky Way must be finally
  broken up and cease to be a stratum of scattered stars.2
  We may also draw a very important additional conclusion
 from the gradual dissolution of the Milky Way ; for the
 state into which the incessant action of the clustering
 power has brought it at present is a kind of chronometer
 that may be used to measure the time of its past and future
 existence ; and although we do not know the rate of going
 of this mysterious chronometer, it is nevertheless certain,
 that since the breaking up          of the parts of    the   Milky Way
 affords a proof that it cannot last for ever, it equally bears
 witness that its past duration cannot be admitted to be
 infinite.'
       I conceive that as the theory of 1785 marks a certain
 stage in Herschel's progress towards the interpretation of
 the sidereal universe, so the ideas enunciated in 181 1 and
 1 8 14   mark another stage, which is as definitely distin
 guished from the subsequent work of Herschel as from the
     1  The omitted passages are descriptive portions relating to the
Milky Way, and have no special bearing on our subject.
     1
        Herschel has already shown that it no longer consists of equally
scattered stars ; so that this sentence should not be misinterpreted to
imply that he slill retained the idea that the Milky Way is constituted
like the part of the heavens forming our constellations.

                      THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                                  53
work resulting in the theory of 1785.                   We have in those
two papers a second grand sketch of the universe as
Herschel now understood its features. The sketch includes
celestial objects of all known                 forms from the faintest
nebulous haze to the most condensed star-clusters.                           It
constitutes,        to my view, notwithstanding Struve's dictum
to the contrary,1 a theory           of the universe even more com
plete and precise than the theory of 1785.
      I   find it difficult to indicate the opinion which, according
to my judgment, should be formed of the memoirs of 18 17,
 1 818.      These pages are full of striking passages, full of the
clearest evidences        of power.      They have been admired and
justly admired for the grandeur of the conceptions enun
                                                   '
ciated by the great astronomer.                      Heureux mortel,' ex
claims Struve, 'heureux mortel que fut Herschel, de
jouir à l'âge de 80 ans d'une pénétration de l'esprit, et
d'une clarté du jugement qui le firent composer les deux
derniers mémoires, remplis d'une spéculation sublime et
                  '
profonde        !
      While sharing to the full this sentiment of admiration
 for the noble papers contributed by Herschel in his 79th
 and 80th years to the science he had served so earnestly
and so long, it appears to me that they exhibit unmistak-
        '                     '                 '
     1
           On peut demander,    says  Struve,     pourquoi les astronomes ont-
 ils maintenu généralement l'ancien système sur la voie lactée, énoncé
 en 1785, quoiqu'il eût été entièrement abandonné par l'auteur lui-même,
 comme nous l'avons démontré.         Je crois qu'il faut en chercher l'expli
 cation dans deux circonstances.        C'était un système entier, imposant
 par la hardiesse et la précision géométrique de sa construction, et que
 l'auteur    n'avait jamais révoqué dans sa totalité.         Dans ses traités
publiés depuis 1802, on ne rencontre que des vues partielles, mais qui
 suffisent, en les comparant entre elles, à comprendre l'idée finale du
grand astronome.'       It appears to me after a careful study of Struve's
 reasoning — that he in the first place over-estimates the precision of the
 theory of 1785, in the second that he under-estimates the completeness
 of the theory of 1811-1814, and lastly that he fails to notice sufficiently
 the circumstance that the papers of       181 7, 1818   are distinct in all re
  spects from Herschel's fornier work,

54                THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
able traces   of failing powers.     It   is with reluctance   I   touch
thus on a point which I would have preferred to leave un
touched did truthful dealing with my subject permit. Not
indeed that it can be regarded as in any way injurious to
Herschel's memory to point out that his powers were less
in his 8oth year than they had been a few years earlier ;
but that if it were possible, one would avoid to dwell on
his less perfect work.   It    is,
                               however, impossible to leave
unnoticed theoretical considerations which have been over
and over again classed with the finest generalisations of the
great astronomer.
    In the papers of 1817 and 181 Herschel undertakes
                                           8
the consideration    of the sidereal universe under an entirely
new aspect.     In   1785 he had been  guided chiefly by the
numerical relations observable among the stars in different
parts of the heavens     ;and he had inferred from such
relations the dimensions and proportions of the stellar
system.   In i8ir and 1814 he based his conclusions upon
the aspect of the celestial objects and of various regions of
the heavens, — inferring thence not merely the laws accord
ing to which the stars are distributed throughout space,
but the processes by which during long past ages they have
reached their present condition, as well as those which in
future ages they will probably undergo. In 181 and 18 18,
                                                       7
he took as the basis of his researches the quantity of light
received from individual stars and from star groupings of
various orders and endeavoured to infer thence the actual
profundity of the celestial depths. The idea was not less
magnificent than either of those conceptions on which he
had based his former researches, nor was the work of
observation carried on with less vigour and energy   but       ;
the elasticity of mind which Herschel had displayed in
dealing with his observations on former occasions seems
here in great degree wanting.
    In the papers which appeared in the years 181 and          7
1818 Sir W. Herschel showed much of his former strength,
but little of his former elasticity of mind. He clearly

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                       55
  indicates the lines of inquiry by which certain results should
  be sought, and he travels with zeal and energy along those
  lines, but he no longer seems ready as of yore to explore
  the neighbouring country in order to recognise whether he
 has chosen the best paths, nor does he seem        to recollect
 that he had already travelled along certain portions    of these
 paths, and had been led to recognise long since that they
 are not to be regarded as altogether trustworthy roads.      We
 cannot wonder, considering that Herschel was now nearly
 80 years old, that he should thus begin to show signs of
 failing elasticity, dimmed vision, and clouded memory. So
 far is it from being unfair to his memory to notice the
 change, that — in my judgment — it seems only just to him
 to ask that these two last papers, written in extreme old age,
 should not be allowed to outweigh the conclusions of his
 matured judgment when his wonderful powers of observation
 were still in full vigour, while age had not yet touched or
 impaired the singular clearness and versatility of his reason
 ing.    After all, he worked with apparently full power up to
 his 75th year, and it is only in the two closing papers of the
 marvellous series contributed by him to the records of the
 Royal Society that any diminution      of his energies can be
noticed.
      We have seen that after long and careful study of the
Milky Way, Sir William Herschel had become convinced
that the stars forming that region of the stellar system are
very differently arranged from those in our immediate
neighbourhood, which form the scattered stars of our con
stellations. He recognised also that the rich regions of the
Milky Way, where rounded aggregations of stars are seen,
are real cloud-like regions of star-strewn space drawn apart,
so to speak, so as to be surrounded on all sides by relatively
barren regions.
      It does not inevitably follow  from this, but manifestly
must be regarded as highly probable, that in such richly
crowded regions of space stars of many different orders of
real size are gathered together.       The stars seen within

                   THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
these rounded       parts   of the heavens are of many different
orders of apparent size, but the brighter ones may be much
nearer to us than the rounded cluster, and merely seen as it
were by accident in the same field of view.           But while of
course    this is possible,  it is highly improbable, and in fact)
when attention is directed to the numerical arrangement of
these brighter stars, it must be rejected as impossible.          If
we take a circular space, say four degrees in diameter on the
heavens, where we see a rounded cloud-like mass of milky
light, and within this region find ten times as many stars
of the first ten magnitudes as in any equal region around
that rounded space, we are justified       in regarding it as abso
lutely certain that the excess in the number of stars so seen
within the apparent limits of the cluster is due to there being
actually a greater number of those stars within the real
limits of that rounded cluster.          If on the skies we see a
cloud which we know to be a cloud of insects — say locusts
— and in the same field of view perceive a number of birds,
of what kind we cannot tell, but all of them so situate as to
appear either among or very close to the cloud of insects,
we do not trouble ourselves to reason about the real situa
tion of those birds ; we know they are really among those
insects.     The mind rejects without discussing it the idea
that   either those birds are very large ones, much farther
away than the insect cluster, or very small ones, much
 nearer than the insect cluster, but in either case so situated
as by mere chance to seem to be among the insects.            If we
 could feel any doubt on the subject, all doubt would be
 removed if we noticed either that as the flight of insects
 travelled onwards the birds still remained apparently among
 them, or that there were several clouds of insects, and that
 in each cloud there appeared to be a number of birds. We
 should be absolutely certain in either case that the birds
 were in the flight   of insects, and we should thus be able to
 form an opinion as to the size of the birds, as to their rela
 tion to the insects, and so forth.
     Now, though this may seem a very commonplace and

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                         57
simple illustration, such evidence is in reality as decisive as
any amount of mathematical calculation, and especially any
calculation based (as a great deal of the mathematical cal
culation which has most impressed mankind has been based)
on mere opinion as to what may be. To an observer who
had noticed the constant association of birds and insects
just considered, and had thus been led to infer that they
were small birds pursuing the insects for their food, no
amount of learned talk about the ways and habits of some
order of large birds, no amount of calculation as to the
 chance that such birds travelling in flights might seem to be
 immersed in the insect clouds, though not really so, would
 have or ought to have the least particle of effect.    He would
 answer, and justly  —  I know that such and such small birds
 pursue and eat those insects,   I see birds of the right apparent
 size among the insects, and though I cannot be sure that
 they are those very birds whose insect habits       I know of,  I
 am sure they are birds of about the same size and of the
 same ways, for there they are at their work : the chance
 may for aught    I know be as the coefficient of xvy>zr in the
 expansion of (x +y + z)n to the sum of all the coefficients
 in that expansion that those birds are wild ducks or geese
 or storks, really flying far above the insect clouds, and you
 may be quite right in your determination of the value of
 that chance ; but your determination has no value whatever
 for me : your ducks and geese and storks are purely hypo
 thetical, as are the habits you choose to assign to them to
 account for their forming into such groups as you suggest.
 But the birds I see are real and so are the insect clouds.
 The connection between the two sets of groups is certainly
 not accidental, and my explanation, which agrees with all
 the known facts, suffices for me, as it would for any one
 who bases his opinions on observed facts and reasoning
 thereon.
       Sir W. Herschel, in the fine papers of 1811 and 18 14,
  followed the simpler and more truly scientific way of
 dealing with his observations. In 181 7 and i8i8hefol

  58               THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 lowed a plan which would have been most effective if it
 could have been based on actual observed facts, but in the
 absence of such facts was simply delusive.          He started
 with an inquiry into the actual positions of the stars in
 space, and pointing out that in no single case (in his time)
 had a star's actual distance been determined, he adopted as
 a safe rule that — one with another — the stars of each suc
 ceeding magnitude beginning with the first are farther
 from us than those        of the magnitude immediately      pre
 ceding.
      The principle which seemed to Sir William Herschel so
 safe, is in reality altogether unsafe.    It might be that all
 stars are —  one with another    — of the same order, all suns
 like our own, none very much larger and none very much
 smaller.    But it might well be that they belong to different
 orders or classes, the stars of only one of these orders being
 akin to the sun.      It might be (I am speaking always of
 what might have been so far as Herschel knew) that in some
 regions of the stellar system one order of distribution pre
vailed, while in another the arrangement was entirely dif
 ferent.   In either case, — and still more if both these
peculiarities of stellar nature and distribution had to be
considered,— the conclusions which Herschel might safely
have drawn had the stars been all of one order and all
similarly distributed, would not be true.     As a mere matter
of fact, it is now known that Sir William Herschel's funda
mental conception was entirely erroneous : We know that
there are several orders of suns, one order at least consisting
of suns so much larger and mightier than he that they may
be regarded as differing from him in kind rather than in
degree.     But the point to be noticed is that even at the time
when Herschel advanced this view enough was known to
suggest that it was incorrect, because inconsistent with
analogy.     The solar system, the next in order of scale below
the   system   of stars, was known even then to consist of
different orders of bodies arranged in families.     There was
first the    central  ruling  orb ; then there were the giant

                   THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                        59
  planets Jupiter, Saturn, and Uranus, each with its family ot
  dependent worlds. Then there were the four known aste
  roids, all travelling at nearly the same distance from the
  sun ; and lastly there were the four terrestrial planets,
  Mercury, Venus, the Earth, and Mars, as distinct in
  character from the asteroids on the one hand as from the
 giant planets on the other.     In our day we know more re
 specting these chief divisions of the solar family, but our
 knowledge is of the same kind as Herschel's.        To suppose
 in the face of such knowledge as he possessed that the next
 system in order of scale possesses no such variety of con
 struction, but, on the contrary, is monotonously uniform,
 was not (as Sir W. Herschel seems in the closing part of his
 career as an inquirer    to have   imagined) to show extreme
 caution, but recklessly to run counter to all the available
 evidence.     It may be said that now we know he was mis
 taken, it is easy to point out why he ought to have thought
 differently ; but as a matter of fact the evidence was clear
 and convincing ; it had been noted ere as yet he had reached
 extreme old age by himself, and he had himself collected
 evidence which had forced him to recognise that the stars in
 one region of the stellar universe are very differently arranged
 from those in our neighbourhood.
      Having overlooked in these later papers the circumstance
that stars of certain orders collected in certain regions
of the stellar system must give very misleading evidence if
they are regarded as of the same class and arranged in the
same way as the stars       forming our constellations, Sir W.
Herschel was naturally led to erroneous conclusions in his
new lines of inquiry.      Any one who should start in his
inquiry into our solar system, with no other evidence but
the apparent positions and sizes of the planets of all orders,
would form an utterly erroneous idea as to the arrangement
of these bodies.      He would  suppose   Jupiter, Mars, Saturn,
and Venus to be near, the asteroids to be far away, the
whole system to be a flat disc in the midst of which our
earth was set as one of a number of nearly equal and uni

6o                        THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
formly distributed bodies.   He would be entirely mistaken,
but not more mistaken than was Sir William Herschel in
the conclusion to which he was led in 1 8 1 7 by a process of
reasoning antecedently likely — one may say certain — to lead
to an erroneous result.
    Let us see what that reasoning was, and what was the
result to which it led.
   The principle adopted by Sir W. Herschel in both the
two last papers of the series which he contributed to the
Royal Society is that the distance of stars and star-clusters
may be inferred, taking one with another, from the amount
of light we get from them.    He recognised of course that,
taking two stars or two clusters of unequal apparent lustre,
the brighter might really be the farther      but he assumed
                                                 ;
that a great number of stars or clusters of about the same
apparent lustre must have an average distance from us less
than the average distance of another considerable number
of stars or clusters, resembling each other in apparent lustre
but less lustrous than the   members of the former set or
family. In the paper of 181 7 he applied this principle to
the stars, in the paper of 1818 he applied it to the nebulae.
Applied either to stars or to nebulae, the principle is unsafe
on d priori grounds ; and under every test which has been
applied to      has been found to fail.
               it,   it
   Take first the argument from analogy.
   If man's life were as the life of the day-fly, but his vision
— natural or aided      instruments — were keen enough to
                             by
show him all the members of the solar system, including
the asteroids, moons, meteor streams, and so forth — he
would suppose Venus, Jupiter, Mars, and Saturn to be the
nearest,   Mercury, Uranus, Neptune,     few of the chief
                                             a
asteroids, the moons of Jupiter, and the two largest moons
of Saturn much farther away, most of the minor planets
and the smaller Saturnian moons much farther away still,
and the two moons of Mars at the very outskirts of the
system — which he would regard as on the whole shaped
like   a   flat disc.      Meteor streams be would regard as pro

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                             61
  bably much remoter parts of the system, or perhaps as
  outlying systems of the same nature, while comets would
  seem doubtful objects possibly made up of separate bodies,
  but possibly consisting of some kind of luminous gas.
  He would form the same general views, but there would
  be slight differences of detail, whether he estimated the
  distances of bodies by their lustre or by their apparent
  diameters.
       These views would, we know, be entirely erroneous, and
  we can see that even if observations were not continued
  long enough to show the laws of planetary motion, the re
  cognition of the arrangement of the various bodies, and in
  particular the gathering of moons in the neighbourhood of
  their primaries, and of cometic and meteoric systems in
  special directions, would show careful reasoners that the
 principle on which those views had been based was erroneous
 and misleading.
       This analogy shows the unlikelihood that the principle
 adopted by Sir W. Herschel was true.             The principle was
 practically proved to be untrue by his own observations,
 which had compelled him to recognise that the stars of the
 Milky Way are very differently strewn from those which lie
 in the immediate neighbourhood of the sun.1                  But the
 complete disproof of the principle belongs to later times,
 and to the observational work of Sir John Herschel (who,
 however, did not very strongly press the conclusions to which
 his work pointed), the computations of William Struve, the
 reasoning of Mr. Herbert Spencer, and to the combined
 processes of observation, computation, and reasoning which
     1
       The mere conclusions that they were differently arranged would
not be inconsistent with the principle adopted by Sir W. Herschel, as
the reasoning of the next paragraph shows ; but Sir W. Herschel's
careful explanation of the way in which their arrangement thus differs,
and of their tendency to cluster within rounded regions, involves in
fact the utter rejection of the principle, as certainly, though not so
obviously, as Sir J. Herschel's later argument from the Magellanic
slouds.

6a                 THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
I  have myself applied to the subject.       This will be shown
later on.
     Assuming the principle, we need not, as Sir W. Herschel
correctly pointed out, either suppose all the stars equi
distant from each other, or that those of the same apparent
magnitude are equidistant from us. The principle justifies
us, however,    in assigning to each star a certain equal portion
of space, and thence calculating how many stars a given
region of space may contain.          Obviously, reverting to the
illustration derived above from the solar system, the very
principle which had made the apparent smallness of the
asteroids evidence of greater distance would lead to the con
clusion that they are not arranged like the major planets,
simply because within the limits of distance thus assigned
to them there would not be room for so many asteroids as
are visible, without much closer setting than the same prin
ciple would assign to the few larger planets.
     Sir W. Herschel applied his principle to the stars of
 various magnitudes included in Bode's Catalogue of 14,414
 stars.    The result of the comparison was to show that if
 the order of magnitudes could indicate the distance of the
 stars, we should infer 'at first a gradual and afterwards a
 very abrupt condensation of stars.'        But, says Sir W. Her
 schel,  if  we consider the principle    on which these stars are
            '
 classed, their arrangement into magnitudes can only apply
 to certain relative distances, and show that, taking the stars
 of each class, one with another, those of the succeeding
 magnitudes are farther from us than the stars of the pre
 ceding order.'
      Which really amounts to this— that if the results of
  applying the principle are interpreted on the assumption
  that the principle is sound, they lead to conclusions not
  inconsistent with the principle.
      Sir William Herschel felt that this result was of no value.
  He therefore showed that to get at any useful result we
   must determine the true relative lustre of stars of different
                                                              '
   apparent brightness.
                            '
                              It will be admitted,' he said,    that

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                        63
those    stars whose   light we can prove experimentally to be
i, tV . . . . of tne light of any certain star of the first
magnitude must be 2, 3, 4 times as far from us as the
standard star, provided the condition of the stars should
come up to the supposed mean state of diameter and lustre
of the standard star.'         He then showed how such com
parisons might be made for the whole range from natural
vision to the full extent of telescopic vision. In this part
of his work we have again the William Herschel of 1 789.
By his reasoning here he established the general principle
of space on which the estimate of the penetrating power of
the telescope for objects assumed to be of the same real size and
brilliancy depends.
      Having now obtained a means, as he supposed, of esti
 mating the relative distances of stars of different apparent
 lustre, Sir W. Herschel could examine the results of star-
 gauges made in different directions.        He found that, thus
 dealt with, the stars      of the tenth, eleventh,   and twelfth
 orders of distance are     not only more compressed than those
 in the neighbourhood        of the sun, but moreover their com
 pression in different      parts  of the heavens   must   be very
 unequal.
      Let us grasp the meaning of this fully before we proceed.
 Sir W. Herschel here recognises that the njumber of the
 stars of small magnitudes is such, that granting to them
 the    average   distance deduced from their apparent lustre
 they must be set more closely together than the stars of the
 large magnitudes.        He also recognises that in certain direc
 tions they must be more closely aggregated than in others.
  It is as though from the observed numerical distribution of
  planets of small apparent size our imaginary shortlived
  observer should infer (wherein he would be right) that these
  bodies are more closely grouped in actual space than the
  larger planets.     He might even infer that they formed a
  ring as they actually do, only he would be entirely mistaken
  as to the   position of that ring. (He would set it far beyond
  the   paths of Jupiter and Saturn.)        Moreover, he would

 64                THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 infer, also rightly, that at the time of observation some parts
 of the regions occupied by these smaller looking planets
 were more richly strewn than others, — in other words, that
 the average space allotted to each of them was less than
 elsewhere.
     The conclusions to which Sir W. Herschel has thus been
 led were true, but they were only a part of the truth, and
 thus made in company with the unsound principle he had
 adopted, they became part of an entirely erroneous theory
 of the stellar universe, precisely as the conclusions of our
                                     '
 imagined astronomer of a day respecting the distribution
            '
 of the asteroids in a ring-shaped region of their own would
 be true in themselves, but only part of the truth ; while
 combined with the theory that all the planets are of about
the same size, these true conclusions would become part of
 the entirely erroneous theory that the asteroids form a
gigantic ring of planets far outside the larger-looking planets,
Jupiter and Saturn.
     And now Sir William Herschel made         a discovery which
should have shown him the incorrectness of his general
principle, and would certainly have done so had he made it
ten years earlier, just as a kindred discovery did earlier
lead him to correct a kindred error of principle, and as the
recognition of a kindred truth by Sir John Herschel later
led him also to correct the very error of principle which now
led Sir William astray.
     When Sir W. Herschel had earlier found that in certain
regions of the heavens the stars are more richly gathered in
mere number than elsewhere, he did not fail to see that
they must form a rounded cluster.       He felt that the increase
in the number of stars on a region round in apparent shape
could not reasonably be explained as due to the enormous
extension of the system of stars in that particular direction,
the chances being so enormous against the extension lying
in a direction tending exactly from the solar system.        If it
were conceivable in a single case that the stars seen in a
round-shaped region of the sky really occupied an enor

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                         65
mously long, cylindrical region of space, the axis of the
cylinder tending directly towards the sun, it could not be
supposed that in a second case, and in fact in several cases,
cylindrical star clusters chanced to occupy the same singular
and unlikely position.      Besides which, he would probably
have rejected the very idea of cylindrical star clusters as
absurd on the face of it.
     Yet now, when using the          space-penetrating method
instead of the star-gauging method, he comes on evidence
pointing exactly the same way, he no longer with his former
clearsightedness    sees at once what the evidence means, but
he interprets the evidence by the very principle which as a
matter   of fact that evidence overthrew.
     The method of star-gauging imagined such a degree of
 uniformity in stellar distribution within our star system —
assumed to have attainable limits — that the number       of stars
seen within any given field indicates fairly the extension of
the system in the direction of that field.          Taking fields
equal in size and observing them with equal telescopic light-
 gathering power, we should have the same sort of estimate
 of extension that we should obtain of sea-depth by letting
 down a tube to the sea-bottom and weighing all the water
inclosed within the tube.      All that is necessary to make the
estimate satisfactory, is that we should really reach the limits
of the system, and that the stars really should be spread
with tolerable uniformity.       The size of individual stars
counts for nothing in this method, assuming only (as
 Herschel assumed) that a telescope powerful enough to
 reach easily to the limits of the system would show every
 star within the system ; in other words, that there are no
 very great discrepancies   of magnitude.
     It was as the result of this process and no other that
Herschel arrived at the stratum-theory of the sidereal system
— or rather   the cloven-stratum theory.
     When this theory was formed, Herschel had not met
 with even the simplest cases of unequal star distribution ;
 he had not yet learned that such         objects as binary stars
                                                           F

 66                THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 exist in the universe.     Struve has well pointed out that the
 discovery of the physical association between certain double
 stars changed the whole aspect of the star system in
 Herschel's eyes.     From this time he recognised the fact
 that there are different orders  of stars, and different systems
 of star-grouping.
     Herschel himself abandoned altogether, as well the prin
 ciple of star-gauging as the results to which it had led him.
     Herschel not only said that the Milky Way was not
 what he had supposed ; but he stated what in his opinion
 was the actual shape and constitution of certain parts of
 the  Milky Way. He found that certain of the brighter
 parts of the Milky Way were not regions of the sidereal
 system owing their apparent richness to their vast extension
but true clustering aggregations — not parts     of an extended
stratum but globe shaped.
     The resolution- test is  very commonly confounded with
star-gauging, but is quite distinct in principle.      According
to this plan the distance of any star-group was to be deter
mined by the telescopic power necessary to resolve the
group.    To   show the distinction  between   this method and
the other,   it is only necessary to point     out that in star-
gauging the same telescope, or at least the same telescopic
power, was necessarily employed throughout the inquiry ;
in the new method, the telescopic power was made variable,
gradually increasing power being applied until a star-group
was completely resolved, and the power required for this
purpose was held to indicate the distance of the group.
There was a partial return, in the adoption of this method,
to the general idea of uniformity of distribution which had
led Herschel to erroneous results in 1785 ; and in precise
correspondence with this fault in the new method we recog
nise in the results obtained an obvious incorrectness, which
would not have escaped the attention of Herschel in earlier
years.
     The new method was one to be tested, not adopted.
The method of star-gauging had been adopted, and had

                THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                      67
eventually to be rejected. This experience should have
suggested that no new method ought to be adopted until it
            had been subjected to some adequate test.
            The results obtained by Herschel showed suffi
            ciently (and in his earlier years would have been
            regarded as showing) that the method was un
            sound.
               Let one point suffice to show this : —
               The fine double cluster in the sword hand of
            Perseus was partly resolved with the lowest
            power Herschel employed, and this, according
            to the criterion he had adopted, showed that
            part of the cluster lay only just beyond the
            limits of naked-eye vision. But he was unable
            with the highest powers he employed to resolve
            this spot completely, and this, according to his
            criterion, showed that part of the cluster lay
            beyond the range of his highest powers, or some
            twenty times farther away than the limits of
            naked-eye vision. Thus, according to his cri
            terion, the distances of the nearest and farthest
            parts of the cluster are as one to twenty, at
            least.    But the apparent size of the cluster
            shows that the breadth of any part of the cluster
            is less than the hundredth part of the distance
            of that part. Combining these indications, we
            have for the shape of the space within which the
            cluster is included, something like A B (Fig. 8),
            where S is the place of the Solar system.
               But no one can accept so monstrous a result
           as this ; nor would Herschel for a moment have
           adopted   it,had he noticed that his own figures
           led directly to it. Apart from all other objec
           tions, the circumstance that this long-projecting
           cluster had the sun directly at its apex would
    Fig.
       8.
           have sufficed to show that some other interpreta
tion must be adopted.    But no one who has observed this

68                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
or any other star cluster can doubt for an instant that the
portion of space occupied by the cluster is rounded — speak
ing roughly.   The cluster is not a globular cluster, of course ;
it has outlying branches and streams (and appears, by the
way, to be connected with the general stream of the Milky
Way in this neighbourhood) ; but that, regarding it as a
whole, we must consider it as a rounded nodule or double
nodule of the galactic stream, and not as a projecting region
directed exactly from the sun, no one can doubt who has
ever examined the cluster.
   Nor did Herschel question this, or fail to recognise the
soundness of the method of reasoning, illustrated by Fig. 8,
which I have used to dispose of the strange result to which
Herschel's figures lead.  But the real fact is that Herschel
did not live to examine fully the facts he supposed he had
accumulated in and after 1817. He did not do much, in
deed, towards carrying out the scheme which he had indi
cated.   The papers of 181 7 and 1818 maybe compared
respectively with those of 1784 and 1785 ; and I venture
to say, that if in 18 18 Herschel had had before him as long
an observing career as in 1785, we should have found him
definitely abandoning the principle he indicated in 18 17,
precisely as we find him in 1802 definitely abandoning the
principle he indicated in 1784.
    The fact  is,both principles were matters to be tested,
not to be adopted as rules for guidance.
    William Struve adopted singular combination of the two
                             a
methods, and interpreted the results he obtained in   most  a
remarkable, and, as think, altogether unsatisfactory, manner.
                     I
    Struve perceived that if  the principle of star-gauging had
been sound, the stars of the brighter orders ought to be
strewn with general uniformity over the heavens         ; for the
range of naked-eye vision, or low telescopic power, for
separate stars lies far within the limits of the stellar system,
even in  its narrowest parts — that  is, measured in the direc
tion of its thickness. He saw then that here was            anew
test applicable to the star-gauging principle.     It   was only

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                        69
 necessary to take some complete catalogue        of stars down
 to, say, the seventh or eighth magnitude, and to try whether
 the stars grew richer as the  Milky Way was approached.       If
 they  did grow richer, then it would be manifest that the
 principle of star-gauging could not be trusted in all its
generality.    (The reader will presently see why I emphasise
 these four last words.)
     Struve took a catalogue complete only for an equatorial
 zone thirty degrees wide, and extending fifteen degrees from
 the equator on the north and on the south.       The catalogue
 was tolerably complete down to the ninth magnitude inclu
 sive.   Like other catalogues, it was numbered and arranged
 in order of Right Ascension ; and what Struve did was
 simply to ascertain how many stars it included in the
different ' hours.' He found that the Milky Way ' hours,'
the seventh and nineteenth, were the richest, and that there
was a gradual increase up to the maximum of richness, and
then a gradual decrease down to the minimum, so that there
was all the evidence his method could afford to show that
the nine brighter order of stars do increase in numbers as
the   Milky Way is approached.
     If he had been satisfied    with this result, Struve would
simply have obtained rough evidence of those laws of stellar
distribution which my methods have more particularly
indicated.
     But he was not so satisfied, and it was in analysing his
result that he applied the novel considerations          I  have
spoken of.
     He first assumed     that the law of distribution for an
equatorial zone thirty degrees wide might be regarded as
the law of distribution for the circuit of the equator itself
— a particularly daring assumption, when we remember that
the galaxy does not cross the equator at right angles but
slantwise,   so  that an    'hour' of  stars thirty  degrees  in
declination range crosses parts of the star sphere of very
different richness (assuming, as Struve did, that the mid-
zone   of the galaxy is the zone of greatest richness).    This

70               THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
first step then — this substitution of the equator itself for
an equatorial zone covering more than a quarter of the
whole heavens — was directly calculated to mask the real
features of stellar distribution.
     But the next step was even more daring. Having found
                               Fig. 9.
that there is a variation   of star-richness round the equator,
two   opposite points     of which circle mark the place of
maximum richness, Struve next changed the circle into a
disc, and in this way : —
     Suppose  A  B, Fig. 9, to be one ' hour of the celestial
                                                 '
equator, S, the place of the solar system, abed one 'hour'
of the equatorial zone dealt with by Struve. Then he took
                                                     A
                                         6  7    8   9
                                        1
                               Fig. 10.
the stars within   the space     abed,     and having distributed
them uniformly along the arc A B, he next spread them
(according to the numerical distribution of their different
orders of brightness) over the sectorial area A B S, Figs.
9 and 10.

                    THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                       7«
     Surely an amazing application of the laws      of averages,
to take the stars spread over the area abed oi       the celestial
sphere, where A B. is an arc of fifteen degrees,     and   ab,cd
each of thirty degrees, and to conceive these        stars spread
according to a special law of uniformity, over      the sectorial
plane     A  B S.    Yet it was thus that Struve's     celebrated
section was    obtained.
     I  hesitate  to point out objections   against this process,
because    I  cannot conceive what arguments can possibly be
urged in its favour.
     Struve himself considered that his result agreed per
fectly with the views of Herschel in 1817 and 1818 ; and
 it will be perceived that there is something in the forma
 tion of the sectorial star-area SAB, which bears a distant
 resemblance to Herschel's resolution-test of star-distance.
 On the other hand, Struve perceived that his results were
altogether opposed to the general theory of star-gauging.
 He adopted, however, a modified form of the principle,
 since he assumed a very peculiar law of uniformity of
 distribution.
     [In passing, I may remark that, in answering the first
paper I read on this subject at the Royal Astronomical
Society, Professor Pritchard made the somewhat remarkable
statement that all Herschel's     results confirmed each other,
and that Struve's agreed with them.        But it is certain that
Professor Pritchard has never read Sir W. Herschel's papers
through.]
     The plan on which I have proceeded has been unlike
any of those hitherto described, and the principle I have
adopted is not an assumption, but one whose justice depends
on manifest and sufficient considerations.
     I have, in the first place, set equal surface charting as
the only effective    way of indicating laws of distribution, if
any such exist     ; and charting generally as a necessary sub
stitute for mere cataloguing, or other process of numerical
estimation, whether as applied to the stars of various orders,
to nebulae, to clusters, to double, coloured, or variable stars,

 72                THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
 or, lastly, to star motions.  You can    see a chart, study its
 relations, return again and again to its investigation, com
 pare it with other charts, or combine it with them in a new
 chart, and so on.      Any characteristics which charts are
 competent to exhibit, they show to all, and reveal indepen
 dently of any special process.        The case is altogether
 different with catalogues.    Their capacity for concealing
 the truths really contained in them, and for mystifying the
 student of nature, and their adaptability for deceptive pro
 cesses of manipulation, have been repeatedly illustrated in
scientific researches.
     But of course, when once a chart has been drawn, it
suggests     questions for statistical research ; or rather it
suggests really effective methods of dealing with numerical
relations. And the construction of charts of distribution
has led me to notice two principles of analysis, which are
manifestly sound, and have already been shown to be effec
tive, while I believe very confidently that they will here
after be found to be the only principles which can enable
us to make any satisfactory advance in dealing with those
portions of space which lie beyond our means of measure
ment
     They are these : —
     A If objects of one class are found to be spread over
certain parts of the celestial sphere more richly than over
others, and if objects of another class are found to exhibit
corresponding peculiarities of distribution, being always
more richly spread or more sparsely strewn where the same
is observed with objects of the former class, then the two
classes of objects form one system, and are intermixed
within that system, the same subordinate region of space
within that system including        the aggregations   of both
classes of objects.
     B. If, on the contrary, a law of contrast is observed in
the distribution of objects of two different classes, so that
the distribution of the objects of one class is systematically
richer or poorer according as the distribution of objects of

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.                      73
the other class is poorer or richer   ;then the two orders of
objects form one system, but are separated from each other
within that system, those subordinate regions of space which
include many objecte of one class having few or no objects
of the other class, and vice versa).
    I will illustrate these principles before passing on to a
third, which is only probable (not as these are certain, —
where only the evidence described can be obtained in
sufficient amount.)
    Suppose the whole sky were covered more or less richly
with flying creatures ; suppose it could be seen that there
were two well-marked classes of these creatures, large ones
and small ones : then       if,
                             wherever the large ones were
richly strewn over the sky, the small ones were likewise so
strewn, while where     there were few large ones there were
few small ones,   it would be    safe inference that the large
                                  a
and small ones were intermixed in the aerial spaces, travel
ling together in flights or groups.   They might be old birds
and their small youngsters, or birds pursuing their prey
among flights of insects, or the like but whatever the two
                                          ;
classes  might be,      would be certain (supposing always
                       it
that the peculiarity in question were sufficiently marked)
that the large and small objects were intermixed.
    But, suppose the reverse held, and that where there were
many large flying creatures, there were few or no small ones,
and vice versd, the peculiarity being very marked. Then      it
would be manifest that in this case also there was    alaw of
association, but one which caused the objects of the two
classes to separate into different groups.  The large objects
might be birds of prey, and the smaller might be weaker
birds, banding together for mutual protection, or the like    ;
but it would be certain that the peculiar law of arrangement
observed among the flying creatures was due to some real
relation between the two classes, this relation causing them
to keep apart from each other.
    In neither  case (and let the reader notice specially, that
whatI     am about to say applies equally to both cases), in

74               THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
neither case could we imagine for a moment that the large
flying creatures were of the same class as the small ones,
but much nearer ; for it would be practically impossible
that by some strange accident two strata of creatures, flying
at different levels, should have their rich and poor regions
so adjusted as to be seen, in all cases, in the same direction,
by the observer on earth.
     Thus we are led to the third principle, which only affords
probable evidence,   though, in some cases, such evidence
may approach very nearly to demonstration.
    C. If objects of two classes are spread over certain parts
of the heavens more richly than over others, but the rich
regions of one agree systematically neither with the rich nor
with the poor regions of the other, then the probability           is,
that the two orders of objects lie at different distances, and
are in no way connected with each other.
    This probability rises into certainty where some markedly
peculiar arrangement of one order         isseen to be carried
across some equally marked arrangement of the other, the
two arrangements being manifestly independent of each
other.
     The principles thus enunciated are those which have     I
followed in the interpretation of all my equal surface charts,
whether of stars or nebulae.       Applied to my chart of
324,000   stars, principle   A     conclusively that neither
                                 shows
the earlier nor later view of Sir W. Herschel, respecting
the Milky Way, nor the theory of the elder Struve,     even   is
an approach to the true theory    but, the general views in
                                    ;
dicated by Sir W. Herschel during the period of his observ
ing career intermediate between the abandonment of the
star-gauging principle and the adoption of the resolution-
test, accord fairly with the observed facts.        The point over
looked by him, by Struve, and by all other astronomers,
except the younger Herschel (who, however, did not suf
ficiently dwell on its importance), the evidence of the
                                         is
intermixture of stars of many orders of real magnitude
within the same      regions of space.        And   as   principle A,

                  THE UNIVERSE OF SONS.                       75
applied to the teachings of my chart of 324,000 stars, shows
the Milky Way to consist of a system of star-streams,
including many orders of stars, from the highest down to
what must be regarded relatively as mere star-dust, so
principle B, applied to my charts of Nebulas (and still more
clearly when applied to the exact charts recently submitted
by Mr. Sidney Walters to the Astronomical Society), shows
that  the  star-cloudlets belong to the same system as the
stars of the Galaxy, but are so distributed within that system
as to be rich where stars are relatively few, and few where
stars are relatively rich.
     But much wider and more systematic research is still
required.     It will be manifest that the three principles, but
especially the first, admit of being applied most effectively
to stellar research — much more effectively than star-gauging
as originally proposed, even if it had turned out that the
principle of such star-gauging was sound.           By applying
telescopes of different power to systematic star-gauging, as
distinguished from the mere selection of a few widely-
scattered fields, and by employing for each survey only
dark, clear, and moonless nights, instead of using (as was
the case with     Herschel's surveys) moonlight, twilight, and
hazy nights, and even daylight, an estimate can be formed
of the laws of distribution of the stars of various orders,
proceeding onwards from those included in my chart of
324,000     stars, and thus extending and amplifying the
teaching commenced in that chart.         When that work has
been accomplished, we shall begin to understand the real
wonders of the star depths, the magnificence of the sub
ordinate star-schemes which have been mistaken for the
sidereal system itself, and something of the grandeur of
that system, whose limits lie far beyond the range of our
most   powerful telescopes, while within them are included
all the various orders of celestial objects which the telescope
 has yet revealed.     Combining such lessons with what has
 been learned and yet remains to be learned       of the move
 ments   taking place within    the sidereal universe,  we shall

76             THE UNIVERSE OF SUNS.
have a picture grander and more impressive by far than any
yet presented  to  our contemplation ; we shall learn that
the true galaxy is infinitely more extended, infinitely more
complex in structure, than we have supposed, and that the
processes at work within its bounds are infinitely more
stupendous.

                                77
                 THE SUN'S CORONA.
Among the most interesting, but seemingly most intractable,
problems presented to the students of science, are those
connected with the mysterious solar appendage called the
corona. For many years astronomers were not able to
decide, though in reality they had evidence enough on
which to base an opinion, whether the corona is a solar
appendage or not.       Eclipse after eclipse passed, and still
the imperfect drawings and descriptions by observers at
different stations gave little support to the true theory.    It
was clear that, if the corona belongs to the sun, all the
pictures should show the same general features from what
ever part  of the earth's surface they were taken.    But so far
was this from being the case, that, on the strength of the
wide differences between various pictures of the corona
during the same total eclipse, many were led to believe that
the corona is a merely optical phenomenon, variously figured
according as it is seen by different eyes, precisely as the rays
seen around a bright star (but having, of course, no real
existence) are differently shaped for every observer who sees
them.    But at last the true theory of the corona in this
respect was established and all astronomers recognised
what had long been obvious to those of them who were
mathematicians, that they had to deal in the corona with a
stupendous solar appendage.        Further and further from the
sun's surface this appendage was traced, till it was seen that
 it merges into the zodiacal (so to name the solar appendage
 which produces what we call the zodiacal light).         Closer

78                     THE SUN'S CORONA.
and closer became the scrutiny to which its structure was
subjected, until at length the complicated system of
streamers — curved and straight, continuous and broken —
shown in the engravings illustrating Mr. Raynard's admi
rable monograph on solar eclipses (a large recent volume
of the ' Memoirs of the Astronomical Society ') was fully
recognised ; while even that, complicated though it                 is,   is
known to indicate but the general features of real structure
                                                     a
more complicated still.
    But the very fulness of the knowledge astronomers had
gained respecting the corona, as seen on special occasions,
only showed them how little they could really learn about
this marvellous solar appendage, unless they could see                    it
and watch    when the sun
              it              not eclipsed. They saw that
                                  is
the processes taking place within   structure so vast and so
                                       a
complicated, and situated in   region exposed to the action
                                   a
of intense light and heat, to say nothing of intense gravi
tating force, and probably of even more active repulsive
energies, must be exceedingly important, and must be varied
and complicated in like degree.     But what chance was
there that the nature of these processes could be ascertained
when the corona could only be seen at long intervals, and
then only for     very short time and under unfavourable
                   a
conditions? It has been calculated that, adding together
all the minutes of total solar eclipse during an entire century,
we obtain    period of about eight days — eight days in 36,525,
              a
or only about one part in 8,566 — during which the corona
can be observed.     But even this computation fails to indi
cate the real relative shortness of the time during which the
corona   isvisible.   For    it  obvious that could
                                  is                     single a
observer see the corona each time when     it visible through
                                                is
out century, he would have much better chance of forming
     a                            a
an opinion than any number of observers seeing the corona
as astronomers have hitherto been able to see       that   it
                                                            ;             is,
each on some four or five occasions at the outside, during
from two to six minutes. No man has ever yet seen the
corona during (in all)  full half-hour, and
                         a                     exceedingly
                                                 it   is

                     THE SUN'S CORONA.                         79
 unlikely that any man ever will.        How can satisfactory
 information be expected from observations thus limited,
 scattered over four or five different occasions on which the
 corona has been seen ; now in winter, now in summer ; at one
 time in the northern hemisphere, at another in the southern ;
 through clear skies on one occasion, in the midst of scat
 tered cloud and haze on another ?
      If we consider what astronomers learned about the
 coloured prominences before the method was devised by
 which these can be seen without the aid of an eclipse, we
 shall be able to form a just idea of the utterly unsatisfactory
 nature of our present knowledge respecting the corona,
 compared with that which we may hope to obtain when the
 corona can be studied day after day and year after year.
     The prominences had been recognised as solar appen
 dages as early as the year 1851, though it was not until i860
that they were photographed at different stations, and thus
unmistakably identified as great masses of ruddy matter
 extending twenty, thirty, fifty, in some cases even eighty or
a hundred thousand miles from the surface of the sun.
Thereafter, until 1868, no important discovery was made
respecting them.     Till then it was maintained by different
astronomers (1) that the prominences are great rose-tinted
solar mountains, standing above the general level of the pho
tosphere, like mighty icebergs above a glowing sea, only it
was seen that they must be intensely heated ; (2) that they
are great luminous clouds in the solar atmosphere ; (3) that
they are vast masses   of glowing gas.    The eclipse of 1868
showed what they really are, proving the third of these
hypotheses   to be the only true one.    It was found that the
coloured prominences shine only with a few special tints, a
ruddy tint, a yellow-orange tint, and a greenish-blue tint
being conspicuous among some nine or ten several colours
detected by Rayet, John Herschel (son of the great Sir
John), Janssen, and other observers.
     It is not saying too much to assert that what was then
demonstrated was the last of the discoveries which could

8o                   7HE SUN'S CORONA.
 have been made respecting the sun's coloured       flames  if no
 new method had been       invented for observing them.       But
very soon after, in fact, the very next day, such a method
was invented and put in practice— a method which, ex
tended and perfected by Mr. Huggins, enabled astronomers
to watch the prominences systematically whenever or wher
ever the sky is clear.    We know now, thanks to this inven
tion, what gases and vapours are present in the sun's
coloured flames, and in that lower stratum called the sierra
by its first observers (Grant, Secchi, and others), but named
by some who preferred long words, and in this case chanced
to be ignorant     of Greek, the chromosphere (as one might
call a photograph a phograph).       In the great prominences
we find glowing hydrogen and sodium, and another gas
whose identity has not yet been determined.        In the sierra
or chromatosphere the presence and nature of many other
vapours are noted.       The movements and changes of the
prominences from day to day have been followed.            Their
relation to sun spots  has  been determined.    They have been
classified according to the various forms of cloud-like and
jet-like prominences.     The rates at which the gases forming
them move from and towards the sun's surface, or in cyclonic
whirls athwart that surface, have been determined.       In fine,
nearly all that we know about the prominences now has been as
certained since the method was invented by which they are ren
dered visible without the aid of an eclipse, and could not pos
sibly have been learned had not that method been invented.
     It was natural, then, that astronomers should anxiously
inquire whether some method might not be devised by
which the yet more interesting problems associated with the
corona might be as successfully dealt with.
     Yet how hopeless at first view the problem seems !
     As the sun's disc is more and more covered by the moon
in an eclipse,    the  astronomer still looks in vain for the
 corona until a few seconds before totality begins.     It is not
 until the sun is quite hidden by the moon that the outer
 parts of the corona can be seen.       The use of the most

                     THE SUN'S CORONA.                        81
powerful telescope, so far from rendering the corona visible
earlier as totality approaches, or later after it is over, pro
duces the reverse effect.     The corona is best seen as a
whole during eclipse without any telescopic aid at all ; and
no one has ever seen with the telescope the long rays and
streamers which are visible under favourable conditions to
the unaided eye.
     But it will be said, so much was known     of the coloured
prominences, and these can be seen without eclipse ; why
should not the same happen with the corona also?
     There was reason at one time for supposing that some
thing like this might happen. To explain the matter, and
to show also in what respects the problem of the corona
differs from the problem of the prominences, I must briefly
describe the way in which these last are rendered visible
without the aid of an eclipse.
     It was shown that the prominences are great masses of
glowing gas— glowing hydrogen in the main — so soon as it
 was discovered that they shine with certain special tints.
The light of     a prominence, analysed by the spectroscope,
does not give a rainbow-tinted ribbon as the light of the sun
 or of the sky does, but only a certain number of bright
 bands lying across the breadth of the tract along which the
 rainbow-tinted ribbon formed from sunlight falls.        If the
light is received through a circular opening, the ordinary
 spectrum is in reality made up of a multitude of circular
 images.     There are thousands of images of all tints of red,
 from the deep red, almost brown, tint of the very end of
 the visible spectrum to the orange-red where the orange
 part  of the spectrum begins.   Then there are thousands of
 orange images of all tints between orange-red and orange-
yellow ; thousands of yellow images ; thousands of green
 ones, of blue, of indigo, and lastly, of violet images.   Tens
 of thousands of images there are, of all the colours of the
 rainbow, all so merging into each other along the entire
 length of the spectrum that none can be separately seen.
 It is the same if the aperture is square or oblong, unless it
                                                          o

82                 THE SUN'S CORONA.
is very narrow, when,   if its
                            length lies athwart the spectrum,
though the separate images cannot actually be discerned,
the absence of many tints in sunlight is shown by multi
tudinous dark lines across the breadth of the spectrum,
these being really places where images of the hole through
which the light comes are wanting.     But if the light of one
of the sun's coloured prominences were allowed to pass
through a circular hole and received on a prism, as in
Newton's   familiar experiment with sunlight, there would
only be formed a few circular images of the hole, some
brighter, some fainter ; the most conspicuous being a red
image, an orange-yellow one, and a green-blue one.   The
experiment has not been tried, for the simple reason that
during the precious moments of total solar eclipse the
observer cannot waste time receiving prominence light
through a hole upon a screen.       He uses the retina of his
eye for a screen, and there notes the special tints with which
these prominences shine.     Nor would there be any occa
sion for an aperture of special form. He could look through
the spectroscope at the prominence itself, and see a red
image,    an orange-yellow image, and a greenish-blue image
of   the prominence in all its details.
    Now, if it had been found instead that the prominences
shine with all the colours of the rainbow, it would have been
hopeless to attempt to see them when the sun is not eclipsed.
The eye is unable to distinguish the minute excess of light
received from that part of the sky in which, in reality, a
prominence is shining, over the light received from neigh
bouring parts of the sky ; and there is no optical contrivance
whatever by which the slight difference (something like the
difference between 80 1 and 800) can be increased and so
made perceptible, if both illuminations are received at the
same time.   We may increase both, but both being increased
in equal degree we are in no way helped.
      If,
        however, we can in some way arrange matters so that
a large proportion of the light from the sky does not reach the
retina at all, while no such change is  made in the amount of

                       THE SUN'S CORONA.
  light from a prominence, the case is altered ; and, owing to
  the peculiar constitution of the light of a coloured promi
  nence, this is feasible enough.    Suppose light from a promi
  nence and the sky together passing through a circular hole,
  as in Newton's experiment, and first falling on a white screen
  without prismatic dispersion.     They would form together a
  white circular image, not differing appreciably from what
  would be seen if the light of the sky shone there alone.
  But if now we interpose the prism, or, if necessary, a battery
  of prisms, what will happen ? Manifestly the light from the
 sky  will form the usual rainbow-tinted      spectrum, made up
 of multitudinous circular images, while the light from the
 prominence will only make its three images — one in the red
 part of the spectrum, one in the orange-yellow, and another
 in the green-blue. Each of these shines with about one-
 third of the total light from the prominence ; but each part
 of the long rainbow-tinted ribbon, on which these images
 are projected, shines with but a small fraction of the total
 light from the sky.     Thus the light of the three prominence
 images is much more likely to be discernible than — before
the dispersion — the total light from the prominence.          If
they still remain invisible, owing to the light still remaining
in the rainbow-tinted streak, we may increase the dispersion,
making the streak longer and correspondingly fainter, but
only throwing the images formed by the prominence light
farther apart.    It is evident that at last we must in this way
make these images visible ; for we can make the rainbow-
tinted streak as long as we please, and proportionately faint,
while the images formed by the prominence light remain
unchanged in brightness.
     In reality this has been the method by which the coloured
prominences have been rendered visible, although they have
never been seen on a screen in the manner described ; for
as they have been actually seen, the retina of the eye has
simply replaced the screen of Newton's experiment.           The
principle is the same on either plan. It may be briefly ex
pressed thus : — The light of the sky is of thousands, tens of
                                                         G 2

84                    THE SUN'S CORONA.
thousands of tints ; the light of a coloured prominence
belongs almost entirely to three tints only : when we sift
out both kinds of light we have each tint of sky light having
a very small fraction of the whole light from the sky, while
the light from each      of the three tints of a prominence is very
nearly a     full third of the whole light ; thus, however greatly
the sky light exceeds the prominence light before dispersion,
the red tint from the sky light is alone not able to master
the red prominence tint, nor the orange-yellow to master
the   orange-yellow, nor the green-blue the green-blue.
Combined, the multitudinous tints of sunlight, as received
from the bright sky, overmaster utterly the three prominence
tints ; but each of these three prominence tints can contend
successfully against any one of the myriads of sky-light tints.
     Now let us consider what means may be employed to
show the solar corona without an eclipse.
     When we analyse the light of the corona with the spec
 troscope we find that the greater portion   like the light of
                                                    is,
 the sky, of all the colours of the rainbow.   It    true that is
 during the total eclipse of June 1869 the American astro
 nomers found that    part of the corona's light
                        a                         of special
                                                          is        a
 tint of green  and this observation was confirmed during
                  ;
 the eclipse of December 1870.      But     was evident, from
                                               it
 the faintness of these tints, and the existence of a rain
 bow-tinted  background, formed by the spectroscopic dis
 persion of the rest of the corona's light, that only   very            a
 minute proportion of the total light from the corona was of
 this special tint. In later eclipses    was shown that the
                                             it
 green tints (for another had been detected) are not even
 always present.       In   1871, during the second   Indian eclipse,
 it   was proved that       a   considerable portion of the corona's
 light  isreflected sunlight, for the dark lines peculiar to
 sunlight were seen by Janssen in the spectrum of the corona.
      At this stage of the inquiry matters had not          very        a
 hopeful aspect.      had myself made
                      I                   suggestion respecting
                                              a
 the corona which, had       larger share of its light belonged
                                 a
 to a specific green tint, might have led to the corona being

                     THE SUN'S CORONA.                                85
seen as desired.     I
                    proposed that the light from the sun
and the region around him should pass through a green
absorptive medium (solid or liquid), and then form an
image in the usual way on a screen, only that the screen
should be of the precise colour of the green coronal tint.
we are considering.       The part of the screen on which the
sun's image would fall in this way, was to be cut away — that
is,  suitably sized circular hole cut out of the screen— so
      a
that his overwhelmingly      brilliant     rays should not tax the
eye, strained to detect,  possible, the faint light of the
                            if
corona.    But there would have been little chance, as                I
pointed out, that the mere use of green absorptive medium
                                       a
and of    green reflective surface would make the corona
            a
visible. My main reliance had been on spectroscopic dis
persion.    Ihoped that the illuminated card,     examined
                                                        if
through    spectroscope adjusted to the green coronal tint,
            a
would show the corona, just as we see   prominence through
                                             a
a spectroscope adjusted to the red, or to the orange-yellow,
or to the greenish-blue prominence tint.
    But this method never really had     chance of success.
                                              a
The green tint of the corona    altogether too faint to show
                                  is
the corona without an eclipse, as was shown in 187        the1   by
circumstance that    will not give an image of the corona
                     it
even during totality.
      It        till May, 1882, that astronomers must give up
           seemed,
all idea of seeing the corona except during the occasions of
eclipses.   But during the eclipse of May        the spectrum
                                                   17
of the corona was photographed, and peculiarity was thus
                                              a
indicated which again renewed the hope that the corona
might be systematically studied.      The photograph showed
that the part of the corona's light which belongs to the
violet end of the spectrum        much stronger than the rest.
                                 is
There     no definite tint of violet which includes
           is                                       consider
                                                        is a
able  portion of the coronal light, but there           a
                                                      general
superiority of strength throughout the indigo and violet parts
of the coronal spectrum.
    This being so, the spectroscopic method applied to the

    86                       THE SUN'S CORONA.
    prominences could not be applied to the corona. That this
    is so will be seen at once if we consider the matter in the
    light of Newton's experiment, as we have already considered
    the visibility       of the prominences.      Taking sky light and
.   prominence light together, we had a rainbow-tinted spectrum
    formed by multitudinous tints of light from the sunlit sky,
    along which three prominence images could be seen — one in
    the red, one in the orange-yellow, and one in the green-
    blue.    Taking sky light and coronal light together,          we
    should have a rainbow-tinted spectrum from the sky light
    as before, and in addition       a rainbow-tinted spectrum,
    stronger in the violet part, from the corona. We might or
    might not be able to detect the relative excess of violet
    light ; but whether we did or not, we should see nothing of
    the coronal figure.    If the rainbow-tinted spectrum of the
    sky light were entirely removed, as during total eclipse for
    instance, no image of the corona would be seen in this way,
    for the relatively strong violet part of the coronal spectrum
    which would be seen would be made up of multitudinous
    violet images blended indistinguishably together.
        But although the spectroscopic method would not be in
    this way available, the absorptive method — that         is,
                                                          the use
                         —
    of coloured media would apply very favourably to this
    case.   For while we know of no absorptive media that allow
    only light of certain definite tints to pass through, we can
    always find  amedium which will allow all excess of light of
    any of the spectral colours to pass while the other colours
    are absorbed.     We can test the absorptive qualities of
    various media for this purpose most exactly by means of the
    spectroscope for the mere colour 01
                     ;                        medium, as judged
                                                  a
by the eye,   no sufficient test of its absorptive capacity for
                 is
particular spectral tints     medium green to the eye may
                                  :   a
be found under spectral analysis not to suffer green rays to
pass — to be opaque to such rays— but to let yellow and blue
rays pass      in such proportion         as   to produce the observed
green light.
         Selecting suitable violet absorptive media, Mr. Huggins

                          THE SUN'S CORONA.                             87
thought of trying to see the corona by means of its excess of
                   '
violet light.        It appeared to me by no means improbable,'
              '                     '
he writes,      that the corona        (after its light had been thus
         '
sifted) would be able so far to hold its own against the
atmospheric glare, that the parts of the sky immediately
about the sun, where the corona was present, would be in a
sensible degree brighter than the adjoining parts, where the
atmospheric light alone was present.'             He did not, however,
thus see the corona. He saw reasons for not attempting
thus to see it.           '
                            It was obvious,' he says, ' that in our
climate and low down on the earth's surface, even with the
aid of suitable screens, the addition of the coronal light
behind would be able to increase but in very small degree
the illumination        of the sky at those places where it was
present
           ' — which    is another way of saying that it would be
impossible to discern the form and figure of the corona.
Then, again, the portion of the light on which reliance was
placed, namely,        the violet, is not such light as our eyes are
readily able to deal with so as to recognise small differences
of illumination.         It is much easier to detect slight differences
in the brightness of red, yellow, or green light, than corre
sponding differences in violet light.
     It occurred then to Mr. Huggins that he would attempt
what, if he succeeded, would be of far greater value.             There
was another        consideration      of importance.     He remarks       :
'
  The corona is an object of very complex form, and full of
details depending on small differences of illumination ; so
that,  even      if it could     be glimpsed by the eye, it could
scarcely be expected that observations            of a sufficiently pre
cise character could be made to permit of the detection of the
more ordinary changes which are doubtless taking place in it.'
What, then, Mr. Huggins planned was from the first to use
photography, which possesses extreme sensitiveness in the
discrimination of minute differences of illumination.             It also
possesses, Mr. Huggins notes, the enormous advantage of
furnishing from an instantaneous exposure a permanent
record of the most complex forms.
                                              '
                                                I have satisfied myself,'

88                 THE SUN'S CORONA.
he says, 'by some laboratory experiments, that, under suit
able conditions of exposure and development, a photographic
plate can be made to record minute differences of illumina
tion existing in different parts of a bright object, such as a
sheet of drawing-paper, which are so subtile as to be at the
very limit of the power of recognition of a trained eye, and
even, as it appeared to me, of those which surpass that limit.
    To increase his chance of success, Mr. Huggins soon
substituted a reflecting telescope for the refracting instrument
he had at first employed.     He used a Newtonian reflector,
having a mirror six inches in diameter. We need not de
scribe the contrivances used to obtain on the photographic
plate an image     of the region around the sun (and the sun
itself) after absorption of all but the violet light ; for the de
scription would not be intelligible except to those familiar
with photographic telescopy.       The violet medium employed
was at first violet glass (pot — thatis, not merely flashed with
a  violet tint, but the glass itself so tinted)    afterwards
                                                    ;          a
strong and newly made solution of potassic permanganate in
a glass cell with carefully polished sides.
    After some trials Mr. Huggins satisfied himself that on
every one of the plates an appearance strikingly resembling
the corona could be detected.      He would     have waited until
more distinct images had been obtained        but, as he truly
                                                ;
says, our climate  isvery unpropitious for such observations,
and very few intervals, even of short duration, occur in
which the atmospheric glare immediately around the sun         is
not very great.   He therefore thought best to describe his
                                           it
results at once, so that his method might be applied in other
countries where the conditions are more favourable.         In
the meantime the results he has actually obtained are very
promising.
   The work was begun at the end of May, 1882, and the
photographs were obtained between June and September.
On twenty of them the coronal form appears.   does not  It
consist merely of increased photographic action around the
sun  1
      but there are distinct coronal forms and rays, admit

                     THE SUN'S CORONA.                        89
ting in the best plates      of measurement and of drawings
being made from them.          The agreement in plates taken on
different days, with different violet media, with the sun in
different parts of the field, and attention being given to
other necessary precautions, would seem to make it evident
that the real corona was photographed, and not an optical
phantom, the result of mere instrumental effects.         There
are some who think that the sun's bright rays, received on
the glass, and reflected from the back of the plate, have
produced forms simulating those of the sun's coronal radi
ance.    But after carefully considering the precautions em
ployed by Mr. Huggins, one of the most cautious and care
ful physicists living, I find it impossible to regard this
explanation as admissible.
     The plates taken with very short exposures show the
inner corona only, but its outline can be clearly seen when
the plates are examined under suitable illumination.         In
creased exposure showed the curved rays and rifts peculiar
to the outer corona, while the details of the inner corona
             '
were lost.      In the plates which were exposed for a long
                             '
time,' says Mr. Huggins,       not only the sun but the corona
also  is  photographically     reversed ; and in these plates,
having the appearance       of   a positive, the white reversed
portion of the corona is more readily distinguished and
followed in its irregular sinuous outline than is the case in
those plates where the sun only is reversed, and the corona
appears as in the negative, dark.'
     The opinion of those best qualified to judge is that Mr.
Huggins has really accomplished the difficult task he
attempted ; that at last we have the means of obtaining not
only views, but permanent records of this great solar appen
dage.    Professor Stokes, most cautious of physicists, regards
the appearance on the plates as ' certainly very corona-like,'
and is ' disposed to think it probable that it is really due to
               '
the corona ; which from him is equivalent to the expression
 of strong conviction on the part of any other physicist.
 Captain Abney, after careful comparison of the photographs

90                 THE SUN'S CORONA.
with those obtained during the eclipse of May, 1882, goes so
far as to say that if Mr. Huggins's photographs do not re
                                 '
present the real corona, those taken during the eclipse do
not, either.   Mr. Huggins himself, respecting whom I may
say that a long experience assures me that he himself would
be the severest critic of his own work, says that there re
mains little doubt that by the method described in his paper,
but ' under better conditions of climate, and especially at
considerable elevations, the corona may be distinctly photo
graphed from day to day with a definiteness which would
allow of the study of the changes which doubtless are
always going on in it.'    By an adjustment of the times of
exposure, either the brighter part of the corona near the sun
or the fainter exterior rays, could be obtained as might be
desired.
    Then, too, there is good reason to believe that the
method itself may, with practice and experience, be greatly
improved.     The sensibility of photographic plates, whether
wet or dry, is being increased year after year.   With advan
tage taken of every advance in experience, both respecting
the corona itself and respecting the photographic art, we
may well hope that     the method    thus happily inaugurated
will be more and more successfully applied, until at last,
taking advantage of the numerous observatories existing in
the Old and New World, and both north and south of the
equator, we shall have daily records of the figure and changes
of figure of the corona, and shall be at length enabled to
determine its real structure and significance.

                                  9i
                 A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
In  November 1882 an enormous sun-spot, or rather a great
group of spots enclosed within one penumbral region,
appeared on the northern hemisphere of the sun.               It was
so large as to be very easily discernible by the unaided eye,
a circumstance not, indeed, very unusual, but still not
happening so frequently but that the occurrence of such a
spot is worthy    of attention.    The appearance      of this great
region of disturbance was also most remarkable.               Large
streaks and    masses   of the   most  brilliant  white were inter
mixed    with  the  spots,  four  large ones,    and  several small
ones, which were enclosed within the penumbral (or dark
but not black) region of disturbance. These bright or
faculous masses and streaks, as well as the spots themselves,
changed from day to day, almost from hour to hour, in
shape and position.      Remembering the enormous scale on
which these changes were taking place, and the intense heat
of the masses thus rushing hither and thither with velocities
compared with which those recognised in the most tre
mendous of our hurricanes are almost as rest, we see that a
most stupendous disturbance was at work on the sun's
surface, a disturbance such as would have sufficed to destroy
in a few hours, perhaps minutes, the whole frame of this
earth.   Placed in the midst of that perturbed region, the
vast globe on which we live would have first been tossed
hither and thither like a leaf before the wind, but presently
melting and then turning into vapour, her whole mass would
have been driven through the solar atmosphere as but the

92                    A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
breath of a huiricane there, and lost amidst myriads of other
such windrushes in that mighty furnace.
     There are few questions more perplexing to astronomers
than those relating to the solar spots.      We have, indeed,
learned much respecting these remarkable phenomena ; but
all who have     followed the progress of discovery know that
the mystery     of their origin, growth, and development is
much greater    than it seemed when as yet little was known.
     Take, for  instance, Schwabe's important discovery that
sun-spots wax and wane in size and number in the great
spot period of — how many years shall we say? it seemed
clear there were about ten, till Wolff showed the period was
longer, and Broun disputed his result ; but roughly we may
say — ten or eleven years.    It is certain, whatever the true
length of the period, that there is a systematic increase and
diminution in the number of sun-spots, in a period some
times running up to fifteen or sixteen years, at others lasting
about eight or nine years, but averaging between ten and
eleven years.
     Now, is it not clear that this peculiarity, so far from
helping us to understand the sun-spots, is in reality a new
difficulty to be explained ? Of course, like all other diffi
culties, it is in one way an assistance.      It enables us to
reject certain theories which otherwise might occupy our
attention. But the first effect produced by the addition of
a new phenomenon such as this to those we have to inter
pret is that of increased perplexity, a perplexity not to deter
us from further inquiry, but rather to encourage us to per
severe.
     Again, when it was supposed that the sun-spot period
was about as long as the period in which Jupiter circuits
round his orbit, it was natural to suppose that that giant
planet, whose mass exceeds twice and a half the entire mass
of the rest of the solar family, produced these changes in
the sun's condition.      It had always struck me as a very
remarkable circumstance (if this view were accepted) that
 the mere    slight change   of distance from the sun which

                     A GREAT SUN-SPOT.                                  93
Jupiter undergoes,   a changein the proportion only of ten
to eleven, should produce so marked a change in the sun's
condition.   Let us suppose the change to be akin to tidal
action, which will give the most favourable results for the
theory that Jupiter produces the change : then we must
take the cubes    of the numbers just mentioned, or the pro
portion 1,000 to 1,331 ; but when the real numbers are
taken (which is desirable where we are going to raise them
to so high a power as the cube), we find the proportion to
be 1,000,000 to 1,335,974, or nearly as three to four. This
proportion seems to show that whatever effect was exerted
when Jupiter was farthest from the sun, an effect almost
exactly one-third greater should be produced when               Jupiter
was nearest   to the sun.   This   is,   doubtless,   a   considerable
difference,but not sufficient to account for what we seem
to recognise — namely, a great number of spots at the time of
maximum, and no spots at all at the time of minimum,
disturbance. A very much greater difference ought to arise
from the mere combination of the tide waves due to Jupiter
and Venus and the antagonism of these tide waves, in other
words, ought to be manifest at intervals           of one-fourth the
times  of successive conjunction of Jupiter and Venus but           ;
this would be roughly   a period of some fifty-seven days, or
less than two months. Assuredly, no such period of marked
variation has yet been discovered.
     But we need not further discuss this theory of planetary
influence, when we note that, now the sun-spot period has
come to be better understood,      it seen to have no corre
                                         is
spondence whatever with the movements of Jupiter. The
sun has been most marked by spots when              Jupiter has been
at his farthest  from the sun, at his nearest to that orb, at
his mean distance, either when moving from farthest to
nearest or when moving from nearest to farthest        while the
                                                           ;
mean duration of the sun-spot period          now known to be
                                              is
many months shorter than the year of Jupiter.             wouldIt
be contrary to all sound principles to hold on to the plane
tary theory of the origin of the sun-spots after this practically

   94                  A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
   decisive evidence against it.   Those who do still hold on to
  it ought to present the theory in some such words as this,
  ,—
      The planets seem to generate the solar spots in some
  way, though we know no reason why they should, and can
  discover no connection whatever between the numbers of
  sun-spots and the positions of the planets.
        I may quote here a remark of Professor Young's, in his
  excellent treatise on the sun, which exactly agrees with my
  own views on this subject.        '
                                      It is very difficult,' he says,
  'to conceive in what manner the planets, so small and
 remote, can possibly produce such profound and extensive
 disturbances on the sun.        It is hardly possible that their
 gravitation can be the agent, since the tide-raising power of
 Venus upon the solar surface would be only about one-
 750th of that which the sun exerts upon the earth ; and in
 the case of Mercury and Jupiter the effect would be still
 less, or about one-thousandth      of the sun's influence on the
 earth.     The sun (apart from the moon) raises a tide, on the
 deep waters of the earth's equator, something less than a
 foot in elevation, so that, making all allowances for the rarity
 of the materials which compose the photosphere, it is quite
 evident that no planet-lifted tides can directly account for
 the phenomena.       If the sun-spots are due in any way to
planetary action, this action must be that of some different
and far more subtile influence.'
       It would not indeed have helped us very much towards
the interpretation of sun-spots, if it had been shown that
they are in some way produced by planetary influences,
instead of all the evidence lying the other way.         As matters
actually are, however, we may set the planets altogether on
one side in this matter — or at least admit that whatever
influence they exert can be but indirect.
      Another possible interpretation of the sun-spots has been
suggested, which may here occupy our attention, as having
at least some degree of evidence in its favour.
      It  is known  that the whole     of inter-planetary space is
occupied      by meteor   streams.      Our earth in her circuit

                      A GREAT SUN-SPOT.                      95
 around the sun traverses several hundreds of known sys
 tems — or rather she traverses the orbit-regions belonging to
 them.    Meteors may not be always present in the particular
 parts of these orbital rings through which the earth p asses.
 But when the earth chances to cross one of them at the time
 when the meteor flight belonging to the region is at or near
 the place of passage, there occurs a shower of shooting-stars,
 due in reality to the encounter of the earth with certain
 members of the meteor stream, which are there and then
reduced to the form of vapour and as it were absorbed by
 the earth.    Now, if the earth, traversing a mere thread of
 space   compared with the wide domain of the sun, thus
 traverses hundreds of meteor systems, it is obvious that,
 were they spread with tolerable uniformity    throughout the
solar domain, we must estimate their numbers by hundreds
of millions — not hundreds of millions of meteors, be it
observed,    but hundreds of millions of meteor systems,
each containing countless millions of individual meteoric
masses.
     But this is far from being all.  The meteoric systems are
not distributed with anything like uniformity throughout the
solar domain.      So far as we can judge from the arrange
ment of cometic orbits, and the known connection between
comets and meteor systems, we must infer that there is a
great increase in meteoric wealth in the sun's neighbour
hood. The number of meteor systems having orbits passing
no nearer to the sun than our earth's track must be small
indeed compared with the number whose orbits at their
nearest to the sun lie between the distances of the earth and
Venus ; this number must be small compared with the
number of meteor systems whose points of nearest approach
to the sun lie between the distances of Venus and Mercury ;
and lastly, this number, and indeed the total number of
meteoric systems thus considered, must be very small com
pared with the number of those whose orbits at their nearest
to the sun lie within the orbit of Mercury.     Of all this we
have no direct proof.       But it is true of comets, and we

96                    A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
know that meteor systems follow in the track of comets,
while we have every reason to believe that there is no comet
which has not its train of meteoric attendants, no meteor
system which is not thus associated with some comet, either
now or formerly existing (for astronomy has witnessed the
dissipation of one comet, in whose train meteors travelled
before its destruction, and on whose quondam orbit meteor
streams still travel in countless millions).
    This being so, it is natural that some astronomers should
have   been  led to regard meteor systems, circuiting close
around the sun, as affording the true explanation of the
solar spots.    The late Professor Benj. Peirce, in America,
and earlier, our great astronomer Sir John Herschel, pro
pounded the idea that spots are caused by meteors falling
                    '
upon the sun.          According to this view,' says Professor
Young (we prefer to quote the authority of others respecting
a theory which we have already abundantly advocated in
our own words), 'the periodicity of the spots would be
simply accounted for by supposing the meteors to move in
a very elongated orbit, with a period of 1 1 'i years, adding
the additional hypothesis that at one part of the orbit they
form a flock of great density, while elsewhere they are
sparsely distributed.'
     Now, here the question arises what sort of approach the
meteoric orbit should make to the sun's surface — if that
can be called a surface which constitutes the visible globe
of the sun.    Do the meteors of this supposed system pass
simply very near to the sun's surface, the outskirting bodies
only being captured at each return of the main flight ? Or
do they actually rush through the surface which astronomers
call the solar photosphere ? In one case we find it difficult
to understand how so great a disturbance as the period of
great sun-spots indicates can be produced by bodies so
small and presumably so few ; in the other case the difficulty
is to understand how there can be more than one circuit of
the meteoric stream, seeing that the passage of the whole
flight through the sun's     actual vaporous substance  within

                     A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
                                                                97
 the photosphere should end, one would imagine, in the
 destruction of every meteor in the system.
     Then another difficulty arises. The sun-spots, as all by
 this time know, appear along two zones of the sun's surface
 corresponding to the temperate and subtropical zones on
 the surface of the earth.    None are ever seen on the sun's
 equator ; none are ever seen at the solar poles.       The zones
 along which spots may be seen, in greater or less frequency,
 have a tolerably wide range upon the sun's surface ; and
 spots appear at the time of maximum sun-spot frequency,
 over nearly the whole of these zones, and on the northern
 as well as on the southern solar hemisphere.
     Now, if we imagine a meteoric mass travelling on some
orbit or other whose point of nearest approach to the sun
lies close to the sun's surface, it is manifest that, supposing
the sun-spot disturbance produced by that mass takes place
when the meteor is at that point of nearest approach, the
spot must appear in a certain definite place, which will be
the same for every meteor travelling in the same path.
Suppose, for instance, the point of nearest approach of the
meteoric orbit to the sun were in solar latitude 300 north, a
sun-spot caused by any meteor travelling along that orbit
would be in that solar latitude and no other.       If the meteor
orbit just touched the sun's surface, the same would hold.
If the meteor orbit intersected the sun's surface, the point
where a meteor went in would be in a different latitude
from the point where the meteor would come out — if it
came out.     But how could it possibly come out ? It would
reach the surface in the form of vapour, and in that form
would be most thoroughly absorbed by the sun, assuredly
never finding its way again to the surface, except in its
future movements as part and parcel of the sun's vaporous
and gaseous globe.
     So that a single meteor stream could not under any con
ceivable conditions account for the occurrence of sun-spots
at the time of maximum disturbance in both solar hemi
spheres, and over wide zones   of the  sun's surface.   Professor
                                                           H

98                       A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
Young, apparently (though not quite obviously) referring to
this point, says, 'The meteoric orbit would have to lie
nearly in the plane of the sun's equator.' But this would
not do.   Any system of meteors having its perihelion close
to the sun's surface must at the time of the perihelion
passage of the flight gather up its members very close
together (measuring their distance square to their plane of
travel).  Some might be a long way ahead of others along
the orbit, and the points of nearest approach to the sun
might be, some a little nearer, some a little farther from his
centre (though even this range of distance must be very
small) ; but the range on one side or the other of the mean
plane of the meteoric system would be exceedingly small at
perihelion.   For consider — this nearest point           is,
                                                    let us say,
half   million miles from the sun's centre, while the farthest
         a
point, exactly opposite, would lie, in the case of     system   a
with an eleven-year period, some 900 millions of miles
away (or 1,800 times as far)      then two meteors travelling
                                   ;   if
side by side so as to reach perihelion at the same moment,
and both at the same distance from the sun, were thousand   a
miles apart there, they would be 1,800,000 miles apart
when simultaneously passing their aphelia.      Now, 1,000
miles would be       a   mere nothing at the sun's distance.            His
diameter     roughly, 850,000 miles, and the 850th part of
               is,
that would be    distance undiscernible by the naked eye —
                     a
less than the 30th part of the diameter Venus shows
when in transit across the sun's disc.1 Any distance corre
sponding to the actual range of sun-spots in latitude on the
sun's surface would correspond to an impossible range of
the meteor flight near aphelion for instance, 400,000 miles,
                                       :
corresponding to less than the range from 300 north on the
sun to 300 south, would correspond to 720,000,000 miles, in
range square to the plane of the orbit, which     of course,
                                                          is,
         Putting Venus's diameter at 7,500 miles, the circle on the sun's
     1
surface hidden by her has    adiameter exceeding this as the sun's dis
tance exceeds Venus's, or as twenty-five exceeds seven (roughly) divid
                                                                    :
ing 7,500 thus increased by 850, we get rather more than thirty.

                    A GREAT SUN-SPOT.                        99
perfectly inconsistent with the idea that the meteors could
belong to the same system.
    To these difficulties may be added one noted by Pro
fessor Young, who points out that it is difficult to make the
meteor theory explain the enormous dimensions and persis
tence of many sun-spot groups, while the irregularity in the
epochs of maxima and minima is much greater than would
have been expected on this hypothesis.
    Yet there are some points in this meteoric and cometic
theory of sun-spots which seem so strongly to suggest that
we are at least in the track of truth here, that we must not
dismiss it hastily because, as presented in one particular
way, it seems inconsistent with the observed facts.
    And first, be it noticed that the theory of a single
meteor system being the cause of the sun-spots was ante
cedently most unlikely to be true.        When we take into
account the enormous number of such systems which (as we
have shown) must exist in the sun's neighbourhood, the idea
that one system   of any particular period should have more
than others to do with the sun-spot variations seems alto
gether incredible at the outset.     Even if the eleven-year
period were marked with the most perfect regularity, this
would be so.      But as that period is very far indeed from
being regularly followed, as the sun-spots wax and wane in
number and in size, we might with equal reason reject the
single-meteor system theory, from a posteriori considerations.
We must admit the probable existence of many sun-disturb
ing meteor systems, if we adopt the meteoric explanation of
the sun-spots at all.
    Now, it certainly seems a noteworthy circumstance in
this connection, that while there are many known comets
whose aphelia (or the points of their orbits farthest from the
sun) lie near the orbit of Saturn, comets and meteor systems
so situated would have about the period which we recognise
in the recurrence of solar spots.   Putting the greater axis of
a comet's elliptic path extending to or a little beyond the
orbit of Saturn at ten times the earth s, for convenience of
                                                        H 2

loo                          A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
reckoning     might be somewhat more or less, but ten
                 (it                                                 is   a
fair estimate enough), we determine the period in which
such    acomet would circulate around the sun, by Kepler's
third   law,      very      readily.     Its mean
                                      distance       five, and
                                                             is
according to that law we have simply to cube this number
(getting 125), and take the square root of the result, getting
about eleven and one-fifth, showing that the period of cir
culation would be eleven and one-fifth years or thereabouts.
So that      so chanced that there were several of these
            if   it
Saturnian meteor systems, whose richest portion reached
the sun's neighbourhood at about the same time, there
would be something akin to the recurrence of sun-spot
maxima there would also be such variations as are actually
            ;
observed  and we might readily interpret nearly all the
             ;
most marked peculiarities of sun-spots so far as the place
and time of their appearance on the sun's disc are con
cerned.
      Nay more,        it   is   a   noteworthy circumstance that cometic
orbits show    tendency to precisely that degree of inclina
                  a
tion to the mean plane of the solar system (in or near which
all the planets move), corresponding to the observed posi
tion of the sun-spot zones.    No comets travel in or near
this mean plane, very few travel nearly at right angles to            it  ;
the greater number travel on paths inclined between twenty
and sixty degrees to that plane. So that their tracks, while
near the sun, would be near one or other of the zones where
sun-spots  chiefly appear.  If, however, we regarded the
principal sun-disturbing meteor systems as thus related to
the orbit of Saturn, and, adopting   view thrown out long
                                                 a
since by myself (without any thought of the theory we are
upon), that the Saturnian, Jovian, and going farther from
the sun, the Uranian and Neptunian comets and meteor
systems were originally expelled from the planet with which
they seem thus to be associated, we might find some diffi
culty in explaining why Saturn rather than Jupiter should
seem thus associated with the production of sun-spots.
There    no sun-spot period corresponding with the move
            is

                     A GREAT 'sUM-SPOtiZf ''.;*,;>      ¦  A  101
ment of meteor systems to and fro between the sun and
Jupiter's orbit, although many comets (and therefore many
meteoric systems) exist which have their remotest parts near
the orbit of Jupiter.    One would be led to expect that as
Jupiter is much the larger planet (in fact he surpasses
Saturn in mass threefold, and Saturn and all the other planets
taken together two and a half times), there would be clear
evidence of a sun-spot period of about four and one-third
years, the time corresponding to the motion of matter in an
orbit having its remotest point near the orbit of Jupiter,
and its perihelion close to the sun.      But there is no trace
of the existence of any such period.
     One might perhaps find an explanation of this in the
circumstance that Saturn presents all the appearance of
being a younger and more active member of the solar
system than his brother giant Jupiter.         That ring system
of Saturn's, which distinguishes him from all the other
planets, is an evidence of extreme planetary youth.       He has
not yet in fact completed the fashioning of his system. Un
like Jupiter, whose satellite system is complete and symme
trical, Saturn has a system partly incomplete — eight satellites
already formed and a system of rings from which other
satellites are hereafter to be fashioned.    It may well be that
while nearly all the comets associated with Jupiter have already
done their work, and are now practically eliminated (such of
them at least as could effectively disturb the sun), those
formed much later by the younger planet still exert a potent
influence, and thus still communicate their mean periodic
time to the most marked of all the sun-spot periods.
     Be this as it may, it certainly is a noteworthy circum
stance that the chief sun-spot period should be that which
would belong to the Saturnian comets, so to designate those
whose orbits have their points    of greatest recession from the
sun close to the orbit   of the distant planet Saturn, the sole
member of the solar system which has not yet assumed the
form and aspect of an ordinary world, but remains still girt
about by a ring system such as science recognises as belong

           ' '       '
io2   :.         .       :'. :';'A\$r$A:T s&N-spot.
           *
               i*    i    r     .«•*.•..•.¦
ing to the youthful               (if   one ought not rather    to say the
embryonic) stages of planet's existence.
                                a
    Professor Young, after treating of the meteoric theory of
sun-spot formation as one well deserving of careful conside
ration, says that he shall recur to        but he does not.
                                                   it  ;
Earlier he touches on     meteoric explanation of
                                    a                 certain    a
solar phenomenon well worth considering, though as yet
among the mysteries of mysteries which astronomy brings
within our ken.
     The sun, judged by his photosphere,        visible light-
                                                           a
emitting surface, does not rotate all in one, but some parts
of him rotate faster than others.     His equatorial regions
travel fastest, his mid-latitudes come next, and the higher
latitudes (at least of his cloud envelope) rotate slowest of
all.   It   easy to take this statement, as presented in the
               is
books, without more interest than we should give, perhaps,
to the statement that Jupiter rotates in less than ten hours,
while the earth takes twenty-four hours to turn once upon.
his axis. But in reality, this varying rotation rate most         is   a
remarkable phenomenon.      Consider what    means.  The   it
equatorial parts of the solar surface move round once in
about twenty-four days.     The surface near the highest
solar latitudes where spots have yet been observed goes
round once in about twenty-eight days.     Thus, speaking
without nice reference to details, the equatorial regions
complete seven circuits in 168 days, while in the same time
the zones corresponding to the temperate zones on the earth
complete only six circuits.     Two complete circuits are
gained by the equatorial regions in one of our years. Now,
we do not know what the density may be of the regions
 within the photosphere. Quite possibly, the greater part
 of the sun's mass may be so concentrated towards the
 centre, that for thousands of miles below the photosphere
 the mean density may be very small indeed.        may be       It
 that, instead            of only one-eighth part of the sun's mass lying
 within half the visible diameter, as             it   would do ifthe sun's
 density were uniform to the centre,                   half, or much more

                     A GREAT SUJV-SPOT.                     103
possibly, very nearly all, may so lie. In that case of course
the gain along the equatorial regions would only correspond
to the swift motion of cloud-masses in the solar atmosphere.
But were this so, it would still be worth while to notice
how strangely the observed movements of the solar photo
sphere had modified our conceptions    of the sun's condition.
If,   however, we were to suppose the sun of uniform density
throughout his visible globe — that density being one-fourth
of the earth's — we should then find that at the most
moderate computation      portion of his mass equal to many
                              a
million times the whole mass of the earth was gaining in
this way   whole circuit in less than six months, on portions
            a
of at least equal amount in the higher solar latitudes.
Surely, so stupendous    relative displacement of the sun's
                              a
mass within itself would be worthy of most careful investi
gation.      would indicate
            It                   freedom of motion of the
                                   a
various parts of the sun's globe, inter se, which could not
but be regarded as exceedingly significant.
    Sir John Herschel advanced, as the interpretation of this
noteworthy phenomenon, the theory that the onrush of the
sun's equatorial regions   due to the impact of meteoric
                              is
matter  on the sun's surface.  He considered that such
matter would fall chiefly in the neighbourhood       of the
equator, and would thus continually accelerate its rotation,
                              '
as   a boy's pegtop  is whipped up by the skilfully applied
lash.' But he appears to have overlooked the circumstance
that  ifthe motion of the sun's equatorial regions were thus
maintained only     by
                     meteoric downfall, this part of the solar
rotation requires an enormous expenditure of energy from
without to retain    itat this greater velocity;  and all the
evidence we have        against the existence of
                         is                        a sufficient
number of meteors drifting against the sun's equatorial
regions to account for the observed excess of motion there.
But   it    worthy of notice that the meteor impact theory
           is
should have suggested itself in so sensational a  form (so to
speak) to     man of such cautious and soundly scientific
                a
mind as Herschel unquestionably possessed.

 104                     A GREAT SUN-SPOT,
    But now we may note what seems to us a singular
piece of evidence as to the influence of comets, or rather,
perhaps, of their meteoric attendants, on the solar photo
sphere.
       Our solar system has recently been visited by               a   comet
of very striking         appearance,   and remarkable         as    having,
in the first place, passed very close to the sun's surface,
and as travelling, in the second place, very nearly, if not
exactly, in the course of the remarkable comet of the year
1843.    On September 17th the comet of 1883 made its
nearest  approach to the sun's surface, being then within
much less than a third of the sun's own diameter from his
surface.   If we suppose the whole region around the
comet's nucleus, as far as the visible limits of the coma, to
have been occupied by meteoric matter, it would follow that
the sun's surface had been actually brushed by the                 outsort
ing meteoric masses.   One might fairly expect that, whether
this happened or not, the close approach of the comet to
the sun's surface would have produced a marked effect on
the glowing, cloud-laden  atmosphere of the sun which, as
seen by us, astronomers call the photosphere.     Let it be
noted that this would presumably be the case without actual
contact of the comet and the sun, simply because the
proximity of the comet, leading as it manifestly would (and
as it observably did) to intense action by the sun on the
comet, would, we must assume, have led also to a corre
sponding solar reaction.         If,
                              as Leslie long since showed,
and as Wells explained, the passage of  cloud through the
                                             a
upper parts of an otherwise clear sky at night causes the
thermometer under that sky immediately to rise, we may
fairly expect that the passage of the gigantic head of the
great comet close past the sun's surface, and right through
his coronal streamers, would produce marked effect on that
                                            a
portion of the surface to which the comet made its nearest
approach.
   It   is   a   fact, be the explanation what   it   may, that the part
of the sun where the great spot of November 1882 appeared

                     A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
 was that part, or close to that part, of the surface where the
 comet made its nearest approach. I do not mean that the
 spot appeared where the comet seemed to graze the sun's
 surface, but that the very portion of the sun's surface over
 which the comet passed at the time of its nearest approach
 was that in which a few weeks later the great spot was
 formed.
     Now, this being a time of sun-spot disturbance, it may
 not seem very remarkable that a spot should have appeared
 upon or within the region approached by the nucleus of
 the great comet.     The occurrence might fairly enough be
 regarded as a mere coincidence, and not a surprising one,
 at a time when many spots are forming and growing all the
 time.   All that might be said, were this all the evidence we
 have, would be that it was worthy of notice how close the
place where the spot appeared had been to the place where
the comet had grazed the sun's surface.
     But the case is different when we consider another
comet, which made a similar near approach to the sun, and
whose passage past his surface     was followed by the appear
ance   of a similar spot, at a time when sun-spots were not
to be expected.
     In February   1843, the great comet    of that year rushed
close by the sun   in its perihelion swoop, so close that it was
supposed by many astronomers to have actually grazed the
sun's surface.    'It proved,' said Sir John Herschel, 'to
have just missed by an interval of not more than 80,000
miles, about a third of the distance of the moon from the
earth, which in such a matter is a very close shave indeed
to get clear off.'   Now this comet, whose resemblance to
the comet of 1882 was a short time ago the theme of
general notice, passed close to the sun's surface     at a time
when very few spots were to be expected.         That this is so
will be seen if we trace the progress of sun-spot develop
ment for a few years before and for a few years after that
time.    In 1836, astronomers counted 272 spots; in 1837,
333 ; in 1838, 282 ; in 1839, 162 ; in 1840, 152 ; in 1841,

io6                   A GREAT SUN-SPOT.
 102   ; in 1842, 68 ; in 1843, 34 ; in 1844, 52 ; in 1845,
 114; in 1846, 157 ; in 1847, 257 ; in 1848, 330; and in
 1849, 238.      In other words, the years 1837 and 1848 were
years of maximum, and the year 1843 was the year of abso
lute minimum between those epochs.          If, then, a sun-spot
appeared soon after the comet of 1843 had passed close by
the sun, the event would give countenance to the theory
that the approach of a large comet to the sun produces dis
turbing influences. And this would be especially the case
if  the sun-spot were a large one ; for large sun-spots are
scarcely ever seen at a time of minimum spot frequency.
If a large spot were so seen in 1843, the occurrence would
harmonise so well with what was seen last November, as to
justify the belief that in that case also the comet was asso
ciated with the sun-spot.
      But just here we may pause a moment to note that
when a plausible theory has occurred to the mind, one is
but too apt to be a little too keen to find evidence in its
favour, a little too short-sighted in examining evidence
against it.     It would be well if we could get an account of
this spot, written before the event of last November, so as
to be free from the influence of any bias in its favour.
      How, then, does the case really stand   ?    In June    1843,
little more than three months after the comet of 1843 had
swept over the sun's surface, a spot was seen which, accord
ing to Schwabe, was no less than 74,000 miles in diameter,
so that its area was many times greater than the entire
surface    of the earth, which, as we know, if spread out into a
 circle, would have a diameter of less than 16,000 miles.
 This great spot, like the spot of last November, was visible
to the naked eye for seven or eight days.
                                                '
                                                  It would seem,'
 says    Professor Kirkwood, speaking of the spot of 1843,
 '
   that the formation of this extraordinary spot was an
 anomaly, and that its origin ought not to be looked for in
 the general cause      of the spots of Schwabe's     cycle.'  His
 evidence on the subject is not so free from possibility of
 bias as Schwabe's, who had no thought of comets or of

                          A GREAT SUM-SPOT.                     107
meteors  in his head. Still, it will be well to note what Pro
fessor Kirkwood wrote long before the comets of 1880 and
1882 were thought of.   Speaking of the great solar disturb
ance witnessed by Carrington     and Hodgson in 1859, ne
says : The opinion has been expressed by more than one
          '
astronomer, that this phenomenon was produced by the fall
of meteoric matter upon the sun's surface.    Now, the fact
may   be worthy  of  note that the  comet  of  1843 actually
grazed the sun's atmosphere about three months before the
appearance of the great sun-spot of the same year.  Had it
approached but little nearer, the resistance of the atmo
sphere would probably have brought its entire mass to the
solar surface.  Even at its actual distance it must have
produced considerable atmospheric disturbance.      But the
recent discovery that a number of comets are associated
with meteoric matter, travelling in nearly the same orbits as
comets, suggests the inquiry whether an enormous meteorite
following in the comet's train, and having a somewhat less
perihelion distance, may not have been precipitated upon
the sun, thus producing the great disturbance observed so
shortly after the comet's perihelion passage.'
     This may be the interpretation, or, as for our own part
we deem more probable, the mere approach of a cometic
and meteoric mass to the sun may excite disturbance, com
petent        after   a few weeks           sun-spot of the
                                    to produce   a
largest   kind — that to generate one of the most tremen
                          is,
dous of those fierce cyclonic storms, which from time to time
rage over the fiery surface         of the sun, driving hither and
thither his glowing clouds, and finally sweeping them on one
side, till the eye of the astronomer can penetrate deep down
towards the interior of the great central mass of the solar
system.

 io8        THE LAST GREAT SOLAR ECLIPSE.
     THE LAST GREAT SOLAR ECLIPSE.
The    news received from the observers      of the solar eclipse
of May   6, 1883, seems to  show that veritable accessions were
made to our knowledge on that occasion. We learn first that
the corona extended visibly to a distance of two diameters,
corresponding     to about   1,700,000    miles  from   the  sun.
'
  The light during the middle of totality,' says the report,
'
  was equal to that of the full moon,' a statement which I
venture to regard as a very vague guess indeed. The cir
cumstances of a total eclipse are so unlike those under
which the full moon is ever observed, that such a compari
son as is suggested in the telegram is absolutely impossible.
It is gratifying to learn that Dr. Janssen, whose photogra
phic work on the sun at Meudon has long been celebrated,
made successful observations.        Professor Tacchini, the
eminent Italian spectroscopist, was, it appears, equally
successful.   Dr. C. S. Hastings,     the  American    physicist,
has done good work within recent years in determining the
difference between    the  solar spectrum obtained from dif
ferent parts of the sun's disc.    He has had sufficient work
with the spectroscope to justify us in accepting with confi
dence his statement that the D line of the spectrum was
seen dark in the corona.     This is a most important obser
vation. During the eclipse of j 871, Janssen recognised the
solar dark lines in the spectrum of the corona ; but some
doubted whether the       observation had been satisfactorily
made.    Dr. Hastings, by limiting his attention, apparently,
to one particular part of the spectrum and one well-known

           THE LAST GREAT SOLAR ECLIPSE.                        109
line, has been able to place the existence of the dark solar
lines in the coronal spectrum beyond any possibility of
doubt.    For what he has proved of one may be taken, when
we consider Janssen's observation in 1871, as applying to
all.  Now the existence      of these lines in the coronal spec
trum proves that the light of the corona is in great part
reflected sunlight, and therefore that the corona consists in
large degree of matter capable of reflecting sunlight.      I take
it that the meteoric and cometic theory of the corona, or
rather the theory that the corona consists in large part of
meteoric and cometic matter, has been thus practically
established.
     The extension of the corona to a distance of two solar
diameters was quite as great, says an article in the ' Times,'
  as was expected at the period of maximum solar activity.'
'
Quite, I should imagine, as great, in fact, as could have
been expected     by those who, like myself, see no reason for
expecting a smaller corona at the time of maximum than
at a time of minimum solar disturbance.          Considering that
the observations were made from very near the sea-level,
the observed extension of the corona corresponded to at
least as great   a  real extension as existed in 1878, a time
of minimum disturbance, when Professor Cleveland Abbe
observed the coronal streamers extending, but as very faint
streaks, to a distance of six diameters ; for Professor Abbe
was stationed some five thousand feet above         the sea-level.
                                              '
The theory referred to in the        '
                                       Times'   remark is that the
corona is farther extending and less luminous at a time of
small solar activity (as indicated by the absence of sun-
spots) ; being reduced in extent, but much brighter, when
sun-spots are numerous ; also, that under the latter circum
stances, only, can the bright lines of hydrogen be detected
in the corona.     I  believe that the former part of the theory
is probably incorrect, but the latter may be sound enough.
The records of total solar eclipses show cases of enormous
coronal extension at the time of maximum as well as mini
mum solar activity.        There are cases, also, though less

 no       THE LAST GREAT SOLAR ECLIPSE.
frequent, when the corona has been exceedingly brilliant
at the time of minimum spot disturbance.  Therefore the
supposed change of general character in the corona may
well be doubted.     It   is otherwise, however, with the special
peculiarity relating to the presence of glowing hydrogen in
the corona.    Observation and reasoning seem alike to show
that hydrogen is probably either not present in such quantity
or not in the same incandescent state when sun-spots are
few as when they are many.      In the first place the lines of
hydrogen were wanting during the eclipse of 1878, when the
circumstances were such that, had they existed, they should
have been well seen.    In the second place, there is a known
relation between sun-spots and solar hydrogen which, to say
the least, favours the idea that the observed difference should
be systematically recognised.         When there are few spots or
none on the sun's surface, the eruptional or jet prominences
are not seen.   They are also limited at all times to the solar
spot zones.   There   is,
                        then,   real connection between the
                                 a
existence of spots on the sun and the occurrence of outbursts
during which, whatever may be the actual nature of the
erupted matter, hydrogen     observed around the sun to
                                 is
enormous heights above his surface, and in state of intense
                                                a
incandescence. The observed peculiarities of arrangement in
the solar prominences by which the jets of glowing hydrogen
are limited to the spot zones and to the periods of solar
activity, as manifested     by
                           spots, justify us in expecting that
throughout all the brighter parts of the corona, and to          a
distance of at least  a million miles from the sun, glowing
hydrogen would be seen when spots are many.            For in
some   of the great eruptions glowing hydrogen has been
traced, without any eclipse to aid the observer, to    a   distance
of over 200,000 miles from the sun's surface.
    'The English observers were successful in obtaining
photographs of the flash' — somewhat mysterious com
                                  a
munication at first view, but really full of interest and
significance.
            I   believe the word 'flash' was invented by
Mr. Lockyer.    It   isthe rather prosaic name for    very  a

          THE LAST GREAT SOLAR ECLIPSE.                   in
beautiful phenomenon, the occurrence of which I predicted
several months before the eclipse of December, 1870, when
it was first observed. At the last moment before totality,
just as the moon is about wholly to hide the disc of the sun,
her edge is approaching his at a point where complete
covering will just be effected.  The moment after, around
an arc of some extent near that point, the absorptive atmo
sphere to which the solar dark lines are due is for the
moment shining alone.     It absorbs the more glorious light
of the sun   ;but it emits the very rays which it absorbs.
When, then, to the observer with the spectroscope, the
rainbow-tinted streak which forms the background of the
solar spectrum disappears, the gases which produce the
dark lines on that background produce bright lines on the
dark background which for the moment replaces        Then
                                                   it.
suddenly flashes into view  arainbow-tinted array of lines,
multitudinous in number and most beautiful in aspect.
(Mr. Lockyer oddly      enough imagined in 1870 that the
absorption took place below the visible surface, and there
fore not only rejected the idea that they would be seen, but
for long time denied that they had been seen.
   a                                              However,
repeated observations at last convinced astronomers that the
other view was the sounder — and now these lines have even
been photographed.)

112           THE GREAT NEBULA            IN  ARGO.
        THE GREAT NEBULA                    IN   ARGO.
In   the southern heavens there is a region of the sky in
which stars of all magnitudes are strewn more richly than
in any other portion of the celestial sphere.       This region
extends from the feet of the Centaur over the Southern
Cross, and along the jewelled hull of the ship Argo, merging
into the splendid band of stars belonging to the constella
tions Canis Major, Orion, and Taurus.        Across the southern
part of this region the Milky Way shines with a lustre so
far exceeding that which it has along its northern semicircle,
as   to suggest the impression of greater proximity.        The
whole region is so splendid that it strikingly impresses those
who are accustomed to the comparative uniformity of our
own nocturnal skies.       Travellers in the southern hemi
sphere fully confirm the extraordinary statement made by
the late Captain Jacob (a careful astronomer and observer),
 '
   that the general blaze from this portion of the sky is such
as to render a person immediately aware of its having risen
above the horizon, though he should not be at the time
looking at the heavens, by the increase of general illumina
tion of the atmosphere, resembling the effect of the young
moon.'
      But this region of the skies      is remarkable   on other
accounts.
      The Milky Way, which is commonly described as       a zone
of cloudy light, circling the whole heavens, is in reality
discontinuous.     Across   its brightest portion — that which
traverses   the brilliant region we are considering — there is

               THE GREAT NEBULA           IN  ARGO.           113
a   dark rift, not only free altogether from milky light, but
unilluminated by a single lucid star. Where the rift is
narrowest its width is about equal to ten times the apparent
diameter of the moon, the length of the rift being four or
five times as great.    On either side of the gap there extend
two fan-shaped expansions of the Milky Way, the wider
end of each being turned towards the gap, so that, in fact,
the rift extends across one of the widest portions of the
Galaxy.
     The southernmost of these two fan-shaped expansions
springs from a remarkably narrow, brilliant, and sharply
 defined portion of the Milky Way, on the other side of
which the Milky Way again expands, enclosing within the
widest part of this new expansion the singular pear-shaped
vacancy called the Coal-sack.        Close to this vacancy are
situated the four bright stars which compose the Southern
 Cross.
     Midway between the two last-named expansions, and
 not very far from the narrow neck which connects them, is
 situated the singular object which    I  now propose briefly to
 describe, and respecting which two remarkable communi
cations have lately been addressed from southern observers
to our astronomers in the north.
     But before describing the nebula itself, we must say       a
few words respecting a very singular star which marks the
place of the object.      This is the star called Eta Argus,
and the nebula itself is commonly known among astro
nomers — not by the name which heads this paper, but as
'the nebula surrounding        Eta Argus.'     It will be seen
presently that a   description of the star is not out of place in
this paper, though a year or two ago he would have been
considered a bold theoriser who should have suggested the
possibility that any connection existed between the nebula
and the stars around which it seems to cling.
     The star Eta Argus is by far the most singular variable
in the whole heavens.       In our northern skies we have some
remarkable variables.      There is the star Mira, or Wonder

H4              THE GREAT NEBULA              IN    ARGO.
ful,   in the Whale, which shines out for about a fortnight as
a    star of the second magnitude, decreases during three
months       until  it is invisible,    and   reappearing after five
months, gradually resumes its original splendour.                    There
is also the star Algol, or the Demon,1 usually of the second
magnitude, but at regular intervals of about three days,
shining for twenty minutes or so as a fourth-magnitude star.
 But Eta Argus exhibits far more remarkable changes than
those presented by the Demon-star and the star Wonderful.
 Marked in the old catalogue of Halley as a fourth-magni
tude star, and in Lacaille's as of the second magnitude,
at the present time it is scarcely visible to the naked eye.
Yet in 1843 it was shining with twice the splendour of the
most brilliant of our northern stars, and even rivalled Sirius
 itself in brilliancy.     No simple law has been recognised in
 the variations of this star. It does not pass by a regular
 gradation from its most brilliant to its dimmest phase, and
 vice versa.    For instance, in 1838 it was shining as brilliantly
 as the southern star Canopus, whose lustre exceeds some
 what more than two- fold that of the most brilliant of our
 northern stars.       From that time it began to diminish in
 splendour until it scarcely exceeded Aldebaran.                This pro
 cess    did not long continue, however, nor did the star ever
  descend below the first magnitude at this epoch, but again
  increasing soon began to rival even Sirius in splendour.
        While Sir John Herschel was at the Cape prosecuting
  that long and laborious survey of the southern heavens by
  which he brought to completion the labours begun by his
  father half a century before, he directed a large share of
  attention to the remarkable nebula in which the star Eta
  Argus appeared involved.           The instrument he made use
   of was a reflecting telescope having       a  mirror eighteen inches
   in diameter. It was with a similar instrument that his
   father had surveyed the northern heavens, and Sir John
   rightly conceived that it was important to complete the
       1
         May we not infer from this name that the Arabian astronomers
   anticipated Goodricke in the discovery of this strange variable I

                 THE GREAT NEBULA                    IN   ARGO.                   115
survey   of    the celestial sphere without any change                of optical
power.      Otherwise it would, perhaps, have been more
satisfactory if he had availed himself of the superior de
fining qualities of refracting telescopes, and especially of
such instruments as have been supplied from the leading
English and foreign opticians during the past half-century.
But although Herschel's mirror may suffer somewhat in
comparison with such instruments as these, or with the
carefully executed reflecting telescopes now finding their
way into general use, it far exceeded in power any instru
ment that up to this time had been directed to the survey
of the southern heavens.   Moreover, the great skill and
remarkable observing powers of the astronomer who made
use of   leave us no room to question the accuracy of the
         it,
recorded results.
    We have made these preliminary remarks, because the
views which have been formed respecting the nebula in Argo
are so remarkable as to render      very necessary that the
                                            it
evidence, both as to the past and as to the present state of
the nebula, should be carefully examined.
    Herschel describes and figures the nebula as     diffuse          a
mass    of cloudy light, extending over space about six times
                                                 a
as   large as the apparent surface of the moon.    The light
is   chequered     by
                   branches and cloudy streaks, presenting
scarcely any indications of law in their conformation and
distribution.  In the middle of the brightest part of the
nebulous light, there       dark vacancy of
                              is
                              a               singular and a
somewhat regular figure, resembling that of         key-hole.     a
Around this aperture the light of the nebula    not uniform.is
The star Eta Argus lies exactly at the brightest part of the
condensed light surrounding the vacancy.         Distributed
over   the nebula are thousands             of stars belonging to the
Milky Way.        Sir   J.   counted no less than twelve
                             Herschel
hundred stars projected upon  small portion of the nebula.
                                        a
He did not consider that the cloudy matter was really in
termixed — as   seemed to be — with these stars.
                 it                                On the
                                                                          1   2

Ii6            THE GREAT NEBULA IN             ARGO.
contrary, he held, that in looking at the nebula, we see
'
   through and far out beyond the Milky Way.'
      Two circumstances connected with Herschel's observa
tions on the nebula remain to be noticed.              In the first
place, he remarked that the nebula could not be distin
guished by the naked eye, even on the darkest night. In
the second place, he saw no reason to suspect that any
 changes     of place were taking place among the fixed stars
 which are strewn over the nebulous back-ground.             As he
 actually marked in the places of no less than twelve hun
 dred stars, it is unlikely that any changes of this sort — and
 especially any considerable changes — should have escaped
  his notice.
       But recently news was received that the nebula had
  been undergoing a remarkable series of changes during the
  past few years.      The observer from whom the news came
  was Mr. Abbott of Hobart Town, who had been for many
  years in the habit of sending valuable and interesting com
  munications to the Astronomical Society respecting objects
  in the southern heavens.         The instrument he has made
  use of is a five-feet equatorial by Dallmeyer (a first-rate
  optician) ; and though the powers of so small a telescope
  are scarcely comparable with those of Sir J. Herschel's
  great   reflector, yet the fact that a series of observations
   made with the same instrument (and therefore fairly com
   parable inter si) seemed to give evidence of the occurrence
   of changes fully as remarkable as those exhibited when a
   comparison is instituted between Abbott's and Herschel's
   observations, seemed to render it permissible to conclude
   that the nebula was really variable to a very remarkable
   extent.
       In  the first place, a great increase has taken place in the
   brightness of the nebula. Instead of being invisible on the
   darkest night to the naked eye, it can now be clearly dis
   tinguished in twilight so strong as to obliterate all stars
                                      '
   below the third magnitude.           On a clear fine night,' says
    Mr. Abbott, 'the object gives out fully as much light as that

             THE GREAT NEBULA           IN ARGO.          IV}
of the Greater Magellanic Cloud, and about three times as
much light as the Less, irrespective of size. In twilight it
appears as soon as a star of the second or third magnitude,
the light being white and more diffuse,    very like a small
white woolly cloud on a blue sky, seen in sunlight.'
    This change is sufficiently remarkable, but the changes
which seemed to have taken place in the figure of the
nebula were still more startling. Mr. Abbott supplied two
pictures, one representing the appearance of the nebula as
seen in 1863, the other (less complete) drawn on February
13, 1868.    Neither of these pictures resembled Sir J. Her-
schel's drawing in the slightest degree, nor did the two
pictures in any way resemble each other ! And Mr. Abbott
remarked that a series of drawings taken at comparatively
short intervals of time would afford even stronger evidence
of the mutability of the nebula's whole structure.    As Sir
John Herschel remarked — commenting on Abbott's draw
ings — 'The question is not one of minute variations of
subordinate features, which may or may not be attributable
to differences of optical power in the instruments used by
different observers, as in the case of the Orion nebula, but
of a total change of form and character— a complete sub
version of all the greatest and most striking features — ac
companied with an amount of relative movement between
the star and the nebula, and of the brighter portions of the
latter inter se, which reminds us more of the capricious
 changes of form and place in a cloud drifted by the wind,
than of anything heretofore witnessed        in the sidereal
          '
heavens
     Not only was the nebulous matter supposed to have thus
drifted about, but the stars strewn over the nebula seemed
also to have undergone a change of place.       On this point
our information was not quite clear, because it was not
certain that the stars which appear in Mr. Abbott's drawings
had really been copied from the view given by his telescope.
 He might have satisfied himself by indicating the conforma
tion of the nebulous masses, and have merely sprinkled a

 n8            THE GREAT NEBULA         IN   ARGO.
 number of stars over his drawing at random.         Some time
 elapsed before we heard again from him.          In the mean
 time it was assumed by some that the stars seen by Sir J.
 Herschel    had flitted  from their places.    But it seemed
 very unlikely that an astronomer, in making a communi
 cation of such importance, would have contented himself
 by leaving unnoted the configuration of the fixed stars
 which are dotted over the nebula.            Herschel himself
 clearly supposed that Abbott's drawing was meant to in
 dicate the true arrangement of the stars. He was at great
 pains to try all possible means of reconciling his own
 splendid drawing of the nebula, so far as the distribution of
 the stars is concerned, with Mr. Abbott's pictures.     Care
 fully reducing his drawing to the scale of the latter, he
 marked in all the principal stars on tracing paper.     Then
 bringing  the  star Eta Argus  in his drawing to coincidence
 with the same star   in Mr. Abbott's, he turned the tracing
paper completely round— first, when laid face upwards, and
then face downwards.       (This was done in order to prevent
the possibility   of misconception having arisen through some
optical inversion, or through an inversion of the drawings in
printing.)    Yet he was unable to find a situation of the
tracing paper in which 'any tolerable coincidence of the
      '
stars in the two drawings could be noticed.
     The full significance of variations exhibited by the
nebula will be better appreciated when the probable magni
tude of the object is considered.     The nearest of the fixed
stars has been shown to be upwards of four hundred thou
sand times farther from us than the sun, whose distance is
about ninety millions of miles.     Now, the star Eta Argus is
probably very much farther off than this, since it does not
present the usual evidence of proximity — a large proper
motion ; but, on the contrary, holds an almost fixed position
in the celestial vault. The nebula has been always supposed
to lie far out in space beyond the star Eta Argus.       Now,
indeed, that nebula and star have been shown to be singularly
variable — each in its own way — the probability is suggested

              THE GREAT NEBULA           IN AR GO.            119
that the two objects are connected. Certainly, the nebula
may be looked upon as lying at least as far from us as the
stars which appear strewn over it. Assuming, then, that the
nebula is no farther from us than the nearest of the fixed
stars (a highly improbable supposition), it will yet appear
that the apparent breadth of the nebula requires us to assign
to it a real breadth exceeding nearly eight thousand times
the sun's distance from the earth.        Assigning a roughly
globular figure to the nebula's mass, we obtain for it a surface
of about fifty millions of millions of millions of square miles,
and a volume of about seven thousand million times as
many solid miles ! It is within a space at least as enormous
as this that changes   seemed    to have been   taking place so
rapidly and fitfully as to suggest the comparison of the vast
nebula to 'a light cloud drifted about by the winds.'
     But by a strange coincidence, the same month which
brought us this singular intelligence respecting the great ne
bula, brought equally interesting news from another quarter.
     Lieut. Herschel, Sir John's son, had been sent out at
the head of a party of scientific men to view the great
 eclipse of August 18. The party had been provided with
 spectroscopic apparatus, and it was suggested by an eminent
 physicist that Lieut Herschel might at once find useful
 employment for this apparatus, and acquire practice in its
 use, by observing the spectra    of southern stars and nebula?.
 This has accordingly been done, and among the objects
 observed is the very nebula whose capricious changes have
 been recorded above.     The result of the observation is very
 interesting.   Before proceeding to describe them, let me
 remind the reader that the spectroscope has the power of
 revealing in many instances the substance and nature of an
 object which is a source of light. If such an object presents
 the ordinary rainbow-coloured spectrum, we know that the
 object consists of incandescent matter, either solid or fluid.
 If the  spectrum is crossed by dark lines, we know that the
 light, before reaching us, has passed through certain vapours
 whose nature may be determined from the position and

120            THE GREAT NEBULA          IN  ARGO.
arrangement of the dark lines. But if the    spectrum consists,
not of a rainbow-coloured streak crossed      by dark lines, but
of a few bright lines, we know that the       source of light is
luminous gas or vapour.
     The spectrum of the great nebula in      Argo is of the last
named species ; so that we learn that this strange object,
whose motions have suggested a comparison to vapours
blown about by the wind, does really consist of luminous
gas.    But how enormous the dimensions of those flocculent
light-mists which form the milky background on which so
many thousands of stars are seen projected !           By what
strange sympathy are these stars associated with the nebula,
that as it varies in figure they vary in their distribution?
And how shall     we account for the waxing and waning light
of the nebula, and the accordance which these changes ex
hibit with the waning and waxing light of the star Eta Argus ?
Lastly, what are the forces under whose influence the enor
mous masses of vapour which constitute the nebula are
wafted to and fro, like clouds before a shifting wind ?
     Certainly, astronomers have seldom had so strange a
problem presented to them as is furnished by the peculiari
ties of the great nebula in Argo.      We seem compelled to
give up many of the views formerly entertained respecting
sidereal space.     Instead of a multitude of stars distributed,
with varying density, throughout space, we have to conceive
 of a variety of strange forms of matter : luminous vapours
 surrounding stellar systems, stars which interchange their
 light with the nebulous matter surrounding them, flocculent
 masses subject to strange motions, as if in obedience to the
 gusts  of great cosmical windstorms   ; and all this on a scale
 in comparison with which the dimensions of the solar system
 sink into absolute insignificance.
     It is also interesting to notice that the peculiarities   of
 the  Argo nebula have    a meaning in connection with many
 of our northern nebulas.        Numbers of these have been
 shown to be in reality mere masses of luminous gas. The
 great nebula in Orion, for instance, and the celebrated Dumb

              THE GREAT NEBULA             IN  ARGO.           121
bell nebula, are gaseous.       If it should appear, therefore,
that the great nebulous masses in Argo are really aggregated
around the fixed stars which are seen in the same field of
view, then we shall have an argument from analogy for the
supposition    that   the fixed  stars   seen   in other gaseous
nebulae are really associated       with the nebulous masses
amidst which they seem to be involved.           For example, we
may learn to account in this way for the fact that the strange
dark gap within the Orion nebula — the jaw of the monstrous
head to which the nebula has been compared by astrono
mers — lies exactly within the space enclosed by four lucid
stars.
     But southern observers, armed with suitable instruments,
soon set to work upon the Argo nebula, and by a rigid
comparison of its stars with those marked down by Sir John
Herschel in his splendid map of the nebula, enabled as
tronomers to form a decided opinion respecting the changes
of place which these stars may be undergoing. All who are
interested in the progress of astronomy must agree with Sir
                                       '
John Herschel in the opinion that there is no phenomenon
in nebulous or sidereal astronomy that has yet turned up
presenting anything like the interest of this, or calculated to
raise so many and such momentous points for inquiry and
speculation.'    He added that the questions raised by Mr.
Abbott's communication ' must be settled.' It soon appeared
that no such changes were going on within this vast nebula
as corresponded in extent and importance to those which
are indicated    by the comparison     of Mr. Abbott's drawings
with Sir John Herschel's picture of the nebula. Mr. Abbott
had misinterpreted his small-scale views of the nebula.
He was examining the central portion only, and comparing
it with Herschel's views of the whole.        It appears now that
the Argo nebula is not very different in character from any
object which      has   yet been  observed upon the celestial
sphere.
     In the Orion nebula    changes have been      suspected ; but
 they are of so very doubtful a character that it has not been

122            THE GREAT NEBULA          IN ARGO.
found possible as yet to pronounce certainly whether they
are not merely apparent — due, for instance, to changes in
the circumstances under which the nebula has been observed
at  different times, or to the increased denning power of the
telescopes which have been made use of during the past
half century.    With such minute or doubtful variations, we
cannot for a moment compare the sweeping changes which
were supposed to have passed over the nebula in Argo.
     There is only one phenomenon, perhaps, which is fairly
comparable with the imagined variations of this object.       I
refer to the circumstance that nebulae have been known to
disappear altogether from the face of the heavens.        If we
accepted the view which has been held by so many eminent
astronomers, that the nebulae are in reality galaxies of suns
removed to so enormous a distance from the earth as to
appear as faint cloud-like specks of light, it would be indeed
startling to find that in a few brief months such a universe
should have been either extinguished altogether, or swept
 away so far beyond its original position as to be no longer
 visible to our astronomers.       But now that new views are
 being accepted respecting the structure and conformation
                                                                -
 of the nebulae — now that we are compelled to admit the
 gaseity  of many of these objects — we need no longer con
 sider the extinction of a nebula as a phenomenon of such
 astounding significance as we had supposed it to be ; for
 the faintness of many of these objects may be due rather to
 a real want of illumination than to excessive distance.
      But this reasoning will not apply to the Argo nebula,
 since we have every reason for supposing that this object is
 connected with the star around which it appears to cling,
 and therefore that its dimensions really are as enormous as
 we have     seen that  this connection implies them to be.
 Even considering only the actual evidence of change of
 lustre, we have no choice but to conclude that changes of
 the utmost importance are going on thoughout regions
 whose extent it is utterly beyond the powers of the human
 mind to conceive. This conclusion involves the expenditure

             THE GREAT NEBULA          IN  ARGO.           123
                                             '
of an amount of force or    '
                              working power which probably
exceeds many hundred-fold the aggregate of all the forms
of force now in action within the bounds of the solar system.
We can only form vague speculations as to the meaning and
object of all this cosmical vitality. That it is not meaning
less or objectless, we may, however, feel fully certain.  For
aught we know, a region of space may be here being swept
and garnished, under the action of physical forces incom
prehensible to us (at present, at any rate), in order to
become at some future time the seat of a system as orderly
and beautiful as our own solar system, and far more ex
tensive.

124      THE PHOTOGRAPHIC               EYES OF SCIENCE.
   THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EYES OF SCIENCE.
To our island home in           the limitless  ocean of space come
waves from millions        of light sources, telling us of the orbs
from which they have travelled. To the ordinary senses,
or rather to that one sense which alone (with a single and
partial exception1) they affect, they bring news sufficiently
impressive, if rightly understood.          To the poet of old, who
could judge only by what his eyes showed him, the starlit
heavens, the moon walking in brightness, the sun rejoicing
as a  giant to run his course, the planets, which
                                   Seemed to move,
                Carrying through ether in perpetual round
                Decrees and resolutions of the gods,
stood first among the wonders and the mysteries of nature.
'
  The heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament sheweth
his handy-work,' was no vain saying, even among men who
could know but a small part of the real significance of the
scene displayed to their view.           For to them the stars were
but bright points of light, not suns as they are to us ; the
sun and moon were but two lamps moving athwart the
sky for the benefit of earth, the greater light to rule the
day, the lesser light to rule the night ; and the strange
movements of the planets as they pursue
        Their wandering course— now high, now low, then hid —
        Progressive, retrograde, and standing still,
 had no meaning save in relation to this small earth.
    1
      The sun, which, besides the     sense of sight, affects the sense of
 touch.

          THE PHOTOGRAPHIC                   EYES OF SCIENCE.             125
      With the invention of the telescope              came    discoveries
which at once gave an entirely new meaning to the celestial
scenery.  The waves which come from each orb in space,
to fall   in ordinary course upon that small surface through
which light passes to tell its message from without, were
now gathered on a larger surface, yet brought, after being
so gathered, into the same visual knowledge-field, there to
tell of greater wonders than the eye of man had yet seen, or
even that it had been given to the mind of man to conceive.
For note that before such inventions as have revealed the
feebleness    of our own unaided senses, men naturally re
garded what they saw and heard and felt as all that is ;
whereas now that stars and suns outside our range of vision
have been brought into our ken, there is no limit to the
range  of our conceptions. We feel that what we now know
of the wonders of the star depths may be as utterly insigni
ficant compared with what     as     the starscape seen and
                                       is,    is
estimated by the eye compared with the galaxy revealed by
the great Herschelian gauging telescopes.
    Nor was     less in what
               it              interpreted than in what
                                       it                                  it
showed that the telescope widened men's conceptions of
the universe.        showed the planets as worlds — some
                    It
greater, some less, than our earth — but all much vaster
than the earth as she had been regarded in ancient times.
If   did not actually reveal the stars as suns,
     it                                          taught men
                                                          it
very plainly that they are so.     The scale of the visible
universe was widened enormously at the very time when
the visible universe was shown to be but the minutest corner
of the real universe.
    Yet what the telescope has taught men has been really
taught through the eye    only what has been actually seen
                                   ;
by telescopic observers can be regarded as so much added
to our knowledge.     And even that far wider expansion of
our knowledge arising from legitimate inference has been
attained only       by
                    process of sampling carried on by the
                         a
eye,   — though with         its   powers     increased and    in   a   sense
multiplied.

126         THE PHOTOGRAPHIC                  EYES OF SCIENCE.
      Now the eye is an organ which does certain work in                        a
certain     way,    which         certain powers and certain
                             possesses
weaknesses.    The telescope may increase its powers in
some ways, but in others it cannot help the organ to which
it is but an adjunct.  For instance, whether with or without
telescopic aid, the eye requires a certain time to receive and
dispose of an impression.   It may receive an impression in
less than the hundred thousandth part of a second.    That
it does so is shown when we see a lightning flash ; which
certainly does not last so long. But it does not dispose of
the impression, so as to be ready independently to receive
new impressions, in less than the tenth of a second.    When
we look at a moving body, especially at a body in swift
motion, we recognise the difficulties arising from this pecu
liarity of eyesight ; for we find that the mind is quite unable
to separate the different impressions received during each
tenth of a second, or rather existing simultaneously all the
time that we are looking at a swiftly-moving body. If the
eye were an absolutely perfect organ, receiving and dispos
ing of each impression in an indefinitely minute portion of
time, and if the mind could deal with all the successive
images    thus conveyed to          we could see
                                        it,          cannon ball  a
distinctly at every point of its flight, we could watch separately
each spoke of      wheel of swiftly-advancing railway train —
                    a               a
nay, the details of    swiftly revolving top or gyroscope could
                        a
all be as distinctly seen as     the body were at rest.
                                    if
      Thus    is   the eye defective          in that
                                            cannot always with
                                                        it
sufficient rapidity deal with the impressions    receives.   We
                                                              it
shall presently see that in an important class of scientific
observations this     not only
                        is         defect, but renders the eye
                                              a
absolutely useless for special forms of work. There are
cases in science like the case of the ball as         leaves the      it
mouth of the cannon, where the eye does not see ill, but
not at all.  There are other cases where     sees the thing  it
that   not, — where scientific observation conducted
       is                                               the                by
eye alone indicates 'results as remote                  from the truth as the
apparent stillness of        a   sleeping top.

         THE PHOTOGRAPHIC        EYES OF SCIENCE.            127
    The eye has another defect, which, regarding sight as an
organ of scientific research, is still more serious.  The eye
receives an impression, though it does not dispose of      it,
                                                             in
a very minute fraction of   asecond.    After that short space
of time (too short to be appreciable) has passed, the impres
sion received does not increase in strength, though the
object observed may be kept in the field of view, unchanged
in position, foramuch longer time. The brain may, indeed,
in the course of time become conscious of more in the field
of view than had been noticed at first and
                                      ;      if  the conditions
of light, &c., are varying, more may actually become visible     ;
but in the one case all that    isfinally recognised had been
seen (though not noticed) from the beginning    in the latter
                                                  ;
case all that becomes visible under particular conditions of
light and shade    visible at once, not through any gradual
                  is
strengthening of an impression at first imperfectly received.
If the eye could, by continually gazing on an object, gain       a
continually strengthening impression of the object, more
being seen as minute after minute passed,    it obvious that
                                                  is
many objects in the heavens which now escape ordinary, or
even telescopic  vision, might be seen      looked at long
                                           if
enough. A nebula, for instance, so faint as to be quite
imperceptible at    amomentary view, might be seen after         a
minute's looking, or (failing that) after ten minutes or an
hour of steady gazing.   But we know that, so far from this
being the case, the eye cannot bear to be directed at the
same object for any great length of time.         It
                                                 wearies, the
object becomes less and less distinct, and at last the eye       is
 obliged to seek rest. The experiment of looking for awhile
 at  adark object on    bright ground or vice versd, or at
                        a                                        a
 coloured object, and then turning the eye to          uniform
                                                       a
 white or light grey surface, shows clearly that the longer
 the eye   used in steady looking at an object the less clearly
          is
it          object.
     sees the         For instance, when we turn the eye to
 the uniform light-tinted surface, we see as      dark object
                                                  a
 there the bright object we had been looking at        in other
                                                       ;
 words, the part of the retina on which the rays of light from

128      THE PHOTOGRAPHIC                         EYES OF SCIENCE.
the bright object had fallen has become in a certain degree
insensible to the action of light, so that before it was turned
from the bright object it received a less brilliant impression
than it had at the beginning of the observation.
    It is obvious also, that if by any means one of the de
fects here considered could be removed or corrected, the
other would be increased.
      There are, however,        and for scientific research
                                         other,
more serious defects in ordinary vision than those just con
sidered.  In observation more than mere seeing is required.
It is essential that either a trustworthy record should be
taken of what has been seen, or that the memory should be
perfect to recall it — to give a faithful picture of what has
been seen, or a clear and correct description.      Otherwise
the observer alone knows what has been seen, and the cause
of science — that           is,   the knowledge     of facts   by   many persons,
is not advanced.
     In all these three points in which the eye of man de                    is
fective, an eye provided by science        practically free from
                                                      is
fault, or if   it not yet quite free from fault, promises soon
                    is
to become so.
     Let us consider illustrative instances of the way in which
each defect      corrected when, instead of the retina, with all
                is
its defects, physical and physiological, the photographic
plate, wet or dry according                  to circumstances,       is   employed
for scientific vision.
    When we employ       high telescopic power to examine
                                     a
the disc of the sun, we might expect that the details of that
wonderful surface would be seen with     degree of distincta
ness proportioned to the size and quality of the telescope
employed. With       small telescope, those strange objects,
                                 a
the so-called solar rice-grains (really two or three hundred
                '                             '
miles in length and breadth), cannot be seen at all, for the
simple reason that the optical image of each point of                             a
luminous body                      disc, larger in proportion as the object-
                         is is
                                 a
glass or mirror                  smaller, and that the consequent blurring
of the solar grains (the enlargement of each by                        a   fringe of

       THE PHOTOGRAPHIC                     EYES OF SCIENCE.                129
light all around         it)   suffices to confuse all     of them together.
The spaces between     them are altogether lost.    No matter
how perfect the telescope for its size, or how great the mag
nifying power applied to the image formed at the focus of
the object-glass, or how keen the eye with which the magni
fied image    examined, the darker spaces between the solar
               is
rice-grains cannot possibly be seen with    small object-glass,
                                                      a
since they do not exist in the image which        forms.   But
                                                             it
when   a   large object-glass    employed, the fringes (called
                                       is
diffraction fringes) are all narrowed, and the spaces between
the rice-grains should become visible.
    But unfortunately    difficulty enters here which prevents
                                   a
anything like perfect vision of these singular objects, in the
study of which probably resides the most promising field of
future solar research.  The observer has to look at the sun
through our own air, and this air, even on the calmest and
clearest day,    not
                 is    medium through which perfect intelli
                               a
gence can be obtained respecting remote luminous                      objects
by the natural eye.    Not only are its various layers always
more or less irregularly distributed and commingled, but
they are in    state of constant movement.
               a                               If the edge of
the solar disc, as seen in    telescope, be observed carefully
                                       a
even on    a   clear, calm day, multitudes          of minute waves will be
seen in continuous oscillation, as            if   the surface of the sun
were some vast, never-resting, molten sea.                   In reality   these
waves simply indicate the disturbance                 of our atmosphere.
They show that every point of light in the solar disc vibrates
and oscillates as our air moves, like the image of star seen      a
by reflection at the surface of disturbed water.   Now     the        if
eye could take     perfectly instantaneous view, each point of
                      a
the solar disc would at that instant occupy an unchanged
position, and the image of the sun would be seen free from
all blurring, so far at least as this cause concerned. Since,
                                                    is
however, this    not the case, and since, owing to the per
                    is
manence of visible impressions, the eye    affected by all the
                                                      is
images of each point of the sun's disc visible during about
one-tenth of        a    second (in which time each point usually
                                                           K

130      THE PHOTOGRAPHIC               EYES OF SCIENCE.
accomplishes multitudinous vibrations), it is manifest that the
entire image of the disc must usually be blurred and indis
tinct. Here let us not be misunderstood.               The blurring is
not such as an ordinary eye would notice at all.                      An
observer shall look through a fine telescope at the sun, or
moon, or a planet (for of course this peculiarity affects all
such bodies), and be charmed by the sharpness and clear
ness   of the definition, — just    as he   would be charmed if he
looked through such a telescope at a distant landscape on a
fine day.       In each case each point of light in the real
object is turned into a minute disc, even by the telescope's
action, apart from the effect of atmospheric disturbance ;
but the eye does not recognise a peculiarity corresponding
in fact to what the eye itself shows when without telescopic
aid we use it to examine any object whatever.               In scientific
observation, however, we have to remember what defects
actually exist, not those alone of which the eye may be
sensible.      And the observer who has studied the sun so
persistently that he has from time to time caught moments
of atmospheric stillness and seen what lies actually there in
the solar surface, though usually blurred by atmospheric
disturbance, knows how relatively imperfect is the ordinary
view of that surface, even in the finest observing weather
 and with the most powerful telescopes yet made by man.
      So far as the human eye is concerned, this difficulty can
 never be overcome.           We might, indeed, so arrange matters
 (somewhat as Mr. Galton has recently done to obtain in
 stantaneous views of a galloping horse or a swiftly-flying
 bird), that the eye should receive instantaneous views only
 of the solar surface. 1 But no eye could in such views catch
     1
       As  I write, it seems to me by the way that the experiment might
 be well worth      trying of observing the sun through radial slits, so
 arranged near the edge of a revolving disc that each would allow a
 momentary view of the sun's disc, while the interval between the
 passage of each being the tenth of a second the view would be con
 tinuous to the eye.     This would not obviate (though it would diminish)
 the difficulty considered above, but it would reduce in almost any

         THE PHOTOGRAPHIC               EYES OF SCIENCE.             131
all the details so as to be able to reproduce them effectively
in a sketch or drawing ; and without this, such observations
of the solar surface would be of comparatively small value.
All that could be done, indeed, in this way, had already
been done, in a series of observations by Secchi, Nasmyth,
Dawes, Huggins, Langley, and others, giving general ideas,
unfortunately somewhat conflicting, of the constitution of
the solar surface, but not showing trustworthy views of
details existing at any given moment, still less showing
series of views taken systematically, so that changes occur
ring either in shorter or in longer periods of time could be
observed and duly recorded.
      In this difficulty the photographic eye supplied a perfect
resource.     The inferiority of the lustre of the solar disc
which had proved an obstacle to the successful photographic
delineation even of the spots and coarser details, was made
to help in mastering the difficulty arising from atmospheric
disturbances.       At his observatory     near Meudon,     M. Janssen
so arranged matters        that   a   shutter in which was a narrow
slit was carried athwart the solar rays in so short a time that
 — as he calculated — light was admitted from each part of
 the solar disc to the corresponding part of the photographic
 plate for only the two thousandth part           of a second.    In   so
 short a space of time the atmospheric disturbances could do
 nothing (or practically nothing) to blur the image.           And not
 only was the image thus seen, as it were, by the photo
 graphic eye, perfectly sharp and clear, but it was left (after
 development) on the photographic plate for study throughout
 all future time.     As I have often had occasion to tell mem
 bers of lecture audiences to whom Janssen's piofures of the
 solar disc have been exhibited with the oxyhydrogen lantern,
one may actually, in looking at one of these views, see more
of the detail of the sun's surface than has been seen by the
most skilful telescopist,      even though he should have studied
required degree the light and heat received from the sun, and without
 any such optical effects as result from the usual methods of protecting
the eye from the solar rays.

 132     THE PHOTOGRAPHIC         EYES OF SCIENCE.
the sun's surface on every clear day during a long observing
career.
     Consider now the importance of what in this case the
 photographic eye of science is able to effect.      On every
clear day (and scarcely a day passes during which the sun
cannot be seen in a clear sky from some one of the many
observatories at which this method might be applied), the
minutest details of the sun's surface can be observed better
than a Herschel or a Dawes has ever observed it ; what is seen
can be recorded in the minutest fraction    of a second better
than the most skilful artist could record it after many hours
of hard work (supposing such an artist could ever see these
details long enough to delineate them at all) ; and this
can be repeated hour after hour (or more quickly if changes
succeed each other rapidly), day after day, and year after year.
     In passing, I may note that by this method of rapid
photography the progress of a transit of Venus, and espe
cially the delicate changes of appearance occurring when
Venus is entering upon or leaving the disc of the sun, might
be very satisfactorily observed and recorded.     Photography
failed as applied in 1874, as physicists and astronomers
alike expected and predicted that it must fail.    The disc of
Venus, as shown in the photographs then obtained, was of
every   shape  but the right one.     Too much was in fact
attempted, with telescopes of inadequate denning power,
and without sufficiently delicate means for limiting, as in M.
Janssen's arrangement at Meudon, the period of exposure.
Had these points been attended to, well-defined pictures of
Venus in transit might then have been obtained.       If at any
suitable observatories these points should be attended to
during the next transit, such pictures may well be secured.
But it is not very likely that anything of the kind will
happen,   as the work lies    outside  the scope of unofficial
astronomers.
     Consider next a case in which the second defect of
natural vision is concerned.
     Among the objects which astronomers have found at

        THE PHOTOGRAPHIC          EYES OF SCIENCE.           133
once most interesting and most mysterious, are the great
                                              '
irregular masses of star mist, which lie, not floating many a
rood,' but spreading through countless millions of millions
of cubic miles of space. Regarded by the great Sir W.
Herschel as vast masses of fire-mist, these objects came in
later times to be looked upon as in reality congeries of stars,
or stars so closely crowded together, but so remote that even
in the most powerful telescope they were not individually
discernible.   But at length, in 1864, our great spectro-
scopist, Mr. W. Huggins, turning his telescope armed with
a spectroscope   on the nebulae, found that some among them,
and in particular the great irregular nebulae, are in reality
masses of luminous gas.       For, instead of shining with all
the colours  of the rainbow as the stars do (and as, of course,
congeries of stars must needs do), they were found to shine
with monochromatic light in some cases, with lights of three
tints only in the great majority of cases, and in a few cases
with lights of four tints.    The Orion nebula was one of
those shining with light of four tints.
     It became forthwith a matter of interest and moment to
determine the physical condition of these amazing masses of
gas (masses so vast that the whole domain of the sun, even to
the extremest limits of the solar system, sinks by comparison
into the merest point).    Are the features of the irregular
nebulae unchanging in shape ? Is the relative brightness of
different parts of such nebulae constant ? Are there signs of
any change by which portions of such nebulae may be con
densing into discrete stars ? These questions, and questions
like them, have long been asked ; but it has long been felt
that, so far as ordinary telescopic vision is concerned, they
are to all intents and purposes unanswerable.        Observers
have announced changes of shape in the great irregular
nebulae, changes of lustre, and separation into stars.     But
hitherto it has appeared in every case, on closer inquiry,
that either the observers had been deceived, or that there
was nothing to show that real changes had occurred, though
it might remain possible that such was the case.     The

134      THE PHOTOGRAPHIC            EYES OF SCIENCE.
culty consisted in this, that the luminosity of the irregular
nebulae is so faint, the varieties of lustre in different parts
are so delicate, as to render it impossible for any eye, how
ever skilful, rightly   to appreciate    them, and still  more to
delineate them so accurately that trustworthy comparisons
can be made between the pictures drawn by different ob
servers, or by the same observer at different times.
     If the eye, by resting long and patiently on an object of
this sort — say, for instance, ' that marvellous round of misty
light below Orion — could recognise more and more detail,
                     '
we might well trust to one or other         of our laborious tele-
scopists to wait and watch until at last the true shapes of
these mysterious mist masses had been determined.             But
with long looking comes only more confused vision.            In
crease of telescopic power avails nought.         Nay, the more
powerful the telescope employed, the more completely are
the more delicate portions of the luminosity lost (as light,
though by increase of size some of them may be rendered
discernible).    It must always be remembered, in consider
ing telescopic vision, that no telescopic contrivance whatever
will increase the apparent luminosity of a surface. A comet
seen through a telescope always looks fainter than the same
object appears to the naked eye.         Even the sun and moon
(though the former cannot be looked at at all through a large
telescope, and the latter only with pain), appear larger only,
not brighter, than to the naked eye — nay, not even quite so
bright.
     In  this case, then, as in the other, there is no resource
so far as ordinary human vision is concerned.            But here
again the photographic eye of science can do the work
which the human eye is unable to accomplish.               I have
before me, as I write, an enlarged positive of the . great
nebula of Orion, obtained by Dr. Henry Draper of New
York, son of Dr. J. W. Draper, the eminent physicist,
recently deceased (by whom the moon was first success
fully photographed).       In this large view of the most mys
terious object in the heavens,     I  see, without the trouble of
                          \
                            \

         THE PHOTOGRAPHIC              EYES OF SCIENCE.              135
leaving my study, more detail than can be shown to the eye
by any but the most powerful telescopes.      I have, indeed,
to make some correction for the unduly large discs of the
stars which lie in the same field of view as the nebula, and,
unless I mistake, are for the most part immersed in its
gaseous substance.         But even in the case of the stars    I   find
much to wonder at      ;    for here   I
                                   actually find rendered by
the photographic eye, stars of less than the fifteenth magni
tude — such stars as the telescope with which this grand
picture of the nebula was taken would barely show to the
keenest eye, using the telescope in the ordinary way.   They
suffice to show — these minute star-discs — that ere long the
photographic eye will ¦absolutely reveal stars fainter (nay,
very much fainter) than any that can be seen with the tele
scope itself. Only a short time ago it was considered a
triumph of the photographer's art to show stars of the eighth
and ninth magnitude ; already we have reached the four
teenth, and very nearly the fifteenth ; in a few years the
twentieth or even much smaller magnitudes will be as readily
attained.
   But, after all, the chief wonder of the photograph before
me lies in the presentation of those great masses of nebulous
matter forming the gigantic ' fish-mouth
                                             '
                                               of the Orion
nebula.    There, in the field of view, lie pictured these
mighty streams and nebulae, and branching conglomerations
of nebulous matter, which have made the nebula in Orion
the marvel of marvels (and also the mystery of mysteries)
to astronomers since Huyghens              first supposed that here he
saw through the star-sphere into ever-glorious heavens be
yond the crystalline.
                                                                    is,
    Even this picture, however, marvellous though it                is
to me less wonderful than the tiny one-inch negative from
which    ithas been enlarged.      have not indeed seen that
                                    I
negative, which still,    believe, remains in Dr. Draper's
                           I
possession    ;but I  have seen the negative of an earlier
photograph, and though the enlarged picture obtained from
it   was less excellent than the picture before me, the negative

  136     THE PHOTOGRAPHIC               EYES OF SCIENCE.
 was even more impressive — at least to one acquainted with
  the telescopic aspect   of the great Orion nebula.          For nearly
  an hour, in Dr. Draper's study,          I  had that negative before
 me, and I could have passed many hours, absorbing, so to
 speak, the evidence it gives respecting the Orion nebula.
 The longer it was studied the more detail could be seen in
 it ; no picture of the nebula which I have ever seen— though
 the finest views by Rosse, Lassell, Secchi, John Herschel,
 and others, have come under my scrutiny — no view of the
 nebula I have ever had, even with the most powerful tele
 scope, was to me half as instructive or as impressive as this
 little picture.  More detail was here, though only the study
 of a microscopic eye could recognise it. But that was not
 all ; the thought that seemed so impressive, so thrilling, as
 to surpass even the feeling of awe with which in the solemn
 darkness of night we see some mighty group of suns sweep
 into the field of view of the telescope — was this, that here
 on this tiny square inch of shore-line, with its thin film of
 chemical sands, had been received the impress of waves
 which for years had been traversing the solemn depths of
 space.     Over those millions of millions of miles had they
 swept in their swift rush, at a rate which would circle eight
 times the entire circumference of the earth in a single beat
 of a seconds pendulum, and here on this square inch of
glass had they left their message, picturing               here for us a
nebulous mass, or rather an agglomeration of such masses,
occupying billions of billions of cubic miles of space, but so
remote that to the unaided eye the entire nebula appears but
as a faint speck of misty light clinging around one of the
fainter stars in the sword of the Giant Orion. Here we have
mirrored by Nature herself ' that marvellous round of milky
light below Orion —
                     '
                 His isles of light, his silvery  streams,
                 And gloomy gulfs of mystic      shade.
I  know no greater achievement of physical science.
      But how long had the photographic eye of science to

           THE PHOTOGRAPHIC         EYES OF SCIENCE.          137
contemplate        the nebula in
                             Orion before so much was
revealed ? Janssen's photographs of the sun were taken in
the two thousandth part of a second.    Dr. Draper's tele
scope, swayed by ingenious machinery, was directed to the
Orion nebula for a period one quarter of a million times as
long — viz. for 137 minutes. For two hours and seventeen
minutes did his powerful telescope follow the nebula as the
earth's motion caused that object to be carried from east to
west, moving so truly that during the whole of that time the
image of the nebula occupied a constant position on the
photographic plate.    The tiny light-wavelets which came
from the distant nebula (after a light-journey of a score of
years, at the least) had to pour during all that time upon
the chemical plate to produce the impression indicated by
the darkening      of those parts of the negative on which the
light from the nebula had fallen. So long was the photo
graphic eye directed on the nebula, to take a single view !
    Wonderful, however, though this achievement       is,
                                                     we have
now to record achievements which, regarded as indicating
the visual capacities of the photographic eye, are still more
wonderful.
    What would have been said or thought two hundred
years ago — even by     Newton — men had been told that
                          a         if
one day an eye would be directed on the heavenly bodies,
which would not only gain more and more information re
specting the aspect of those bodies during each moment of
its gazeof two or more hours, but would actually see what
those bodies are made of, and that by means of rays to
which the        ordinary eye is absolutely insensible?  Such,
however,    is   what the photographic eye of science has been
able to do.
   In this work our own distinguished       spectroscopist,Dr.
Huggins, has shared       the labours of Dr. Draper, though in
another quarter of the globe.  Let us first, however, read
the account of his work, given by Dr. Draper in      paper
                                                       a
read before the National Academy of Sciences, at Washing
ton, in April 1882 —  :

138     THE PHOTOGRAPHIC           EYES OF SCIENCE.
     'For  about eighteen months,' he says,       'I  have been
giving attention to the nebula in Orion, with two objects in
view.   First, to ascertain whether any changes are taking
place in that body, by making a series of photographs, to be
compared in the future with a similar series ; and, second,
to photograph the spectrum      of the nebula in various parts,
so as to see whether any new lines could be found, and also
whether the composition is uniform throughout.           ...   In
carrying out the second object two contrivances have been
used : first, a direct vision prism in the cone of rays from
the objective before they had reached a focus ; and, second,
the two-prism spectroscope, with which I have taken photo
graphs of stellar spectra for some years past.        During the
month of March I have made two good photographs with
each   of these arrangements.       The results derived from
these photographs are interesting, partly from what they show,
and partly from what they promise in the future.'
     Rightly to understand what these photographs tell us, it is
necessary to remember what spectroscopic analysis applied
to the great Orion nebula had shown.        I have said that the
Orion nebula shines with light of four tints only. One of
the tints thus recognised is a tint with which (though usually
with others also) the gas nitrogen, in a state of incan
descence, is known to shine   ; two others of the lines indicate
the existence   of hydrogen in that far-off system   ; the fourth
line has not yet been associated with any known terrestrial
element, although it is near one belonging to the metal
barium, and still nearer one belonging to oxygen.           Prox
imity in these inquiries counts for nothing.       The fact that
only one line of nitrogen and only two of hydrogen can be
seen in the spectrum of the gaseous nebulas has been
regarded by Dr. Huggins as suggesting the possibility that,
in these stupendous but chaotic objects, elementary sub
stances may exist which really are constituents or elementary
 forms of hydrogen and nitrogen (erroneously regarded, in
 that case, by our physicists as elements).    Professor Clarke,
 of Cincinnati, also adopted a similar view ; and, later, others

        THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EYES OF SCIENCE.                        139
have shown signs       of coming round to the opinion as at least
probable.       Be this as it may, it will be seen what supremely
interesting questions are associated with the spectroscopic
analysis of the irregular nebulae, and how full of signi
ficance are any results which may either correct or extend
those    originally obtained by Dr. Huggins         as far back as
 1864.
    Read      in this light, the following statements from Dr.
Draper's account of his results must be regarded as among
the most interesting of those which have within the last
few years been communicated to the scientific world : —
    'The most striking feature,' he says, 'is, perhaps, the
discovery of two condensed portions of the nebula, just
                              '
preceding the trapezium (that is on the left, in a telescopic
view of four stars which lie around the dark opening,
                                  '              '
forming what is called the           fish's mouth in the nebula),
'
  which give a continuous spectrum.' In other words, these
bright portions of the nebula shine with the same kind of
light as if they consisted of multitudinous small stars — as
though the nebula were in these parts condensing into suns.
'
  At these places there is either gas under great pressure, or
liquid, or solid.'
     '
       1 have not been able,' proceeds Dr. Draper,
                                                         '
                                                           to detect
any stars of sufficient magnitude in these portions to produce
this effect, either in my photographs of the nebula, or in any
of the well-known drawings of this object.         It seems to me,
also,   that   the photographs      show evidence    of continuous
spectrum in other parts of the nebula.'
     In these respects the conclusions arrived at by Lord
Rosse in his memoir ('Phil. Trans.' June 20, 1867, p. 70),
that parts of the nebula in Orion seem to indicate signs of
resolvability into stars, are to a certain extent borne out.
     Let us here turn for a moment to consider Dr.Huggins's
account of his equally remarkable success in photographing
the spectrum      of the nebula — a success achieved, singularly
enough, in the same month (March last) in which Dr.
 Draper's photographs were obtained. In Dr. Huggins's case

Ho        THE PHOTOGRAPHIC                EYES OF SCIENCE,
it will be noticed a mist dimmed the photographic eye
before it had had time to take a good look, in fact when it
had been looking only for the comparatively short space of
three-quarters of an hour.
    On March 7 Dr. Huggins succeeded in obtaining a
photograph of the spectrum of the great nebula in Orion,
extending from the blue-green part (a little below the
hydrogen line F) far into the ultra-violet that is beyond the
range of colour by which the eye is affected.     The instru
ment employed was the 18-inch Cassegrainian belonging to
                      '
the Royal Society.      The exposure,' says Dr. Huggins,
'was limited by the coming up of clouds to forty-five
minutes.' 'The photographic plate shows a spectrum of
bright lines, and also a narrower continuous spectrum,
which I think must be due to stellar light. The bright
stars forming the trapezium in the " fish's mouth
                                                  "
                                                    of the
nebula were kept close to the side of the slit, so that the
light from the adjacent part of the nebula might enter the
slit.' In other words, Dr. Huggins was working very near,
if not actually upon, those more condensed portions of the
nebula which had given evidence to Dr. Draper that they
consist in all probability of closely aggregated stars. Along
a strip of the spectrum's breadth, corresponding, no doubt,
to the brightest part of one of these condensed portions, his
photograph showed the continuous spectrum corresponding
to stellar aggregations — that      is,
                                 he, like Dr. Draper, obtained
the kind of light which        received from an irresolvable
                               is
nebula really consisting of multitudes of minute stars.
'Outside this continuous spectrum,' that           is,
                                            corresponding
to the part of the nebula just beyond that which certainly
shone as with stellar light,        suspect,' proceeds Dr. Huggins,
                               '
                               I
    an exceedingly faint trace     continuous spectrum. In
                                   of
'
                                        a
my papers on the visible spectrum of the nebula in Orion
and other nebulae    I found four bright lines.          ...
                                                       In the
photograph these lines, which had been observed in the
visible spectrum, are faint, but can be satisfactorily recog
nised and measured.     In addition to these known lines the

           THE PHOTOGRAPHIC                EYES OF SCIENCE.               141
photograph shows a relatively strong line in the ultra-violet.'
In other words, the photograph shows, more strongly than
those lines which are visible to the eye, another line,
stronger in the photograph but utterly invisible to the eye,
because, whatever the intensity of the ether vibrations
belonging to this kind of ray, the eye has not the power of
recognising them at all.             Just as the ear is unable to recog
nise certain sounds (one may really speak of them as such,
for such they are to some auditory organs) because of their
exceeding shrillness, so the eye cannot recognise light 1
beyond the extreme violet of the spectrum because of the
exceeding shortness of its wave length.               Such light, if light
it can properly be called, was that which recorded its
presence in Dr. Huggins's photograph.
                                                      '
                                                        I cannot be cer
                       ' whether this new line is
tain,' he says,                                         really single, or is
double, or multiple.'             It appears to correspond in position
 with a line known as G in the typical spectrum of white
 stars, such as Sirius, Vega, and Altair (really bluish white).
      Speaking of this ultra-violet and invisible line, Dr.
 Draper says, I have not found this line, though
                   '
                                                                     I   have
 other lines which Dr. Huggins does not appear to have
 photographed.            This may be due to the fact that he had
                     '
 placed the slit (directed his spectroscope one might perhaps
                                                                       '
 say, though not with the same technical correctness)                    on a
 different region of the nebula,' or to the use of a different
 kind of telescope and prism, or to the use of a different
 sensitive preparation.
       That different parts of this marvellous nebula are consti
 tuted differently seems further shown by the circumstance
 that two of the fainter lines in Dr. Draper's photographic
 spectrum are apparently not of the same length as the slit,
      1
         I speak of it   as light, though perhaps with strict regard to  accu
 racy the term should be limited to rays or waves which the eye can
 actually recognise by their action in producing the visual effect called
 light.     But as there are certainly some auditory organs which can
 appreciate sounds to which others are insensible, so may it be with
  sight.    There may be creatures which can recognise ultra-violet light.

 142     THE PHOTOGRAPHIC           EYES OF SCIENCE.
one being quite short and the other discontinuous— the in
terpretation of this observation being, that only a small
portion of the nebulous region under observation shone
with one of these tints, and only small portions here and
there with the other.     '
                            If this observation should be con
firmed by future photographs of greater strength, it might
                              '
point,' says Dr. Draper, to a non-homogeneous constitu
tion of the nebula, though differences of intrinsic brightness
would require to be eliminated,' — that is to say, the apparent
shortness of one line and discontinuity of the other may be
due,   not to absence of the material shining with that
particular tint in the parts corresponding to the invisibility
of the line, but simply to those portions of the nebula being
very much fainter.
     Dr. Huggins also suspects the existence of other lines,
very faint, in the ultra-violet portion of the spectrum, but
he is not certain of their presence.      '
                                            I hope,' he says, ' by
longer exposures and with more sensitive plates, to obtain
information on this and other points,' a hope in which Dr.
Draper fully shares.    Everyone will, I think, agree with the
final remark of our veteran spectroscopist : ' It is perhaps
not too much to hope that the further knowledge of the
spectrum of the nebulae afforded us by photography may
lead, by the help of terrestrial experiments, to more definite
information as to the state of things existing in those bodies.'
How rapid has been the recent progress of photography in
this direction may be shown by the following remark of Dr.
Draper's : As illustrating the delicacy of working required
             '
in this research, it may be mentioned that in one of these
photographs the spectrum of a star of the tenth magnitude
is easily discerned.   It  is only a short time since it was con
sidered a feat to get the image of a ninth magnitude star,
and now the light of a star of one magnitude less may be
photographed even when dispersed into a spectrum.'
     Here let us consider how very wonderful is the work
which the photographic eye of science has done with the
stars themselves.    I  well remember what a revelation          it

         THE PHOTOGRAPHIC          EYES OF SCIENCE.          143
seemed to me when my friend        Dr. W. Huggins, after read
ing my first treatise on astronomy (' Saturn and its System,
written in almost perfect ignorance of the work which Dr.
Huggins and Professor Miller were doing with the spectro
scope), sent me the first report which he and his colleague
had sent to the Royal Society. That a means of research,
which had indeed already revealed much respecting the sun,
should have been applied to objects like the stars, which
even in the most powerful telescopes appear as mere points
of light— that, for instance, we should be able by means of
the teachings of a spectroscope to tell that iron, sodium,
bismuth, calcium, hydrogen, and so forth, exist in the glow
 ing gaseous atmosphere of the star Aldebaran — this seemed
 to me then so marvellous an achievement (and indeed seems
 so now) that I almost held my breath as I passed from
 paragraph to paragraph of the simply-worded report. Yet
 what I have now to speak of is even more wonderful.
      Already in 1863 Drs. Huggins and Miller had taken a
 photograph of the spectrum of the star Sirius, the first time,
 as Dr. Huggins remarks, that the rays of a star 'had re
  corded themselves upon a photographic plate after dispersion
  by a prism,' and also after dispersion by the cylindrical lens
  necessary to convert the image of a star into a line, without
 which its spectrum would itself be only a line, not a band,
  and the dark lines only breaks in the rainbow-tinted line
  instead of recognisable cross-lines. 'For certain instru
  mental reasons,' writes Dr. Huggins, 'the photographs
  which we then took did not possess sufficient purity of the
  spectrum to give them a scientific value.'
      Dr. Huggins then describes the instrumental means em
  ployed by himself in later years to obtain more perfect
  photographic spectra.     I pass over this description, except
  one passage in which he so admirably indicates the distinc
  tion between photographic and ordinary vision that I feel
  tempted to quote it verbatim.     It runs thus : ' Our common
  notion of light is limited, not by the actual extent of range
   of the radiations of a luminous body, but by the power of

i44        THE PHOTOGRAPHIC           EYES OF SCIENCE.
our eyes to see them.       Of the long range of radiations
coming from highly-heated matter, the sun for example,
only a small portion falls within the power of the eye.
Beyond the extreme violet, where visibility ends, a great
range of shorter vibrations beats upon the eye, and we know
it not.   So on the other side below the red all consciousness
of light fails us ; but here another sense, that of the feeling
of heat and warmth, enables us still to know that a radiated
influence from the hot body is coming upon us. These two
invisibles, the ultra-violet and the ultra-red, though they
cannot stimulate our eyes directly, can make themselves
known to us mediately through certain actions on other
bodies. One of these is the disturbing influence they exert
on delicately-balanced salts of silver, which we call their
photographic power. This action was regarded as so exclu
sively the property of the ultra-violet portion of the spectrum,
that these rays have been distinguished by the names
"chemical rays," "photographic          rays."   Quite   recently,
however, Captain        Abney, by the discovery of a new mole
cular condition of      silver bromide, has brought the whole of
the other end of the spectrum, the ultra-red, within the
power of the photographic plate.    He has, I believe, taken
the photograph of a kettle of boiling water in the dark by
means      of its own radiation.'
      It however, the ultra-violet part of the spectrum which
           is,
Dr. Huggins and Dr. Draper have employed to obtain their
photographic spectra of the stars, nebulas, comets, &c.   Dr.
Huggins remarks on this point that we shall, perhaps, under
rate the importance      of
                          knowledge of the ultra-violet spectra
                              a
of stars, we consider photographs as simply adding so much
            if
in length to the visible spectrum, for there are reasons why
a knowledge of this part of the spectrum may be of excep
tional value to us.
     Dr. Huggins devised very ingenious way of avoiding
                                  a
the loss of light due to the interposition of  cylindrical lens
                                                 a
for the purpose already mentioned (to change the focal image
of the star from point to line). He left the focal image
                    a             a

         THE PHOTOGRAPHIC           EYES OF SCIENCE.           145
a  point, so that the spectrum was only a line, but he allowed
the spectrum to repeat itself in a series of lines parallel to
each other, so that the same effect was produced as by a
series of lines in shading, the dark lines in the spectrum
being seen across these parallel lines at right angles to their
length (the dark lines, really made up of a series of dark
dots, breaks   in the continuity).
     I  am here    rather considering the surprising nature of
methods employed than anxious to explain the significance
of the results obtained. But I would ask in passing whether
anything can be much more impressive than the thought
that by means of the photographic eye thus ingeniously
employed, Drs. Draper and Huggins (for they attained
almost simultaneously results practically identical), science
 should have been able to classify the suns which people
 space into their several orders, setting our own sun, the star
 we know most of, in its proper place in the celestial category.
 Father Secchi had made a rough classification from ordinary
 spectroscopic observation, but by the photographic method
 the classification is shown to be absolutely justified, or rather
 enforced, by the observed distinctions between the spectra
 I have examined in Dr. Draper's studio, photographic spectra
 in which the radiations of Sirius, Vega, Capella, and Arc-
 turus are severally brought into direct comparison with the
 solar spectrum as obtained (after reflection) from the disc
 of a planet.     One recognises systematic progression from
 the spectrum of a white or bluish-white star to that of a
 yellowish- white star — like Capella, whose spectrum is almost
 absolutely the same as our sun's — and onwards to the spec
 trum of a reddish star like Arcturus.         But consider how
 wonderful is all this ! Here is science employing the photo
 graphic eye to     arrange   the stars into orders according to
  their respective   ages, and calling in the aid of a planet to
  bring the sun's  light into comparison with theirs.
      We cannot     resist the feeling, as Dr. Huggins well re
  marks, that we    really have to do in these cases with actual
                                          '
  physical change and progression.          The question presents

  146      THE PHOTOGRAPHIC         EYES OF SCIENCE.
 itself,' he says, ' Have we before us stars of permanently
 different orders, or have we to do with some of the life-
 changes through which all stars pass ? Does the sun's posi
 tion somewhere before Arcturus in the order of change
 indicate also his relative age ? On these points we know
 nothing certainly.        I
                       If may give some play to the scientific
 use of the imagination, I would ask you to imagine an in
 habitant from some remote part of the universe, seeing for
the first time an old man with white hair and wrinkled brow,
to ask, Was he born thus ? The answer would be, No ; in
this child, this youth, this man of mature age, you see some
of the life-changes through which the old man has passed.
So, giving play to the scientific imagination, there may have
been a time when a photograph of the solar spectrum would
have presented the typical lines only which are still in Vega.
At a subsequent period these would have been narrower and
more defined, and other lines would have made their appear
ance.      And if we allow the scientific imagination to project
the Friday evenings of the Royal Institution into the far
future, the lecturer, clad it may be in the skin of a white
bear, may have to describe how the spectrum of the then
feeble sun has already passed into the class of spectra
which now distinguishes the stars which shine with red light.'
      Note here also another quality of the photographic eye.
It does its work not for a day or a year, but for all time.
The pictures which       I   examined in 1880 at Dr. Draper's
house in New York, stored in the museums of distant future
ages, may be brought out for comparison with photographs
then recently taken, to show how the radiations of our sun
have changed in character from       the time when the former
photographs were obtained.
      And here in passing I must touch on a case in which it
was necessary to devise a special arrangement for preparing
the light which was to be examined by the photographic eye.
This was in the celebrated experiments by which Dr. Henry
Draper showed that oxygen exists in the atmosphere of the
sun, not, as in the case of hydrogen, in a condition enabling

         THE PHOTOGRAPHIC          EYES OF SCIENCE.           147
 it to absorb more light than it receives, but in such a condi
 tion (more intensely heated) that it emits more light than
 it absorbs, and so makes its presence known in the solar
 spectrum not by dark lines but by bright ones.           It was
 necessary for Dr. Draper, in these experiments, to bring the
 spectrum of the sun into direct comparison with that of our
 own atmosphere. He took the electric spark between elec
 trodes of iron, in the open air, so that in the spectrum of the
 spark there appeared necessarily the bright lines of oxygen
 and nitrogen, the gases which form our air.         But it was
 necessary for this purpose to have the full light of the spark,
 and the spark being irregular, not linear, a difficulty arose,
 which could not be met by using an ordinary slit as in other
 cases, for more light was wanted than could        be received
 through such a slit. Accordingly Dr. Draper caused the
 spark to travel in a slice of space left between two cheeks of
 soapstone, so that the spark could only work in a plane, and
the edge view of the spark so working was of course simply
linear. Here again the photographic eye left a perfect record,
which anyone can examine without leaving his study, for it
has been reproduced by an autotype process.         Observation
 by the ordinary visual method       could   have done little  in
 comparing the flashing, dazzling, ever- changing light of the
electric spark with the steady light of the sun.     But in the
case of the photographic eye, flashes and rapid changes pro
duce no disturbing effects ; it simply goes on recording the
quantity of light received, as steadily when the light comes
by flashes as when it comes in a uniform stream.
     I might deal further and as fully with the work done by
photography in obtaining spectra of the celestial objects —
on the whole the most important and the most expressly
scientific work which the photographic eyes of science have
yet achieved   ; I might consider Dr. Huggins's recent con
tributions to our knowledge of the spectra of comets, and to
his success in showing that comet Wells differs in several
important physical characteristics from other comets which
had been spectroscopically examined.       Attention might also
                                                        L 2

148        the photographic eyes of science.
be directed, did space permit, to the remarkable achieve
ment of Captain Abney and Mr. Schuster during the recent
eclipse in photographing the spectrum of the sun's corona.
But sufficient has already been said on this point to show
how much the photographic eye can do by long-continued
gazing to supplement the work of the easily tired and
easily satiated natural eye. We must now turn to consider
one other important point in which the natural eye is
defective.
      In ordinary telescopic observation         there is much room
for illusion and also for self-deception. An observer may
be misled by effects of contrast.                     I
                                  Thus, as have elsewhere
noted, the French astronomer Chacornac once advanced an
ingenious theory in explanation of the supposed circum
stance that the disc of Jupiter is brighter near the edge than
in the middle, the real fact being that the apparent excess
of brightness at the edge of the disc is simply an effect of
contrast against the dark background of the sky, the part
which seems the brighter being in reality the darker part of
the disc.  So again, a very         elaborate theory has been devised
to explain why the floor of         the lunar crater Plato grows darker
as the sun shines more    fully upon     instead of growing
                                                it,
brighter as   should do
               it         the real fact being that the floor
                                ;
does not grow darker at all, though as the black shadows of
the surrounding peaks diminish in extent and finally dis
appear, while the ring round the floor grows brighter till            it
gleams white against the relatively dark natural colour of
 the floor, the latter, which had      is,
                                       contrast with the shadows
 seemed lighter than      really       is by
                                      made by contrast with the
                        it it
                           relatively darker. And so in other
 bright ring around
 cases optical illusions have deceived observers and led to
 false theories in science.
      But again, an observer may be misled                by
                                                imagination
 when some favourite theory    has possession of  his mind.
'
  If,' as have pointed out elsewhere, he knows, or thinks
           I                                    '
 he knows, what he ought to see or might fairly expect to see,
 he   is   very apt to imagine that he does actually see        it.   In

             THE PHOTOGRAPHIC    EYES OF SCIENCE.              149
this way, for instance, many students of astronomy have
imagined that they have seen a small companion by a star
in a position where they had been told that such a com
panion existed, when in reality there had been some error
in the description, or in their reading of   and either no
                                               it,
such companion existed, or else       was in some entirely
                                     it
different position, and perhaps quite beyond the range of
the telescope employed by the observer.'
     And lastly, as respects the particular class of defect we
are considering, the eye, even when  may see clearly, may
                                      it
see only in part, and the observer may be quite unable to
record accurately, either in words or in drawings, what his
eye has perhaps correctly seen.    I   will take an example
from my own experience.      I  remember that when       was
                                                          I
drawing at the telescope the face of the sun, which   shown
                                                          is
in the frontispiece to my treatise on that orb,     took ex
                                                     I
ceptional pains to reproduce, without exaggeration, the
remarkable spots which were present on the solar disc.         I
thought    had succeeded, until, several months later,
             I                                           was
                                                           I
shown     photograph
             a        of the sun,  taken   day
                                           a   or  two later,
by   Dr. Rutherford, at New York, in which the same spots
(of course) are shown, so little changed in details that        it
may be taken for granted they had not changed much in
size.           comparison of my drawing with his photo
             Now,   a
graph shows that though the spots are correctly delineated
in the former, so far as details are concerned, they are with
out exception too large, as compared with the solar disc —an
enlargement not at all necessary, for the largest spot visible
on that occasion had    asurface several times larger than that
of the earth on which we live.
    If such faults as these can be recognised in pictures
drawn under favourable conditions, and with ample time
and opportunities for comparing the original with the draw
ing,   will readily be believed that where there
        it                                        hurry and
                                                     is
excitement even the most skilful artist may be led astray.
To this, for instance, we may fairly ascribe the imperfect
delineation of the solar corona before photography was

I5O        THE PHOTOGRAPHIC                 EYES OF SCIENCE.
employed.    The pictures of the corona which used to be
drawn by different observers of the same eclipse — often by
observers stationed but a few yards from each other — showed
such discrepancies as to suggest to some the theory that the
corona is only a subjective phenomenon, which appears
different to different observers, just as the halo seen around
a luminous object when the eye is dazzled depends, so far
as form, brightness, and distinctness are concerned, almost
entirely on the eye which sees         Even many who did not
                                            it.
conceive any theory- quite so preposterous as this, were led
astray by the ill-executed drawings of the corona.        re     I
member that in 1869 Mr. Lockyer and some others were so
fully assured that the corona     something not near the sun
                                           is
at all, but either in our air or around the moon, that they
were quite angry when mathematicians pointed out that
neither theory could be entertained for   moment. Now,  a
here was    case where, although indeed the mathematician
                a
could see his way clearly enough for himself, he could not
so readily    make the way clear to others.       With all the
efforts, for example, which     made to simplify the reasoning
                                    I
(actually demonstrative when understood) by which the
solar nature of the corona was established,        doubt    any
                                                            I    if
but   mathematicians    saw the  points of the  argument    and     ;
they could easily have proved     the matter for themselves, so
that explaining       to them was of small avail.
                         it                               doubt I
whether to this day the solar character of the corona would
have been generally accepted outside mathematical circles,
had not photography lent its aid to establish the true theory
 byevidence which even     child could understand.
                                   a
    To give an idea of the inefficiency of the natural eye
to deal with    matter of this sort, consider the following
                    a
 account given          by   Mr. Stone (at that time Astronomer Royal
 at the Cape).
      '
          Two persons,' he says,       '
                                           were asked   to make drawings
 of the corona, and at the end of the time one man had
 drawn    in one shape, and the other as different as
           it                                         could     it
 possibly be. The person who drew one picture was an

        THE PHOTOGRAPHIC EYES OF SCIENCE.                     151
 engineer, and was sitting side by side with the other.
 Before the eclipse was over he turned round to look at the
 other's drawing, and said,
                               " What on earth are you doing
 here?" He replied,      "I   am drawing the outer corona."
 He said it was nothing of the kind ; yet he looked and saw
 the outer corona just as the other had drawn it        ; but he
 had overlooked that it was the inner corona he was drawing
 until his attention was called to it in that way.'
      Here the observer saw correctly enough, but only in
 part. Probably both drawings were very inaccurate. Where
 an erroneous idea of the corona had been entertained,
 observers generally saw it as they thought it ought to look. It
 is indeed amusing now to read the accounts and to look at
 the pictures sent to  England after the eclipse of 1870, so
 perfectly do they serve to establish the theory that the
 corona is not a solar phenomenon ; while the photographs
 then taken were coming to England at the same time to
 show that the corona is a solar phenomenon in every detail
and to the extremest    ray the human eye has yet been able
 to catch.
     Equally remarkable was the success of photography in
 disposing of what but for its services would have been re
garded by many as proof positive of the existence of that
intra-mercurial planet of Lescarbault, which all astronomers
of repute are agreed now in regarding as a myth.       For when
news came from Pechule, in China,         that Weber had seen
a  small round spot on the sun which, an hour later, he
looked for in vain, astronomers in Europe overhauled their
diurnal photographic records of the sun's face and found
that there had been such a spot, but that it presented un
mistakable evidence of being an ordinary spot, though
small and short-lasting, having a well-defined penumbra
around its not quite circular umbral nucleus.
     Even when no theory holds possession of observers'
minds, inaccurate pictures are drawn of the same object.
One person sees one feature, and fails to notice another ;
while his attention having been arrested by the former, it

1 52      THE PHOTOGRAPHIC        EYES OF SCIENCE.
becomes more and more prominent to his imagination.
Another person may not catch the same feature, but, passing
it over, seizes upon some other, and brings it out more
strongly.    Photography has no such weaknesses.     It records
just what falls upon the prepared plate.     When due care is
taken to use the same kind of plates, and instruments nearly
equal in size and similiar in quality, we may fairly make
comparisons between pictures taken at different stations, at
different times, and so forth, to tell us what were the various
 aspects of one and the same object under those various
 conditions, or we may safely compare pictures of different
 objects taken at the same time and under the same con
 ditions.   In other words, the photographic eye is found to
 be trustworthy, where the human eye is too often unreliable,
 or even deceptive.
      We must speak, however, rather of the photographic
 eyes than of the photographic eye of science.      For the eye
 which takes views in the minutest fraction of a second
 cannot, clearly, be regarded as the same eye which requires
 hundreds of thousands of times as long to take a single
 view ; nor can either be regarded as the same eye which,
 neither with exceeding haste nor with exceeding delibera
 tion, takes just and truthful portraits of celestial objects,
 seen less truly by the human eye, and either misjudged or
 misunderstood.     With its three eyes — the eye of keenness,
 the eye of patient watchfulness, and the eye of artistic
 truth, photography promises to be a Cerberus to the science
  of the future, whose watchfulness will prevent the admission
  of error and detect truths which otherwise would escape
  us.   But, indeed, with photography, spectroscopy, polari-
  scopy, and other aids, science promises soon to be Argus-
  eyed.

                                  »S3
                SOLAR SURROUNDINGS.
Dr. William Huggins,           eminent physicist and as
                                 the
tronomer, entertains the confident belief that he has
succeeded in photographing the solar corona without the
aid of a total solar eclipse. I am myself not quite con
vinced that what he has photographed is really the corona,
though I would fain hope so.  And yet the evidence seems
strong enough.     His method is simple and probably well
known not only to men of science in America, but to most
of that large population there which, without being scientific,
takes interest in scientific matters. I therefore only sketch
it,   and that lightly.
    He takes advantage of the fact that    large proportion
                                               a
of the light of the corona belongs to the violet end of the
spectrum, and uses absorptive media which allow this sort
of light and this only to pass freely through. Then, when
the photographing telescope       turned toward the sun and
                                   is
the coronal region, the violet light of the corona, which        is
relatively strong, only has to contend against the violet light
from the sky around the sun's place, and has at least better
                                                         a
chance of making its presence known — in other words,            a
better chance of recording       recognisable picture of the
                                  a
coronal streamers on the photographic plate, on which
necessarily the light from the sky        combined with the
                                          is
light from the corona.       seems clear that,
                            It                    the image
                                                   if            is
taken first near the centre of the telescopic field and then
near    a   side, any optical effects due to the structure   of the
telescope     itself must be detected and eliminated.   Streamers

154              SOLAR SURROUNDINGS.
simulating a coronal appearance could not possibly be alike
in both positions. So any other purely instrumental pecu
liarities can, it would seem, be corrected.    As for any
coronal streamers caused by our own atmosphere, they
must be corrected if we take pictures on different days or
at different hours.    If, under such varying conditions, we
find that still certain streamers remain which can be recog
nised as the same in all the different pictures, it certainly
seems as though there must be true coronal streamers.   This
is what Dr. Huggins claims to have done, and it is what his
pictures really seem to show that he has done.     So that I
scarcely know how to justify the doubts which yet I cannot
help entertaining. These streamers are so faint and shadowy
(though that of course they could not but be), it is so easy
'
  to make believe a good deal,' as Dick Swiveller puts     in         it,
looking at appearances so delicate, especially when (as in
my own case) we wish very much to believe that       great        a
scientific triumph has been achieved, that an excess of
caution comes over me, and despite the agreement of men
so competent to judge as Dr. Huggins, Professor Stokes,
and Captain Abney, my mind in this matter asks for
                                                              '
more.1
      Perhaps one would not be so ready to entertain still                  a
little doubt were it not that the matter  one which can so
                                            is
very readily be tested.  Dr. Huggins's method     one which
                                                         is
can be applied under especially favourable conditions in
the clear skies of America.      There are also in America
magnificent instruments for testing the method.     should    I
be glad to learn that the mantle of my late most esteemed
friend Dr. Henry Draper had fallen on         successor as
                                                 a
zealous in the cause of science as he was   nay, even that
                                                 ;
the instruments he employed so successfully had been
directed again to the class of work for which he made
them, but with   a slight change of subject   Solar photo
graphy    making great progress in England
         is                                    but we have
                                                     ;
not the favourable conditions which exist in America.                       It
has even been     said by   a   French   author, who under the

                     SOLAR SURROUNDINGS.
no7?i   de plume of Max O'Rell (impossible name !) has re
cently discussed John Bull and John's Island, that we
photograph the sun in England whenever we get the
chance lest we should forget him. Without being quite so
bad as that, our atmosphere is certainly not the best suited
in the world for the very delicate and difficult problem
attacked by Dr. Huggins.           (Professor Daniel Draper has
indeed shown that out of 4,449 possible hours of sunshine,
New York had 2,936 actual sunshine hours in 1878, and
3,101 in 1879, say in round numbers 3,000 hours ; whereas
at Greenwich, with only two hours less of possible sunshine,
there were but 1,245 hours of actual sunshine in 1878 and
977 in 1879, an average of 1,111 hours only.)
      It  may perhaps be thought, by some who have noted
the supposed discovery made by Dr. Hastings and Professor
Holden during the eclipse of May 1883, that astronomy ought
to assure     itself that the corona exists, before attempting to
photograph it. If the corona has really been proved to be
merely a phenomenon of diffraction, as has been so con
 fidently and also so strangely asserted, the diffraction taking
 place at the moon's edge, then, of course, when the moon is
 not there to produce that diffraction corona, it is idle to
 attempt to photograph what — in that case — has no existence
 even as an optical phenomenon.
      It  has been with not a little surprise that the news     of
 this noteworthy discovery has been received by astronomers.
 An observation which, if it prove anything, proves only what
 everyone knew must be the case — viz., that light passing
 close by the moon in total eclipse undergoes diffraction — is
 astoundingly accepted as explaining the solar corona with
 its complex structure, its long streamers, its faint extension
 along the zodiac even beyond the streamers five millions of
 miles in length seen by Professor Cleveland Abbe in 1878,
 and by General Myer in 1869.          It is perfectly well known
 that diffraction could account only for a fine coronal ring    of
 light, not even for the inner bright corona, still less for the
 structured corona near the sun, and least of all for the long

                   SOLAR SURROUNDINGS.
streamers.     Yet the mere circumstance that Dr. Hastings
saw what it was practically certain beforehand he would see
if he looked for it — viz., evidence of diffraction— is at once
taken   as full and complete evidence about matters        with
which it is not in the remotest degree connected.
    The theory that the corona is not a solar appendage was
not altogether an unreasonable, though it was a demonstrably
wrong theory, fifteen years ago.      It was clear even then to
those who considered the matter attentively that none        of
the non-solar theories which had up to that time been
advanced (including the diffraction theory discussed half a
century ago by Baden Powell) were sound. But even the
scientific world has been slow to accept the results of mere
reasoning ; so that in 1869, when the celebrated American
eclipse occurred, astronomers were beginning to hope that
photography would dispose of the solar corona as it had
already disposed of the solar prominences.           There had
been some who denied that the coloured prominences could
belong to the sun, pointing to difficulties akin to those
which Mr. Larkin urges, I see, in 'The Kansas City Review'
against the doctrine that the corona is solar.       Then pho
tography, showing in successive views of the totality in i860
how the moon passes athwart the coloured flames, disposed
definitely of the lunar and atmospheric theories of the
garnets round a brooch of jet, as the coloured flames had
been poetically called.     Photography in 1870 did the like
for the corona.       An American photographer at Xerez, in
Spain, and an English photographer at Syracuse, in Sicily,
showed in their views the same radiations, rifts, gaps, and
general structure in the corona, which could never have
happened if the atmospheric glare, the lunar explanation,
or any other but the solar theory of the corona had been
sound.     In 187 1, in India, six photographs taken at Baikul,
close to the sea-shore, and six taken at Ootacamund, some
10,000 feet above the sea-level, showed the same coronal
features, all twelve of them.        This was not so much a
demonstration as the first easy proof oi the solar nature of

                        SOLAR SURROUNDINGS.                                 «S7
the corona — for even a schoolboy (not Macaulay's school
boy, who knew everything, but a real one) could see that,
unless the corona were far beyond our atmosphere and far
also beyond the moon, it could not possibly show the same
features           not only from stations hundreds of miles
            as seen,
apart, but also at the beginning of totality when the moon's
eastern edge is just hiding the corresponding edge of the
sun, and throughout   totality to the last moment when the
western edges of the globes are in apparent contact.   Con
sider the mighty shadow of the moon sweeping along past
and over the observer, remembering what the shadow in
our air really         is,
                    great cylindrical (really
                             a                 frustum of   a                a
cone but very nearly cylindrical) region of darkness from
fifty to   hundred miles or so in diameter
           a                                    and see the ;
impossibility      that when         the   observer   is   on the extreme
eastern       and on the extreme western side of that
           side
shadowed region he should see the same appearance in the
air, or anywhere but in     region many millions of miles
                                 a
away, as around the sun.      Add the impossibility that at
stations two or three hundred miles apart the same appear
ances are seen, and not only seen but pictured by the un
erring pencil of photography.
    Yet   must be admitted that
           it                                    certain interpretation of
                                             is a
the corona as    solar appendage
                   a                            so full of difficulties that
one cannot wonder at its having proved    stumbling block
                                                       a
to many.    mean the view that the corona
               I                              solar atmo    is   a
sphere.   The existence of gaseous matter in the corona
does not any more prove, as some seem to imagine, that
the corona    an atmospheric envelope, than the existence
                  is
of gaseous matter in comets, demonstrated over and over
again, proves                  form an atmospheric envelope of
                       that comets
the sun.        The whole aspect of the corona seems to me to
show unmistakably that the several parts                   of that solar ap
pendage        are as free from atmospheric association with the
sun as are meteor streams and the heads and tails                    of comets.
I  doubt even for my own part whether what we call the
visible surface of the sun indicates the extension of con               a

 IS8                SOLAR SURROUNDINGS.
tinuous solar atmosphere to that distance from the sun's
 centre.    And that the sierra (which some still call the
'                                                       '
  chromosphere,' a word as correct and pleasing as photo
graph' to a classical ear) is not really an atmospheric
envelope, in the correct sense of the expression, seems clear
when we consider its depth and the inconceivable pressures
which would exist at the base of such an atmosphere under
the solar gravity, exceeding more than twenty-seven fold
that at the earth's surface.
     If  Dr. Huggins's photographs of the corona are real, the
doubts even of those not capable of understanding the
photographic evidence already obtained will be dispelled ;
and to question the solar nature of the corona will be held
as obviously absurd as it would now be in the presence of
the daily study of the solar prominences to maintain that
they are only phenomena of diffraction.
     Rather strangely in the same number of the ' New York
Tribune ' the following remarks from Professor Young, of
Princeton, N.J., appear : — Granting for the moment that
the corona is in part and largely composed of an envelope
of exceedingly rare gaseous matter around the sun — then
we may call it an atmosphere, because being gaseous, and
attached to a cosmical body, it bears to that body a relation
analogous to that borne by our atmosphere to the earth
itself.   So far the term is a proper one.    But now, further,
and on the contrary, the term ' atmosphere ' carries with it
to most persons certain ideas as to the distribution of tem
perature, density, &c, in its different parts, which are based
on the fact that our terrestrial atmosphere is nearly quiescent
and in static equilibrium under the force of gravity, with a
temperature not more than two or three hundred degrees
above the absolute zero, while the density of the portion
accessible to human observation is very considerable.       On
the sun the conditions are immensely, and almost incon
                                       '             '
ceivably, different, so that the term atmosphere becomes
a very misleading one.       There the equilibrium, so far as
there is any, is dynamical, not statical, and the density,

                  SOLAR SURROUNDINGS.                        »59
temperature,  and condition of the gaseous substance is far
more nearly that of the residual gas in a Crookes's vacuum
tube through which an induction coil is sending electrical
discharges  ; so   different   from  that of ordinary air that
Crookes thought he had found a fourth state of matter,
bearing   some   such    relation to the gaseous   state as the
gaseous does to the liquid.

i6o                   THE PLANET MARS.
                   THE PLANET MARS.
Mars    was doubtless one     of the first among celestial objects
whose     planetary nature was recognised by ancient astrono
 mers.     It would be a question of purely speculative interest
to discuss whether Jupiter or Mars was the first discovered
planet.      Despite the superior brilliancy of Venus, one or
 other of the two planets named must have been the object
 which first, after the sun and moon, was noticed as a wan
 dering orb.      For the circumstance that Venus was known
 originally under two names, suffices to prove — what, in
 deed, might be anticipated independently      — that the ancients
 failed at first to recognise the brilliant stars of evening and
 morning as one and the same object. Jupiter, second only
 in brilliancy to Venus at her brightest, and, unlike her,
 resplendent during the darkest hours of the night, must
 have attracted the attention of men, as soon as they com
 menced to notice the stars at all.        Yet his motion among
 the fixed stars might have escaped the notice of astronomers
 for some little time — because, although sufficiently con
 spicuous when attention is directed to the planet for several
 weeks, the motion does not in a few days produce a marked
 change     in the position of the planet.     Mars, less brilliant
 than Jupiter, yet shines, at times, more brightly than any of
 the fixed stars,    and his ruddy tint serves to render his
 appearance more remarkable than it would otherwise be.
 Once noticed with attention, even for a few days only in
 succession, Mars must have been recognised as a planet,
 since   he moves     rapidly among the fixed stars.      On this

                    the planet mars.
account he might possibly have preceded Jupiter as respects
the epoch of his recognition as a planet.        On the other
hand, there is a circumstance in Jupiter's favour — that he
comes to opposition at intervals of thirteen months and
shines brightly for several months preceding and following
opposition ; whereas, Mars only comes to opposition at
intervals of about twenty-six months, and the brilliancy with
which he shines when in opposition is quickly attained and
as  quickly lost.  On the whole, the probability is that the
discovery of Jupiter's nature preceded by a few months that
of Mars. The date of each discovery must undoubtedly be
placed in the remotest antiquity.
     At  an  early period the planet Mars was noted by
astronomers as distinguished from his fellow-wanderers by
several remarkable peculiarities.    I have already mentioned
the rapid variation of brilliancy recurring during the progress
of each opposition — by which term I refer to the interval (of
several months) in about the middle of which opposition takes
place.    But this is not the sole, nor the most noteworthy
peculiarity affecting the brilliancy of Mars.      For whereas
in different oppositions the planet Jupiter was noticed to
present always about the same degree of brilliancy, Mars
was observed to be very variable in this respect : at some
oppositions he approached the planet Jupiter in brilliancy,
at others he scarcely exceeded Saturn.         A  recurrence of
 several brilliant oppositions followed by a recurrence of
 several in which the planet's light shone less brightly, was
 also a phenomenon noticed by ancient astronomers.         They
 do not appear to have detected the fact that the brilliancy
 of Mars was always greater when he came to opposition in
 one particular region of the Zodiac.      Nor do they seem to
 have noticed the period   —  on an average about sixteen years
 — which seemed to belong to the cycle of variation.
     Another circumstance which at an early epoch attracted
 the notice of astronomers, was the variability in the interval
 separating successive oppositions of the planet — or, in other
 words, the variable synodical period of Mars.      Slight varia-
                                                          M

                      THE PLANET MARS.
 tions might have been noticed in the synodical periods of
 other planets — but nothing approaching the remarkable
 variability of Mars in this respect.         The consideration of
 the orbit of Mars, and of his motion therein, on which
 this peculiarity and those noted in the planet's variation
 of brilliancy will be found to depend, is left to another
 occasion.
     Mars, shining with a ruddy light, which waxes and wanes
in a striking yet mysterious manner, was selected in very
ancient times as the planet of war.           Astronomers selected
for their symbol the shield and spear of the warrior of ancient
times — a selection alluded to by Tennyson in the lines de
scribing how in a vision Maud —
                          She pointed to Mars
         As he glowed like a ruddy shield on the Lion's breast.
 It may be remarked that         that was said in 1863, and now
again —
           Mars glows like a ruddy shield near the Lion's heart.
     Astrologers assigned to Mars an influence corresponding
to his association with war and warlike ideas.              A person
born when the influence of Mars was in the ascendant, was
supposed to be characterised in a marked degree by those
virtues and defects which have been associated from time
immemorial with the martial character.              Alchemists con
sidered the metal iron to be placed under the special
influence of Mars. The association is probably very ancient,
far preceding, doubtless, the period to which the invention
of alchemic arts is usually assigned.        In  the present day the
association seems very natural, when it is considered how
largely iron enters into the construction of nearly every war
like weapon.      But of old this was not so, and it is possible
that other associations than those connected with the em
ployment of iron were assigned to Mars.              It is not impro
bable, however, that this happened later, and when the
advantages    of the use of iron in the construction of warlike
weapons were beginning to be recognised.

                                i63
                      LIFE IN MARS.
 All that    we have learned about     Mars leads to the con
clusion that it is well fitted to be the abode of life.     We
can trace, indeed, the progress of such changes as we may
conceive that the inhabitants of Venus or of Mercury must
recognise in the case of our own earth.         The progress of
summer and winter in the northern and southern halves of
the planet, the effects due to the progress of the Martial
day,    from sunrise to sunset — nay, even hourly changes,
corresponding to those which take place in our own skies,
as clouds gather over our continents, or fall in rain, or are
dissipated by solar heat : such signs as these that Mars is
a world like ours can be recognised most clearly by all
who care to study the planet with a telescope      of adequate
power.
     As regards the atmosphere of Mars, by the way, the
earliest   telescopic observers  fell into a somewhat strange
mistake.     For, noticing that stars seemed to disappear from
view at some considerable distance from the planet, they
assigned to the Martial atmosphere a depth of many hun
dreds of miles — I care not to say how many.      More careful
observation, however, showed that the phenomenon upon
which so much stress had been laid was merely optical.
Sir  J.   South and other observers, carefully studying the
planet with telescopes of modern construction, have been
able to prove abundantly that the atmosphere of Mars has
no such abnormal extension as Cassini and others of the
earlier telescopists had imagined.
                                                        M 2

164                        LIFE IN   MARS.
    The early observations made on the polar snows of Mars
were more trustworthy.    Maraldi found that at each of two
points nearly opposite to each other on the globe of the
planet,   a white   spot could be recognised, whose light,
indeed, was so brilliant as to far outshine that emitted by
the remainder of the disc.    The idea that these white spots
correspond in any way to the polar snows on our own earth
does not seem to have occurred to Maraldi.      Yet he made
observations which were well calculated to suggest the idea,
for he noticed that one of the spots had at a certain time
diminished greatly in size. Instead, however, of ascribing
this change to the progress of the Martial seasons, he was
led to the strange conclusion that the white spot was under
going a progress of continuous decrease, and he even
announced the date when, as he supposed, it would finally
disappear.
   No such disappearance took place, however.   When Sir
W. Herschel began his series of observations upon Mars,
more than half a century later, the spots were still there.
The energy of our great astronomer did not suffer these
striking features to remain long unexamined.    Searching, as
was his wont, after terrestrial analogies — or, at least, ana
logies depending on known facts — he was quickly led to
associate the white spots with our arctic regions.   It would
follow, of course, that in the summer months of either
Martial hemisphere, the snow-cap would be reduced in size,
while in the winter it would attain its greatest dimensions.
Sir W. Herschel found this to be the case, and he was able
to show that the changes which Maraldi had interpreted as
suggesting the eventual disappearance of one of the bright
spots, were due to the progress of the Martial summer.
Precisely as in our summer months, those who voyage
across the Atlantic may sail in far higher latitudes than they
could safely venture to traverse in winter, so in Mars the
polar ice and snow is limited within a far narrower region in
summer than in winter.
    But after all     may be urged), to suppose that these
                    (it

                        LIFE IN MARS.
 two bright spots are formed in reality of ice and snow is
 rather venturesome.   Might we not imagine that some
 other material than water is concerned in the observed
 changes ?   What reason have we for inferring that the
 same elements that we are familiar with exist out yonder
in space ?
    The answer to these questions — or, rather, the answers,
for we have to do with a whole series of facts, dovetailing
in the most satisfactory manner into each other — will be
found full of interest.
    We all know that Mars shines with a ruddy light. He
 is,
   indeed, far the ruddiest star in the heavens   Aldebaran:
and Antares are pale beside him.       Now, in the telescope
the surface of Mars does not appear wholly red.    We have
seen that at two opposite points his orb exhibits white
spots.   But, besides   these regions,    there      are others which
are not red.   Dark spaces are seen, sometimes strangely
complicated in figure, which present well-marked tinge of
                                           a
greenish blue.    Here, then, we have     feature which we
                                               a
should certainly expect to find   the polar spots are really
                                     if
snow-caps for the existence of water in quantities sufficient
          ;
to account for snow regions covering many thousand square
miles of the surface of Mars would undoubtedly lead us to
infer the existence of oceans, and these oceans might be
expected to resemble our own oceans in their general tint.
According to this view, the dark greenish-blue markings on
Mars would come to be regarded as the Martial seas.
    If this be the case, then may note in passing that the
                                I
seas of Mars cover a much smaller proportion of his surface
than those of our own earth, the extent of our seas being to
that of our continents about the proportion of  to     in  1   1       4
                                                                       :
Mars the land and sea surfaces would seem to be nearly
equal in extent.   The seas in Mars are also very singu
larly shaped.    They run into long inlets and straits                     ;
many are bottle- or flask-shaped — that we see is,
                                               some                a
what rounded inland sea connected with what must be
called the main ocean      by   a   narrow inlet     ;   and further       it

                        LIFE IN MARS.
would seem as though oceanic communication must be far
more complete in Mars (notwithstanding the relative small
ness of his ocean surface) than on our own earth.         One
could travel by sea between all parts of Mars, with very few
exceptions, the long inlets and the flask-shaped seas breaking
up his land surface much more completely than the actual
extent of water would lead us to infer. It may be supposed
that on the other hand land communication is far more
complete in the case of Mars than in that of our own earth.
This    indeed, the case, insomuch that such Martialists as
       is,
object to sea travelling (and we can scarcely suppose sea
sickness to be   a  phenomenon peculiar to our own earth)
may very readily avoid        and yet not be debarred from
                            it,
visiting any portion of their miniature world, save one or
two extensive islands.     Even these are separated   by
                                                       such
narrow seas from the neighbouring continents, that we may
regard  itas fairly within the power of the Martial Brunels
and Stephensons to bridge over the intervening straits, and
so to enable the advocates of land-voyaging to visit those
portions of their planet.   This view     encouraged by the
                                          is
consideration that all engineering operations must be much
more readily effected in Mars than on our own earth.    The
force of gravity  so small at the surface of Mars that
                 is                                         a
mass which on the earth weighs     apound, would weigh on
Mars about six and     quarter ounces, so that in every way
                        a
the work of the engineer, and of his ally the spadesman,
would be lightened.  A being shaped as men are, but four
teen feet high, would   be as active asman six feet high,
                                          a
and many times more powerful.     On such     scale, then,
                                               a
might the Martial navvies be framed.   But that    not all.
                                                    is
The soil in which they would work would weigh very much
less, mass for mass, than that in which our terrestrial
spadesmen    labour.  So that, between the far greater powers
of Martial beings, and the far greater lightness of the
materials they would have to deal with in constructing roads,
canals, bridges, or the like, we may very reasonably con
clude that the progress of such labours would be very much

                          LIFE IN MARS.                       167
more rapid, and their scale very much more important than
in the case of our own earth.
     But let us return to our oceans, remembering that at
present we have not proved that the dark greenish-blue
regions we have called oceans really consist of water.
     It might seem hopeless to inquire whether this is the
case. Unless the astronomer could visit Mars and sail upon
the Martial seas, he could never learn— so at a first view
one might     fairly judge — whether the dark markings he
chooses to call oceans are really so or not.
     But he possesses an instrument which can answer even
such a question as this.       The spectroscope, the ally of the
telescope — of small use in astronomical work without the
latter, but able to tell us much which the most powerful
telescope could never reveal — has been called in to solve
this special problem.        It cannot, indeed, directly answer
our question.       It cannot so analyse the light from the
greenish markings as to tell us the nature of the material
which emits or reflects to us that peculiarly tinted light.
But the astronomer and physicist is capable of reasoning as
to certain effects which must necessarily follow if the Planet
of War have oceans and polar snow-caps, and which could
not possibly appear if the markings we call oceans were not
really so, nor the white spots at the Martial poles really
snow-caps.     Extensive seas in one part of the planet, and
extensive snow regions in another, would imply, in a manner
there could be no mistaking, that the vapour of water is
raised in large quantities from the Martial oceans to be
transferred by Martial winds to polar regions, there to fall
in snow-showers. It is this aqueous vapour in the Martial
atmosphere     that   the spectroscope can inform us about.
Our spectroscopists know quite well what the vapour of
water is capable of showing in the rainbow-tinted streak
which is called the spectrum.        When white light is caused
to shine through a sufficient quantity    of the vapour of water,
the rainbow-tinted       streak forming the spectrum of white
 light  is seen   to   be crossed by certain dark lines,   whose

168                   LIFE IN MARS.
position and arrangement there is no mistaking.    Now the
light we get from Mars is reflected sunlight, but it is sun
light which has been subjected to more than reflection,
since it has passed twice through the depths of the Martial
atmosphere,    first while passing to his surface, and secondly
while leaving that surface on its voyage towards ourselves.
If that double passage have carried it through the vapour of
water, the spectroscope will certainly tell us of the fact.
     Let us see how this problem was dealt with by our most
skilful spectroscopist, Dr. Huggins, justly called the Herschel
of the spectroscope.      The following account is an epitome
of his own narrative : — 'On Feb.    14,   1868, he examined
Mars with a spectroscope attached to his powerful eight-
inch refractor. The rainbow-coloured streak was crossed,
near the orange part, by groups of lines agreeing in position
with those seen in the solar spectrum when the sun is low
down and so shines through the vapour-laden lower strata
of our atmosphere.      To determine whether these lines
belonged to the light from Mars or were caused by our own
atmosphere, Dr. Huggins turned his spectroscope towards
the moon, which was at the time nearer to the horizon than
Mars, so that the lines belonging to our own atmosphere
would be stronger in the moon's spectrum than in that of
the planet. But the groups of lines referred to were not
visible in the lunar spectrum. It remained clear, therefore,
that they belonged to the atmosphere       of Mars, and not to
our own.'
    This observation removes all reasonable doubt as to the
real character as well of the dark greenish-blue markings
as of the white polar caps.   We see that Mars certainly
possesses seas resembling our own, and as certainly that he
has his arctic regions, waxing and waning, as our own do,
with the progress of the seasons.  But in fact Dr. Huggins's
observation proves much more than this.        The aqueous
vapour raised from the Martial seas can find its way to the
Martial poles only along a certain course — that        is,
                                                          by
traversing  a Martial  atmosphere.  Mars   certainly has  an

                       LIFE IN     MARS.
atmosphere,   therefore,  though whether the constitution of
that atmosphere exactly resembles that of our own air is not
so certainly known.      On this point the spectroscope has
given no positive information, yet it allows us to draw this
negative inference — that, inasmuch as no new lines are seen
in the spectrum of the planet, it would seem likely that no
gases other than those existing    in our own atmosphere are
present in the atmosphere    of Mars.
    But we are naturally led to inquire whether the pheno
mena which our meteorologists have to deal with — clouds,
fog, and mist, wind-storms and rain-storms — can be re
cognised, either directly or in their effects, when Mars is
studied with the telescope.     The answer is full of interest.
We have been able to learn much respecting the meteor
ology of this distant world.     In the first place, we see that
at times the features of his globe — those well-recognised
markings which indicate the figure of oceans and continents
— are hidden from view       as if by clouds.    A  whitish light
replaces the well-marked red colour of the continents or the
equally well-marked green-blue tint of the oceans.           But
more.    We can at times actually watch the gradual clearing
up of the Martial skies, for we can see the whitish region of
light gradually growing smaller and smaller, the features it
had concealed coming gradually into view.          On one occa
sion Mr. Lockyer was observing Mars with an excellent
telescope, when he became aware that a change of this sort
was in progress.     A certain well-known sea was partially
concealed from view by a great cloud-mass spreading over
many thousand square miles of the Martial surface.            But
as the hours passed, the clouds seemed to be melting away,
whether by the sun's heat or because they had fallen in rain
was,   of course,   not determinable.     When Mr. Lockyer
ceased observing for the evening — at about half-past eleven
— a large proportion of the sea before concealed had come
into view.   But on the same night, the eagle-eyed Dawes,
the prince   of modern telescopists, as he has been called,
was also studying the Planet of War.         Waiting until the

                       LIFE IN      MARS.
outlines of the oceans and continents had become clearly
discernible, he made ('in the wee sma' hours ayont the
twal ') an excellent drawing of Mars. When this was com
pared with the drawing made at an earlier hour by Mr.
Lockyer, it was seen that the clouds which had concealed
a portion of the planet had, at the later hour, passed com
pletely away, insomuch that the whole of the shore line,
which was at first concealed, had been restored to view.
And it is worthy of notice, that, referring these events to
Martial time, the cloudy weather in this part of Mars appears
to have occurred in the forenoon, the midday hour (as often
happens on  earth) bringing clear weather, which would
seem to have lasted until the Martial afternoon was far
advanced.
    But we can also learn something of the general progress
of the weather during a Martial day. It would seem that,
as a rule, the Martial mornings and evenings are misty.
This, at least, seems the most satisfactory explanation of the
whitish light which is usually seen all round the planet's
disc ; for the parts of the planet which lie near the edge of
the disc are those where the sun is low — that     is,
                                                   where    it   is
either morning or evening out yonder on Mars.        The pre
sence, therefore, of this whitish light would seem to indicate
misty mornings and misty evenings in Mars.
   It  seems clear too that — as with ourselves — winter         is
more cloudy than summer for     ;     it  always noticed that
                                           is
near the    Martial solstices the markings on that half of the
planet where winter      in progress are very indistinctly
                        is
seen,  whitish light sometimes replacing the red and green
        a
markings altogether in these regions.  On the contrary, the
regions where summer     is   in progress are generally very well
seen.
    The reader will infer from what has been said on these
points, that the study of Mars cannot be carried on very
rapidly by our astronomers    for, in the first place, Mars
                                ;
only returns to our midnight skies at intervals of more than
two years, and he remains but for      short time favourably
                                           a

                       LIFE IN     MARS.                    171
placed for observation.    Then one half of his surface only
can he seen at a time, and nearly one-half even of that
hemisphere is commonly concealed by clouds, which also
extend all round the disc, so that, perhaps, but about one-
eighth of the planet's surface can be favourably studied.
When we add to these considerations the circumstance that
not one night out of ten in our climate — or, perhaps, in any
— is well suited for the    use  of powerful telescopes,  while
even favourable    nights cannot always be devoted to the
study of Mars (other celestial objects often requiring special
attention), it will be understood that the progress of dis
covery has not been so rapid as, at a first view, might be
expected.    When we are told that more than two centuries
have elapsed since the telescopic study of Mars began, it
seems as though ample time had been given for research ;
but the time which has been actually available for that
purpose has been far more limited than that estimate would
imply.
     And now, returning to the consideration of the probable
condition of Mars, with respect to those circumstances
which we regard as associated with the requirements of
living creatures, let us briefly inquire how far we can deter
mine aught as to the geological structure of the planet.
Here the spectroscope cannot help us. The telescope, and
such reasoning as may fairly be applied to the relations
already dealt with, must here be our main resource.        We
see,  then, that the land regions of the planet present a
ruddy tinge.    Sir John Herschel has suggested, and     I  am
not here concerned to deny, that this is probably due to the
ochreish nature of the soil.     The planet, in fact, is to be
regarded as perhaps passing through a geological era re
sembling that through which our own earth was passing
when the Old Red Sandstone constituted the main propor
tion of her continents.    But it certainly must be admitted,
as a remarkable circumstance, that we can trace no signs of
extensive forests in Mars, nor any such appearances as we
should imagine that our prairies must present to telescopists

IJ2                              LIFE IN   MARS.
in Venus or Mercury.      One is almost invited to adopt the
bizarre notion of that French astronomer who suggested
that vegetation on Mars is red instead of verdant — that in
this distant and miniature world the poet may sing of spring,
more truly than our terrestrial poets, that —
                       She Cometh blushing like a maid.
As respects the absence of forests, we may perhaps find                    a
sufficient explanation in the fact that lofty trees would exist
under somewhat unfavourable conditions in Mars ; for
gravity being so much less than on our own earth, the
stability of objects having equal dimensions would be corre
spondingly reduced.     On the other hand, the winds which
blow in Mars are probably, as Professor Phillips has pointed
out, exceedingly violent ; so that to quote a striking paper
which appeared long since in the Spectator (in a review of
    '
my Other Worlds         currents of air in Mars are of more
                           '),   if
                                 '
than usual violence, while the solidifying force of friction
which resists them   much smaller than here,
                           is                      may be   it             a
reasonable inference that " natural selection " has already
weeded out the loftier growing trees, which would stand less
chance in encounters with hurricanes than our own.' The
absence of prairies   not so easily explained, however and
                          is                                           ;
the idea     in fact, suggested that some of those regions
             is,
which have hitherto been included among the Martial seas,
are in reality regions richly covered with verdure.                Nor are
we wholly without evidence            in favour of this view   ;for there
is
a   certain very wide tract             in Mars respecting which Mr.
Dawes remarked to me that                he found himself greatly per
plexed.
          '
              At     times,' he said,        seem to see clear traces of
                                      I I'
seas there   ;     but at other times      find no such traces.' These
regions have accordingly been regarded as extensive tracts
of marsh land. But the idea seems at least worth considering
that they may be forest regions or extensive prairies.
    There must needs be rivers in Mars, since the clouds,
which often cover whole continents, must pour down enor
mous quantities of rain, and this rain-fall must find course       a

                          LIFE IN       MARS.                           I73
for itself along the Martial valleys to the sea.   Indeed, we
can  have  no doubt that Mars has  been  the scene of volcanic
disturbances like those to which our own mountains, hills,
valleys, and ravines owe their origin.     The very existence
of continents and oceans implies an unevenness of surface
which can only be explained as the effect of subterranean
forces.   Volcanoes must exist, then, in Mars ; nor can his
inhabitants be wholly safe from such earthquake throes as
we experience.    It may be questioned, indeed, whether
subterranean forces in Mars are not relatively far more
intense than in our own earth — the materials of which the
planet is formed being not only somewhat less massive in
themselves,    but also        held   down by a gravity much less
effective.
    It would seem, also, that the Martial oceans must be
traversed by currents somewhat resembling those which
traverse our own oceans.   There    indeed,is,very marked
                                                       a
difference between our seas and those of Mars.   For apart
from the circumstance that the terrestrial oceans cover                  a
much greater proportion of the earth's surface, the Martial
seas are scarcely traversed by appreciable tides. Mars has
indeed two moons, but neither can appreciably sway his
ocean waters, and though the sun has power over his seas
to some slight extent, yet the tidal waves thus raised would
be very unimportant,           even though the seas     of Mars were
extensive enough for the generation          of true tidal oscillations.
For, in the first place, Mars     much farther from the sun,
                                      is
and the sun's action         correspondingly reduced —
                                is                                  it   is
reduced, in fact, on this account alone more than threefold.
But further, Mars      much smaller than the earth, and the
                      is
dimensions of our earth have much to do with the matter
of the sun's tide-raising power. Every one knows how the
explanation of the tides runs in our books of astronomy and
geography.   The sun      nearer to the water turned directly
                               is
towards him than he        to the centre of the earth
                                is                         he       ;
therefore draws that water away from the earth, or      other  in
words raises    a   wave   ;   but again, says the explanation, the

 174                    LIFE IN    MARS.
sun is nearer to the earth's   centre than to the water on the
side turned away from him, and therefore he draws the earth
away from that water, or a wave is raised on the further as
well as on the nearer side of the earth.       If the earth were
smaller, the sun would not be so much nearer to the water
turned towards him, nor so much farther from the water
turned away from him — so that both waves would be reduced
in dimensions.     Applying this consideration to the case of
Mars, whose orb is much smaller than the earth's, we see
that any tidal wave raised by the sun in Martial seas must
needs be of very small dimensions.
     But the existence of ocean currents appears to depend
very little on the presence    of tidal waves.    In the Medi
terranean Sea, the Red Sea, and the Baltic Sea well-marked
currents exist, although the tidal wave scarcely affects these
seas.    Sea-currents would indeed seem to be due to the
effects of evaporation taking place extensively over certain
portions of the sea surface ; and we know that evaporation
must proceed very freely in the case of the seas of Mars,
since clouds form so marked a feature of his atmospheric
economy.      We may conclude, therefore, that his seas are
traversed by currents, and further that most of those effects
which our students of physical geography ascribe to ocean
currents take place also in the case of Mars.
     Summing up the results here considered, we seem to
recognise abundant reasons for regarding the ruddy planet
as a fit abode for living creatures.    It would seem, indeed,
unreasonable to doubt that that globe is habitable which
presents   so many analogies to our own, and which differs
from our own in no circumstances that can be regarded as
essential to the wants of living creatures.

                               i75
         THE RING OF SMALL PLANETS.
Olbers's theory or   suggestion      that the four small planets
Ceres,  Pallas, Juno, and Vesta were the fragments of a
single planet which had burst, was not hopelessly unten
able ; for the mean distances of these four planets are
nearly equal, being 2769, 2771, 2 '668, and 2-361 respec
tively, the earth's distance being unity.   Indeed, when
Olbers first suggested the theory, only two of the small
planets had been discovered, Ceres and Pallas, and these
travel at almost the same mean distance from the sun.  In
the Connaissance   des Temps  for 18 14, Laplace showed that
with a velocity of explosion not exceeding twenty times that
of a cannon-ball, say twelve times that of a ball fired from
one of our best modern cannon, the observed range in the
mean distances of these bodies might have been obtained.
It is,however, to be noticed that even for this the Pallas
fragment was assumed to have been expelled directly for
wards   and the Vesta fragment directly backwards (with
reference to the course of the planet at the moment of the
catastrophe), in order that the whole effect of the change of
velocity might fall on the period, lengthening to the         utmost
that of Pallas and shortening to the utmost that of           Vesta.
If the picture illustrating this article examined,
                                           is            it   will be
seen that the range in the known mean distances               of the
asteroids   has enormously increased since then, and that
even in this aspect alone the explosion theory     no longer
                                                    is
so hopeful as when Laplace held     to be barely tenable.
                                      it
    But another objection, first dealt with by Encke, has

176        THE RING OF SMALL FLANETS.
always been held more serious, and has now become to all
intents overwhelming. It was seen by Olbers and his con
temporaries that whenever such an explosion occurred the
new orbits of the scattered fragments must pass through
the point where the explosion took place.      They found
no such point common to the orbits of the four first-
discovered asteroids. Professor Newcomb says it is curious
that they expected to find a region of intersection, as it
implied (meaning that their intersection implied) that the
explosion had occurred within a few thousand years.     It
would have been curious, however, if in Olbers's time
men had expected anything else.   However, whatever their
expectations may have been, it is certain they found
no such region of intersection.      Encke showed even
that, judging from the present variations of the orbits of
the asteroids there was less approach towards a region of
common intersection in past ages than there is at present.
But a more careful investigation of certain of the asteroidal
orbits has shown that, apart from the attraction of the small
planets on each other, the orbits examined never could
have intersected.  And as the attractions of these planets
on each other are exceedingly small, it is practically impos
sible that the divergence of the system from a state of
things which must have existed if ever a planet burst in
the mid-region    between    Jupiter and Saturn, can be ex
plained in this way.
    Hence, as Professor Newcomb rather abruptly puts            it,
'
 Olbers's hypothesis    no longer considered by astronomers.'
                       is
    The physical objection to the theory lies in the circum
stance that though in    agreat volcanic outburst the earth's
internal forces suffice to eject matter with velocities com
parable with those required by the hypothesis, we have in
these cases the energies     of enormous subterranean regions
exerted on relatively minute bodies.        To conceive   that the
 energies even   of the whole earth, all brought into action
                                       if
 at once, could suffice to propel the whole mass of the
 earth — in fragments — from around the centre of explosion,



            THE RING OF SMALL PLANETS.                         177
with velocities enormously exceeding those ever observed
in any fragment ever shot out from a volcanic crater, is a
very different matter indeed. A certain charge of gun
powder will drive a cannon-ball to a distance of two or three
miles, but a thousand times that charge would not scatter
the fragments of the cannon      the ball had been tightly
                                    (if
fixed in) over a similar distance all around the place of
explosion.    Nothing known about our earth's interior,
nothing which we can infer about the interior of any other
planet formed     by
                   processes such as we recognise in the
development of the solar system as at present understood,
suggests the possibility that     millionth part of the force
                                    a
necessary to shatter   planet, as Olbers's theory requires, can
                       a
ever be generated    and accumulated within the planet's
interior.
     But while the nebular theory gives    sufficient explana
                                              a
tion of the existence of     zone of small planets instead of
                                a
a  single planet, this theory associated with the theory of
meteoric aggregation which recent discoveries have esta
blished, gives also an account of the position of the zone of
asteroids in the solar system and also of certain peculiarities
which it presents under careful scrutiny.
    On the former points shall make some remarks later
                                I
on, endeavouring to show that the zone of asteroids
belongs to the region separating the sun's special family of
small planets from the region where orbs which not so very
long ago were minor suns travelled with their attendant
families of worlds.
    For the present    Inote only the significance of that
strange feature which Professor         Daniel Kirkwood of Bloom-
ington, Ind., was the first to indicate, — the gaps in the
asteroidal system at those mean distances for which the
attraction of Jupiter would have been most effective — in
past ages — in disturbing the movements of meteoric or
nebulous matter.    It   well known that when two bodies
                           is
travel around a centre in commensurable periods, the per
turbations which with incommensurable periods would be
                                                           N

17?           THE RING OF SMALL PLANETS.
ineffective in long periods of time, become very effective,
especially if the periods are so related that a few circuits
renew the disturbing influences. We see this in the case
of Saturn and Jupiter, where two revolutions of the outer
planet are accomplished in nearly the same time as five
revolutions of the inner ; hence arising the Great Inequality
or Irregularity.   The smaller body is the one always which
is most disturbed.     A vaporous or meteoric mass moving
in a period similarly synchronising with Jupiter's would be
very much more disturbed than a larger one, for precisely
the same reason that (for instance) the moon's departures
from the common centre of gravity of herself and the earth
are much greater than the earth's.     Such a mass would be
 driven to one side or the other of its original track until
 it would probably come into collision with one moving in a
 longer or a shorter period ; and so that particular case of
 synchronism would be eliminated.      In millions, or perhaps
 tens or hundreds of millions of years, nearly all cases of
 synchronism would in that way be eliminated.
      Whether such a process has been at work or not in the
 asteroidal system let the illustrative picture show, where
 the distances at which asteroidal movement would synchro
 nise with   Jupiter's in various simple ways are indicated,
 and also all the asteroidal mean distances at present known.
 When Professor Kirkwood first noticed the peculiarity, not
  half as many asteroids had been discovered. Yet still, as
  more and more are found, the law is more and more clearly
  indicated.

                               i79
      THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS.
The theory of   a shattered planet has been entertained of late
 by the most eminent philosopher of our age, — who, though
not professedly an astronomer, has shown astronomers in
other matters the way to reason correctly about the facts
which they have laboriously collected.     I was aware of this,
but have had a reason for not dwelling on the point. Indeed
it was the circumstance that the theory has seemed worthy
of discussion by so clear-sighted a reasoner which induced
me to reconsider it.
     The reason which has chiefly directed attention of late
to the explosion theory has been that the wide extension of
the zone   of asteroids seems inconsistent with the nebular
hypothesis as advanced originally by Laplace.       It has ap
peared to the powerful reasoner who has lately advocated
the explosion theory, that, now the ring has been found to
contain so many members, strewn at such widely different
distances, the theory that they are portions    of a nebulous
ring which separated into several parts instead of collapsing
into a single mass seems no longer tenable.             '
                                                 Again, did a
nebulous ring break up into numerous small portions, re
volving round the Sun with approximately equal velocities,
the annular series  of them would inevitably have some point
of least attraction between its adjacent members at which
parting would take place, followed by collapse of its mem
bers upon one another till a single body was formed.
Moreover, their mean distances from the Sun could scarcely
  .                                                    n  2

[So                  THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS.
differ so much that some are twice others : it could hardly
happen that the annular space included between their most
unlike mean distances would be more than 100 millions of
miles across, and that the space occupied by the widest
excursions would be 270 millions of miles across.      Again,
the parts of  such a  ring could  not well have orbits  much
inclined to one other, or much inclined to the average
plane of the solar system, as are sundry of the planetoid
orbits.   Further, their orbits could not differ greatly in
eccentricity as they do, one if not more of them to the
extent                                Surely no portion of
            of cutting the orbit of Mars.
an outer nebulous ring could thus intrude upon the region
of an inner nebulous ring, at the same time that other por
tions almost intruded upon the region of a remoter nebulous
ring. Once more, there could not arise any considerable
difference between the times in which the discrete portions
of such a ring revolved around the sun ; to the extent of
some being thrice others.'  All these traits of the planetoids,
as Mr. Herbert Spencer truly says, are inconsistent with
the supposition of Laplace as to the origin of the zone of
asteroids.
      The above reasoning is so thoroughly sound and con
vincing that          I   have ventured to quote it despite even the
strong reason (based on Mr. Spencer's wishes) which    had       I
had for treating this subject without any direct reference
to his masterly essay on the Nebular Hypothesis.   Indeed,
those who are astronomers by profession, — or at least sur
veyors   of starfields — take so little interest in questions of
this sort, that in dealing with them one must turn, of neces
sity, to the thoughts of men like Kant, Mitchel, Wright of
Durham, Herbert Spencer, and others who do not find in
mere observatory routine the full value of what the heavens
teach.
      If,        I
            think is demonstrable, Olbers's explosion theory
            as
is absolutely inconsistent with the observed paths of the
asteroids and with known physical laws, and       as   think
                                                       if,   I
has been demonstrated above, the movements of the asteroids

               THE ZONE OF SMALL n.ANETS.                      181
 are inconsistent with the theory that     they were formed by
 the breaking up    of one of the rings of Laplace's nebular
 hypothesis,   it would seem to follow that that hypothesis is
 either incorrect or incomplete.      It has been so long my
 own belief (and the belief of many other students of the
 matter) that this is so, that I find nothing surprising in the
 recognition of other and perhaps clearer evidence of the
 fact than had before been obtained.
     What,   I would ask, is known about the laws of cohesion,
 of vaporous diffusion, of the interaction of the parts of
 vaporous masses, which corresponds with Laplace's nebular
 hypothesis as originally advanced, — when as yet our know
 ledge of the physics of the subject was but in its infancy ?
 Again, under what possible conditions and in what periods
 of time short of infinity, would the vaporous masses strewn
 around such a ring as that from which Neptune on this
 theory was formed, have coalesced into a single mass?
Then, what account does the theory give of the meteoric
and cometic matter which, we now knmv, must have been
 strewn amid the whole region in which Laplace set the
vaporous embryon of the solar system, in quantity corre
sponding to no small aliquot portion of the mass of the
planetary system?        And lastly, what account does the
nebular hypothesis as originally propounded give of the
singular distribution of the masses which form the solar
system   ?
     Seeing that the theory of meteoric aggregation, duly
combined with (but not subordinated to) the theory of
vaporous condensation, accords not only with all the
known facts but gives an account of all those chief pecu
liarities of the solar system with which the nebular hypothe
sis (alone) is actually inconsistent, it is with this theory that
the characteristics of the zone of minor planets should be
compared. I think I shall be able to show that, when this
is done, instead of discord and difficulty we find clear and
convincing evidence respecting the evolution of the solar
system, and also information as to the way in which that
process was brought about.

1 82           THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS.
    So soon as we consider the theory of the solar system's
origin to which all the known facts point, we find — as it
appears to me — an explanation of all those features of the
ring of asteroids which had seemed most perplexing or        (it   is
nearly the same thing) most significant.
   The known facts are these —     :
       First, the singular distribution of the masses forming the
system.      Secondly,   the departures  from uniformity, as in
the     various inclinations   of orbits, and of the rotational
movements of the planets.     Thirdly, more marked de
partures from uniformity on the outskirts of the system,
seen in the reversed movements of the satellites of Uranus
and Neptune, and probably in reversed rotations of these
outer planets.    Fourthly, the existence     of millions of
meteoric systems,  moving in all directions and at all dis
tances from the   sun, on paths having every variety of
inclination and ofeccentricity.  Fifthly, the marked resem
blances between the systems of Jupiter and Saturn on the one
hand and the Sun's special family of small planets (Mercury,
Venus, Earth and Moon, and Mars) on the other.       Sixthly,
the gaps in the mean distances of the asteroids.   Seventhly,
and for our present purpose lastly, the gaps in the Saturnian
ring-system, which like the zone of asteroids consists of
multitudes of small bodies.
    As   Ishowed thirteen years ago in my 'Other Worlds
than Ours,' all the first four features of the solar system
correspond with the theory that each member of the system
was in large part formed (Laplace's nebular hypothesis
need by no means be absolutely abandoned) by meteoric
aggregation.    Without this theory those features are abso
lutely inexplicable.  And as, even now, though at greatly
                                                       a
reduced rate, the process of meteoric ingathering goes on,
our earth yearly gathering in an enormous absolute mass of
matter in this way, however small that mass may be com
pared with the earth's, we know that the theory         true
                                                       is
                                                       a
one — though in what       degree the formation of the various
members of      the solar system  isto be explained in this way,
may of course be open to question.

              THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS.                      183
       With regard to the fifth feature, I know nothing more
  suggestive of the meteoric stream theory of the formation
  of the solar system than this. Anyone who has watched
 some mighty eddying, whirling      stream, and has seen how
 perfectly the minor eddies in such a stream present in
 miniature the features of the greater whorl of which they
 form part, will see how strongly the resemblance between
  (for instance) the system of Jupiter, and the central part of
 the solar system — the sun's special family as I have learned
 to regard it — suggests the idea of a minor eddy in a mighty
 whirlpool, like the    minor   whorls  in the great   whirlpool
 nebula itself.
       But now be it noted that the sixth feature, the charac
 teristic gaps in the asteroidal system — a strange and alto
 gether perplexing feature without this theory — is precisely
 what we should expect to find in any case where meteoric
 aggregation   led to the formation of a ring of small bodies
 instead of a separate planetary mass.        [I would ask the
 reader before proceeding here, to study the illustrative pic
 ture  of the asteroidal family, supposed to be distributed in
 circular orbits   at their proper mean    distances (see plate
 facing p. 176) : he will recognise, I think, the force of the
 evidence, and see how the objection raised by Professor
 Newcomb on the strength of two or three asteroidal orbits
near one of the gaps disappears when graphic evidence
replaces mere statistical investigation.]
      Every member of a meteoric stream moving in a period
which synchronised (in a simple way) with the movements
of Jupiter's giant mass would undergo at each return to
conjunction with Jupiter the same kind of perturbation.
This renewal of perturbation acting in the same direction
would result in an accumulated disturbance, affecting the
mean distance.      We. see this on a grander scale in the case
of Saturn, whose period nearly synchronises with Jupiter's
in such sort that five periods of the Giant Planet are nearly
equal to two periods of the Ringed Planet : hence results
what is called the Great Inequality.      Now apart from other

1 84          THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS.
causes   of disturbance, the effect in the case of any individual
meteor would be to cause its mean distance to oscillate on
either side of that particular distance which corresponded
to a period synchronising (simply) with Jupiter's.      But con
sidering the millions of meteors forming the system or
stream, and that these would all have periods oscillating
through this mean value, it is evident that at any given
moment there would be multitude's of meteors moving in
that period, or at the mean distance corresponding to one
of the gaps in the asteroidal zone.
     But now notice that the meteors thus passing outside
and inside their proper mean distances would enter regions
traversed by other meteor streams, and that, the members
of such streams being counted by millions of millions,
collisions could hardly fail to occur by myriads.           Every
 collision would in effect be the withdrawal of a meteoric
mass, small or great, which until then had had a period
synchronising with Jupiter's ; for in whatever way a colli
sion occurred the mass resulting from the collision would
have a period differing from that of either of the colliding
masses.
     Such processes    would, in general, be part of the long
 series of processes leading to the eventual formation of a
single planet.     But just within the orbit of the mightiest
 of all the planets, Jupiter, and where the velocities due to
 solar influence begin to be great (this region being compara
 tively near to the sun) the combined disturbing influences
would be better able than anywhere else throughout the
 solar system to prevent the formation of a single planet,
 and would lead, instead, to the formation of a zone, or
 rather a system of zones of small aggregations.            These
 zones would be separated by gaps, either wholly or almost
 wholly free, corresponding to the distances at which Jupiter's
 disturbing influence would be most effectively exerted.
     The circumstance that such gaps exist precisely where
 on this theory they would exist affords, certainly, strong
 evidence in favour of the theory.

                  THE ZONE OF SMALL PLANETS.                 185
    But when we turn to the seventh point noted above the
evidence seems to become decisive.
    In the Saturnian ring-system we have a zone of multi
tudinous small bodies, travelling each in its own special
orbit around the central ruling orb, Saturn. Whether we
have here a region where other satellites besides those
already formed around Saturn are in process of formation,
or a region which will be, for all time, occupied by zones
of tiny bodies, we need not here stop to inquire. It is
sufficient that we have in the Saturnian rings, actually
present before our eyes, a stage in the development of
a   system  resembling the planetary family.       Of course,
it might be urged     that  here  we   have  evidence   of the
bursting of two or three Saturnian satellites which for
merly travelled around the planet where now we see
two or three rings ; but I hardly think this theory will be
advanced, or       advanced) successfully maintained. Set
                     (if
ting  itaside, we find in the Saturnian rings the analogue
of the asteroidal system.    There, on    small scale, are pre
                                          a
cisely such gaps as we have in the asteroidal system on       a
larger scale.   The gaps are not quite free from small satel
lites, for   if   they were they would be as black as the shadow
of the planet on the ring, and they are not black, but
brown or dark grey. They are regions whence the small
satellites have been almost wholly swept away.     If the
same sort of action can be recognised here that have con
                                                   I
sidered above in the case of the asteroidal zone, no manner
of doubt should,    imagine, be entertained as to the validity
                      I
of that interpretation of the gaps in the asteroidal system.
But the very same cause has been recognised. Professor
Kirkwood, of Bloomington, Indiana, with that keenness to
detect such neat proofs which characterises him, and led me
long since to call him the Kepler of modern astronomy,
has shown that the gaps in the Saturnian ring system lie
precisely where the perturbing action of the neighbouring
satellites would be most efficient.

 1 86              THE STAR      IN THE    EAST.
              THE STAR IN THE EAST.
 It   has been  suggested   by Ideler (1826) that the star which
 the magi saw in the East was in reality a conjunction of the
 two planets Jupiter and Saturn. In point of fact no less
 than three conjunctions of these two planets occurred in the
 year 7 b.C., or, remembering the error of four years in the
 ordinary dating of the year from which the Christian era is
 reckoned, in the third year before the birth of Christ.     On
 May 29, in that year, the two planets were within a distance
 of about one degree from each other, or about twice the
 apparent diameter of the moon. On Sept. 30 they were
again at about the same distance from each other, and on
 Dec. 5 they were for yet a third time almost exactly at the
same distance apart.       On Sept. 30, in the year 7 b.C., the
two planets must have presented a very striking appearance,
since they were then both nearly at their brightest.
      Ideler's calculations were not quite so exact as those I
have here dealt with (which are Encke's).      Yet even Ideler's
imperfect calculations made it clear that the two planets
could not have been less than half a degree from each other
— a distance equal to about the apparent diameter of the
moon.      Ideler, therefore, in order to explain how the two
planets came to be mistaken for a single star, was obliged
to introduce the subsidiary theory that the magi were very
shortsighted, insomuch that the images of the two planets
appeared to them to form in appearance a single star of
exceptional brightness.      When Encke, in 1831, announced
the result of his calculations as setting the planets about one
degree apart at each of their three conjunctions in the year
7 b.C.,   Ideler withdrew this fanciful notion. For though

                       THE STAR IN THE EAST.                  187
to a very shortsighted  person the image of a star may
appear a little larger than the moon, and thus two stars
separated by a distance equal to the moon's apparent
diameter might seem to coalesce into a single blurred
image (shaped somewhat like the dumb-bell nebula) yet
assuredly two stars separated by twice this distance could
not possibly be mistaken by the magi for one, unless we
suppose those worthies to have been miraculously short
sighted, which does not appear from the narrative. There
fore Ideler now only maintained that the unusual conjunc
tions of Jupiter and Saturn in the third year before the birth
of Christ form the special astronomical phenomenon which
announced to the magi the approaching birth of the great
               '
King, whose kingdom was not of this world.' Singularly
enough,  Dr. Farrar, whom we would suppose unlikely to be
led astray by astronomical fancies, adopts in his ' Life of
            '
Christ       the strange theory thus advanced.
       If   we consider carefully the narrative given by Matthew,
and especially if we consider it from the point of view of
those theologians who believe in verbal inspiration, it will
appear that this explanation of the Star in the East is
altogether inadmissible.   It will be well thus to examine
the account, one of the most suggestive and poetical in
the Gospels, and altogether the most poetical in the Gospel
of Matthew.   It is well worthy of study in whatever way we
view    whether we regard
        it,                  as an inspired narrative, true
                                 it
in every detail, or whether we consider     as  it tradition
                                                      a
only, or whether, lastly, we take some view intermediate
between          these extreme
                         opinions.  Here, however,    onlyI
note those features of the narrative which might be apt to
escape attention, not to run through the entire account,
with which every one may be supposed to be perfectly
familiar.    follow the Greek version, not that our trans
                I
lation    inaccurate, but because there are one or two
            is
sentences which might be wrongly understood in the English
version, while their meaning in the Greek unmistakable.
                                               is
    Christ was already born in Bethlehem, but how long

  1 88               THE STAR        IN THE      EAST.
before     we    do not know, when certain magi, or persons
possessed of occult knowledge, came from the East to
Jerusalem.        Probably they were supposed to have come
from Chaldea, since their wisdom is manifestly associated
with     the   interpretation of the stars, for which the Chal
deans were in those days, and had been for ages, famous.
The use of the word ' magi,' even if we translated it
'
    magicians,' would not of itself imply anything objection
able in their wisdom, although the same word is translated
'            '
   sorcerer      when applied to Elymas, and is used in a
somewhat similar sense in the case of Simon Magus.
For in the East, the possession of magical power or wisdom
was not necessary, or, indeed, chiefly regarded as evidence
of wickedness, but frequently as the reward of special virtue.
Be this as it may, it is certain that Matthew's narrative
attributes a good purpose to the magi who came from the
East to worship Christ— though some of the consequences
of their journey were, to say the least, unfortunate. They
knew from the star or celestial phenomenon which they had
observed that one was born who was to be King of the Jews,
and they had, therefore, come to Jerusalem, the chief city
of the Jews, to ask for more precise information. Astrology,
according to the teaching of its leading professors in those
days (as, indeed, now), affords the means of determining
what region of the earth is indicated by some special phe
nomenon, though not of assigning the exact part of that
region which is in question.
       The magi learned from Herod that Bethlehem of Judea
was the place where the Messiah was to be born.                 He had
obtained this information from the chief priests and scribes,
who interpreted as a prediction to that effect certain words
of the prophet Micah.            So soon as the magi had been told
this they set out from Jerusalem towards Bethlehem, or in
a nearly southerly direction.            We may suppose that, as
Longfellow sings       —
               They travelled by night and they slept by day,
               For their guide was a beautiful, wonderful star.

                THE STAR      IN THE    EAST.              189
    And the star which they had seen in the East went before
them till it came and stood over where the young child was.
This would imply, if we supposed that they reached Beth
lehem near the middle of the night, that the star or orb
which they regarded as signifying the coming of a great
king was nearly in opposition to the sun at the time when
they reached the village where the child was.     We must
remember, however, in reading this account, that the dis
tance which the magi had to journey was not great — not
more, certainly, than six miles.Supposing them to be very
feeble old men, and to be heavily burdened with their gifts,
which seems hardly probable, since they had come to
Jerusalem from a distant country, they could hardly have
been more than three hours at the outside upon their
journey, if they set out from Jerusalem as the shades of
evening closed, and the time was winter, as commonly re
ceived, then it would have been about eight in the evening
at latest when they reached Bethlehem.     And if at that hour
the star lay due South, or rather to the west of South, then
it must have been sixty or seventy degrees West of the point
opposite the sun.    This would correspond fairly with the
case of the conjoined planets Jupiter and Saturn in the third
year before the birth of Christ, if we suppose the journey to
Bethlehem made nearly at the time of the third conjunction
of those planets, or about December 5. It          in fact, on
                                                  is,
this circumstance chiefly that the planetary conjunction
theory of the Star in the East has been based.        But the
whole character of the narrative   is  opposed to this inter
pretation, apart from the fact that the taxing of the Roman
 Empire by Augustus, when Joseph and Mary went up to
Bethlehem (according to Luke's account), certainly did not
take place till two years after the triple conjunction of
Jupiter and Saturn. For Matthew says, Lo the star went
                                         '
                                              !
before them,' &c., and 'when they saw the star, they re
joiced with exceeding great joy.' But they would not have
lost sight of the planets Jupiter and Saturn from the time
when these   two planets   had been visible in conjunction

190                THE STAR      IN THE           EAST.
as morning stars in May            through the time of their
                                (b.c.   7)
greatest conjoined brilliancy in September, and onward
until the time of their third conjunction on Dec. 5. We
had a similar triple conjunction of Mars and Saturn in the
year    1877.    They were conjoined as morning stars on
July    27, conjoined when nearly at their full brightness on
August 25, and conjoined again as evening stars on No
vember 3. But all through those months they were both
visible and in tolerably close proximity.    The exceeding
great joy with which the magi again saw the star shows that
it had been for a time lost to them, so that we must on this
account reject the planetary conjunction theory which seems
otherwise (and on several grounds) altogether untenable.
     I do not know whether any other astronomical interpre
tation than the one I have just considered has been given
to the account of the Star of Bethlehem — at least in a
definite scientific manner. The idea has been thrown out
that a comet may have been the magi's celestial guide.
Others, again, think that the phenomenon was not astro
nomical at all, but that some mysterious light made its
appearance in the upper regions of the air and guided the
magi on their way.         Even if we adopted this view, though
the narrative seems very distinctly to imply that the object
seen was some celestial body, the observed event, apart from
its miraculous interpretation, belongs distinctly to the domain
of science.    Ido not say it is to be explained as a simply
natural phenomenon, but even if a supernatural meaning is
to be assigned to      science, though
                     it,                   deals only in the in
                                              it
vestigation of natural phenomena,        interested — one may
                                             is
say    doubly interested — in this case wherein (on this view)
       is
a  phenomenon really supernatural appeared to ordinary
observation to resemble so familiar an appearance as      astar
or asterism (for the Greek word will bear more than one
interpretation). The narrative, like the Bible account of
the Creation, the description of the standing still of the sun
and moon at the command of Joshua, the going back of the
shadow on the dial of Ahaz, the account of the visibility of

                 THE STAR      IN THE     EAST.
all the kingdoms of the earth from an exceeding high
mountain, and so forth, is one which science is clearly
entitled to discuss in all its bearings.    Even if science
accept the supernatural interpretation, it is still its office
to discuss the observed facts, for on such scientific discus
sion depends our opinion of the quality and significance of
the miracle.
    It is not necessary for science to pretend to explain the
narrative in its religious bearing, or even to say what that
bearing may be.     Science might fail to show why certain
Eastern magi — presumably astrologers — were to be en
lightened by this new celestial object, whatever it may have
been.     The prophecy of Micah had, it would seem, to be
fulfilled, and it was so. That this fulfilment should have
caused the slaughter of the innocents, again, when (as we
might imagine) the same result might have been brought
about without that unsatisfactory episode, is a point which
the theologian and not the student      of science is entitled to
explain.   But when a star is mentioned in the Bible, as
anywhere   else, the astronomer, following      in effect the rule
which forms the motto on the seal of the Astronomical
Society — quidquid nitet notandum — is bound, or        is, at any
rate, free, to inquire about that star, its recorded movements,
its probable brilliancy, and so forth, so far as such points
can be inferred from the narrative.         Students in another
department of science are entitled to deal with this narrative
because of the evidence which     it  seems to afford respecting
the prevalence in long past ages of those astrological fancies
which remain even in our own time, though with the gradual
spread of information respecting astronomy their influence      is
manifestly diminishing.

                                192
                         GREEK FIRE.
At    what period the ancient Greek fire was invented        has
never    been certainly determined.    There are many writers
who place the invention in a far antiquity.           Historical
details have been adduced pointing to the period of the
earlier wars between      the Greeks and Romans      as the true
era   of the discovery.      But we do not find     any certain
evidence of the use of Greek fire until the sieges of Con
stantinople, in the seventh and eighth centuries, though a
Father of the Christian Church, writing in the fifth cen
tury, gave receipts for making a combustible substance of
similar qualities from the compounds resin, sulphur, pitch,
pigeon's dung, turpentine, and the juice of the herb 'all
heal.'
     It  is related that the true Greek fire was invented by
a certain     Callinicus, an architect of Heliopolis, in Syria
(Baalbec), in 678. The secret of the composition of this
artificial flame, and the art of directing its action, were im
parted by Callinicus — who had deserted from the Caliph —
to the   Emperor of Constantinople.     From this period until
the year 1291 the use of Greek fire was an important element
in the military power of the Byzantine empire. The progress
of the Saracens was, more than once, decisively checked by
the destructive action of this powerful and terrible flame.
The important art of compounding the fire ' was preserved
at Constantinople,' says Gibbon, 'as the palladium of the

                             GREEK FIRE.                            193
state   :   the galleys and artillery might occasionally be lent to
the allies    of Romebut the composition of the Greek fire
                         ;
was concealed with the most zealous scruple, and the terror
of the enemy was increased and prolonged by their ignorance
and surprise.'
    The accounts which have reached us respecting the pro
perties of the Greek fire are such as to justify the high
value attached by the Byzantine emperors to the secret of
its composition.  It was a liquid, which was propelled by
various methods against the ships or engines of the enemy.
So long as it was kept from the air, or remained in large
masses, the      liquid appears to have been perfectly safe from
combustion ; but as soon as it was poured forth it burned
with an intense flame which consumed everything around —
not merely burning upwards, but with equal fury downwards
and laterally. Water not only failed to quench    but made
                                                       it,
it burn with new ardour. To subdue the flames    was neces
                                                      it
sary to employ, in large quantities, either sand or vinegar.
Various methods were employed for propelling the liquid
fire towards the enemy.     Sometimes       was enclosed in
                                                it
vessels made   of some brittle substance, and these were flung
at the enemy by means of suitable projectile machines.              It
                                                                   '
was either,' says Gibbon, poured from the rampart in large
                              '
boilers, or launched in red-hot balls of stone and iron, or
darted in arrows and javelins, twisted round with flax and
tow, which had deeply imbibed the inflammable oil'     But
the effectual useof the destructive compound seems to have
been best secured by means of species of fire-ships specially
                                    a
constructed   for the purpose.   Copper and iron machines
were placed in the fore-part of these ships.     Long tubes,
fantastically shaped, so as to resemble the mouth and jaws
of savage animals, formed the outlet for    stream of liquid
                                                 a
fire, which the engine — literally      a fire-engine — propelled to
a                  Hand-engines
     great distance.                     were also constructed by
which the destructive compound              could be spurted   by   the
soldiers, Beckman tells us.
      The secret,      as we have   said, was carefully kept   by   the
                                                               o

 194                      GREEK FIRE.
 Byzantines. The emperor Constantine suggested the answers
 which in his opinion were best fitted to elude the pertina
 cious questioning of the barbarians.        '
                                               They should be told
 that the mystery of the Greek fire had been revealed by an
 angel to the first and greatest of the Constantines, with the
 sacred injunction that this gift of Heaven— this peculiar
 blessing of the Romans — should never be communicated to
 any foreign nation   ; that   the prince and subject were alike
 bound to religious silence under the temporal and spiritual
 penalties of treason and sacrilege ; and that the infamous
 attempt would provoke the sudden and supernatural ven
 geance of the God of the Christians.'       Gibbon adds that the
                                          '
 secret thus religiously guarded was confined for above 400
 years to the Romans of the East ; and at the end of the
 eleventh century the Pisans, to whom every sea and every
 art were familiar, suffered the effects without understanding
 the composition of Greek fire.'
      This, however, is not wholly true. The secret was pre
 served, indeed, from the Romans of the West, but the Saracens
 managed to possess themselves of it very much earlier than
 Gibbon's account would imply.          For, at the siege of Thes-
salonica, in the year 904, the Saracens — we are told by
                   —
John Comeniata threw liquid fire, by means of tubes, upon
the wooden defences       of the besieged, and by this means
principally succeeded in capturing the town.
      In the Holy Wars the Mahometans freely availed them
selves of the use of Greek fire.     Gallant knights, who feared
little the swords or lances of the Saracen host, were terrified
by the uncouth aspect and the hideous noises          of machines
which belched forth upon them a torrent of liquid fire.
                          '
Joinville tells us that     it came   flying through the air like
a winged long-tailed dragon, about the thickness of an
hogshead, with the report of thunder and the velocity of
lightning ; and the darkness of the night was dispelled by
this deadly illumination.'
      It does not by any means follow, because the invention
of gunpowder rendered the ancient Greek fire no longer a

                           GREEK FIRE.                      '95
very useful military weapon. that the knowledge of the secret
of its composition would be of little value. We must re
member that the use of firearms rendered the old-fashioned
engines by means of which the liquid was propelled no
longer available, since those who worked the engines could
no longer venture near enough to the enemy.    It was to this
cause, we suspect, rather than to any want of efficiency in
the compound itself, that the discontinuance of the use of
Greek fire should be ascribed.   The time had not yet come
for making gunpowder itself a useful adjunct to the employ
ment    of liquid flame.
   It   is not so clear, however,   that the ancient Greek fire
was much more efficient than that which has recently come
into use. Still, the inquiry into the nature of its composi
tion is not without interest.
    The Princess Anna Comnena states that Greek fire was
compounded of sulphur, resin, and oil.    It may be well to
dwell on this point, since many writers have been disposed
to consider naphtha, or liquid bitumen, to have been the
principal ingredient of the Greek fire.  Possibly, however,
the oil mentioned by Anna Comnena may have been naphtha,
and not, as one would be disposed to infer, any of the or
dinary vegetable or mineral oils ; for the use of naphtha in
lamps is of great antiquity.
    Gibbon writes : — ' Naphtha was mingled, I know not in
what proportions, with sulphur and with the pitch that is
extracted from evergreen     firs — that   resin — in forming
                                          is,
Greek fire.'
    It  is moot point whether Friar Bacon ever discovered
             a
the true composition of the liquid fire.     Many supposed
that he concealed     areal ignorance on the subject, when
he supplied an apparently unmeaning         answer to the ques
tions addressed to him.    Others, however, assert that two
of the components of Greek fire were, as Bacon said,
sulphur and saltpetre, and that the third    to be detected
                                                is
in the logogriph —  'Luru vopo vir Can utriet.' We leave
                                                        O
                                                        2
                                                                  f

196                        GREEK FIRE.
this anagram to the ingenuity of our readers, mentioning, in
                                                  '
passing, that it contains the apropos words urit voraciter,'
but that the extraction of these words leaves us only the
combination ' lupovun,' from which it will not be found easy
to form a word.      Possibly there is a mistake in transcription
to add to the anagrammatic difficulty.
      Many others have tried to elucidate the question.       Friar
Bungay, Charles du Frene, Ducange, and Joinville — a host,
in fact, of commentators, historians, and antiquarians — have
all had something to say more or less to the purpose. But
the satisfactory solution of the problem has not yet been
 obtained, nor, perhaps, is it likely to be.
      It has been well remarked by a writer on the subject,
that 'gunpowder blew the ancient Greek fire out of the
 field.' But, during the American War of 1860-65, it was
 shown that gunpowder might be used to blow modern Greek
 fire into cities.   Whether the example will ever become a
 recognised military precedent is uncertain.       But it has been
 shown that Greek fire may be flung into a city by means of
 a suitably prepared shell, and that its destructive properties
 may thus be made available when the besieging force is
 four miles or more from the central parts of the city.
 Charleston was certainly not destroyed by General Gilmore's
 fire-shells ; in fact, there are difficulties connected with the
 construction of such shells, which, though far from being
 insuperable, were not wholly mastered by the artillerists
 under Gilmore.       But that an immense amount of damage
 was effected is shown by the fact that General Beauregard
 hurled from the mouth of his cannon denunciations against
 Gilmore for employing ' the most villainous compound ever
 used in war.'
      That Greek fire will one day be employed as a fearfully
  destructive agent in warfare seems scarcely probable.        Yet,
  so far from looking     forward with    dismay to the prospect
  of such an application of its properties,       we  may rather,
  perhaps, consider that prospect as favourable to the interests
  of peace.    We may apply to this case the remarks applied

                       GREEK FIRE.                      197
by  Fuller to the use of cannon : — ' Though some may say
that the finding of such appliances hath been the losing of
many men's lives, yet will it appear that wars are now
fought with more expedition, and that victory standeth not
so long a neuter, before she express herself on one side or
other.'

                                 198
                       FL YING-MA CHINES.
In  all ages there have been thoughtful men who have
looked with envy on the flying powers of birds, and have
asked themselves the question whether man, the ' un-
                 '
feathered biped    of Plato, might not rival the feathered
tribe even in their natural element. Hatton Tumor, in his
'
  Astra Castra,' asserts even that King David had such
thoughts in his mind when he said, Oh, that I had wings
                                     '
like a dove, for then would I flee away and be at rest.'
Without going quite so far, we think it may safely be
asserted       that   few men who have watched the movements
of birds in the air have not felt that the possession of such
powers of aerial locomotion would be an enviable thing.
Those who have taken part in balloon ascents speak of the
strange feeling of exhilaration with which they see the
                                                   But if this
                 '
things of earth diminishing beneath them.
feeling is experienced by those who, though raised above
the earth, are yet not free to direct their motions according
to their wish, how largely would the pleasure of aerostation
be enhanced could the aeronaut direqt his flight as freely
as the birds of the air.  Now soaring high above the clouds,
now skimming the surface of the earth, the flying man
would enjoy sensations which could almost be worth pur
chasing at the risk of breaking his neck.
    Old as the problem of flight       is, only within the last
                                             it   is
few years" that its conditions have been thoroughly under
 stood and the practicability of its solution evidenced. By
flight,   it   must be understood, we refer wholly to the power

                      FL YING-MA CHINES.                      199
of winging away at will through the air — not to the mere
power of rising above the earth.         It seems to have been
proved beyond all possibility of doubt that no contrivance
founded on the principle of the balloon can possibly avail
to enable man to travel at will through the air.             The
enormous volume which must be given to the balloon in
order that its buoyancy may suffice to raise it safely with
its living freight into the air, renders it so unwieldy that
it is the sport of even the gentlest air-currents.       Even in
perfectly calm weather it has been found impossible, even
by the most ingenious contrivances which could be devised
for the purpose, to urge a balloon with moderate speed in
any required direction.
     In fact, the careful consideration of the subject has
shown that mere lightness is far from being a desideratum
in a flying-machine.       M. Nadar aptly suggested the true
difficulty which lies in the way of aerial navigation by
means of balloons, in his description of a circumstance
which fell under his notice in the streets of Paris. A work
man on the    roof of  a  house let fall a sponge, and called on
one of his fellows to throw it up to him. Now, says M.
Nadar, the man was too clever to fall into the mistake
which so many aeronauts have made, of supposing that
the lighter an object the better adapted it was for flight
through the air.      He knew that the light sponge could
never be thrown to the roof of the house.          So, what does
he do ?    He  first wets  the sponge, and when, by this means,
he had rendered it heavy, he was enabled to throw it to his
companion.
     Our first step, then, towards the solution of the problem
of flying consists in the discovery that weight — or at the
least a certain proportion between weight and surface — is
absolutely essential when something beyond mere ballooning
is in question.      But we must not fall into the mistake
which M. Nadar made, of supposing that weight is in itself
an   aid to flight. We must remember that the sponge
thrown up by the workman was under the influence of a

200                      FL YING MA CHINES.
force which was in reality derived from the resistance of
the solid earth on which the workman stood.       It would be
as reasonable to urge that   a  cannon-ball was the model of
what a flying-machine should be, because, propelled from a
Whitworth gun, it traverses five or six miles before reaching
the ground.    Strictly confining our deductions to what is
really proved by Nadar's illustrative anecdote, we say that
directive power can only be given to an aerial machine
which is not so buoyant as to be the sport of every wind
that blows.   A contrivance like the balloon, which requires
that a surface of hundreds of square feet should be exposed
to the air, can never, we see, be available for more than
mere flotation.
      It
      may be questioned, indeed, whether any modern in
vention has proved more unfavourable to the science of
aerial locomotion than that           of the balloon.
                                             Many ingenious
flying-machines had been invented before the time of Mont-
golfier ; and in some of these we see signs of an apprecia
tion of the real difficulties which attend the problem of
artificial flight. But so soon as Montgolfier had exhibited
the powers of rarefied air, men gave up for awhile the notion
of attempting to         the aid of machinery.
                       fly   by                  And the dis
covery that by means of hydrogen gas        balloon might be
                                                      a
made to float in such         a        much safer convey
                                   way as to be   a
ance than the fire-balloon, induced men of science to turn
their attention to the improvement of balloons as the like
liest mode   of solving the problem of aerial navigation. Thus
it   happened that the first half of the present century, though
adorned       by
            so many important discoveries in other branches
of mechanics, was wholly unfruitful as respects the long-
vexed question of the possibility of flying.  Of late years,
however, the subject has been taken up with renewed vigour
and with fair promising results.
   As regards old attempts to solve the problem of aerial
navigation, we may mention — passing over the fabulous
story      of Daedalus       and   Icarus — the  automaton bird con
structed      by   Archytas of Tarentum        as in all probability the

                        FL YING-MA CHINES.                201
first successful attempt to construct a flying-machine.
There seems no reason to doubt the truth of the narrative
handed down to us respecting the labours of Archytas.
All     that   Aulus Gellius
                         mentions is that the Tarentine
constructed the figure of a dove, ' so contrived as by a
certain mechanical art and power to fly ; so nicely was it
balanced by weights, and put in motion by hidden and
enclosed air.'  On this the ingenious Cardon remarks
        '
justly, there is no reason why such a machine should not
be put in motion, especially by a favourable breeze.  The
lightness of the body would contribute to this result ; as
would the largeness of the wings and the strength of the
wheels ; and probably the dove could take its flight in a
certain fashion, but with a wavering motion like the
flickering of a lamp.    Thus it would sometimes mount
upwards spontaneously, flutter its wings, then leave off
suddenly and fall — its motive power being unequal to its
weight.'
      But the attempt to attach wings to the human frame, so
that man might emulate the birds, is one which has had
more advocates than the plan of constructing automatous
machines.        In   reigri of Edward the Confessor, an
                      the
English monk, having attached wings in an ingenious
manner to his limbs, leaped from a church tower into the
air, and succeeded in covering a distance of 220 yards before
reaching the ground.    The flight was a daring one, and
similar attempts have not often had so satisfactory a result.
An Italian monk, who exhibited his powers of flight before
James III. of Scotland, fell to the ground with such force as
to break his thigh.    And Allard, the rope-dancer, who
attempted a similar exploit in the reign of Louis XIV. of
France, was equally unfortunate.
    Indeed, attempts of this sort have been so uniformly
unsuccessful — for even the Saxon monk only managed to
attain a limited distance — that the idea has come to be
entertained that it is perfectly futile for man to attempt
to     by means of his own unaided powers.
      fly                                       Those who

202                    FL YING-MA CHINES.
have believed in the possibility of flight have fixed their
hopes rather on the construction of large aerial ships, pro
pelled by adequate machinery, than on man's power of
imitating the flight of birds. The ingenious mathematician
Borelli attempted to demonstrate the impracticability of
human flight. He exhibited the striking contrast which
exists between the pectoral muscles of birds and those of
man.      On either side of the breast-bone of the bird there
are masses      of muscle whose energy is wholly efficient in
working the wings.         But the corresponding muscles in
man have scarcely any power whatever.           Let any one con
tract   his shoulders and notice how the muscles over the
chest take part in producing the movement ; their action,
he will find, is altogether wanting in energy.
     But it needed no mathematician to show us that if man
is ever to fly he must not attempt to imitate directly the
action of a bird. As artificial appendages are absolutely
necessary, it is obviously in man's power so to choose the
arrangement and adaptation of these appendages that in
using them his limbs will work in the manner which best
suits them.      Since in upward and downward action man!s
arm is weak     — as any one will find who tries to beat the air
by such action for only a few minutes — it is clear that the
mere flapping of wings attached to the arms cannot possibly
avail to enable man to fly, however ingeniously those wings
 may be devised.      On the other hand, the pulling power of
 the human arm is considerable, and such an action as that
 used in rowing can be maintained for hours without ex
 hausting the frame.       Hence this action is one which may
 be applied, if only suitable contrivances be devised, to aid
 in propelling the body through the air. Again, the legs
 of  a  bird are useless so far as flight is concerned, but there
 is no reason why man, in attempting to fly, should not make
 use   of his legs as well as his arms.     In walking or running,
 the legs exert a large amount of power in a manner which
 does not quickly weary the frame.        Hence, in applying the
 action of the legs to aid in propelling the body through the

                       FL YING-MACH1NES.                   203
air, the mechanician    must devise such contrivances as shall
call this customary action into play.     If the full power of
the arms and legs can be so applied to ingeniously-arranged
mechanism as to work wings more or less resembling those
of a bird, there is little reason for doubting man's power of
sustaining himself in the air, and even travelling with great
rapidity through it.  Probably will be much easier for him
                                it
to sustain himself while travelling rapidly onwards, than
while hovering over the same spot.

                               204
             SENT       TO    THE BOTTOM.
After   every great accident by fire or by water or by storm,
too much is said and too little is done about measures of
prevention.    Unpractical men suggest impossible devices ;
precautions are urged which could not possibly be adopted ;
and then after a little time matters return to their old course
until the next great accident of the same kind sets men
talking again, but too often doing little or nothing.
    But in the case of collisions at sea, there is so wide a
recognition of the utter inadequacy of the measures actually
adopted to avoid accident, that one really marvels how those
whose lives and property depend on proper arrangements
being employed can for a single year, or even a single month,
allow matters to proceed without change.      Indeed, if it were
not that so much were at stake, so many lives and such
valuable property involved, one might be disposed to smile
at the almost childish way in which sailors ('Sing, hey, the
simple seamen that they are') propose to guard steam-
vessels from the danger of collision in foggy or hazy weather,
or at night. Everything, it should seem, depends on a ready
and rapid recognition of the real position and course of a
ship that is sighted by the look-out ; yet by the arrangement
actually adopted the signal lights tell little or nothing even
when they have been sighted, and matters are so ingeniously
planned that they are sighted only at distances far within
those over which, were proper measures adopted, they might
well be seen.

                        SENT TO THE BOTTOM.
    Let it be noticed, in the first place, that the use of
coloured lights at sea is a delusion and a snare.  They do
well enough on a railway (except in foggy weather), for
there they are only required to throw their rays over a de
fined and moderate distance.       But at sea the further a
signal-light is seen, no matter what its purpose the betteris,        ;
and the interposition of coloured glass limits in marked and
measurable degree the range over which          light casts its
                                                     a
beams.   If there were no other way but by the use of colour
that the meaning of     signal-light could be indicated there
                             a
might be some excuse for the preposterous course by which
the power of these safety-lights (as they should be)      dimi   is
nished.   But there are many ways     in which white lights can
be made to serve all the purposes of coloured lights in the
way of signalling, and as they can be seen much further, they
signal much more effectively.
    Again, the use of but two side-lights, one on the port, the
other on the starboard beam, would in these days be an
absurdity    if   it   were not an atrocity.    What can
                                                    single light
                                                           a
say  ? Let   be as strong as
             it                 may,it can only tell the people
                                               it
of another ship that the port side or the starboard side of
another ship     turned towards them at the moment, when
                   is
perhaps everything depends on their knowing in what degree
that side   turned their way.
             is                  The other ship may be steer
ing on   acourse at right angles to the direction in which she
is seen, or at    sharp angle to that direction so as to be
                       a
rapidly drawing nearer, or at an obtuse angle so as to be
rapidly drawing away. And note that the uncertainty which
the people on one ship have as to the position and bearing
of the other    reciprocated by equal uncertainty on the part
                  is
of the people on the latter ship as to the position and bear
ing of the former.    Consider what    likely to come of such
                                               is
uncertainty, at night, when        remembered that even in
                                     it   is
broad daylight ships that have been in sight of each other
for some time, and have been able severally to watch each
manoeuvre, have been known to come into collision.      If
with everything to favour them two ships do sometimes run

    206                    SENT TO THE BOTTOM.
into each other (through some such confusion of purpose as
sometimes causes two passing pedestrians to dodge from
side to side, while each is as anxious as the  other to pass
clear), how much greater must the risk always be at night
or in hazy weather, no matter what precautions may be
adopted?    Yet, with an almost childish simplicity, those
who have arranged the Rule of the Road at sea provide for
no other precaution than that a red light shall be hung on
the port side and a green light on the starboard side                              of   a
steamship        at night.
          Now it may be laid down   tolerably sound proposi
                                             as a
tion that even the smallest steamship is worth proper signal-
lights, even if so many as a dozen, instead of two or three,
should be necessary to ensure safety.         For passengers or
for freight, a slightly higher charge might, if necessary, well
be made to secure at least such protection as proper side
lights might give.     If a steamship herself is so utterly worth
less that her owners cannot afford either for her or for any
freight, live stock, or passengers she may have to carry the
extra expense which half-a-dozen more lights at night would
give, she ought not to be free to run happy-go-lucky over
the seas (as all steamships do now, — and sailing-ships are
worse).  She may cause destruction to ships and cargoes of
much greater value.      If sunk she may obstruct navigation
for weeks.   She              is,
                    in fine, not worth sending to sea     she                 if
is not worth such proper lighting as will make her safe her
self and no longer    source of danger to other ships.
                               a
    We may go       little further in this direction.
                           a                           Every
steamship    worth proper lighting at sea, and not one
                 is                                      now              is
properly lighted  but the large and swift ocean steamers are
                          ;
at once better worth effective lighting, and more urgently
need     whether we consider their swift course as regards
           it,
themselves, or as   affects the safety of others.
                              it                  If     not             it   is
too much to say that the smallest steamship afloat in the
open sea should carry at least eight good white lights,                             it
certainly may be as truly said that the Germanic and the
                                                       '             '
    Oregon,' the          City of Rome       and the       Gallia,' should carry
'                     '                  '             '

                    SENT             TO THE BOTTOM.            207
asmany strong electric signal- lights, at least in foggy or hazy-
weather and when nearing the sea regions where steamships
most do congregate.   The same remark may of course be
extended to large steam war- vessels.
    It may very well be that a long time will elapse before
the owners of our great ocean steamers will recognise the
economy of suitable electric lighting. A certain amount of
mechanical power devoted to work a dynamo machine may
seem to them wasted, when they want every cubic inch of
steam devoted to the     propulsion of the mighty steamship
across the ocean.     It seems so unlikely that the big ship
will be the one to suffer seriously in any collision, so certain
that aught which may come in her way will simply be sent
to the bottom, that a wealthy and selfish owner may be
tempted to disregard the rights of others and to overlook
how largely the loss brought about by one such catastrophe
                            '                 '
as the destruction of the     City of Brussels must overvalue
the expense of efficient electric signal-lamps in constant use
for twenty or thirty years.
    But apart from this, it should be noticed that the time
when electric lights would be most useful — that         is,
                                                    in thick
and hazy weather —       time when they could be maintained
                            is   a
without any loss of power at all. When the engines are at
rest or slowed down, there   an abundance of energy avail
                                           is
able for working     dynamo-electric machine by which
                        a                                       if
necessary   a    of powerful electric lights could be main
                score
tained.  In   very short time, when the City of Brussels
                a
                                                     '           '
had been brought to rest on account of the fog which actually
brought about her destruction, electric lights might have
been set aglow, which would have shown her position to the
 Kirby Hall in ample time to have prevented that disaster.
'               '
The Kirby Hall herself might equally have borne electric
        '               '
signal-lights at the time as   stated, she was going dead
                                     if,        is
slow.
    What electric lights would be worth in time of haze and
fog at sea those can judge who have ever witnessed experi
ments for comparing the haze-penetrating power of the

208               SENT TO THE BOTTOM.
electric light, gas, the best oil lights, and coloured lights.
It is certainly no exaggeration to say that in an ordinary
sea fog a good electric light would show at least ten times
as far as the best coloured side-lights now in use.     If half-
a-dozen electric lights or so were shown on each side, the
distance at which the neighbourhood of a ship would be
recognised would be increased in yet greater degree, for the
glare would be discernible before the individual lights would
be seen.
    The most serious defect, however, in our present system
of steamship-lighting, does not reside in the obvious weak
ness of the colour-lights in space-penetrating power, but in
their want of significance as signals.   As we have said, they
scarcely   say anything   ; and a steamship's   ordinary   fixed
signals at night ought to say a great deal.
    Yet it is the simplest thing in the world to adopt a
method of lighting a ship at night by which not only her
true position and bearing, but even her distance can be at
once known so soon as her signal lights are seen.
    I long since suggested a method which seemed excellent
to many landsmen, as it did to myself (who had not then
crossed the ocean), but which was at once seen by seamen
to be inconvenient     if not impracticable.  It involved    the
employment of signal lights amidships, which would pro
bably have been ill-seen under average conditions.          The
plan I am about to suggest is open to no such objection,
and I believe to no objection at all except that it requires
three signal lights on each side and a good bow light and
a good stern light, or if preferred two bow lights and two
stern lights, one on each side.
    What I propose is simply that every steamship should
carry three starboard lights, well placed amidships, in this
position —
                              *
                                   *
                              *

                          SENT TO THE BOTTOM.                                   209
three      port lights,       similarly placed amidships,            but in this
position —
                                                    #
                                        *
                                                    *
all six lights being white ; that she should further carry a
strong white light in her bows, visible only from in front,
that      from any point in front of an imaginary horizontal
         is,
line taken through her amidships line at right angles to her
length     ;    strong red light astern, visible only from
                and   a
points behind the imaginary line just mentioned.
      Iteasily seen that with this arrangement
           is                                     steamer's         a
lights would at once indicate her true relative position and
bearing.    The position of the light-triangle on the side
(point to the bows) would show whether her port side or
her starboard side were in view the shape of the triangle
                                                ;
would show what angle her length made with the direction
line (or line of sight) towards her and the visibility of the
                                                    ;
white bow light or the coloured stern light would show
whether she were approaching or receding, at that angle
with the line of sight.
    Suppose,   for instance, that when first any light of                        a
distant ship was seen, only       single white light could be
                                            a
perceived.      would then be known that that ship's course
                   It
was at the moment directly towards the observer.           on             If,
the other hand, only     single coloured light could be seen,
                               a
itwould be known that her course was taking her directly
away.          (In such   a   case, however,            the ship from which she
was   observed would probably be overhauling her, as                            it
would seldom happen that       stern light would be seen first
                                     a
in any other way.)
    But in general, of course, the side-light triangle would be
visible either when first           a   ship was sighted          or very soon
after.
      Suppose now the following cases —                  :
                                                                         P

210                SENT TO THE BOTTOM.
     i. The   stranger  is standing directly across  the line   of
sight   as  shown, O the observer, S the strange ship, and
passing from left to right, so that her starboard lights are
seen, and both her bow light and her stern light            The
lights then would be thus seen —
     *
Coloured.                                               White.
    Stranger travelling directly across the line of sight
                       (STARIiOARl)  LIGHTS).
                                 II.
     2.  The stranger is crossing the line of sight thus, where
                                                        a
             O
                                                  i
 O is the place of the observer, S the strange ship, a b her
 course.    Then her bow light would be visible, not her stern
 light, and the lights seen would appear thus —
                               *                           *
                                                         White.
                                     #
                               *
    2.  Stranger standing across the line of sight, at an
         angle of 6o°, approaching (starboard lights).

                    SENT    TO THE BOTTOM.                      21 i
                                  III.
       3.  The stranger is crossing the line of sight thus (0 and
 S as before) —
                                                      a
           O
 Her stern light would be seen, not her bow light, and her
lights would appear thus —
       *                       *
 Coloured.
                                       *
    3.
          Stranger standing across the line of sight, at an
             angle of 6o°, receding (starboard lights).
                                 IV.
           The stranger is crossing the line of sight thus-
                                              b
Her bow light would be seen, not her stern light, her side
lights thus —
                                                        *
                                                     White.
    4.
         Stranger standing across the line of sight, at an
           angle of 3o0 approaching (starboard lights;.
                                                            P 2

212                 SENT TO THE BOTTOM.
      5.   The stranger  is crossing the line of sight thus-
Her stern light would be seen, not her bow light          ; her side
lights thus —
              #                    *
          Coloured.
    5.
         Stranger standing across the line of sight, at an
              angle of 3o0 receding (starboard lights).
                                     VI.
       6.  Stranger is crossing the line of sight thus —
 at a right angle, and from right and left.          Both bow light
 and stern light would be in view, side lights thus —
       *                                 *                      *
   White.                                                    Coloured.
                                   #
   6.   Stranger standing directly across the line ok sight
                              (l'ORT LIGHTS).

                     SENT     TO THE BOTTOM.                          213
                                    VII.
        7.  Stranger crossing the line of sight thus —
                                                        b
       o
                                                                 a
 Her bow light would be visible, not her stern light               ; her
 side lights thus    —
       #                                 *
   \\Tiite.
                                  *
                                         *
     7.
          Stranger standing across the line of sight, at an
               ANGLE  OF 6o° Ari'ROACHINC.  (TORT LIGHTS).
                                  VIII.
      8.   The stranger  is crossing the line of sight thus —
                                                               b
                                                              t
      o                        ¦                          's
The stern light would be seen, not the bow light            ;   her side
lights thus —
                                         *                     *
                                                        Coloured.
                                 *
                                         *
   8.    Stranger standing across the line of sight, at an
                angle of 60"1 receding (port lights).

214                   SENT TO THE BOTTOM.
                                  IX.
         The stranger is crossing the line of sight thus
The bow light would be seen, not the stern light         ;   the side
lights thus —
            White.
    9.
        Stranger standing across the line of sight at an
              angle of 3o0 approaching (port lights).
                                   X.
       10.   The stranger is crossing the line of sight thus —
                                                                b
 Her stern light would be seen, not her bow light          ;  her side
 lights    thus-
                                                      Coloured.
                                   *
                                       *
    10.   Stranger standing across the line of sight at an
                   angle of 3o0 receding (port lights),

                   SENT TO THE BOTTOM.                          215
    In   any position whatever in which the approaching ship
might be, her course would be at once recognised by the
apparent shape and position of the amidships triangle,
combined with the visibility of the bow light or the stern
light as the case may be. There would be no question of
nice or delicate observation, or of signalling — though suit
able signalling (by means    of a powerful foghorn) of the course
which each ship was about to keep, would be most useful later.
So soon as the lights were clearly seen the veriest landlubber
could see how the stranger's hull was situate as readily as
the best seaman on board.
    It  remains that  I should touch on a form of danger to
which ocean-going steamers are exposed on certain well-
frequented routes, — a danger more subtle and terrible
even than the risk of collision.       I refer to the danger of
running on an iceberg in the night-time.          It can hardly be
doubted that among those splendid steamers which have
started    under seemingly favourable conditions           on the
journey between America and Europe, well manned, well
provisioned, and well formed in all respects, and have never
more been heard of, some have been lost through collision
with an iceberg.     The stories of narrow escapes, of cases
where an iceberg has been passed within a stone's throw,
or of even narrow escapes where an iceberg has been
actually struck, but the strength of the ship's compart
ments has saved her from foundering, show how reason
able is this explanation of the loss of ships which could
have outridden almost any storm that has ever raged in the
North Atlantic.     On  a dark night there may be no warn
ing, even when there is no haze. The keenest watchman
cannot detect the outline of one of these long, low ice
bergs which have been approached even in full daylight,
with bare time to escape their formidable sides.             When
there   is the least fog a low-lying      iceberg is a still more
treacherous   enemy.
     If we consider the case  of the '
                                       Arizona,' in October, 1879,
we shall see how subtle     are the risks which icebergs and

2l6                SENT    TO THE BOTTOM.
icefields cause, even when a ship is in the hands of the most
careful commander.        I was a passenger by her on the
journey to New York preceding the accident, which
occurred on the return voyage.         I remember discussing
with one of the officers (not when he was on duty, courteous
reader) the risks from icebergs, and his admission that there
was no way of ensuring safety from a danger so subtle,
especially in the case of so swift a ship as the Arizona.'
                                                     '
 On the return voyage, she was steaming gaily along at the
rate of more than fifteen knots an hour ; it was night, and
 there was no thought of danger, still less of disaster ; some
 of the passengers were engaged in the saloon in the digni
 fied employment of speculating on the day's run (to the
 following noon) ; when a shock which threw most of the
 speculators to the floor showed that whatever run she might
 make would certainly be far short of the high numbers on
 which they had been wagering.       In a few moments every
 one was on deck, watching the dim outlines of two towering
 ice pinnacles, which seemed to threaten the ship's immediate
 destruction.     But when she had been backed from her
 dangerous proximity to the iceberg, it was seen that she
 was exposed to a still more serious         danger — she was
 settling down (apparently) by the head, with a list to
 starboard, which showed that a side compartment as well
 as her forward one had been broken into by the force of
 the shock.     Fortunately the builders had done honestly by
 the owners.      The stout framework and bulwarks of the
 compartments held firmly, and, though crippled, she re
 mained afloat.       She did not, however, complete her
journey to the old country, but bore up to St. John's,
 N.B.,  to refit.
      Now, seeing that the most careful watch and the keenest
 eyes do not suffice to save a ship from the danger of colli
 sion with an iceberg, the question arises whether science
 cannot provide a keener sense than human eyesight to pro
 vide safety against this terrible danger.    The only sense
 which seems available, failing the sense of sight, is the sense

                     SENT TO THE BOTTOM.                       217
by which heat is perceived (properly distinguished long ago
by Stewart Reid from the sense of touch, and undoubtedly
to be regarded as our sixth sense). The fall of tempera
ture, however, as an iceberg is approached, though very
obvious near by, is not recognisable at a sufficient
distance or with sufficient quickness, by human sense-
organs.  What is wanting is a scientific heat-feeler or
temperature-noter, by which an iceberg half a mile away or
more could be recognised. There are some heat-measurers
which are so delicate that they respond to the heat of a
cigar burning ten or twelve yards away, and to even slighter
sources either of heat or of cold, that      either of rise or
                                               is,
fall of temperature.   Now imagine       suitably-constructed
                                           a
instrument of this sort, adjusted for the actual temperature
of the region through which the ship was passing then the ;
approach of the ship to an iceberg even some half-mile or
so away would cause the index to move to the side showing
cold, through an appreciable angle, the deviation increasing
every second as the ship advanced.        Nothing could be easier
than to make the index automatically start suitable alarm-
signals — horn, whistle, or the like  and on moving further
                                      ;
over to the cold side, causing the engineers to receive
warning to slow or stop their engines    nay, the index could
                                          ;
easily,   if
           it   were thought desirable, be made to set mechanism
in motion for stopping and reversing the engines.
    An instrument such as this might also be so constructed
as to show the direction of the source of danger — for         if
there were, say,   triple indicator, one directed forwards,
                     a
another towards the port quarter, and the third towards
the starboard quarter, the first to signal an iceberg would
be the  one whose face was directed nearest to the point
where the iceberg lay.  The two quarter indicators would
in this case rather show the neighbourhood of ice than
the   presenceof any actually dangerous ice-mass.   But
whenever the side indicators told of icebergs, would be
                                                     it
seen that there      was occasion   for very careful watch and
cautious progress.

218                SENT TO THE BOTTOM.
      Certainly, when we remember with what zeal science is
applied to the invention of contrivances by which life and
property may be destroyed — the long-range guns, mitrail
leuses, torpedoes, and the like, which afford such striking
evidence of our advance beyond the savage (who can only
 smash a single head by main force with his club, or pierce
one body with his spear) — it seems as though science might
with advantage devote a small portion of her ingenuity to
 the invention    of measures whereby life and property may
 be preserved.     The law of the survival of the fittest would
 still operate as effectively when science is applied to pre
 servation as when it is applied to destruction ; and science
 could have afforded an answer to those who ask whether,
 despite the improvement in our appliances for travel, transit
 of goods, manufactures, and so forth, the influence of in
 creased knowledge has always        been  such as to justify the
  aspiration —
                Let knowledge grow from more to more.

                              219
   EARTHQUAKES                 IN THE BRITISH
                             ISLES.
Dr. Milne, recently returned from Japan,       notes that men
in England pay less attention to earth-tremblings than they
merit, though we have no such reason for noting them as
they have in Japan.   We are, however, all interested in the
question whether this, our country, is liable — even at long
intervals of time — to the influence of destructive earthquakes.
We know that there are countries which seem as firm and
unshaken as our own is wont to be — countries which have
remained for centuries undisturbed by any save the faintest
indications of earth-tremor — which have yet been suddenly
visited by those fierce throes which hurl in a few minutes
the largest and best-built cities to the ground.         We ask
ourselves whether the inhabitantsof Lisbon could have felt
less secure than we ourselves do of immunity from serious
danger ? Yet we know that without warning that large city
was made in a few moments a mere heap of ruins, in and
around which lay the unburied bodies of sixty thousand of
her inhabitants.
    We often have had evidence that our country     at least,
                                                     is;
not wholly unaffected by the action of subterranean disturb
ances.  An area one hundred and fifty miles long and some
seventy miles wide — possibly much larger —was disturbed
only some twelve years ago by   smart shock of earthquake.
                                    a
The effects produced    by
                        the shock were not very remark
able — indeed, when one compares them with the effects of

 220       EARTHQUAKES IN THE BRITISH                                   1ST.RS.
 the late earth-throes inPanama, British                       earthquakes gene
 rally remind us of the old line —
                     Parturiunt     montes, nascetur ridiculus inns.
    The solid foundations of England may be shaken, with
 no more remarkable results than the disturbance of a few
                                  '
people in bed at the time, noises resembling the scurrying
of rats or mice across the room,' rattling of crockery- ware
in a cupboard, ' as though a cat were shaking a shelf,' and
so on.   Yet there the earthquake    and           is,
                                              quite possible  it   is
that the force which actually produces the disturbance                                      is
one      of tremendous energy.              For   it   is   an unsound argument
to point to the effects which may be produced           ordinary         by
surface shocks.          Ittrue that the fall of
                              is                   building, the   a
explosion of     magazine, and even the passing of
                     a                                   vehicle,             a
will shake the ground. But the conclusion often drawn
from these facts — namely, that an earthquake may come of
very slight and local causes —       unsound.is  A shock which
   felt over half this island comes from no slight cause, and
is is
   in no way comparable with disturbances which are ex
perienced over an area of but         few miles at the outside,
                                              a
as      when  powder-magazine explodes.
               a                            The subterranean
source of these wide-spread quiverings of our stable English
ground are, we may be sure, deep-seated and energetic
even     if  underlies immediately the region in which its
               it
action    felt.
          is     But      as   probably the case, the throe
                              if,      is                                                   is
propagated from      distant source, and comes to the surface,
                         a
so to speak, in our western counties,     may be comparable
                                                         it
in energy, for aught we know, to some of those violent
subterranean heavings which have worked the most terrible
mischief to the human race.
    Indeed, we have good reason for believing that the earth
quakes felt in England belong to the same system, and
come from the same centre of subterranean action, as those
which have shaken Portugal, Morocco, and Algiers, Southern
Italy, Turkey in Europe, and Asia Minor. There                                         is   a
peculiarity         about the        British earthquakes which                    is   well

         EARTHQUAKES         IN THE BRITISH        ISLES.     221
worth noticing, and seems to be explicable in no other way.
Three hundred earthquakes and upwards have been recorded
as having shaken these islands, and it has been found that
in nearly every instance the wave of disturbance has tra
velled in the same direction.        This direction is (roughly)
from south-west to north-east, and the seat of disturbance
thus indicated is that submarine region between the Azores,
Teneriffe, and the Cape Verde Islands, which is looked upon
as the   principal source of the greater European earthquakes.
Precisely as the last of the great earth-waves which devas
tated Peru came sweeping in from the Pacific, so the throes
which destroyed Lisbon in 1755 swept in from the west.
And though there are other sources of disturbance in the
South-European volcanic district, yet it has been the opinion
of the most eminent geologists that these all communicate
with the source underlying the eastern Atlantic, and that
the latter source is the most deep-seated and therefore the
most important      of them all.
      We proceed to give a brief account of the most remark
able evidences which these islands have afforded of the
energy of subterranean forces, either acting immediately
beneath     them,    or propagated along deep-lying      channels
 from the     far-distant seat of disturbance which      we have
 indicated.
      Some of the earlier earthquakes of which records have
 been handed down would seem, if the accounts can be
 trusted, to have been much more important than those
 which have recently taken place.        Wendover relates that
 in 974 the whole of England was shaken by a great earth
 quake ; and the earthquake of 1081 was accompanied, we
 are told, by a tremendous roaring noise     —'  a heavy  bellow
 ing,' as one chronicler says — which was heard throughout
 the length and breadth of the land.         In the Saxon chro
 nicle it is stated that there was, in 1089, ' a mickle earth-
 stirring over all England.'     A somewhat remarkable effect
 was ascribed to this       earthquake.   It happened    that the
 harvest was very backward in that       year,  and it was sup

 222      EARTHQUAKES        IN THE BRITISH          ISLES.
 posed that this was due to the earthquake, as though per
 haps the seeds had been shaken somewhat down from their
 original place, and had so taken a longer time in attaining
 maturity.
      A very singular  event    occurred in mo.         During the
 occurrence of a very sharp shock of earthquake at Shrews
                                                                '
 bury, the River Trent was dried up at Nottingham                 from
 morning to the    third hour     of  the day,' says the narrator,
                              '
 Florence of Worcester,          so that    men walked dryshod
 through its channel.'
     We    are  now approaching a period when the most
 remarkable earthquakes which have ever been known in
 England were experienced.           In  1133 a great earthquake
was felt over a large part of Great Britain.               In 1165,
                                   '
according to Matthew Paris, there was an earthquake in
 Ely, Norfolk, and Suffolk, so that it threw down men who
were standing, and rang the bells.'         In 1185, shocks were
felt which were so violent that Lincoln Cathedral was flung
down, and an immense amount of mischief was worked in
that and neighbouring counties. Two years later there
happened another earthquake, in which, according to
Matthew Paris, many buildings, and some which were
strong and well-established, were thrown down.
     If we are to believe Matthew Paris, the earthquake
which took place in 1247 was attended by some very note
worthy phenomena.        He relates that the shock was ex.
perienced with especial violence on the banks of the
Thames, where many buildings were flung to the ground.
But the singular feature of the event was, that         a   few days
after, the sea became unnaturally calm, as       if the   tides    had
ceased, and so remained for about three months.             It seems
difficult, however, to associate the two events together in
any way ; and doubtless the calm of the sea, though it
may have been remarkable, is to be ascribed to ordinary
causes.    Possibly the character of the phenomenon has been
much exaggerated.
     In 1248, the western parts of England were shaken

          EARTHQUAKES           IN THE BRITISH ISLES.            223
with     an energy    far exceeding      anything which has been
known in recent times.           Wide rents were opened in the
churches of the diocese of Bath, and a portion of the tower
of Wells Cathedral was flung down and fell through the
roof. The cathedral at St. David's was also seriously
damaged.
     But from all accounts, it would seem that the earth
quake of September 1275, the last of the series of events
which belonged to the epoch we have referred to above, was
the most remarkable of them all.            Matthew of Westminster
                '
relates that by the violence of this earthquake the church
of St. Michael of the Hill, outside Glastonbury, fell down
levelled with the soil' And it is said that many of the
largest churches in     England were destroyed or greatly injured
by the same shock.
      It is rather a singular circumstance that this period of
activity was associated          with an interval during which
Mount Vesuvius was remarkably quiescent.                  After the
eruption of 1049, ninety years passed, during which the
mountain was not disturbed, and then another long rest of
 168 years.       That this repose     was   not due to any inter-
mittence of subterranean action is clear from the fact that
the volcanic district around Vesuvius was forced into un
usual activity — as if an effort were made in this way to
compensate for the temporary cessation of the great crater's
 activity as an outlet of discharge to the elastic fluids and
lava which are formed during subterranean disturbances. It
 is related that the Solfatara Lake was in eruption, and the
 volcanic island of Ischia, which had been at rest for four
 teen centuries, was roused into so active           a state that in
  1302, after many heavings,       the island gave vent   to a lava-
 stream    of enormous dimensions.         This stream flowed for  a
 distance of two miles.
      It  may seem     startling to many to find earthquakes in
 England associated with the movements of so distant a
 volcano, but we shall see as we proceed that there is good
  reason for believing that an association of this sort actually

  224     EARTHQUAKES          IN THE BRITISH          ISLES.
  exists.   Very few geologists doubt, indeed, that Vesuvius
  is connected with the region of disturbance we have already
  referred to as the probable centre whence English earth-
  waves have been propagated.
      After the great shock of 1275, more than              a  century
  passed    without any remarkable earthquakes.           In 1382 a
  shock took place by which several churches in the south
  east of England were thrown down, and this was, we believe,
  the last earthquake by which property of any consequence
  was destroyed.
      In recent     times,  earthquakes have taken place with
  tolerable frequency in the British Isles.          In fact, of the
  three hundred earthquakes recorded as having disturbed
 our country, nearly two-thirds belong to the present
 century.
      If  we run over the period which has elapsed since 1755
 we shall find sufficient evidence of the distinctness with
 which     earthquake shocks have made themselves felt in
 England.       We select that year because the whole of the
 country was then shaken by the effects of the great earth
 quake at Lisbon.       It was at a little past nine that Lisbon was
 destroyed, and very soon after — so . soon indeed that it
 was at first considered that the shocks took place at the
 same moment — a variety        of singular forms of disturbance
 were experienced in different parts of England, Scotland,
 and Ireland.      It would occupy much more         space   than we
 can here spare to record all the remarkable events related
 respecting the share our country had in the great earth-
 tremor which spread outwards on every side from the
centre of disturbance in 1755.             But a few of the more
striking will not fail, we think, to prove interesting to our
readers.
      At Barlborough, in Derbyshire,       a surprising and terrible
noise was heard on the western side of a large body of
water called Pibley Dam, which is said to have covered at
least 30 acres of land ; then a great swelling wave of water
came in from the south, and rose two feet on the sloped

          EARTHQUAKES       IN THE BRITISH        ISLES.     225
dam-head at the north end of the water.         The wave sub
sided, but presently returned again.         And the agitation
continued, with gradually-decreasing violence, for three-
quarters of an hour.
     At a place in Surrey called Busbridge there was a canal
about seven hundred feet long and fifty-eight feet broad.
At the eastern end of this canal the water, at the hour we
have named, was observed to be in a great state of turmoil
and agitation.     The surface   of the water, instead of being
level, was seen to be ridged like the roof of a house, only
rounded at the top.      This ridge extended lengthwise about
thirty yards, and stood about three feet above the usual
level of the water.      After oscillating for a few moments,
this heaped-up water swept suddenly towards the northern
bank of the canal, and poured over the grass-walk on that
side.     It then returned and swept with still greater force
over     the  grass-walk along the southern bank.        It was
noticed that the bottom of the canal was left dry for
 several feet when the water swept towards the south.        The
 flux and reflux of the water in the canal continued for up
 wards    of a quarter of an hour, during which the sand of
 the bottom was thrown up and thoroughly         mixed with the
 water, which continued turbid long after the disturbance
 had ceased.      During the whole time of the movement, a
 noise was heard (as if beneath the ground) resembling the
 noise of water turning a large mill.
      At Eyam- Bridge, in Derbyshire, the overseer of the lead-
 mines felt a sudden shock which raised him violently from
 the ground in his chair.     The plaster of the room fell all
  around him. The roof was so violently and visibly shaken
 that he imagined the engine-shaft had fallen -in. When he
  ran out to inquire about the supposed accident, he found
  that those who had been at work underground had ex
  perienced yet more singular effects.    Two miners who were
  employed in drawing the ore along the drifts of the mines
  were    shaken so violently   that  for awhile they were too
  terrified to move.    They were afraid to climb up the shaft,
                                                           Q

226       EARTHQUAKES      IN THE BRITISH      ISLES.
as they  believed that it was beginning to fall in upon them.
While they were consulting what should be done to secure
themselves from this danger, a second shock more violent
than the first frightened them so much that they ran pre
cipitately to the other end of the drift. Then they climbed
down to another miner who worked twelve yards below
them.    He told them that the second shock had been so
violent that he had seen the rocks around grinding upon
one another. While he was talking a third shock came,
which was accompanied by a loud rumbling noise in the
bowels of the earth.     Presently another shock followed, and
five minutes after a fifth.  The most violent of all, however,
was the second, a circumstance which corresponded in a
remarkable manner with the extreme violence of the second
shock experienced at Lisbon. A reference to the narrative
of this catastrophe in the essay on earthquakes in 'The
Borderland of Science' (Vol. I. of Knowledge Library),
will show that it was this shock which had the principal
part in the destruction of the city and its inhabitants.
    At Shireburn Castle, in Oxfordshire, there is a moat
which encompasses the building.   On the morning of the
earthquake the air was calm and loaded with a somewhat
heavy fog.    The water of the moat was as smooth as a
looking-glass.   Suddenly one corner of the moat was ob
served to   be disturbed   in  singular manner. While all
                                a
the rest of the water maintained its smoothness unchanged,
this part began to flow backwards and forwards in a sur
prising manner. The flux and reflux were observed to be
quite regular. Each flow of water began gently, then its
violence increased by degrees, and at last it rushed in upon
the shore with wonderful impetuosity.     This motion con
tinued for a considerable time, and excited great amaze
ment amongst those who witnessed        it, since they were
quite unable to account in any way for so mysterious and
persistent  acommotion.
    At Loch Lomond, the waters of the lake suddenly
rose upon its banks, and that to so greataheight that boat
                                                        a

           EARTHQUAKES       IN THE BRITISH ISLES.              227
   was carried in one place   forty yards inland, and there left.
   In five minutes more the water rose again as rapidly as
   before, and again receded.       This peculiar motion lasted
   for more than an hour.
        During the same great earthquake women who were
   washing on the banks of the Tay were swept off their feet
   by a wave.
       In the year 1784,  Loch Tay was disturbed in a very re
  markable manner. The water receded from the two ends
  and rose in a great wave in the middle of the lake-basin ;
  then this wave     spread   itself laterally over the shores,
  passing high above the usual limits of the lake.       This was
  repeated every day for a week, with less and less violence.
  It  is worthy  of notice that the year 1784 was remarkable
 for the earthquakes which disturbed different parts of
 the world.     One occurred on       July   18, in Armenia, and
 caused the loss of upwards of six thousand lives.            The
 city of Ezerghan was destroyed by the same shock. But
 the volcanic effects observed in Iceland in the same year
 were yet more remarkable.        In fact, Iceland had been dis
 turbed more violently during that and the preceding year
 than at any former period in the history of the island.
 '
    It has been calculated,' says Professor Ansted, ' that a
single volcano in the wild and untrodden desert lying in
the south-east part of Iceland threw out that year fifty to
sixty millions of cubic yards of matter.            The accounts
which have been handed down to us of this event present
to us a picture almost too terrible for belief.      With a wide
spread destruction of the land, the depths of the sea were
invaded, and the fish (the Icelanders' chief means of sub-
sistance) driven from the shore.          The flames broke out
even through the waves in the line         of movement, and the
sea was      covered with pumice for 150 miles.          A thick
canopy hung over the island for a year, and the winds
carried the ashes over Europe, Africa, and America.           The
very sun was darkened, and showed only as a ball of fire ;
                                                          Q 2

228      EARTHQUAKES         IN THE BRITISH       ISLES.
while frightful hurricanes, hailstorms, thunder, and lightning
added their horrors.'
     It is also well worthy of notice that the great earthquake
of Calabria had taken place but a year before, and that
while this great convulsion of nature lasted, the barometer
in Scotland sank within a tenth of an inch of the bottom
of the scale, and the waters of many of the Highland lakes
were much agitated.
     Late in the year 1789 a singular incident took place near
Comrie.      The ice on a lake there was suddenly shivered
into atoms.      There had been a tremendous earthquake
on September 30 at Borgo di San Sepolcro, in Italy,
during the course of which many buildings were wholly
swallowed up.       And, lest we should seem fanciful in as
sociating this earthquake with events which happened in
Scotland, we extract the following passage from the ' Scots'
Magazine,' referring to the Italian earthquake.    It says : ' On
the same day three distinct     shocks of earthquake were felt
at the house of Parson's Green, on the north side of the
hill of Arthur's Seat, near Edinburgh.' Only four days
before the county of Wiltshire had been shaken by a very
perceptible shock of earthquake.
     A somewhat severe earthquake was felt in Edinburgh in
the year     1801.   Singularly  enough, the shock was not
felt in the Old Town. But in the New Town the sensation
experienced was as though the houses had been lifted bodily
upwards, and then violently shaken from north to south.
Some hours afterwards a house sank so much that the
magistrates condemned it.       The gable of a barn near the
city fell in upon some reapers and crushed two of them to
death.     We believe this is the only earthquake which has
taken place for many centuries in the British Isles in which
there has been any loss of life.     At Crieff and Comrie the
earthquake was felt even more distinctly than at Edinburgh ;
but no buildings were injured.
     But perhaps the most remarkable earthquake experi
enced in the British Isles during the present century is that

         EARTHQUAKES        IN THE BRITISH        ISLES.      229
 which took place on the evening of August 13, 1816.         The
 summer had been remarkable for heavy storms of rain and
 hail, which caused much mischief to the crops ; and a cir
 cumstance which had attracted much attention was the
 want of correspondence between the barometrical indications
 and the weather, the barometer often rising before heavy
 storms and falling before fair weather.     The earthquake of
 August 13 was felt over nearly the whole of Scotland.
 But its action at Inverness was much more intense than at
 any other place.    Indeed, one is reminded of the narratives
 of more destructive earthquakes by the account of the scene
 presented   in Inverness on the night of the occurrence.
 Most of the inhabitants had gone to bed, when suddenly a
 violent vertical shock was experienced, followed immediately
 by a trembling which lasted for about half a minute — or
longer as some thought.      So violent was this earth-throe
that many were flung out of bed.
                                         '
                                           All others who had
gone to rest,' says the narrative of the event, 'instantly
sprang from their place of repose, and with little ceremony
as to clothing, joined the crowds who had rushed into the
streets, which immediately became a scene      of wild and un
usual terror, no one knowing    but what a second shock was
immediately to bury them under the ruins of their houses.
Under this apprehension many hurried, ill-prepared as they
were, out   of the town, and spent the greater part of the
night in the fields.     It was found that already great
damage had been done to the buildings.          Many were rent
from top to bottom ; great numbers of chimney-tops had
been    shaken down.     From   a  stack   of chimneys on the
Mason     Lodge, a coping-stone weighing fifty or sixty
pounds was thrown to the other side of the street, a dis
tance of not less than twenty yards.'     Nothing could more
strikingly exhibit the energy of the lateral vibration than
the fall of this great stone.     It is wonderful that much
more serious damage was not effected by a shock of this
nature.
     It was noticed that the old buildings suffered    less than

230      EARTHQUAKES          IN THE BRITISH      ISLES%
the   new during this shock. Three gentlemen who were
approaching the town from the westward heard the great
bell toll twice, but the townspeople, amid the crash of
falling stones and tiles, and the shrieks of terrified women,
did not notice the sound.
     When the morning came it was observed that a steeple
which had recently been fixed to the county gaol had
received a twist a few feet from the top.        The spire was
octagonal in shape, and was twisted through about a six
teenth   of a  circumference, from the east towards the north.
For upwards of ten years the steeple exhibited this curious
token of the energy of the earthquake of 1816, but it was
afterwards    repaired.
     In other   parts of Scotland very remarkable effects were
experienced during the occurrence of this earthquake.
Three arches built across an arm of the sea in Sutherland
were flung down.        A   man who was walking amongst the
mountains of Lochindorb ' was first alarmed by a sudden
and tremendous noise of a rushing wind, which came
sweeping up the hills like a roar of water ; this was instantly
followed by a rumbling noise, and the ground was sensibly
heaved up and down under his feet.'         A similar noise and
motion were observed near Montrose by two excise officers
who were on the watch for smugglers.           They were lying
down on the ground when the shock came, and one of them,
leaping up, exclaimed, There they are ! I feel the ground
                            '
                                     '
shaking under their horses' feet !
     It is worthy   of notice that only six days before this re
markable earthquake Mount Vesuvius had been in eruption.
     The next earthquake which seems to merit notice is the
one which occurred on October 23, 1839. For a fortnight
before, slight earth-tremors had been experienced at Comrie,
in Perthshire ; but the shock, which took place on the 23rd
(though it seemed to have spread from this neighbourhood as
a centre), was felt over nearly the whole of Great Britain.
     A gentleman who felt the shock at Monzie gives the
following graphic description      of what was experienced at

        EARTHQUAKES          IN THE BRITISH      ISLES.      231
that place : — At thirteen minutes past ten in the evening
                '
we heard a sound like that of a numerous body of cavalry
approaching at full gallop along a grassy sward.     When this
had continued a few seconds, we felt two or more abrupt
concussions, as if a solid mass of earth had struck against
a body more ponderous than itself and rebounded.            The
rattling of furniture, combined with the subterranean
thunder, and the reeling of what we had hitherto deemed
terra firma, communicated at this moment a feeling of the
terrific which made the stoutest heart quail. The sound
passed off as before, far to the east, carrying fear into
other districts.' The terror was so great at Comrie that the
people ran out of their houses, and assembled for prayer
in the Secession Meeting House, where religious exercises
 were continued until three in the morning.        Two distinct
 shocks    were   felt while the people were thus engaged in
 prayer ; but neither of them was so intense as the first.
     We might quote many instances of the energetic action
 of this shock, but we shall content ourselves with two, which
 appear to us the most remarkable.      A great dam has been
 formed on Cringate Muir for the supply of water to the
 manufactories on the Carron.         The reservoir had been
 carefully surveyed by two of the best engineers in Scotland,
 yet it was burst by the shock of this earthquake, and great
 damage was done to property by the rush of water into the
 vale below.    The other effect of the earthquake is perhaps
 yet more remarkable.         We quote from the 'Witness'
 (Edinburgh newspaper) of Jan. 22, 1840 : — 'A small tract
 of boggy land in Morayshire, which, during the winter
 seasons of at least the last hundred years, has been invariably
 more than half under water, has remained dry ever since
 the earthquake of last October ; and several wells in the
 neighbourhood of Inverness, which derive their springs
 from fissures in the old red sandstone of the district, are
 only now slowly beginning to yield part of their wonted
  supply.'
      The earthquake which took place in the autumn of 1863

232      EARTHQUAKES        IN THE BRITISH        ISLES.
is chiefly   interesting inasmuch as it bears so close a re
semblance to the earthquake of October 30, 1868. On
the whole it would appear to have been the more violent of
the two.     The district over which the disturbance extended
in 1863 was also somewhat more extensive than that
over which the effects of the later earthquake were experi
enced.
     In  1863, the region   of most violent action was in the
neighbourhood of Ross (Herefordshire) and Abergavenny.
There, effects were experienced which showed that a very
moderate increase in the energy of the subterranean action
would have rendered the earthquake a destructive one.
The Golden Valley in Herefordshire, along the banks of the
river Dore, was violently shaken.       In fact this earthquake
seems to have affected in a particularly marked manner the
beds of certain rivers in the West of England.       The valleys
of the Wye, and those along which flow some of the tribu
taries of that river, were much shaken.         At the seat of
Colonel Clifford, at Llantilio, a wall was fissured by the
shock. At Ashfield, near Ross, the walls of two houses which
were    unfinished were partly thrown down ; and at a place
called Bishop's Wood, lower down on the Wye, a house
near the river was rocked with so much violence that a
gentleman who was asleep in a heavy old-fashioned four-
post bed was nearly thrown out
     Much doubt was thrown on the statement that the earth
quake was accompanied by a roaring noise, and the editor
of the ' Geologist expressed his opinion that those who
                       '
imagine they had heard such a noise must have deceived
themselves.     But the evidence we have on this point is far
too clear to be discredited in this way. The Rev. H. C.
Key, of Stretton Rectory, near Hereford, compared the
                                      '
noise which he heard to that of a very heavy and long
train rushing furiously through a station.' And the gentle
man who was nearly thrown out of bed, as above stated, re
lates that so violent a noise accompanied the shock that he

      EARTHQUAKES IN THE BRITISH ISLES.                    233
imagined an explosion of gunpowder had taken place in a
barge on the Wye, and he rushed to the window to see
what were the effects of the supposed catastrophe.         The
Rev. W. S. Symonds, rector of Pendock, who wrote an
interesting paper on the subject of this earthquake for the
'
  Popular Science Review,' says that he received the following
information from a friend who is thoroughly to be relied
on : — ' A man rose unusually early, and was engaged loading
a cart with potatoes, which he had promised to deliver
before his day's work commenced ; when on a sudden, " he
heard a dreadful noise come roaring up," apparently from a
wood to the westward, and his cart rocked so violently     that
he was nearly thrown out of it.    The trees all around    him
rocked violently to and fro, and the rooks rose cawing    from
the wood ; the small birds also twittered, and took       wing
with notes of distress.    The thunder-like noise appeared to
roll off towards the east.'
     That the earth was shaken with considerable violence in
the western parts   of England during the earthquake of 1863
is shown in a remarkable manner by the effects experienced
in Carmarthen Bay. Eight hours after the occurrence of the
earthquake, a large column of water, shaped somewhat like
a cone, and
              '
                of a dark brown colour, as if charged with
earthy matter,' was seen to roll forward into the bay.   A
small vessel with which this mass of water came in contact
'was violently pitched about, and the water thrown com
pletely over it.'
    The events recorded during the last English earthquake,
in 1868, had no special interest, save that which they de
rived from their relation to the occurrence of a phenomenon
which is so unusual in our country.    The shock would seem
to have been one of very moderate severity, since beyond
the displacement of a few light articles of furniture it pro
duced absolutely no disturbance whatever in the buildings
which were shaken by       No walls were fissured, nothing
                         it.
was thrown down — in fact, nothing remained to show that

234       EARTHQUAKES        IN THE BRITISH        ISLES.
 the most imposing terrestrial phenomenon        known to man
had been experienced in our country.
     The most interesting circumstance connected with that
last earthquake, and that which preceded it by a few days
only, in Ireland, is that they occurred during a brief cessation
of the activity of Mount Vesuvius.       The volcano had been
in violent eruption until almost the very day of the earth
quake in Ireland.     It remained   at rest for a few days, but
the rest was only apparent    ; the mountain was about to be
shaken by an outburst even more energetic than that which
it had before given vent to.       But during these few days'
rest there not only occurred two earthquakes in the British
Isles, but a third was experienced in Wallachia.      At last the
energetic action of the imprisoned fluids and elastic vapours
beneath Vesuvius resulted in the formation of a new cone,
through which enormous volumes of lava forced their way.
We can hardly doubt that the earth-tremors experienced
in the British Isles were due to the action of the subter
ranean matter which had been temporarily prevented from
escaping through the crater of Vesuvius.
     The earthquake of April 22, 1884, belonged to the
eastern series of British, or rather of English, earthquakes.
There are two regions in which the most remarkable Eng
lish earthquakes have occurred, one in the west, apparently
having Herefordshire for its centre (or perhaps related more
directly to the Severn Valley), the other affecting chiefly the
eastern counties, though      perhaps the eastern earthquakes
may in turn be subdivisible into those affecting the Thames
Valley and those affecting the region drained by the Ouse.
In ' Knowledge ' for October 20, November 3, November
 17, and December 1, 1882, a somewhat full account of the
most remarkable British earthquakes was given ; and I refer
readers to those numbers for full details.
     It is noteworthy that the older earthquakes are described
—it   may be, carelessly  — as affecting the whole of England.
Thus Wendover states that in 974 all England was shaken
by an earthquake, while a chronicler writes of the earthquake

         EARTHQUAKES        IN THE BRITISH        ISLES.     235
of 1 08 1 that its heavy bellowing was heard throughout the
length and breadth of the land. We have no such earth
quakes now. So in 1089 there was a 'mickle earthquake
over all England.'
     But the earthquake of 1 no was a western one, being
felt most near Shrewsbury.      That of 1165 was as markedly
eastern : it was felt in Ely, Norfolk, and Suffolk, throwing
men off their feet and ringing church-bells.         So was the
earthquake of 1185, in which Lincoln Cathedral was par
tially destroyed.
     In the earthquake of 1247 trie banks of the Thames
were much shaken, many buildings being flung to the
ground. But in 1248 the western parts of England were
disturbed in their turn, the shocks experienced in Mon
mouthshire, Gloucestershire, and Somersetshire proving
very destructive. So also the earthquake of 1275 was felt
 chiefly in the west.
     The great earthquake of 1382 resembled in character
that of April 22, 1884, but was more violent.            Several
 churches in the south-east of England were thrown down.
     The earthquake in which Lisbon was destroyed shook
 the whole of Great Britain, but can hardly be called a
 British earthquake.
     For a long time after the earthquake of 1382 the only
 remarkable disturbances of the earth's surface in Great
 Britain were felt in Scotland.        The neighbourhood of
 Comrie, in Perthshire, seems to have been a special region
 of disturbance — in fact, scarcely a year passes without some
 signs of disturbance in or near Comrie.
     The earthquake which took place in the autumn of 1863
 was a western one, the region of most violent action being
 in the neighbourhood of Ross and Abergavenny.              The
 Golden Valley in Herefordshire, and the beds of the Wye
 and its tributaries, were violently shaken.
      The earthquake of 1868, which was a very slight affair,
 was also a western one.
      The earthquake of April 22, 1884, was      a  more serious

236       EARTHQUAKES    W    THE BRITISH ISLES.
matter.   The'shock was of different degrees of violence in
different places, even in the central region of disturbance ;
but where the effects were strongest they approached in
violence those disturbances in which buildings of consider
able size have been cast down.  It might be useful to collect
the evidence of all who felt the shock distinctly, and, by
mapping down the spots where the disturbance was greatest,
to determine the relation   (if anyis   recognisable) between
the structure and contour of the land, and the movements
of greater or less energy in the earth's surface.

                                237
    THE SOUTH EUROPEAN                         VOLCANIC
                          SYSTEM.
There     are reasons for believing    that all the volcanoes —
and, indeed, all the regions     of subterranean disturbance in
Southern Europe — belong to a single volcanic system.
    It is indeed rather difficult to define the exact relation
between    the different parts   of a  widely-extended volcanic
region.    At a first view it seems unreasonable to assert that
if eruptions or other forms of disturbance in different places
are simultaneous, this must be regarded as evidence that
the two places belong to the same vulcanian region, while a
similar   conclusion should be deduced from the fact that
quiescence in one spot synchronises with disturbance in
another, and vice versa.      For instance, it was noticed that
during the often-interrupted eruption of Vesuvius in 1868,
Etna was more or less disturbed, until at length,        as if in
sympathy     with the Neapolitan volcano, the Sicilian moun
tain gave vent to enormous streams of molten matter ; and
this of itself might be considered to afford satisfactory evi
dence of the existence of some sort of connection between
Etna and Vesuvius. But, on the other hand, we are told
that when the great earthquake of Calabria took place early
in 1783, the inhabitants of Pizzo remarked that the volcano
of Stromboli, which is in full view of Pizzo, at a distance of
about fifty miles, smoked less and threw up a less quantity
of heated matter than it had done for several preceding
years.    Then, again, on the same occasion, the great crater

  238   THE SOUTH EUROPEAN VOLCANIC SYSTEM.
  of Etna gave out enormous quantities of vapour              as the
  Calabrian earthquake began, while Stromboli seemed ex
  ceptionally active as the commotion of the earth in Calabria
  began to diminish ; yet no eruption occurred from either
  of those great vents during the whole progress of the Cala
 brian earthquakes.        Are we to infer from this, as in one
 place Sir C. Lyell seems to do, that the volcanic fires of
 Etna and Stromboli are ' very independent of each other,'
 or that the same mutual relation exists between them as
 between Vesuvius and the volcanoes of the Phlegrsean
 Fields and Ischia, ' a violent disturbance in one district
                                              '
 serving as a safety-valve to the other ? Lyell completes the
 latter sentence, by the way, by adding, ' both never being in
 full activity at once.' But here it seems to us he loses the
 full value of the evidence which the various disturbances
 of the South European volcanic regions have afforded.
 Rightly viewed, both forms of evidence equally tend to
 show the        interdependence, neither showing the inde
 pendence, of different parts of this great region. If an
eruption of Vesuvius begins precisely when an eruption of
 Etna seems for some cause or other to be checked, or
diminished in activity, the circumstance seems in itself to
suggest,   if it   does not prove, that the two vents serve to re
lieve one and the same volcanic region. If, again, Vesuvius
and Etna both burst suddenly into violent eruption at one
and the same time, surely that also is evidence that they
belong to the same vulcanian system.
      There is no reason whatever for assuming that because
a  disturbance in one region may serve as a safety-valve for
another, therefore both can never be in full activity at
once.    Experience has shown repeatedly that two regions ot
volcanic disturbance, the movements of which sometimes
alternate, may at other times be simultaneously active.
     But it may perhaps be asked, if this really is so, how can
we possibly decide whether any two volcanian regions what
ever are connected or distinct      ?  For  instance, when Chim-
borazo is active,       Vesuvius  is either active  or at rest.  If

         THE SOUTH EUROPEAN VOLCANIC SYSTEM.                         239
    Vesuvius is active, the two vents may be said to be working
    simultaneously ; and so the preposterous idea may be
    adopted that these two volcanoes, though separated by so
    many thousands of miles, relieve the same region of subter
    ranean disturbance.         If,
                              on the other hand, when Chim-
    borazo   active, Vesuvius
              is                 at rest, then the same absurd
                                      is
    conclusion    derived from the consideration that the action
                   is
    of Chimborazo alternates with that of Vesuvius. In reality,
    however, plausible though this objection seems,       has no
                                                               it
    weight. The distinction between the simultaneity or the
    reverse of the action of Vesuvius and that of Chimborazo,
    and the associated or alternated efforts by which Vesuvius
    and Etna, or Etna and Stromboli, or Vesuvius and the
    Phlegrsean Fields, relieve one and the same region of sub
    terranean disturbance,    sufficiently well marked. Compare
                                is
    the dates of the eruptions of Chimborazo and Vesuvius with
    the actual range of time over which the observations extend,
    and no connection whatever can be observed between them.
    Vesuvius must, indeed, be either quiescent or at rest when
    Chimborazo     in eruption, but Vesuvius never (or only
                    is                                                by
    the merest accident) begins     to be disturbed when an
    eruption of Chimborazo commences nor has an eruption
                                                 ;
    of Chimborazo           synchronised, except
                         ever                             by
                                                      the merest
    accident, with the cessation of an eruption of Vesuvius, or
    vice versa.  But whether we find that an eruption of
    Vesuvius ceases very soon after an eruption of Etna has
    begun, or that both volcanoes burst at once, or nearly at
    once, into eruption, the coincidence of contrasted conditions
-
    implies equally with the coincidence of similar conditions,
    that the two volcanoes are             outlets of the same volcanic
    region.
        In other               of subterranean activity we notice
                   large regions
    similar relations — namely, at times periods of well-marked
    oscillatory disturbance, and at other times periods of
    simultaneous action. We also find volcanic regions where
    the outlets are nearly always in action together at times of
    disturbance, and other regions where alternations of activity

240     THE SOUTH EUROPEAN VOLCANIC SYSTEM.
are the only evidence      of connection.   Thus the Peruvian
and Chilian       volcanic regions have seldom, if ever, been
simultaneously disturbed. A long period of disturbance
in the Peruvian region, culminating in the terrible earthquake
of Riobamba, was followed by a series of disturbances in
                                                                   '
the    Chilian region, resulting in a permanent elevation of
the whole line of coast.       Then came disturbances in the
Peruvian Andes, including the tremendous earthquake of
the year 1868, which so shook the shores of Peru that the
sea wave then generated swept right athwart the Pacific
to the shores of New Zealand, Australia, and the Asiatic
 continent.     It is noteworthy that between the Chilian and
 Peruvian regions of disturbance there is a space in which
 no volcanic action has ever been observed ; precisely as
 between the oscillating ends of a balance there is a region
 of comparative quiescence.
      It certainly does not seem probable that these signs of
 disturbance in different parts of the South European vol
 canic region which have followed or accompanied the
 eruption of Vesuvius have been free from all connection
 with the activity of the great Sicilian vent.   Certainly earth
 quakes in Sicily have been associated with the cessation of
 the outflow of lava from Etna.         Nor can there be much
  doubt that signs of activity shown by Vesuvius after Etna
  has been in eruption, and vice versd, indicate sympathy
  between the Neapolitan and Sicilian volcanic regions.        It
  may    seem extravagant    to associate earthquakes in France
  or in the British Isles with the activity of the Italian vol
  canoes ; but there are many reasons for believing that such      .
  slight earthquakes as do from time to time occur in these
  more northerly regions depend indirectly on the condition
  of the South European region of subterranean activity.        It
  is certain that shortly before the great outburst of Vesuvius
  in 1868 an earthquake more marked in character than
  usual in this country shook the western parts of England.
   It is well known, too, that when another part of the great
   southern region of disturbance was affected, and Lisbon was

     THE SOUTH EUROPEAN VOLCANIC SYSTEM.                   241
laid in ruins, the lakes, rivers, and springs of England were
disturbed in a remarkable manner ; the water of Loch
Lomond, for instance, suddenly rose, without apparent
cause, against   its banks,  and then quickly subsided to its
usual level.
                                                         u

                               242
         EARTH MOVEMENTS                   IN JAVA.
Those who in recent      times  have begun to doubt whether
the records   of ancient earthquakes can possibly be veracious
— whether tens of thousands of human beings have ever
been destroyed by earth-throes — must have had their doubts
displaced by the account of the terrible earthquake in Java.
Here not only such numbers as the ancient records mention
have perished, but the aspect of an extent of earth-surface
to be measured certainly by hundreds   of thousands of square
miles has been altered.       The earth-fashioning power of
vulcanian forces has been displayed, as Sir Charles Lyell
long since showed that they may be displayed in our own
times  ; and the truth is made clear to us that though the
period   of volcanic   disturbances, in which the mountain
ranges   were   formed, may be removed by hundreds of
thousands of years from the present era, yet this era is in
truth part of that remote one.      The earth's frame is still
instinct with the fiery energies to which the Alps and the
Apennines, the Himalayas, the Andes, and the Rocky
Mountains, owe their formation.
    The region of disturbance in which the recent great
eartnquake occurred has long been known to geologists as
one in which the earth's subterranean forces show them
selves most actively.    It has been said of the whole range
of islands from the Aleutian Islands to Sumatra, extending
along the eastern and south-eastern coast-line of Asia, that
they are but the upraised parts of a region of the earth's
crust which is simply alive with the action of subterranean

              EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.                      243
forces.   Professor Milne, of Japan, has said of a portion of
this region, and certainly not the most active portion, that
earthquakes are in reality of almost momentary occurrence,
though it will, of course, be understood that in so speaking
he refers not to earthquakes which can be clearly felt, still
less to those which can destroy life, but to those undulations
and oscillations of the earth's crust which, imperceptible by
ordinary observation, are rendered evident by the action of
delicate seismometers.
    Java itself, though it has not been heretofore the scene
of quite such disastrous earthquakes as have occurred in
other places (as, for instance, in Sicily and Calabria in the
Old World, and in Peru and Chili in the New), is neverthe
less one of the most singularly volcanic regions of the earth.
There are thirty-eight large volcanoes in Java, some of which
are more than 10,000 feet in height. It is a peculiarity of the
earthquakes in this region that they seldom eject lava, but
enormous masses of mud — 'rivers of mud,' they have been
called — flow from them.     Enormous quantities of sulphur
are also emitted, with sulphurous vapours poisoning the air
for miles around. Van der Boon Mesch, speaking of the
eruption of Galungung, in Java, on October 8, 1822, says
that the mountain began to belch forth hot water and a
mass of mud and burning sulphur, and the streams of these
overflowed fields distant more than ten miles from the
mountains.
     This mountain of Galungung is situate in the interior of
Java, far from the scene of the recent earthquake.     In 1822
its sides were covered with forest-trees.    All around  was a
fruitful region, and the district was inhabited by a numerous
and thriving community.      Even as Vesuvius, at the begin
ning of this century, had long been supposed dead, so was
it with Galungung.       No tradition remained among the
people that this mountain had ever been in eruption, though
a circular hollow at its summit showed         the student of
geology that the mountain had once been an active volcano.
It was noticed in June 1822, that the waters of the river
                                                        r 2

              EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.
Kunir, or Chikunir, one of several flowing from the flanks
of Galungung, were hot and muddy. They deposited a
white powder, exhaled a sulphurous odour, and became
acid and bitter to the taste. On October 8, at one in the
afternoon, terrible roarings were heard.       The mountain was
immediately hidden by a dense smoke, and hot waters,
muddy and sulphurous, poured from all sides down the
flanks of the mountain, destroying and bearing away all that
they encountered in their passage.        With horror men saw,
says    Leopold de Buch, the river Chiwulem,           at Badang,
carrying down towards the sea an immense number of
corpses of men and animals— rhinoceroses, tigers, stags, and
even entire houses.     For two hours, he goes on, this eruption
of hot and muddy water continued ; but these two hours
 sufficed to consummate the ruin and the devastation of a
 whole province. After it ceased (at three in the afternoon)
 a heavy rain of cinders and lapilli destroyed such trees and
 fields as hitherto had escaped.       At five calm was restored,
 and the mountain reappeared.         But all the villages around,
 every single habitation, to a distance of several leagues from
 the mountain, had been covered in by mud.            On the 12th,
 at seven in the evening,   the mountain again began its work
 of destruction.   On this occasion the torrents of hot and
 muddy water rushed so violently towards the valleys that they
 bore with them rocks and forests (des forets entires') in such
 sort that hills were raised in parts where a moment before
                                  '
 there had been but a plain.        It was soon impossible,' adds
  De Buch, whose account we have followed, 'to recognise
 this valley, formerly so fertile and so well peopled.'
      Sir Charles Lyell, speaking of this eruption, says that —
  '
    immense columns of hot water and boiling mud, mixed
  with burning brimstone, ashes, and lapilli of the size of nuts
  were projected   from the mountain like a waterspout with
  such prodigious violence that large quantities fell beyond
  the river Tandui, which is forty miles distant.'             This
  stupendous energy of ejection has been doubted.            If the
  Tandui river was really overpassed by the range of these

              EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.                         245
lapilli, the distance traversed certainly exceeded forty miles,
as Mr. Peacock has shown in a recent work (' Saturated
Steam the Motive Power in Volcanoes and Earthquakes             ').
In   fact, on the   shortest   distance between
                                             Galungung and
the Tandui river there are forty geographical miles, or forty-
six English miles.    The range       enormous.
                                        is          Our most
powerful cannon, in which all the forces exerted are care
fully directed to obtain velocity of outrush, will not propel
missiles, even when these are specially prepared to travel
with the least possible resistance through the air, toagreater
distance than seven or eight miles. Eruptive forces capable
of projecting light matter to distance of over forty miles,
                                  a
though the chief part of their energies must of necessity
have been engaged in ejecting the torrents of mud and
water which changed the whole aspect of the region round
the volcano, must have been of terrible might          As the
straw shows which way the wind blows, so the fall of one of
        and highest of these lapilli beyond the Tandui
the least
showed the fearful nature of the forces at work beneath
Galungung.     It   isnoteworthy, however, that the forces
exerted within the mountain seem to have been directed at
a considerable angle to the vertical. Had the mud and water
and lapilli been projected equally in all directions above the
horizon, the quantity falling around the mountain would
have been rather greater near the crater than at      adistance
from     But actually the reverse was the case. For
       it.                                          was   it
remarked, says Lyell, that the boiling mud and cinders
                           '
were projected with such violence from the mountain, that
while remote villages were utterly destroyed and buried,
others much nearer the volcano were scarcely injured.'
A   space of twenty-four miles between the mountain and
Tandui was covered, Lyell adds, 'to such          adepth with
bluish mud, that people were buried in their houses, and
not  a trace of the numerous villages and plantations through
out that extent was visible.'      was estimated that about
                                   It
4,000 persons perished on this occasion.
     The eruption of Papandayung in 1772 was even more

246           EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.
terrible, though we have not records so complete. Formerly
Papandayung was one of the highest volcanoes in Java.
But suddenly the sides of the mountain gave way.              A
region fifteen miles long and  six broad was engulfed.    Forty
villages were destroyed, some disappearing with the sinking
earth, others being buried under the masses of mud and
clay thrown out from the mountain.      The cone was reduced
from 9,000 feet in height to about 5,000.      In this case, as
in the eruption of Galungung, the ejected matter reached
enormous distances; for Junghuhn, who examined the moun
tain in 1842, found that towns and villages were destroyed
which were far from the cone; they were buried, like Her-
culaneum and Pompeii, under a mass of ejected matter.
Junghuhn infers that the lowering of the mountain was due
for the most part to explosion rather than engulfment.      But
there seems to me no sufficient reasons for disbelieving the
statements made in 1772, to the effect that the flanks   of the
mountains fell in before the eruption began.      About 3,000
perished on this occasion.
     It has been noted, and with justice, that several circum
stances in the eruption of Papandayung, in 1772, resemble,
though on even a grander scale, the tremendous eruption of
Vesuvius in the year 79.      The reduction of the crater in
height corresponds to the change in the height of Somma,
the ancient crater   of Vesuvius, when, after many centuries
of quiescence, the volcano again became active. Moreover,
as Sir Charles Lyell says, it is probable that a new cone will
one day rise out of the ruins of the ancient Papandayung,
even as the modern Vesuvius has risen from the remains of
Somma.
     The earthquake of Sumbawa, in 1815, belongs to the
disturbances which we associate with the Javan volcanic
system, although Sumbawa is about 200 miles from the
eastern extremity of Java.     Yet this earthquake is related
to the Javan disturbances somewhat as the Chilian earth
quakes are related to those in Peru ; they indicate move
ments on opposite sides of a sort of centre of relative

                 EARTH MOVEMENTS               IN JAVA.                 247
quiescence.        It    is,
                    indeed, noteworthy that Sumatra, Java,
and Bali (the small island between Java and the Straits of
Lombok) may be regarded as forming          single volcanic
                                                      a
region   while those on the other or eastern side of the
          ;
Straitsof Lombok, including Lumbawa, belong to different      a
region of volcanic disturbance. The Straits of Lombokj
though narrow, deserve to be regarded as forming      special   a
dividing line between two distinct regions    for the simple
                                                       ;
reason that the Straits of Sunda, and the passages between
the various islands between Java and the Lombok Straits,
are demonstrably of much more recent formation than the
deep rift through which the Straits of Lombok flow.     The         '
Straits of Lombok are only fifteen miles across,' says Lyell,
'
    less wide than the Straits         of Dover
                                          and yet the contrast
                                                  ;
between the animals of various classes on both sides of this
narrow channel     as great as that between the old and new
                        is
worlds.'
     It   indeed, surprising that the difference, not only in
          is
species, but in genera, should be as great between the fauna
of Lombok and the fauna of- Bali, as we usually find only
where     a    wide ocean flows between        two regions.       On one
side we have the fauna proper to the              Indian region, on the
other the Australasian fauna. This extends to the human
race.  On one side of the Straits of Lombok we have the
Malayan type and on the other the Pacific type (including
Papuans and Polynesians, as well as Australasians). So far
as human races are concerned, we can infer nothing as to                 a
past connection between Sumatra, Borneo, Java, and Bali,
on the one hand, and between Celebes, the Moluccas, New
Guinea,                   Sumbawa, and Lombok, on the
               Timor, Floris,
other; for men could readily cross from island to island.
But when we find all races of animals in one set of islands
akin to each other, and those in the other set akin to each
other but altogether distinct from the former,     becomes it
as certain that the Straits of Sunda, and the other straits
separating      each set        of islands, were of comparatively re
cent formation, as             that the Straits of Lombok must have

248                 EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.
been      impassable barrier for all animals, except those
          an
domesticated by man, for periods of time of much greater
duration.
   The earthquake of Sumbawa, in 181 5, was comparable
with the recent earthquake so far as the material changes
wrought by it were concerned, though not in the destruction
of life and property.    The eruption began on April 5,
though it is noteworthy that in April 18 14 the volcano had
given signs of activity — ashes flung from within it having
fallen- on the decks of passing vessels.  The sound of the
explosions which accompanied the beginning of the earth
quake-throes on April              5,   181 5, were   heard in Sumatra on
the west, at a distance  of more than 700 English miles,
and in Ternate on the    east, at a distance of more than 800
miles — that    over is,range of more than 1,900 miles,
                               a                                        a
distance equal to nearly      quarter of the earth's diameter.
                                        a
Of 12,000 persons in the province of Tomboro, in Sumbawa,
only twenty-six survived. The progress of the earthquake
was accompanied by violent atmospheric disturbances, whirl
winds of tremendous force tearing the largest trees up by
the roots, and carrying into the air men, horses, cattle, and
whatever else was encountered in their course.    Houses at
Bima, forty miles east of the centre of disturbance, were
rendered uninhabitable by heavy falls of ashes. On the
west, the ashes from the volcano were carried still farther —
viz., fully 300 miles — in sufficient quantities to darken the
air   ! In Celebes, 217 miles from Sumbawa          similar phe
                                                            a
nomenon was observed.             said that in Java the darkness
                                        It   is
caused         by   the    ashes was deeper       than that of the darkest
night.         Mr. Crawford states that some of the finer particles
of the volcanic dust ejected from Sumbawa were carried
as far as Amboyna and Banda, the latter island being about
800 miles east of the volcano.   As the south-east monsoon
was at its height, and would have carried the dust in the
opposite direction, the volcanic dust must have been pro
jected into those upper regions of the air where the coun
ter-current prevailed. The dust formed         fine, almosta

              EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.                        249
impalpable powder, yet when compressed it was found to
have considerable weight, a pint weighing twelve ounces
and three-quarters. As in the recent earthquake, and in the
great earthquakes    of Peru, the   sea played an  important part
in the earthquake    of Sumbawa.      The town of Tomboro was
overflowed, the sea remaining eighteen feet deep where
before there had been land.         But far beyond the limits of
Sumbawa, a wave varying in height from two to twelve feet
rolled upon the shores.      At Bima every proa and boat was
forced from its anchorage and flung on the coast.
     The oscillations of the earth, with subterranean rumblings,
bellowings, and so forth, were noticed over an area about
1,000 miles in diameter around Sumbawa as a centre.          This
would correspond to an area of about 800,000 square miles.
It included the Moluccas, Java, and a large portion of Celebes,
Sumatra,   and Java.
     Sir Charles Lyell calls attention to the fact that but for
the accidental presence of Sir Stamford Raffles in Java (as
governor) we should scarcely have heard in Europe of this
tremendous disturbance of the earth's crust.         He was told
that similar effects, though in less degree, had accompanied
an eruption of Carang Assam, in Bali, west of the Straits of
Lombok, seven years before ; but of that disturbance no
records have reached us.
     The earthquake of January 5, 1699, in Java was remark
able chiefly for the great number of shocks which were noticed
during its progress, no less than 208 having been recorded.
The centre of disturbance seems to have been Mount Salek,
a volcano six days' journey from Batavia ; yet in this city
many houses were overthrown.           The Batavian river, which
rises in Mount Salek, became very muddy and rose high
above its banks.      It bore down bushes and trees, partly
burned.    The water overflowed the gardens round the town,
so that dead fishes were found strewn over them when the
waters retreated.     Drowned buffaloes, tigers, rhinoceroses,
deer, apes, and other wild beasts, were carried down by the
current. Crocodiles were killed, though the river was their

250             EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.
home.      Nay, all the fish in the river were killed, except only
the carp.     The accounts of the earthquake state that seven
hills on the river banks sank down, and filled the channel
of the river, and the waters having to find their way under
the mass of earth thus thrown across the river from either
side flowed out thick, and muddy, beyond these obstruc
tions. The Tangaran river was similarly dammed up by
no less than nine landslips ; for doubtless Sir Charles Lyell
is right in considering that, when the accounts speak of
the fall   of hills  into the river, great landslips     only were
meant.
     It is singular that in a later earthquake in   Java
                                                         — namely,
the earthquake at Batur in 1786 — a river was forced by the
changes which took place in the banks to pursue a subter
ranean    course.    The river Dotog began, after the earth
quake, to pour into one of several newly-formed rents, and
it has ever since continued to flow along the new course
which it formed for itself underground.
     It appears from all the records of Javan earthquakes and
volcanic disturbances, that the feature noticed at the outset
is really characteristic of subterranean disturbances in Java.
As De Buch has said, it would seem that the effect of
volcanic action in Java is to develop enormous quantities
of sulphurous and aqueous vapours, which, attacking the rocks
forming the interior of the mountain, decompose them into
the consistence of paste, and at length, when the solid mass
is destroyed so as no longer to be able to oppose an effective
resistance,   the vapours force their way out, and        the fluid
mass    escapes through the crevices,      not like a current    of
viscous lava, but as torrents of water, leaping through every
tiny opening they can find. M. Payen, painter and naturalist,
who endeavoured to approach Galungung after the eruption
of 1822, was prevented by masses of clay and numerous
crevasses.     This destructive clay was examined later by
M. Blume, the botanist.        He describes it as of a yellowish-
brown colour, earthy and friable, exhaling a sulphurous
odour, and burning readily.        No doubt a large portion of its

                  EARTH MOVEMENTS                     IN JAVA.                      251
substance was sulphur.     This substance, called Bua by the
Malays, is analogous to the Moya of the Andes, of Quito,
which, Humboldt tells us, destroyed thirty or forty thousand
lives in the great eruption of 1798.
   The emission of enormous quantities of sulphurous vapours
would account for the existence of the so-called poison-
valleys of Java.   The famous Guevo Upas was one of these.
An extinct crater near Batur, forming a small valley about
half a mile in circumference, was thus called, on account of
its deadly character, the words meaning Valley of Poison.
It was, and probably still        region of terror to the in
                                      is,   a
habitants of the surrounding region. Sir Charles Lyell says
that every living being that penetrates into the valley falls
down dead, and that the soil    covered with the carcases of
                                        is
tigers,       birds, and even the bones of men.
          deer,                                        Talaga
Bodas    another crater described by Reinwardt as
          is                                           poison-             a
valley.  Pakamaran,     small depression in
                                 a               gorge of the   a
Dieuge mountains, has similar reputation but when visited
                                 a                          ;
by  Dr. Otto Kuntze recently,       was found to be perfectly
                                            it
free from the lethal qualities attributed to   by the inhabit
                                                            it
ants    of the neighbourhood.               It
                                     approached  is  two foot         by
paths, winding downwards from the hills around the valley.
Disregarding the entreaties of his servants, Dr. Kuntze
entered the valley of death by one of these paths, and having
traversed the valley in several directions, left  by the other   it
path.
          '
              The natives assured him,' he tells us, that he would
                                                                '
find the valley choked up by skeletons, as even the swiftest
birds flying above    would drop down stone-dead, slain by
                            it
its poisonous exhalations.   But he failed to find even                              a
single bone, nor was there the least unpleasant odour.   He
therefore pronounced Pakamaran to be an imposture, the
                                                  '
offspring of ignorance and superstition.' Yet     not clear      it   is
that the tradition respecting the death-dealing qualities of
this valley     is   a            Quite possibly the valley
                         mere superstition.
was as poisonous at some former time as          commonly       it   is
reputed in the neighbourhood to be now     similar tradition
                                                        ;   a
prevailed respecting Avernus, no doubt long after                              it   had

252               EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA,
assumed its present innocuous condition.          The name Aver-
nus   is,
        indeed, derived from the Greek Aornos, birdless, from
the belief, once doubtless true, but now no longer so, that
no bird could cross, even on swiftest wing, this fatal valley,
without being destroyed by its poisonous exhalations.
    A comparison of what has been said above respecting
the principal volcanic eruptions and earthquakes in Java,
with the records, so far as they have yet reached us, of the
recent tremendous disturbance at the western extremity of the
island, shows that the last Javan earthquake has surpassed
all previous ones of which any records have reached us, in
destruction of life and property, and probably also in the
amount of material change which      it  has wrought.   The
fact that the Straits of Sunda have been so changed, that
the passage    no longer safe for those using the old charts,
                  is
speaks clearly enough on the last point.         It   shows   that the
subterranean forces at work in this part of the earth's surface
are as energetic as those whose effects have been observed
anywhere in either hemisphere.
      On the day following the Javan earthquake           a   series   of
waves flowed in at San Francisco, the water rising one foot
at intervals of about an hour, and several hours passed
before the abnormal undulation of the water ceased.    This
wave, by the way, was absurdly described in several news
papers as   atidal wave — term which
                               a           is,
                                           to say the least,
misleading.     If the word tidal-wave be understood, as               it
usually      to refer to waves raised by the action of the
            is,
moon and sun, then the expression as applied to the wave
raised by an earthquake      altogether incorrect.
                               is
    Now, in the case of the great earthquake of Peru, on
August 13, 1868,     much greater sea- wave was generated, so
                       a
far at least as the recorded disturbance at San Francisco
enables us to judge    for at Yokohama — which
                           ;                        consider
                                                         is
ably farther from Peru than San Francisco     from the Sunda
                                                 is
       —
Straits an enormous wave flowed in on August 14, 1868.
At less but still vast distances the effects of the great sea-
wave were still more remarkable.     Thus some of the isles of

                 EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.                               253
the  Tuomotu group were completely submerged.       In the
lonely Oparu Isle, the coaling station of the Panama and
New Zealand steamships was visited by a billow which swept
away a portion of the coal depot.   Great waves continued
 to roll in here at intervals of about twenty minutes, and
several days passed   before the sea resumed its ordinary
ebb and flow.    The effects observed on the shores of New
Zealand were still more remarkable. The water was observed
to retreat at Port Lyttelton, until the port was left entirely
dry, and it so remained for about twenty minutes. Then the
water was seen returning, like a wall of from 10 or 12 feet in
height, which rushed with a tremendous noise upon the port
and town.     Towards five, the water again retired, very
slowly as before, not reaching its lowest ebb till six. An
hour later, another enormous wave rushed into the port'
Four times, we are told, the sea retired and returned with
great power at intervals of about two hours.  Afterwards the
waters began to be less disturbed ; but it was not until the
1   8th, or four days after        the disturbance began,        that   the
regular ebb and flow of the tide was resumed.
   It is now tolerably clear that the oceanic disturbances
at equal distances were not to be compared with those
which followed the great Peruvian earthquake of 1868 (a
complete record of these remarkable phenomena is given
in an essay entitled, ' The Greatest Sea Wave ever Known,'
in the first series of my ' Light Science for Leisure Hours              ').
I am inclined, indeed, noticing the relatively small oceanic
oscillation observed at San Francisco, to regard with some
doubt   a few of the more stupendous phenomena which have
been described in some papers, and especially in one New
York paper, in connection with the recent earthquake.
    And now       remains that
                     it           few remarks should be made
                                    a
on the evidence which such disturbances as those in Ischia
and Java afford of terrestrial vitality. The material life of
a planet    beginning to be recognised as being no less real
            is
than the life of    plant t)r of an animal.
                          a                         different
                                                   It   is   a
kind of life there
                 ;     neither consciousness such as we see
                              is

 254            EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.
 in one of those forms of life, nor such systematic progress as
 we recognise in plant-life. But it is life all the same. It has
 had a beginning, like all things which exist ; and, like them
 all, it must have an end.
      The lifetime of  a world like our earth may be truly said
 to   be  a lifetime  of cooling. Beginning in the glowing
 vaporous condition which we see in the sun and stars, an
 orb in space passes gradually to the condition of a cool,
 non-luminous mass, and thence, with progress depending
 chiefly on its size (slower for the large masses and quicker
for the small ones), it passes steadily onwards towards in
 ertness and death.      Regarding the state in which we find
 the earth to be as the stage of a planet's mid-life — viz., that
in which the conditions are such that multitudinous forms
of life can exist upon its surface — we may call that stage
death in which these conditions have entirely disappeared.
 Now, among the conditions necessary for the support of
life in general are some which are unfavourable to individual
life.    Among these may be specially noted the action of
those    subterranean forces by which the earth's surface is
continually modelled and remodelled.            It has been re
marked with great justice, by Sir John Herschel, that since
the continents of the earth were formed forces have been
at work which would long since have sufficed to have
destroyed every trace of land, and to have left the surface
of our globe one vast limitless ocean.         But against these
forces counteracting forces have been at work, constantly
disturbing the earth's crust, and, by keeping it irregular,
leaving room for ocean in the depressions, and leaving the
higher parts as continents and islands above the ocean's
surface.    If these disturbing forces ceased to work, the work
of disintegrating, wearing away, and washing off the land
would go on unresisted.       In periods of time such as to us
seem long, no very great effect would be produced ; but
such periods as belong to the past of our earth, even to that
comparatively short part of the past during which she has
been the abode of life, would suffice to produce effects

             earth         movements          in Java.               ass
utterly inconsistent with the existence of life on land. Only
by the action of her vulcanian energies can the earth
maintain her position as an abode of life.        She    then, is,
manifesting her fitness to support life in those very throes
by  which, too often, many lives are lost.      The upheavals
and down-sinkings, the rushing of ocean in great waves over
islands and seaports,     which tens of thousands of human
                               by
beings, and still greater numbers        of animals, lose their lives,
are partof the evidence which the earth gives that within
her frame there still remains enough of vitality for the
support of life during hundreds of thousands of years yet
to come.
     This vitality    not due, as seems commonly imagined,
                     is
to the earth's internal heat. Rather the earth's internal heat
is due to the vitality with which her frame     instinct. The
                                                    is
earth's vitality is in reality due to the power of attraction
which resides in every particle of her mass — that wonderful
force of gravitation, omnipresent, infinite in extent, the pro
perty whose range throughout all space should have taught
long since what science        teaching now (and has been
                                    is
foolishly blamed for teaching), the equally infinite range of
God's laws in time also.     By virtue of the force of gravity
pervading her whole frame, the crust of the earth    continu
                                                          is
ally undergoing changes, as the loss of heat and consequent
contraction, or chemical changes beneath the surface, leave
room for the movement inwards of the rock-substances of
the crust, with crushing, grinding action, and the generation
of intense heat. If the earth's energy of gravity were lost,
the internal fires would die out — not, indeed, quickly, but
in   aperiod of time very short compared with that during
which, maintained as they constantly are by the effects of
internal movements, they will doubtless continue.     They
are, in  sense, the cause of earthquakes, volcanoes, and so
         a
forth, because they prepare the earth's interior for the action
of her energies of attraction. But      to these energies, and
                                         it   is
the material which as yet they have on which to work, that
the earth's vitality    due.
                          is  She will not, indeed, retain her

256            EARTH MOVEMENTS IN JAVA.
vitality as long as she retains her gravitating power. That
power must have something to work on.           When the whole
frame of the earth has been compressed to a condition of
the greatest density which her attractive energies can pro
duce, then terrestrial gravity will have nothing left to work
on within the earth, and the earth's globe will be to all
intents and purposes dead.        She will continue to exercise
her attractive force on bodies outside of her. She will rotate
on her axis, revolve around the sun, and reflect his rays of
light and heat.     But she will have no more life of her own
than has the moon, which still discharges all these planetary
functions, yet has a surface arid and airless, dreary, desolate,
and dead.
    But such disturbances as the recent earthquakes, while
disastrous in their effects to those living near the shaken
regions, assure    us that as yet the earth is not near death.
She is still full of vitality. Thousands— nay, tens, hundreds
of thousands— of years will still pass before even the begin
ning of the end is seen, in the steady disintegration and
removal of the land without renovation or renewal by the
action of subterranean forces.

                                257
      EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE
                        AND WORK.
During    the last half year we have had terrible evidence of
the   energy  of those internal forces which indicate the
inherent vitality of the earth.       Destructive locally, sig
nificant of death rather than of life in their direct working,
these forces tell us in reality that the time of our earth's
decay and death is yet far off.      Thousands, nay, hundreds
of thousands of years must pass before the internal forces
of the earth cease to model and remodel its surface, and so
to keep it fit to be the abode of living creatures.       When
those forces die out  —  as in fulness of time they must — the
beginning of the end will be at hand. Apart from cata
strophic events which science sees no reason to apprehend,
the earth will be fit, it would seem, to be inhabited by
multitudinous forms of life, vegetable and animal, so long
as any  part of its solid crust remains above the level of the
sea.    But forces are continually at work which tend to
reduce the amount of land surface.        In periods far shorter
than have elapsed since first the present crust was fashioned
these forces would have wrought the destruction of every
continent and of every island. As Sir John Herschel said,
when as yet the full evidence     of the long duration of the
                                                     '
earth's past history had not been garnered — Had the
primeval world been constructed as it now exists, time
enough has elapsed, and force enough directed to that end
has been in activity, to have long ago destroyed every
vestige of land.'
                                                          s

25?    EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE AND                                  WORK.
      In considering    the     evidence of         the       earth's    internal
activity, it may be well briefly to inquire what probably is
the state of things beneath the surface, and certain relations
which must certainly exist.
    The common idea about the parts of the earth's crust
which lie deep below the visible surface     that they are is,
necessarily very firm and rigid. This idea also commonly  is
associated with the belief that inside the firm and rigid
crust there may be      region of intensely hot, imprisoned
                            a
gases, the material substance of the earth's interior being
raised by heat to the vaporous form.       One of the best
reasoners of our time, and in some respects its foremost
philosopher, has adopted this theory of an interior vaporous
region, presumably of low density (seeing that even in
experiments by which oxygen and hydrogen have been
liquefied    under   pressure    the   density attained has                never
approached that of water), as the explanation of the low
density of the giant planets.
    It may be well to dwell, then, for         moment on the
                                                     a
effect of internal pressure within even     solid globe of the
                                                    a
earth's size, that we may see how far the frame of such                         a
globe would be from      state of rigidity.
                            a                The word rigidity
must here be carefully distinguished  from the word solidity.
Rigidity   ordinarily, but not necessarily,
            is                                 characteristic of
                                                          a
solidity. And deep down below the surface of solid globe         a
as massive as the earth, rigidity        quality which would
                                           is   a
be entirely absent.    The common idea that under great
pressure solid matter becomes more firm and unyielding                          is
erroneous.       On the contrary, Tresca's experiments on the
behaviour of hard steel under high pressure show that     our              if
earth were made of       solid material as hard as steel, the
                            a
substance of this solid globe at  depth of less than twenty
                                       a
miles would be absolutely plastic under the enormous
pressure to which     would be subjected. With every mile
                       it
of descent the pressure would increase, and at the centre                       it
would attain its maximum amount. To many, indeed, this
seems inconsistent with the fact that the force of gravity

   EARTH SHAKINGS,           THEIR CAUSE AND WORK.              259
grows less and less as the centre     of the earth is approached,
until it vanishes there altogether.     The pressures existing at
different points within a globe like the earth are not pro
portional to the force of gravity, but to the total weight of
superincumbent matter.        It is strange that when familiar
experiences show this to be the case, the mistake should
still be so often made of confounding gravity with pressure.
Gravity at the bottom of the deep sea is almost exactly
equal (but slightly less) to gravity at the surface ; yet every
one who has ever dived knows that the pressure of the
water increases with every foot of descent.       At great depths
it becomes so enormous that hollow vessels made of strong
materials are crushed by its action. The same principle
must obviously hold true with the solid crust so soon as we
pass below those depths at which the rigidity of the earth's
substance suffices to resist the pressure resulting from the
superincumbent mass.          We see in lofty mountains, for
example, how granite and other rock substances can resist
the pressures due to heights of four, five, or six miles.
There might, perhaps, be mountains ten miles in height —
so great    is  the  rigidity  of some     rocks.    But Tresca's
experiments    prove that a mountain twenty miles in height
is simply an impossibility, because all the lower parts of
such a mass would be plastic under the superincumbent
weight.    So must it be in the earth's interior.       Instead of
the crust being more and more rigid with every mile of
descent, it must become more and more plastic, more and
more ready to yield to changing directions or intensities of
forces at work upon it.
     Now if the earth's interior were exposed to no disturbing
action, or to disturbing forces small by comparison with the
pressures which produce the plasticity above described,
there would be all but perfect stillness in the earth's interior
(supposed for the moment to be wholly, or almost wholly,
solid).   The depths of the great sea are perfectly fluid, yet
are they at almost perfect rest.        But, within the depths of
even    an entirely solid earth   like ours, forces   are at work
                                                            s 2

  260   EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE AND                 WORK.
  which are of the same order as those which make the solid
  frame, plastic throughout, all but a mere surface film of
  partially rigid structure.    The forces exerted by sun and
  moon in raising tides on the ocean act energetically on
  every part of the earth's frame, and always with those
  variations of intensity which tend to produce displacements.
  The force of the moon, for instance, on the globe of the
 earth, being exerted on each part of the earth's interior in
 degree and direction corresponding to the position of that
 part, necessarily tends to deform the plastic interior, and
 with it the but partially rigid crust.     The sun acts in like
 manner. The way in which the mighty globe of the earth
 is made to reel, in the long precessional period of 25,900
 years, shows how effective are these influences.       It is only
 because    the very vastness   of the pressures, producing in
 ternal plasticity, limits the range in the effective variation of"
 pressures in direction and degree, that the deformations
 which would result in the case of an absolutely solid globe
 are comparatively slight, when the dimensions of the earth's
globe, as a whole, are considered.        But such deformations
must be taken into account in any theoretical discussion of
the earth's movements as a whole, or of the movements of
her crust.     Whatever view we take of the earth's interior,
whether we admit or reject the possibility that large parts
may be liquid or vaporous, we must always consider the
external deforming forces on the globe of the earth, regarded
as a whole.
     Now what may be the actual condition of the earth's
internal regions science has not yet been able to determine
with certainty. Mr. Hopkins, from investigations of the
precessional motion of the earth, inferred that the solid
crust must be at least 800 miles thick.        Sir W. Thomson,
from the observed height of the water-tide, which of course
would be affected if the solid globe were influenced by a
tidal deformation, infers that the frame of the earth is as
rigid as though the whole mass were of solid steel. Mr.
                    '
O. Fisher, in his Physics of the Earth's Crust,' gives good

     EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE AND                    WORK.      261
  reason for rejecting the idea      of absolute solidity ; for he
  shows that the irregularities of the surface of a solid globe
  cooling would be much less than those which actually exist
  on the earth's surface.      He infers, from observed tem
  peratures in Alpine travelling, that the solid crust is about
  twenty-five miles thick, but the central portions he assumes
  may or rather must be solid      ;  so that    we have    a  central
 solid mass separated from a moderately thick crust by
 a shell of unknown thickness, chiefly liquid,            but partly
 perhaps gaseous, despite the enormous pressure           to which it
 is subjected.   Mr. Herbert Spencer's theory that the greater
 portion of the interior of our earth is gaseous, seems open
 to very serious objections to say the least, especially when
 we consider the indications of greatly increased density
 towards the centre.
      But that the actual surface of the earth is in a state of
 continual movement is after all what chiefly concerns us in
 considering great subterranean disturbances. On this point
 there is no longer room for doubt.            The pendulum re
 searches of Professor G. Darwin — started with another
 purpose in view, viz. to determine what change there may
 be in the action of terrestrial gravity — have shown that the
 whole crust of the earth is in a state of constant tremor.
 Whatever the actual condition of the interior regarded as a
whole, there must be large regions partly         liquid and partly
vaporous, the crust above which undulates and vibrates
constantly under the varying forces to which it is exposed,
communicating to more stable portions minor movements of
undulation and vibration.
     Apart of course from the action of external forces on the
earth's   mass, we must consider        internal   processes   which
are certainly taking place,    let their interpretation be what
it may.
     It  is clear that the waters of the earth play a very
important part in disturbing the earth's interior.         It is only
necessary to note the distribution of active volcanoes and
volcanic regions to see that this is so : for with scarcely any

262   EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE AND                  WORK.
exceptions    (and those readily explained) the regions of
active disturbance are near the sea-shore.          And again,
while observation thus points to the sea as closely connected
with subterranean disturbance, reasoning shows that the
relation might have been expected.
     The water which forms our seas and oceans, and their
offspring lakes and rivers, is the most variable part of the
earth's globe regarded as a whole.     When the frame of the
earth was intensely hot to its very surface the seas could
have existed only in the form of a mighty atmosphere
of steam, in which immense masses of cloud constantly
floated.    For water could not have rested on the fiery hot
surface.    But while in that early stage of the earth's history
the material    of the future ocean was outside the earth's
crust and in an atmospheric form, there is good reason for
believing, with Saemann,       Le Meunier, Frankland, and
Sterry Hunt, that in the remote future of the earth the
waters   of the sea will be withdrawn into her interior. The
process of withdrawal is in reality taking place even now.
Enter any cavern, such as Kent's Hole in Devonshire, on
the driest and hottest day, or even after weeks of dry
weather, and you shall find the roof wet with the waters
which have been slowly making their way from the surface,
where they fell in the form of rain months before.      Through
out the whole crust of the earth, except in a few spots where
rain never falls, the same process is going on all the time.
Only a portion of the water, which thus falls on the earth,
ever returns to the surface in the form of springs.      Artesian
wells show how slowly some of the strata of the earth
 permit water which has thus reached them to pass through ;
 but they show also how large a portion of the earth's waters
are already beneath the surface.
     Of course    the greater part of the water which reaches
 the surface in the form   of rain is presently restored either
to the sea in the form of river water, or to the air in the
 form of aqueous vapour. Were it otherwise a few years
 would show a measurable change       in the sea-level.    It may

   EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE AND                   WORK.     263
well be that the amount actually withdrawn from the sea
surface in this way, and not restored, does not produce
a change of level of more than a foot in a thousand years.
Still even that would involve a very important alteration in
the aspect of the earth in such periods of time as belong to
a  planet's history. A million years would reduce the sea-
level by a thousand feet, and in a period of time, which
cannot be reckoned long when compared with the vast
periods of which the heavens and the earth speak to us, every
trace of water would have disappeared from the surface of
the earth.
     However, we are       not concerned with the question
whether the seas, once     outside the earth in the form of a
steam atmosphere, will,    while the earth is still a planet, pass
wholly into its interior,   as in the case of the moon they
seem to have done.      That the waters of the      sea are slowly
finding their way into the earth's     interior  is  certain : the
rate at which they are so passing inwards is as yet entirely
uncertain.
     Now beneath the actual floor of the sea, and beneath the
 central regions of large continents (one should, perhaps, say
 beneath nearly the whole land surface of the earth), the
process of withdrawal would usually take place quietly.
 From the laws of the conduction of heat we know that the
thickness of comparatively cool crust beneath the sea must
 be very much greater than where there is no sea.             The
 constant pressure of enormous masses of ice-cold water
 (kept cold, be it noted, in the process of oceanic circulation)
 must have withdrawn heat from depths of the solid crust
 lying far down below the sea- floor.         Consequently the
 process of slow withdrawal, which is really taking place
 beneath the sea, usually causes little tendency to interior
 disturbance.    It may even be that there is an almost exact
 balance between the two processes necessarily at work in
 those parts of the earth's crust which lie beneath the sea —
 the gradual loss of heat on the one hand, and the increase
 in the quantity of internal water.    Were the water which is

 264   EARTH SHAKINGS,        THEIR CAUSE AND WORK.
 withdrawn in a thousand years beneath the sea taken down
 at one movement to the regions of intense heat far below
 the sea-floor, and turned, as it would necessarily be, into
 superheated   steam, there would, no doubt, arise great
 increase of pressure, and perhaps tremendous disturbance.
 But the region of great temperature must slowly descend,
 or, in other words, the temperature at given depths below
 the sea must very gradually become lower and lower, and
though the change may be exceedingly slow, it cannot
 be much slower than the indrawal of water below the
 sea-floor.
     Again, in parts of the earth's surface far from the sea,
and, indeed, along by far the greater proportion of the
range of coast, the quantity of water taken into the interior
is so small that here again there must usually be a balanced
action between the two processes : the cooling of the crust,
gradually extending to greater and greater depths ; and the
indrawal of water, to be converted into steam when it has
reached a sufficient depth.
     But at certain parts of the coast-line, the rate at which
water finds its way towards the interior is too great to be
thus always balanced by the effects of lowering temperature,
or deepening of the layers of given average temperature.
     In the first place there are much greater variations of
pressure at the sea-coast than elsewhere, and though usually
the crust beneath the sea-shore     may be able to withstand
such changes,    yet there may not be sufficient strength     in
certain places to prevent the occasional formation of open
ings through which water may find its way into the interior.
Consider, for instance, the effect of the alternate inflow and
outflow of water along a shore-line, the enormous added
pressure when the waters rise, and the reduction of pressure
when they sink again.     This would not operate over a large
region, when the whole of it is affected, as, for instance, the
portion of the sea-floor that is always under water.        But
along a shore, a portion of the crust comes under the effect
of this alternation of tidal pressure, while the neighbouring

   EARTH SHAKINGS,          THEIR    CA  USE AND WORK.       265
parts   of the crust are not at all affected.     Thus taking a
strip of surface square to the shore-line, and one-half below
one-half above the mean sea-level — at high tide, the portion
of this strip of earth crust which lies sea-ward is subjected
to much greater      pressure  than when the sea is at its mean
level; at low tide it is subjected to much less pressure.      It
is clear that this constant variation of pressure on one-half
of the region must have      a tendency to produce openings or
cracks running parallel to the coast-line, and that though the
strength of the crust might usually be able to withstand the
effects of this constantly varying strain, there must be certain
of the many thousands of miles of coast-line on the earth's
surface where the changes of strain would at times become
too great to be resisted, and submarine fractures would
ensue.
    Again, the action of wind on the sea must at times
affect in a very marked degree the pressure on the crust of
the earth near the coast.        Add to this the circumstance
that the coasts of islands and continents are regions of
precipitation.    There the moisture-laden air from the sea
discharges    relatively the largest portion of its moisture.
When we consider further that along many parts of the
shore the very shape of the coast-line indicates the com
parative weakness of the crust, which has yielded alike on
one side to pressure from below thrusting it upwards above
the sea-level,    and on the other side to the pressure of
the water forcing it down, we can readily understand that
along some parts of the coast-line the waters of the sea
find readier and more rapid entrance than elsewhere.
Moreover, they find their way into regions where there is
readier access for the internal heat.       Throughout internal
cavities of large extent and of varied structure, the water
penetrates until it finds its way to regions so hot that it is
turned into steam, at great pressure : with the increase of
this pressure, and probable increase of heat due to me
chanical displacements, the resistance of the superincumbent
crust is at length overcome,     or else a way is forced for the

266   EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE AND                  WORK.
escape  of the imprisoned vapours through some neighbour
ing outlet.
     Thus viewing the relation between subterranean distur
bances and the sea, we must somewhat modify the teleological
interpretation which had been somewhat hastily assigned to
the distribution of volcanic regions along shore lines.        A
modern writer has said that,
                                  '
                                    It would seem as if Nature
had provided against the inroads of the ocean by setting the
earth's upheaving forces just where they were most wanted.'
It might as correctly be said that Nature had so provided
that the inroads   of the ocean should occur just where the
upheaving forces are prepared to resist them.      But in reality
the two conditions are related as cause and effect.      Because
the crust has yielded along particular lines,      there lie the
shores of the great deep, and there the sea waves beat upon
the capes, headlands, and cliffs which mark where the crust
of the earth gave way. It has been because of the weak
ness  of that part of the surface that the sea makes inroads
there,  but the same weakness       tends to render the regions
thus encroached upon those also         where  the  subterranean
energies necessary to repel the attacks     of the sea  are most
readily developed.
     In  the great   disturbances, then, which have occurred
during the past half year we see evidence of the progress
of that continual contest between sea and land which will not
cease as long as the earth's vitality remains. When the earth's
internal forces no longer upheave the crust, life must soon
cease to exist on the earth's surface.       So long as the sun
pours light and heat, and with them life, on the members
of his family of worlds, wind and storm will rouse the sea
to fresh attacks on the shore-lines of continents and islands.
 Rest on either side can only come through the cessation
 either of solar action on the one hand or of earth action on
 the other, and if either action ceased life also would perish
 from off the face of the earth.
     We may see also in the terrible earthquakes of Ischia,
 the East Indies, and Asia Minor, evidences of the earth's

    EARTH SHAKINGS, THEIR CAUSE AND               WORK.           267
reparative forces rather than of destructive energies, though
unfortunately the working of these restorative processes
involves the loss of many lives.   As Sir Charles Lyell has
well pointed out, 'The general tendency of subterranean
movements, when their effects are considered for a sufficient
lapse of ages, is eminently beneficial ; and they constitute
an essential part of that mechanism by which the integrity
of the habitable surface is preserved.   Why the working of
this same machinery should be attended with so much evil
is a mystery far beyond the reach of our philosophy, and
must probably remain so until we are permitted to investi
gate, not our planet alone and its inhabitants, but other parts
of the moral and material universe with which they may be
connected. Could our survey embrace other worlds, and
the events not of a few centuries only, but of periods as
indefinite as those with which geology renders us familiar,
some apparent contradictions might be reconciled, and some
difficulties would doubtless be cleared up.' But we can
never hope to understand the mystery which lies at the back
of all these mysteries.  We see but part of the scheme of
the universe, and may well believe that, if we saw more,
much that now perplexes us would seem clear ; yet all that
we can see must be but a small part of that which is.     A
few links here and there of the mechanism of the universe
we may detect, and please ourselves with the thought of the
aptness   with which these, at least, seem adjusted to their
purposes.    But the parts we do not see, the parts we may
never see, are as important as those we see ; nay, being
infinitely vaster, they are infinitely more important. Doubt
less, did we know all, we might say with knowledge, what
we can now only say through faith, that all which      is,
                                                         well.
                                                             is
The forces which, to our short-sighted vision, seem destruc
tive are in reality preservative and in the widest sense of
                               ;
the words the saying of the great Goethe           true, that
                                                  is
  Everywhere diffused     Harmony unending.'
                          is
'

                               268
            THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON
                   CIVILISATION.
From time immemorial the contrast has been           recognised
between      races which obtain their food by utilising the
forces of nature and those which depend for their subsistence
on skill in availing themselves of irregular and casual chances.
Those who live by agriculture on the one hand, and those
on the other who live by hunting, fishing, and so forth, have
become so diverse in their nature that a sentiment even of
hostility has arisen between the two classes as between races
differing in characteristics other than those which seem
directly dependent on alimentation.      The reason is not far
to seek.  That a part of the observed difference in this case
(this comparatively rough illustration of the influence of food
on human progress) depends on the nature of the food used
and the manner of life of those using     it,may be admitted.
But the most important part of the difference between races
which depend on agriculture and pasture, and those which
live   byhunting and fishing, arises from differences in the
way in which, of necessity, they view nature.   To one set of
men all the circumstances are such as to suggest the absence
of law and order in the workings of nature.      They obtain
their food precariously; at one time they may have more
than they want, at another they may be in danger of starv
ing they can recognise no law governing the order of events
   ;
on which their lives depend — or, which    the same thing,
                                            is
the means      by
               which they live.  On the other hand, those

      THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.                            269
  who depend on agriculture and pasture find early that there
  are laws on which their well-being depends ; that by the
  recognition of such laws, and obedience to them when
  recognised, nature may be made the servant of man, not a
  mere chance benefactress.          They learn that their fortunes
  lie in great part in their own hands.        Observation and experi
  ment are not only suggested by the very nature of agricul
  tural and pastoral operations : these are themselves experi
  ments, and      experiments only to be made successfully by
  observant and laborious workers. There must of necessity
  arise a marked difference in the turn of mind, and in the
 tone of character, of races thus patiently and observantly
 obeying and at the same time guiding nature, and the dis
 position of men trusting to the chances and caprices of the
 huntsman's or the fisher's life.
        As every nation that has ever become civilised has
 passed beyond the condition in which men depend on hunt
 ing or fishing for subsistence, it is unnecessary to dwell
 further on effects which in point of fact have not to be con
 sidered in comparing different kinds and degrees of civili
 sation. They show us, however, at the outset, how important
 must be the influence of food, and of the manner of obtaining
 food, on the fortunes of a race when we see that whether a
 people will become civilised or not depends thus on the
 question whether they advance or not to the state in which
men no longer depend on an irregular and capricious supply
of food, but on regular processes, partly the result of their
own acts, partly the steady work of nature.1
      1
        Buckle, indeed, goes so far as to attribute not only the origin of
civilisation, but of men's religious ideas, to the nature of their food-
supply.     Singularly enough, he does not seem himself to have observed
how directly he has traced the rival doctrines of chance and necessity,
free-will and predestination, to the kind of food men use ; for, once
engaged with the religious question, he does not turn back to the
subject by which it was introduced.     But it is immediately after he has
discussed the effect of a steady supply of food, depending on the
stability of the laws of nature, that he goes on to show how, as a
necessary consequence, certain religious    doctrines would   arise.  The

270         THE INFLUENCE                  OF FOOD               ON CIVILISATION.
        In considering        the influence         of food on civilisation it has
been customary,  until of late, to start from Liebig's chemical
division of food into two classes — the heat producing and
the tissue forming — a division first pointed out in reality by
Magendie.      It was held that the temperature of the body is
maintained by substances which contain no nitrogen, or
little, while the wear and tear of the body is repaired by
food in which there is an abundance of nitrogen.        Liebig
maintained that animals cannot possibly form their tissues
out of anything but the proteids originally generated by
plants. He was not aware that the foods which had been
commonly regarded as essentially heat producing are tissue
foods too.   What was essentially right in his doctrine was
that animal tissues cannot be formed out of saccharine com
pounds, as starch and sugar, unless these have been changed
into fat.  He also was right in regarding the use of far the
greater portion of carbonaceous food as that of fuel for the
animal fires — that   that    served to maintain the animal
                               is,         it
heat.         He        asssumed,        says   Dr. Carpenter, 'that the only
purpose served by the oxidation (or, as   were, burning
                                                    '                                '
                                                                     it    '
of the food within the body,                        by
                                combination with oxygen
taken in through the lungs), was the production of heat
                                                '
                                                                                     ;
irregularity of the hunter's or the fisher's supply would prevent him
from suspecting anything like method in the arrangements of nature,
nor could his mind even conceive the existence of those general prin
ciples which govern the order of events.       But, as the observations
                                                         .   .   .
of those who live by agriculture and pasture accumulate, and as their     '
experience extends over     wider surface, they meet with uniformities
                                     a
that they had never suspected to exist, and the discovery of which
weakens that doctrine of chance with which they had originally set out.
.   .   .   Thus that, in the ordinary march of society, an increasing
                   it   is
perception of the regularity of nature destroys the doctrine of chance,
and replaces    by that of necessary connection.
                    it                              And          think,   it   is,
                                                                                I
highly probable that out of these two doctrines of chance and necessity,
there have respectively arisen the subsequent dogmas of free-will and
predestination.'  Strange,     in the mode of seeking food should be
                                     if
found the origin of the two lines of thought, along one or other of
which men have been led from time immemorial to the choice of their
religious views.

    THE INFLUENCE         OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.         271
affirming that all the mechanical force exerted by the animal
body is the product of the transformation of living muscular
fibre into dead — the vital force which was expended by the
living tissue being expended in the shape of motion. The
oxidation of the dead material he regarded as only a conse
quence of its loss of power to resist chemical agencies, and
as a means of its removal — serving at the same time as an
additional source of heat. And rightly judging that this
chemical metamorphosis should show itself by the increased
excretion of urea in the urine (the kidneys furnishing the
channel through which most of the nitrogenous waste is
carried out of the body), he appealed, in support of his
doctrine, to what he supposed to be the fact of such increase,
and its proportion to the amount of work done.'
     The importance of correct views on this point will be
 seen when we consider that, if the views of Liebig were
 sound, the amount of work done by men and animals con
 suming a small allowance of nitrogenous food would neces
 sarily be small.   The work done by a nation — that work by
 which at once its progress toward civilisation and the value
 of the advance it had already made is to be measured —
 would be in proportion to the amount of nitrogenous food
 consumed ; and the fortunes of a nation would depend
 largely on the accessibility of large supplies of such food,
 and its resulting cheapness.
      It appears certain, from experiments recently made, that
 the views of Liebig on this point were not sound.        The
 production of muscular energy is no longer regarded as an
 expenditure of the vital force of the muscle substance itself,
 and therefore requiring azotised food for its reparation, but
 is considered to be due, as Mayer long since pointed out,
  'to the oxidation of a portion of the non-nitrogenous or
 respiratory food, the muscular apparatus being the mere
 instrument by which that oxidation is made to produce
 motion in place of heat.'     Experiments made by Joule on
 animals,   and by the late Dr. Edward Smith on man (on
 himself as the most convenient 'subject') show that the

272   THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.
production of force is not due to the oxidation of the nitro-
genised element of the living tissues, but chiefly to the
oxidation of the hydro- carbons. Dr. Flint, Professor of
Physiology at the Bellevue Hospital, New York, points out
         '
(in his Experiments and Reflections upon Animal Heat ')
that muscular force results from the transformation of the
heat produced in the organism after the appropriation of a
quantity of caloric sufficient for the maintenance of the con
stant animal temperature.      '
                                 The oxidation of the elements
of carbon and hydrogen is a much more important factor of
calorification than that of nitrogen, for it is certain that the
calorific value of the oxidation of the first two, and the
quantity of heat thus produced, are much more considerable
than in the case of the oxidation of the nitrogen.'         It is
probable, Dr. Flint considers, that a production of caloric
is always going on in the living organism, even in the absence
of any alimentation. According to his experiments, the heat
thus produced results from the oxidation of the hydrogen
forming water with the oxygen inspired into the lungs.
    The carbohydrates forming so important a part of human
food are found in fruits and vegetables, not in animal tissues,
or very little. It is otherwise with the various mineral salts
necessary for complete nutrition.    These are found alike in
vegetable and in animal food.
    These considerations tend somewhat to modify the views
which had been formed respecting the general influence of
food on the progress of civilisation.   It has been assumed
that where either the supply of heat-giving food is abundant,
or, owing to the nature of the climate, less food of the heat-
giving kind is necessary, the population will increase more
rapidly, wages be low, and the condition of the labouring
classes will be depressed. It  however, rather the nature
                                is,
of the food employed, and the way in which       obtained,
                                                it   is
that are in question, than any difference in the heat-pro
ducing capacity of the food, or in the requirements of the
inhabitants.  For wherever work has to be done, there the
food which had been thought useful only for its heat-sus

     THE INFLUENCE        OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.              273
taining qualities must be used to support and repair the
muscular energies.      The rice which had been thought suf
ficient barely to sustain life by sustaining heat, in parts of
India is found to sustain the working energies also. The
Bengalee labourers, for instance, on our Indian railways,
work exceedingly well for their size, though they live almost
entirely on rice, with a little ghee (butter), or occasionally a
small bit of fish.    The low wages, and the superabundance
of population in India, are not then in reality dependent, as
Buckle supposed, on the use of non-nitrogenous food per se,
but rather on the use of a cereal of great cheapness and
abundance, yielding to the labourer a return of from fifty
 to ninety per cent.     In Egypt, again, where dates take the
 place   of the rice of India, and dhourra peas, beans, lentils,
 and other cheap articles of diet are in use, we find similar
 results, early and rapid progress,   a  still more rapid growth
 of population, exceedingly low wages, and a wide and ever
 widening disparity among different classes.         Whatever dis
 crepancies,    as  Buckle remarks, may exist between the
 accounts given by Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus re
 specting the condition of ancient Egypt, both agreed
 respecting the rapid increase of the people and the servile
                                             '
  condition into which they early fell.        Indeed,' as he justly
  adds, 'the mere appearance        of those large and costly
  buildings, which are still standing, is a proof of the state of
  the nation that erected them.      To   raise structures so stu
  pendous and yet so useless, there must have been tyranny
  on the part of the rulers and slavery on the part of the
  people.     No wealth, however great, no expenditure, how
  ever lavish, could meet the expense which would have
  been incurred, if they had been the work of free men, who
  received for their labour a fair and honest reward.' Where
   food is very readily obtained in sufficient quantity to supply
  the wants of the working classes, there not only are wages
  low, but population increases with undue rapidity, and, as
   an inevitable result, the powerful and wealthy squander the
   lives of the people with recklessness    incredible in countries
                                                              T

274        THE INFLUENCE                 OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.
where the balance is better held between supply and demand.
Thus only can we understand how, in any nation not abso
lutely subdued by an invading force, there should have been
such a reckless expenditure of life as occurred in Ancient
Egypt, where the old Red Sea canal cost, we are told, the
lives of a hundred and twenty thousand Egyptians, whilst
thrice that number — the entire population of such a city as
Chicago or St. Louis — were employed for twenty years to
build the great pyramid of Cheops.1
         In one   race and in one only, in modern times, outside
of Asia, Africa, and South America (that        belonging to   is,
those nations of Europe and America which we associate
with the progress of modern civilisation), have we had an
opportunity of witnessing the effects of the use of      very                  a
cheap  national  food, — the Irish.    has beenItremarked  of
the potato, that, until the appearance of the potato disease,
itwas cheaper than any equally wholesome and nutritious
article of food. Adam Smith states in his 'Wealth of
Nations,' Book     chapter xi., that land sown with potatoes
                     I.
will support three times as many persons as       sown with          if
wheat   but McCulloch
           ;               probably nearer the mark in say
                                    is
ing   it   will support twice       as many.       As   a   natural result, in      a
country where people are thus (or rather were thus) cheaply
fed, wages are lower and the natural increase of the popula
tion will be greater than where the national food    dearer.              is
Until      the potato disease appeared, the population                    of Ireland
was increasing at the rate           of three per cent. per annum              ;   the
increase in England during the past year, counting all who
have emigrated, was barely half this.        to this rapid
                                                        It    is
increase of population in Ireland in past times that the
       Tpii.KovTa fiiy yap Kol    /ivpiiies avSp&y, says Diodorus Siculus,
     1
                                ?|
fas <paffi,  rats ruv ipytav Kenovpyiais irpoffii$pGv(Tav, rb       irav Kara-
ffKtiafffm t^Kos €trx€ f*6yis Irrwv cTkoo*! tiieK&6vr<ev. Bibliothec.    Hist.      ,
Book     I.,
           chap. lxiii., vol.  p. 188.
                               I,            Itonly by taking into account
                                                  is
this lavish expenditure of labour and of life that we can at all understand
the building of such edifices as the pyramids in any ruler's lifetime, or
in less, indeed, than   a   great number of generations,

    THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.                   275
 difference in the distribution of riches in Ireland and in
 England has been mainly due. The labour market in Ireland
 was overstocked.    The people were thus compelled to work
for such low wages as to be debarred, as Buckle remarks,
 'not only from the comforts, but from the common decen
cies of civilised life.'   This evil condition, he adds, was
the natural result of that cheap and abundant food which
 encouraged the people to so rapid an increase that the
labour market was constantly gorged.
      In the New World we must revert to ancient times for
evidence respecting this important law.         In the United
States and Canada, as will presently be shown, the operation
of the law is at present masked by other causes. It is
indeed, only where the law has had time to operate, almost
without check, on a population occupying a large but little
changing area, that its full effects can be recognised. In
some    of the older nations of the American     continent  this
appears to have happened in such sort as to give at least as
much prominence to the effects due to the law as among
Asiatic and African races.      Materials still exist by which
we can form an opinion respecting the condition      of ancient
 Peru and Mexico, the only countries in America where the
law affecting the relation of cheap food on civilisation could
be expected    to operate.   In these regions the    warmth of
the climate, by rendering life (mere living) easier, both as
respects food and raiment, helps to encourage that which is
in fact the real cause of the mischievous consequences we
have described (for cheap food and easy living are not in
themselves evils) — the too rapid growth of a population
occupying an unchanging area, however large.          So far as
mere natural fertility and productiveness of soil were con
cerned, Brazil, in South America, and the southern and
eastern parts of the United States in Ntfrth America, were
far in advance of Peru and Mexico ; but the fertility and
productiveness of those regions were in excess of what man
in past ages could effectively deal with. Nature there was
overwhelmingly prolific.     As Buckle remarks, ' when the

276   THE INFLUENCE                  OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.
productive powers of nature are carried beyond a certain
point, the imperfect knowledge of uncivilised man is unable
to cope with them or in any way turn them to his own advan
tage.'   Civilisation would, therefore, never begin in regions
where nature is so full of life that we seem to feel, to hear,
to see her growth.    Only where the powers of nature, though
active, are such as   man, in the beginning of his attempts at
civilisation, can deal with and control, do we find that
ancient civilisations began ; there, only, would the wealth
of nature help man to gather together the materials for that
progress which we call civilisation.
      In Mexico and Peru,             a substance,cheaper and
                                                     even
more prolific than rice or dates or potatoes, has been and is
still one of the most important articles of food. Ixtlilxochitl,
the Mexican historian, by his passing references to maize
or Indian corn, shows that before the Spaniards arrived in
Mexico it was in general use. If we can believe all that has
 been said  of the growth of maize in Mexico proper, the
 yield must have always been far greater there than that of
 any other cereal the world over.   Thus, whereas in California
 the average yield    is,
                       I believe, about eighty fold,        said it   is
 to be three or four hundred fold, and, under favourable
 conditions, even twice as great, in Mexico. Humboldt says,
'
  The fecundity of Uaolli, or Mexican maize,        beyond all
                                                            is
 we can imagine in Europe.      The plant, favoured by intense
 heat and great humidity, attains       height of from two to
                                               a
 three metres (say seven to ten feet).'   He adds that, in the
 fine plains extending from San Juan del Rio to Queretaro,
 a  yield of eight hundred fold  sometimes obtained ('Nou-
                                          is
 velle Espagne,' vol.      374). The banana, however, both
                       ii.      p.
 in Mexico and Peru, afforded an even cheaper and more
 abundant source of food.     doubt,' says Humboldt, whe
                                      '
                                      I                               '
                   "
 ther there exists another plant on the earth which in                     a
 small tract of land will produce so great     quantity of  a
 nourishing food.' . .  The produce of the banana exceeds
                            .
 that of wheat one hundred and thirty-three times, that of
 potatoes forty-four times.            This, of course, does not indicate

    THE INFLUENCE           OE FOOL) ON CIVILISATION.                      277
the relative life-supporting        powers of bananas, wheat, and
potatoes.    The produce of the three are related thus : —
           Bananas  :   potatoes  :    wheat   ::   133   : 3  : 1.
     But equal quantities of bananas, potatoes, and wheat
have unequal nutritive powers, and when due account is
taken of the difference, we find that equal tracts of land
sown (in suitable latitudes and soils) with bananas, pota
toes, and wheat,      have life-supporting         powers proportioned
thus  :
            Bananas   :  potatoes   :   wheat   ::   25  :  2 :  I.
     We might expect to find, then, that in ancient Mexico
and Peru the effects we have been led to attribute to great
cheapness and abundance of food, with resulting diminished
struggle for mere existence, and consequent over-productive
ness of the human race, would be found in even more
marked degree than in Asia and Egypt.                   We might expect
that    wages would     be exceedingly low, and the                 labouring
population reduced to a very degraded condition, while the
upper class (for in these cases there are seldom lower and
 upper classes, but simply an upper class and a lower one)
 would be wealthy, luxurious, and despotic.
     Yet, even with the anticipations which we might be led to
form from what we have already seen of the effects of over
 population, we could hardly conceive that a people would
 ever have been so utterly degraded as the Peruvians and the
 Mexicans of the lower class seem to have been.                         On the
 one hand, we find a class possessing practically unlimited
 wealth, which they expended, or rather wasted, with in
 credible prodigality and ostentation.             On the other we find
 a class   absolutely without         possessions,    yet, by a strange
 irony of fate, the sole tax-payers.              'The members of the
                                             '                        '
 royal house,' says Prescott in his History of Peru (vol. i.
 p. 56), 'the great nobles, even the public functionaries, and
 the numerous body of the priesthood, were all exempt from
 taxation ; the whole duty of defraying the expenses of the

278      THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION
 Government belonged to the people.' 1 It was the same in
 Mexico.      'The inferior folk,' says Larenaudiere in his
 '              '
   Mexique,' who possessed no property and had no com
merce, paid their respective shares of the taxes in work of
different kinds ; by them the crown lands were tilled, public
works were carried on, and the various houses belonging to
the emperor were built and furnished.
      So utterly sunk were the Peruvians and Mexicans below
the level which in our time is regarded as the lowest to
which man can be degraded, that they had not even so
much of independence as all but the worst slave-owners
allowed their negro slaves in former times.             'They had
                               '
nothing,' says Prescott, that deserved to be called property.
They could follow no craft, engage in no labour, no amusement,
but such as was specially provided by law.          They could not
change their residence or their dress without a licence from
the Government.         They could not even exercise the free
dom which is conceded to the most abject in other countries
¦— that of selecting their own wives.'        In Mexico a similar
state of things prevailed : the lower class in Mexico being,
if possible,   even more degraded than the corresponding class
in Peru.
      It  seems, then,   at a first view, as if this broad, general
lesson were            —
                taught that where nature is most prolific and
productive, in manageable degree, there will be on the one
hand the earliest civilisation, and on the other the greatest
degradation of the greater number.           In the process of evo
lution, by which nations are first formed, then developed, then
destroyed, abundance and cheapness of food seem to be all-
important factors, at first creative, then destructive — destruc
tive, because the condition to which nations tend, when over-
populated, is one encouraging destructive action from
without, and causing dissolution         by processes  taking place
       Ondegardo tells us that they paid ' with their persons (paid
     1                                                        '
tribute with personal travail only, for they had nothing else to pay
with), ' Solo el trabajo de las personas era el tributo que se daba,
                                   '
porque ellos no poscian otra cosa.

     THE INFLUENCE       OP FOOD ON CIVILISATION.                         279
within, even without external attacks.  This condition     in         is,
fine, one of unstable equilibrium.    We recognise     in de    it
caying nations    ;we recognise the opposite in nations which
are growing and thriving.
    Yet, in itself, the abundance of food (whether arising
from the cheapness of food itself or from climatic conditions
rendering small quantities of food sufficient for the wants of
a  people)    an advantage in the struggle for life which
             is
nations as well as individuals have to undergo. It          an       is
advantage to      anation because  it   an advantage to the
                                        is
individual   members   of the nation.        If   the world      were as
some philanthropists would have    (but as, unfortunately,
                                   it                                       it
isnot, nor can be made) — scene where all can find room,
                               a
without struggle or disadvantage to any — nothing would
favour progress more than the easy acquisition of the means
of subsistence, and the consequent encouragement of                         a
rapid growth of population. To assert that this really so  is               ;
that these aims of philanthropy could be obtained with
great and ever growing advantage to        nation or to the
                                                  a
human race in general,    isin fact as remote from the truth
as   would be to assert that nothing can favour more the
     it
growth and strength of the individual man than the frequent
consumption of large quantities of strength-sustaining food.
In the very abundance of that, the natural function of which
is to sustain life and strength, lie hid, in both cases, the
seeds of weakness and dissolution.
    The struggle for existence which we recognise so readily
in considering the lives of the lower animals,  an all-potent
                                                      is
factor in the progress of men and nations.     If all men were
sound reasoners and resolute to act as their reason taught
them, whatever rendered the struggle for life easier would
help to advance the race or nation which had the benefit of
the difference.   As matters actually are, the reverse holds,
at least within ordinary limits.   Where the conditions are
such as in the arctic regions and in sterile lands, and where
the destructive powers   of nature are constantly in active
operation, the struggle for existence   is    too severe for rapid

280     THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.
progress— races of hardy but uncivilised men are generated
under the action of these hostile natural forces ; and among
the conditions which thus oppose human progress, the
scarcity of food, or the necessity for food not easily or
abundantly obtainable, must be reckoned as not the least
important       But, apart from conditions such as these (under
which, when they supervene on more favourable circum
stances, the best races    of men have been known to rapidly
degenerate),    a sharp and active struggle for existence among
its individual components is essential to the vigour and
vitality of a nation. The reason underlying this is or should
 be sufficiently obvious.     It may sound well to hear soft and
pleasant things said    of the human race,   as if it were in some
 degree    or altogether distinct from inferior races in this
 respect ; but it is not the truth.      Nature has provided for
 man, as for the lowest of his competitors in the struggle for
 life, reproductive   powers largely in excess of the require
 ments of life without struggle.      It is absolutely essential, if
 life is to continue at all upon the earth, that many should
 die, or else that not all which might should come into exist
 ence ; and it seems, so far as we can judge, to be essential,
 if any race or nation is to progress or even not to retro
 grade, that the actual contest for life should be a hard-fought
  one, and, therefore, that many should fall in the battle.
       In dealing with this question,    by the way, Darwin       has
  referred to the increase of the population of the United
  States, as if it illustrated the possible natural increase of
  civilised populations under favourable conditions.         At least
  he has compared it with the rate of natural increase which
  Euler showed to be possible — six per cent. per annum —
  nothing like which has ever been known, even during a
  single year.    Of course    the increase  of the population of
  North America is quite outside all arguments relating to
  the natural increase possible in the human race.         I  do not
  know that in any part of the United States, even under the
  most favourable conditions, a natural increase of more than
  three per cent, per annum has ever been observed — or

    THE INFLUENCE           OP FOOD ON CIVILISATION.              281
indeed,    that it has been possible anywhere to distinguish
the natural increase     from that which has arisen only from
immigration or the shifting of population from one spot to
another.     Still there can be little doubt that even such an
increase as has been observed in the United States, by which
the population doubles in about twenty-five years, might
occur naturally under favourable conditions.          At this rate
the present population       of the United States,    say, roughly,
fifty millions,   would    cover   the  habitable  part of North
America   —  say seven million square miles — so thickly that
four men would have to stand on each square yard of surface
— in little more than five hundred (more exactly, in five
hundred and seventeen) years.          In six hundred and seven
teen years, a surface sixteen times as great would be covered
as  densely — or one hundred and twelve million square miles,
which is much more than the entire land surface of the
globe.    In  less than six hundred     and forty years the whole
surface of the terraqueous globe would be covered, four men
to the square yard, from the present population of the
United States alone, at the supposed rate of increase.           But
apart from such an unusual rate of increase as this, if we
take any such a rate as one and a half per cent. per annum,
which is about the rate of natural increase in old and
settled  countries like England, it would take but one thou
sand one hundred and eighty-eight years — a mere nothing
in the history of the world — to thus crowd the earth's sur
face, land and water, with the descendants of a present popu
lation of fifty millions.    It is hardly necessary to say that in
a much shorter time, at this perfectly normal rate of increase,
the world would be utterly uninhabitable.
     We perceive, then, what an important factor that must
be, of which Darwin has remarked that it is the primary or
fundamental check to the continued increase of man — the
difficulty of gaining subsistence and of living in comfort.
We cannot wonder that the whole character of past civilisa
 tions, in the Old World and in the New, should have been
affected   by this potent cause — that where       the difficulty  of

282    THE INFLUENCE OE FOOD ON CIVILISATION.
gaining    subsistence has      been  unduly small, other active
means of destroying superabundant population should have
come into existence, to replace that one which should be the
primary force working to that end.          In a country like the
United States, where subsistence is easy, but where, also,
there   is  plenty of room, we see very rapid growth and
development.        We may believe that, as Darwin says, if the
means of subsistence were doubled in England (or, which
would come to much the same thing, if people in England
would be content with or could live in comfort on the cheap
articles of food used in Asia and Africa), the population in
England would be quickly doubled : and for a while the
process of development in a nation undoubtedly gains by
those causes which encourage an increase of population.
But just as the development of the natural body is part of
the progress toward death, and eventually leads to death,       so
that increase    of population, by which a nation's first steps to
power are determined, becomes (unless checked by the in
creasing difficulty of securing the means of living) part of
the progress toward the nation's dissolution, and toward the
surcease   of its civilisation.
     If we consider what are the conditions as to the nature
of food used and required, and the abundance of the supply,
most favourable to the progress of a nation, we encounter at
the outset this difficulty, that the favourable conditions of
one stage of a nation's history become unfavourable con
ditions in another. There can be no question, for instance,
that the abundance and cheapness of food (of all, at any
rate, which is essential for food) in the United States are at
present among the factors which encourage the development
of the nation    ; the   chief reason being, that America is still
in the stage when labour can command good terms.             It is
unlikely, also, that, for many generations,         America can
suffer from over population resulting from undue ease in the
conditions under which the bulk of the people obtain sus
tenance.     Yet that danger lurks in the background for
America as it has for other nations.        Or, rather we can re-

   THE INFLUENCE         OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.          283
cognise, and in no very remote future, a time when the means
of subsistence will no longer be so much in excess of the
actual wants of the people as they are at present, — when,
therefore, the increase of population will no longer be so
rapid, and the tendency to cheap labour which would other
wise have arisen will be checked by a hardening of the con
ditions under which the struggle for life has been carried on.
We may recognise in several European nations the action
of this safety-valve against unduly rapid development. In
England especially this has been the case. The conditions
under which the bulk of the people in England subsist, have
never become and are never likely to become unduly easy.
The natural increase of the English people is nevertheless
too rapid, and it is only the outlet found in emigration which
has saved England in great degree, as it has saved other
European nations, in greater or less degree, from the
miseries and degradations which arise from an overcrowded
population.    Where a similar outlet may be found for an
excess of population, when that danger is threatened in
America, does not yet appear.     It may be that safeguards of
other kinds may come into action before that danger super
venes.    If man differs from the lower animals in this, that
with advancing civilisation an ever-increasing proportion of
the race see the folly and wickedness of fighting, that more
and more stringent and scientific (therefore more and more
successful) measures are used for the prevention of pestilence
and disease, and so forth, he differs also from the lower
animals in having his passions not as instincts only (though
they are that with him, as with all other animals), but under
the control of reason.    On the one hand, human reason has
diminished, and is still further diminishing the action of
those causes which correct the unduly rapid growth of popu
lation ; on the other hand, human reason possesses (though
hitherto it has not in the aggregate very fully used, or even
absolutely recognised the full right to use) the power of pre
venting such unduly rapid growth.      We may well hope that
before the time comes when excessive population for which

284    THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.
no remedy can be found in emigration threatens the great
world- nation of the future, men will widely and clearly have
recognised the duty of regulating, either by legal or indi
vidual restraints, the] responsibilities of parentage.       Many
who differ from Mr. J. S. Mill, in considering that our
                                                    '
present notions of liberty in this respect are misplaced,' in
                '
so far as they prevent legal obligations from being imposed
in this matter,'   must agree with him in recognising moral
obligations.   As he well remarks, ' The fact itself of causing
the existence of a human being is one of the most re
sponsible actions in the range of human life.         To undertake
this responsibility — to bestow a life which may be either a
curse or a blessing — unless the being on whom it is to be
bestowed will have at least the ordinary chances of a
desirable existence, is a crime against that being ; and in a
country either over-peopled or threatened with being so, to
produce children beyond a very small number, with the
effect of reducing the reward of labour by their competition,
is a very serious offence against all who live by the remunera
tion of their labour.'      I cannot myself agree with Mill in
                       '
what he adds, that       the laws which, in many countries on
the Continent, forbid marriage unless the parties can show
that they have the means of supporting a family, do not ex
ceed the legitimate powers       of the State.'    I think they go
far   beyond any desirable interference on the part of the
State with individual freedom of action, and that a people
which would be the better for such interference, so far as
material advantages are concerned, must be so degraded
that the sooner they pass away or are absorbed by worthier
races, the better   for the world.      I definitely and earnestly
                             '
reject his doctrine that, whether such laws be expedient or
not, they are not objectionable as violations of liberty.'        It
appears to me that   if laws of  that kind were permissible at all,
                                          '
the State might far more reasonably forbid marriage          unless
the parties can show      that,' according  to recognised laws    of
heredity, their offspring are reasonably likely to be strong,
 able, and worthy members of the body politic.         But the vice

    THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.                  285
of Mill's reasoning here,  as in much of his writing on such
matters, is the assumption that the State can advantageously
undertake the duties which belong especially to individuals —
the persons who would have to supervise such matters being
unlikely, on the average, to take greater care in the matter
than those over whose conduct they would be appointed to
watch.     In a nation where the majority ' cared for none of
these things,' the State could do nothing with advantage or
without mischievous violations of liberty ; where, on the other
hand, the majority took as just a view on this subject as on
more familiar moral obligations, State interference would be
unnecessary.
     Apart from the influence of moral restraints such as these,
we should be compelled, by the evidence alike of antiquity
 and of our own age, to teach a doctrine precisely the reverse
 of that advanced by writers who measure progress by the rate
                               '
 of increase of population.      There is one mode,' says Mr.
                '                    '
 Greg, in his Enigmas of Life,' in which the amount of
 human existence sustainable on a given area, and, therefore,
 throughout the chief portion of the habitable globe, may be
 almost indefinitely increased — i.e. by a substitution of vege
 table for animal food.    A given acreage of wheat will feed
 at least ten times as many men as the same acreage employed
 in growing mutton. It is usually calculated that the con
 sumption of wheat by an adult is about one quarter per annum,
 and we know that good land produces four quarters.          Let
 us even assume that a man living on grain would require two
 quarters a year ; still, one acre would support two men.
 But a man living on meat would need three pounds a day,
 and it is considered a liberal calculation if an acre spent in
 grazing sheep and cattle yields in mutton or beef more than
 fifty pounds on an average — the best farmer in Norfolk
 having averaged ninety pounds ; but a great majority of
  farmers in Great Britain only reach twenty pounds. On these
  data it would require twenty-two acres of pasture land to
  sustain one adult person living on meat.    It is obvious that,
  in view of the adoption of vegetable diet, there lies the

286       THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.
indication    of   a vast         possible increase in the          population
sustainable   on a given area.'
    Here, the question whether increase in the density of
population (equally well sustained by food) is an unmixed
good is not considered. Life may be more cheaply supported
by such a change as Mr. Greg suggests ; but if the life so
supported is found to be cheaper — that
                                                            ' is,
                                                more cheaply
        —
valued more life may mean more misery.          Man does not
live by bread alone,'   true doctrine here.
                             is              If the extra lives
are looked on only for what they may be worth to the capi
talist, or as so much food for the man of oppression, or to
be consumed in war,         worse than useless thus thought
                             it    is
fully to provide for their mere existence.     We have seen that
in every case known, cheap food and resulting increase of
population have meant such diversities in the social strata
as must result, earlier or later, in destruction by displacements
and upheavals within, or by inroads from without. If there
be aught in modern civilisation to save nations which
become exposed to the same conditions and the same
dangers as of old,   should be easy to point out where such
                        it
safeguards lie.      would not be difficult to show, however,
                    It
that just so far as modern nations approach, either in whole
or in part, the conditions under which older nations perished,
they show the signs of decrepitude and decay, which, un
less checked, signify approaching dissolution.     What does
emigration mean but this?      We look on complacently at
this evidence of over-population and resulting destructive
tendencies but, as Dr. B. W. Richardson well remarks,
              ;
                                                                          ' It
is the fittest for work and for earning who leave our shores                  ;
the unfittest for work, the luxurious and the least powerful,
remain.     Thus the drain on the first processes of national
permanent prosperity      that which
                             is         opened by emigration
                                                 is
— that which exhausting the heart of the commonwealth.'
     is            is
And he offers as remedy the cheapening of food, as
                    a                                      the         if
best part of our general population left the shores of Britain
solely because food     dear.
                         is    They leave, not because food
is   dear, but because       labour     is   cheap   ;   and the cheaper the

     THE INFLUENCE OF FOOD ON CIVILISATION.                        287
food the worse the evil will become, for labour will become
cheaper too.   When emigration becomes no longer possible,
when this safety-valve is closed — as it will be within a period
very short, indeed, compared with the periods by which men
measure   history — the consequences observed among the
nations of old may affect, on a wider scale, the civilisation
of the future.    Room for more may be found by the cheap
ening of food — that   is, by the use of cheaper food — and
amiable enthusiasts may find here and thus remedy for the
                                                     a
threatened evils.   They can at least show that at present even
the most populous countries in the Old World are not over
peopled for, undoubtedly, with due care, and with choice
          ;
of the cheapest forms of food, twice as many per square mile
might exist even in Belgium than at present.    But those who
consider the dignity of man, as well as his mere numbers on
the globe — those who study the evidence afforded             by
                                                            the
wide, though unconscious, experiments made by nations in
past ages — will entertain   adifferent idea as to the way in
which the great life problem should be viewed. Mere increase
of population — even though all be supported in health and
vigour — not all that the human race has to look forward to
          is                                                        ;
it may be doubted whether        itworth hoping for in itself,
                                      is
under any conditions   :   but, assuredly,   along with such
                                                if
                             of old, the degradation of the
increase there should come, as
many under the tyranny and oppression of the few, the change
which enthusiasts regard so hopefully      is   one most devoutly to
be deprecated.

                                 288
           THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.
When we look at the ruins of some ancient abbey, Netley,
Melrose, or Tintern, at Stonehenge in its solitude on the
Wiltshire plains, or the pyramids of the sandy tracts that
border on the Nile, near Cairo, the idea suggested to the
mind is that of a vast antiquity.         The thoughts range back
to the time when the builders of the structure before us were
living men ; and as we picture how generation after genera
tion has passed away since their time, we are forcibly im
pressed with the nothingness of our lives compared with the
life-time of our race.      Yet, to the student of science these
structures are but young ; even the longest-lasting of them
is but short-lived.     To the antiquarian the pyramids seem
built to last for ever ; the geologist finds in the continuance
of the stone mounds for a few thousand years only evidence
of the far vaster duration of the time intervals during which
the mounds of nature must remain.              Yet even of these he
has learned that
              The hills are shadows, and they flow
                 From form to form, and nothing stands   ;
                 Like mists they melt, the solid lands ;
              Like clouds, they shape themselves and go.
      Knowing this, and that even the everlasting hills remain
 but for an instant when their duration is compared with the
 lifetimes of planets and suns, the astronomer is half disposed
 to smile at the thought of attributing a hoar antiquity to

                   THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.                          289
these monuments,          which had not even been built when
already the now existing hills were hundreds of times older
than these stone mounds will ever be.              The geologist, too,
finds in the very stone of which the pyramids are built the
evidence of aeons of years for each day that they themselves
have lasted.      He sees from the structure of this stone that
it was formed in a far-off period (the eocene age) when a
vast    sea,  probably covering the whole region where the
pyramids stand, received slowly a deposit of sandy debris,
mixed with the remains of multitudinous forms of sub
marine and pelagic life. During tens of thousands, hundreds
of thousands of years the nummulitic limestone was being
formed beneath the waves of ocean.                 The sands which
helped to make that limestone belong to an older formation
still, itself formed in turn from still older rocks ; and so he
looks backward over the ofttimes repeated change, a single
oscillation only of which is pictured in the words :
               There rolls the deep, where grew the tree ;
                 Oh, earth, what changes hast thou seen !
                 There, where the loud street roars, hath been
              The stillness of the central sea.
      Compared with the vast periods of time thus brought
before our thoughts as among the demonstrated yet incon
ceivable truths of science, the lifetime of such a structure
as the great pyramid seems but as the duration of a breath.
Yet, viewed as men must view the works of man, the
pyramids of Egypt derive a profound interest from their
antiquity. Young, compared with the works of nature, they
are, of all men's works, the most ancient.                 They were
ancient when temples and abbeys whose ruins now alone
remain were erected, and it seems as though they would
endure till long after the last traces of any building now
existing, or likely to be built by modern men, has dis
appeared from the surface of the earth.            Nothing, it should
seem, but some vast natural catastrophe ingulfing them
beneath a new ocean or hurling them down from the slopes
                                                                u

                   THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.
of  a  new-formed mountain range, can destroy them utterly,
unless the same race of beings which undertook to rear
these vast masses should take in hand the task of destroying
them.
      Thus viewed, as the most ancient and the most impres
sive works of the human race, the pyramids have an interest
to all students of human history and of human nature.          It
is impossible to consider carefully any of the works of man
without learning something of the events which took place
when those works were carried on, and something also of
the character, the ideas, and the beliefs of the men to whom
those works were due.      If we can solve the problem presented
by these strange structures, we shall have learned a lesson in
the most ancient of all histories ; we shall have gleaned some
knowledge worth having about the ways and thoughts of the
oldest civilised race whose material records have reached our
time.
     In undertaking     an inquiry  of this sort, on which many
have already entered and which presents difficulties of the
most serious character, it is well that we should note the
conditions under which such a problem can alone be suc
cessfully dealt with.
     In  the  first place, we must resolutely determine that,
when setting forth to find a theory, no theory shall lay hold
of us, and, taking possession of our minds, prevent us from
duly weighing the evidence for and against not only that
theory, but others.
     Secondly, we must be prepared to find an element of
truth in many of the theories advanced on our subject of
inquiry, even though these theories be not absolutely
correct.
     Thirdly, it should be noticed that the true theory must
accord, not with this fact or that, but with all the known
facts.   It is singular what mistaken notions are held by
some on this point, who seem to think that the holder of a
theory ought to be ready to concede that some facts are
inconsistent with it. A true theory must accord with all

                  THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.                                 291
known facts ; that     though we may not always be able to
                      is,
show how certain facts are to be explained by       we mustit,
no longer hold    atheory after we have been forced to admit
that even     single fact
              a                opposed to
                                 is          or inconsistent
                                                     it
with it.
    Lastly — point
              a       Ihave not seen noted yet — we should
direct our attention first, not to the more easily explained
facts, but to those which seem most perplexing and least
readily to be interpreted       among these that we are
                                 ;    it   is
most likely to find    key to unlock the mystery of our
                        a
problem.   A theory which explains them can hardly fail
to be the true theory   whereas several theories, of which
                            ;
one only can be true — any  if — may explain the ordinary
                                       is
commonplace matters to which many direct their first
attention.
    Thus viewing the considerations which should guide us
in dealing with the pyramids, we proceed to the inquiry,
hoping that our solution may not only answer such questions
as the antiquarian, the architect, the astronomer, might ask,
but may tell us also something of the history and character
of the princes and people who built these marvellous
structures.
    The first and most striking peculiarity in the pyramids,
and especially in that one with which we are chiefly to deal,
deservedly called the Great Pyramid,     the enormous amount
                                                is
of labour bestowed on their construction. The mere mass
of masonry in the Great Pyramid, as originally built, amounted
to nearly ninety millions of cubic feet, or in weight to nearly
seven millions of tons.   The base covers       space of about
                                                     a
thirteen acres, an area considerably larger than that of
Lincoln's Inn — the largest of the London squares.                   The
second pyramid covers about eleven acres, contains sixty-six
millions of cubic feet, and the mass of stone-work cannot
weigh much less than five million tons. The materials of which
all the pyramids are built have been brought from consider
able distances — some greater, some less.    To give an idea
how little labour was spared,        I     may mention that, according
                                                                 u   2

294               THE PYRAMID OP CHEOPS.
to Dr. Richardson,     the passage leading to the subterranean
chamber of the Great Pyramid is lined on all four sides
with finely polished slabs of large-grained red granite of
Assouan, and Assouan is some five hundred miles from
Ghizeh ! We are not concerned just here to discuss how
much labour and time were given to the construction of the
pyramids, to decide whether Herodotus had been truly told
that one hundred thousand men worked for twenty years in
erecting the first pyramid ; or whether those are right who
say he meant ten thousand men working for two hundred
years (since, they say, one hundred thousand men could
not have worked at once on the pyramid) ; or whether that
architect is nearer the truth who, allowing an average of
fifteen miles for carriage, and three hundred days a year of
ten hours a day for labour, assigned one hundred and sixty-
four years as the time necessary for quarrying, elevating, and
finishing the Great Pyramid.      So far as the significance of
the enormous amount        of labour involved is concerned, it
matters   little at the outset whether we consider that more
men worked for a shorter time or fewer men for a longer
time.    It is wonderful and most significant, no doubt, to
think of a system by which the rulers of a country could
keep together one hundred thousand men working in relays,
day and night and every day for twenty years ; but it would
not be less wonderful or significant to learn that during two
hundred years, or for seven generations of rulers and people
alike, an army of ten thousand labourers had been con
stantly kept at work on this one alone of the pyramids of
Ghizeh.
     We learn, in any case, that the rulers of ancient Egypt
possessed despotic power over the people, but not neces
sarily that the kings possessed excessive power over the
aristocracy, who must, in all probability, have taken part in
urging on these stupendous and, at a first view, almost useless
labours. We note also that labour must have been cheap,
since otherwise self-interest would have prevented Cheops,
Chephren, and the rest, from devoting so much of it to these

                     THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.                               293
structures.        The population of Egypt              time
                                                 must at that
have been very great, food very cheap, labour abundant, and
(itwould seem) the lives of the people of little value either
to themselves or in the eyes of their rulers. So far, indeed,
as mere labour was concerned, we can hardly speak of the
pyramids as costly structures, for probably Pliny was not
far from the truth in conjecturing that the rulers of Egypt
built the pyramids partly out of State policy, to keep the
people in employment — not, however, 'to divert them,' as
he imagined, 'from mutinies and rebellions,' but because,
as Dr. Zincke suggested, in those days   labour could not
                                                 '
be bottled up.'   Labour was available in such enormous
quantities, and so much food was stored up yearly in
consequence of    system by which taxes were paid in kind,
                      a
that practically        the labourers and their wants cost almost
nothing.
    Nevertheless, we must not forget that the erection of the
pyramids would have been     costly undertaking, even
                                  a                       the        if
work of ordinary labourers had cost nothing. Apart from
mere material, much more than ordinary labour had to be
provided.  As Hekekyan Bey well remarks       These pyra :
                                                             '
mids were evidently national undertakings their plan and
                                                     ;
execution were decided after mature deliberation;     laws
were passed and revenues provided to carry out the public
decision (not the popular decision, be    noticed, for the
            '
                                                 it
rank and file had nothing to do with the matter) by the
                                                                 '
executive authorities.'
      Let   it   next be noticed, as among those facts least ques
tioned and most important in considering the pyramids,
that they were undoubtedly associated with the religion of
the people.    This statement, be    observed, includes their
                                         it
unquestioned use as tombs.      If there     one thing clear
                                                is
about all the pyramids of Egypt, including the Great Pyra
mid,  it   that they were intended to cover (not merely to
            is
inclose) the bodies of the monarchs who had erected them.
Chevalier Bunsen says they were exclusively giant covers
                                          '
of rocky tombs            and his long study of Egyptian antiquities
                      '
                    ;

294                THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.
justifies us in accepting his statement, omitting only the
word ' exclusively,' simply because there is abundant evidence
to show that they had other purposes.            Mariette Bey is
equally positive that they were exclusively tombs, equally
likely to be right in considering that, whatever else they
                                     '                         '
were, they certainly were that.        With regard,' he says,    to
the use to which the pyramids were destined, it were doing
violence to all that we know of Egypt, to all that archaeology
teaches us of the monumental customs of that country, to
see   in them any other thing than tombs — tombs, massive,
full, everywhere stopped (even in their passages) most care
fully, without windows, without doors, without exterior
opening.' If any doubt could exist as to the tombic charac
ter of the pyramids, it should be removed by the considera
tion that they are surrounded by tombs: as Mariette Bey
has well said, ' every pyramid is in the middle of a cemetery.'
 M. Chabas, speaking of the tombs around the Pyramids of
 Ghizeh, says: 'A certain number of these tombs were
commenced at the same time as the Great Pyramid, and
were completed before that colossal monument.'          Dr. Birch
                 '
writes thus : The tombs around the Great Pyramid are
those of the princes and other members of the family or
                    '
 time of Khufu (Cheops or Shofu).           Lepsius sees in this
            '
 cemetery     an official almanac of the Court of Kings Cheops
 and Chephren, the tombs giving so many names of their
 officers.'   Renan says: 'The tombs, so numerous in the
 sands of Sakkara and at the foot of the pyramids, are all
 dated from the first six dynasties.     Mariette Bey states that
                               '
 the Necropolis of Ghizeh was absolutely closed as early as
 the time of Teta, king of the sixth dynasty, a hundred years
 or so after the building of the Great Pyramid.'          '
                                                            He has
 discovered the tomb of a grandson of Snefrou, king of the
 third dynasty, and several mastabas (or chapels exterior to
 tombs) of the age of Snefrou, and asserts that the age of
 some of these tombs belongs even to that "of the pre
                                                        '
 decessors of the founders of the Great Pyramid."
      But the clear proof thus afforded that the pyramids were

                THE PYRAMID         OF CHEOPS.                    295
mausoleums — chief tombs within whole cemeteries of tombs
— proves indisputably also that they were associated with the
religious belief of the Egyptians.      All that we know of the
early, as of the later (but still ancient) religious belief of the
Egyptians assures us that it included full faith, of a very
material sort, in a future life, — and that it was their faith in
a resurrection of the body which led them to provide with
such extreme care for the protection of the body.             The
kings and princes, high priests, chief ministers, generals,
governors,  court officers, stewards, and so forth, who pro
vided tombs and cemeteries to protect the embalmed body
of each according to his position, but always in a place
effectually closed up and removed from all communication
with the outer world, did so because they believed it to be
worth their while. The body of which they took such
extreme care was to be theirs again at some later time ; and
it was desirable that, when wanted, it should be in good
condition ; if Pelion would not suffice to protect         it,
                                                        then
Ossa must     bepiled on Pelion to do so. A system was
adopted, having direct reference to the religious belief of
the Egyptians, by which     was provided that Cheops and
                            it
Chephren, and all their family, with all the officers of their
court and kingdom, should be preserved together, yet each
in his proper and appropriate resting-place.
    All this, combined with what      known of the religious
                                     is
character of the Egyptian faith in    afuture life, agrees well
with the doctrine of those who find something of the temple
as well as of the tomb in the pyramids of Ghizeh.           All
tradition points the same way.      According to the most
ancient Egyptian monuments, Cheops, or Shofu, or Khoufou
(for his name   given in all these ways), the builder of the
               is
Great Pyramid, was    pious king, who planned
                      a                            temple to
                                                     a
Ilathor, the virgin mother of the gods, offered          images    of
gold and ivory to the gods, and wrote       abook on religious
matters, called in these hieroglyphic inscriptions the sacred
                                                     '
book.'   Close by the Great Pyramid has been found the
tomb of Eimei, the chief priest of the habitations of King
         '

   296                THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.
   Shofu,' who Gliddon thinks was in all probability ' the
   architect according to whose plans and directions the
   mighty edifice, near the foot of which he had once reposed,'
   was built.    The name of Shofu is found in tablets of the
   old copper mine of Mount Sinai, on which he is called ' a
   pure king, a sacred priest.'
       We may hope then, in examining the best known and
   most striking facts respecting the Great Pyramid, to learn
  the nature of the religion of the Ancient Egyptians.                  Yet
  in passing, be it remembered (for our guidance as we go,
  perhaps), that we do know some things about Egyptian
  religion.    We know on the one hand from the religion
  which the Jews brought from Egypt after their long sojourn
  there, and on the other from the             doctrines and practices
  which    the   priestly rulers of the Jews were continually
  denouncing, that the Egyptian religion included, if it was
  not founded upon, the worship of the powers of nature, and
  chiefly of the host of heaven.              Throughout the Jewish
  system of ceremonial, purged though the Jewish religion
 was from the grosser doctrines of Sabaism, we recognise
 astronomical relations.         Sunrise and sunset were considered
 in the morning and evening sacrifices, the movements of
 the moon and planets in the weekly observances,1 the new
 moon in the monthly festival, still named after her by the
 Jews, the passage of the sun over the celestial equator
 ascendingly in the Feast of the Passover, and his passage
 over the same chief circle of the heavens descendingly in
 the Feast of Tabernacles, the two great annual festivals of
     1
       The Sabbath, found also in Assyrian sculptures anterior to the
time of the Exodus, was manifestly among Assyrians and Egyptians an
observance    derived from the lunar quarters which gave the week —
the oldest of all time intervals for labour — and its solemnity was origin
ally due to its association with the planet Saturn, the highest, in the
old astronomical    sense, of all the planets, and from time immemorial
associated with    the thought of misfortune and gloom.         The slow-
moving, dull-looking orb which, according to ancient astrological
ideas, ruled that day, was aptly suggestive of solemn rest, if not of
absolute ill-luck should work on that day be undertaken.

                 THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.                                   297
 the   Jewish ceremonial system.        And while this system was
 enjoined on the Jews by Moses and his successors,                  the very
 efforts which they made to divorce the people                     from the
 worship of sun and moon and stars show what a                     hold this
 worship had taken of the Jewish mind during the                   time that
 the people stayed in the land     of Egypt.
                                           Very intense must
 have been the Egyptian faith, at that time, in the powers of
 the heavenly bodies, to have produced such an influence on
the people sojourning   with them that, despite the hatred
 felt for them by this people, the influence of their faith
 remained, strong even against the appeals, the warnings,
•the denunciations of those who had brought them out of
the house   of bondage.
     We have    next to consider the actual structural features
of "the Great   Pyramid   :   some peculiar to      it,   others    shared,
in greater or   less degree, by the other pyramids of Ghizeh.
We shall not     consider minute details, to which too much
attention has, perhaps, already been directed, but only those
general features which are most striking, and at the same
time most instructive.
    First and foremost       the care shown in placing the
                              is
pyramids with their four sides facing the cardinal points.
In all the pyramids of Ghizeh this has been carefully attended
to, but in the Great Pyramid       has been done with such
                                   it
exceeding care that only the exact instrumental astronomy
of post-telescopic days could have done the work better.
The great quadrants of Tycho Brahe would assuredly have
given no better results.
    That there was an object in this, and that this object
was in some way connected with the religion of the builders,
can hardly be doubted.    But, apart from that consideration,
the way in which the thing has been done    worth observing.
                                               is
Even the exclusively tombic theorists (to use Professor
Smyth's odd phrase), even those who believe the pyramid
wasa  temple, as well as those who see in      only itmystic   a
meaning,   agree that the exact orientation    is   there, and must
have been    obtained by very exact astronomical work                 ;   so

293                 THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.
that we are in no sense attacking their views in endeavouring
to show how the result was secured.
      Now, putting myself in the position of the ancient
builders and architects, and trying to see how, with such
astronomical knowledge as they undoubtedly possessed,
with such means as they had, and as their knowledge of
mathematical and optical laws would suggest, they would
actually proceed, I have found myself led to precisely such
peculiarities of structural detail as we find actually existing
within the Great Pyramid.              Not one of all the features
which have attracted attention, and have been interpreted
in more or less fanciful ways, but is found to be essential to
the exact orientation of the pyramid — when it is remem
bered that not the base only, but the whole structure, was to
have its faces four-square to the four quarters of the heavenly
sphere.
      First, the only exact way of squaring the base — a costly
way, but cost was no object, and besides, another and all-
important purpose was at the same time subserved — was by
a slant passage      through the solid rock, directed on the pole
star of the day at the time of its passing the meridian below
the pole (above the pole would have served as well for
exact northing, but then the slant of the passage would have
been greater).        This would suffice for the base, and also as
layer after layer was added, provided the opening of the
passage at the rock surface was within the base.             But after
awhile the prolonged passage would reach the northern face
of the growing pyramid, and thenceforward the orientation
could no longer be corrected by pole-star observations
through this passage ; 1 yet a resource presents itself by
     1
       Dr.   Richardson,  one  of the few who have descended into the
subterranean chamber, says that the sky can be clearly seen along the
stone-lined tube, some three hundred feet long, through which he had
descended to that chamber.         This shows that even now this long,
inclined   passage  pieserves its straightness. He adds — evidently at a
venture— that at night the pole star can be seen through this tube.
 But the tube commands a field of view only some forty-six minutes in
 diameter, the centre of which is less than twenty-seven degrees above

                   THE PYRAMID         OF CHEOPS.                    299
which this difficulty may be met.  If from some point along
the passage a reflected beam of light from the pole star (at
sub-polar passage) were taken from the surface of still water,
and used instead of the direct beam, another passage could
be carried up southward instead of northward, and until this
in turn met the southern face of the growing pyramid the
orientation would be preserved, and might even be made
more and more exact as layer after layer was added. Such
a passage would, of course, according to the well-known laws
of reflection, be inclined at the same angle to the horizon as
the other.
    This is precisely what we find within the Great Pyramid,
the only one, it would seem, where such exact orientation
was considered necessary.  There is a passage through the
solid rock and upward through the masonry of the pyramid
of beautifully fitted stone-work. From the very spot most
suited for taking off the reflected beam along another passage
just such a passage is carried, at just the right angle for the
reflected beam.        At   the place where   the reflecting surface
had to be, the stones are fitted with such exceptional close
ness that the peculiarity has been regarded as a piece of
profound symbolisation.    Stones such as would be essential
for blocking up the lower part of the descending passage at
each observation by the reflected beam (one or two each
year would suffice) were found stored in the Queen's chamber
at the level of the reflecting surface. (Many of course had
been used, and afterwards   slid down the descending passage
to the subterranean chamber, where their fragments remain
to this day).    The fitting of these sliding stones (some
of which may well, as appears likely, have been used later,
expressly to block up the passage) was so perfect that one
observer       says a knife could hardly be inserted between the
stone and the walls      of the passage.
   But more striking than the outside astronomical character
of the Great Pyramid, significant though that          more is,
the horizon.  The pole star descends no lower than twenty-nine    degrees
above the horizon of the pyramids.

  3oo               THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.
  interesting than the simple but mathematically beautiful
 method by which the orientation was secured, is the grand
 gallery into which the second ascending passage opens.
 Considering it as it was before the pyramid was completed
 and closed in after the death of Cheops, this gallery had all
 the     properties which an astronomer desires in a transit
 instrument.      Twenty-eight feet in height, it commanded a
 long vertical slice of the southern sky, precisely divided in
 half by the vertical line of the meridian. This would
 have been of little use for exact time observations if the
 walls of this lofty gallery (nearly one hundred and sixty feet
 long) had been aslant, yet the architect would have assured
 the astronomer (supposing they were not one and the same
 person), that aslant the walls of such a gallery must certainly
 be, or it would yield under the pressure of the mighty mass
 of masonry which was to be placed above it. What, however,
 do we find ? The walls are aslant to suit architectural
 requirements, but they are vertical to meet the wants of the
 astronomer. They run up in a series of vertical steps, very
 shallow measured horizontally, very long measured vertically.
 Every part of the walls is thus vertical, yet the cross breadth
 of the long, lofty slice thus cut through the pyramid in the
plane of the meridian, diminishes gradually towards the top,
insuring perfect architectural stability.
       This means more than astronomical orientation ; it
means astronomical observations, and specially with refer
ence to time.       The modern transit instrument (as its name
implies) tells the time when the heavenly bodies pass across
the meridian ; the great pyramidal transit-tube, while as yet
its aperture remained uncovered (which we may be sure it
did so long as Cheops remained alive), told observers, suitably
placed down its length, the time when those same bodies
passed the meridian of Ghizeh.          So is interpreted the tra
dition of old, that priests, placed on the top     1
                                                     of the pyramid,
     1
        Not the top of a nearly complete pyramid, as Flammarion ab
surdly imagines, setting observers to observe planets and comets,
while scarce able to balance themselves on the pyramid top !

               THE PYRAMID        OF CHEOPS.               301
announced   when this or that orb was passing.     Passing
where ? To Proclus or Diodorus Siculus explanation might
have been difficult — the astronomer sees that passing the
meridian was meant, and that, therefore, a meridional
instrument, like the grand gallery in the Great Pyramid,
must have been employed.
   All this accords well with     the belief that the Great
Pyramid was a temple before it became a tomb. These as
tronomical observations were, in fact, religious observances ¦
the astronomers were priests : their astronomy was star-
worship.    But, if the astronomers were priests they were
also prophets.    From them and their kindred in Chaldea
have descended to us, not only so much of our ceremonial
observances as we have derived from the Jews (so much
that it takes an astronomer rightly to frame the calendar of
fasts and festivals), but also those astrological superstitions
which still bear sway over millions, still influence our lan
guage and literature, and if no longer, as of yore, in the as
cendant, form even yet potent factors of our civilisation. It
was not only that they might worship the stars that the
kings of Egypt built these temple-tombs : their priests were
also to read the stars, and, by reading, to rule the stars.
The old tradition recorded by Ibn Abd Alkokm, that ' in
the beginning of the Great Pyramid was a fortunate horo
scope,' was no mere fable.     This tomb-temple was the
horoscope of the king-priest. We might infer this from the
sacred character attributed to their rulers by the Egyptians     ;
we might be     certain in any case that the astronomico-
religious observances of which this great temple was the
scene during his lifetime only, were astrological in their
character ; but all doubt seems to be removed when we
note that after his death the pyramid had no longer a use,
save to cover his embalmed body.        Enormous though the
labour had been that was bestowed upon       costly the work
                                            it,
of preparation, the material, the building, the ceremonials
observed upon and within this temple — all was useless to his
successors.  The passages within were filled with stones

302                    THE PYRAMID OF CHEOPS.
above the tomb  of the king in the subterranean chamber ;
the upper part of the pyramid was completed ; a fine marble
casing was placed all over    beginning with the apex, and
                                          it,
working downward to the pavement. For centuries after his
death not   flaw or crevice existed in the satin surface, as
                                                           '        '
                 a
the Egyptians          called   it,   of his costly tomb.
    The story of the pyramid tell us much of those who
built   of their mode of government, of the wretchedness
       it,
(as to all that constitutes the dignity of manhood) of the
people, and the worthlessness of their lives in the eyes of
those who ruled them.    It tells us also of their religion, with
what full faith they believed in                a   future life, what powerful
gods the heavenly bodies seemed                      to them.   It      speaks   of
their faith in priestly prophecies, and of the belief of all
(save, perhaps, the priests themselves) in the teaching of the
star-strewn skies.  For my own part,        find   further in
                                                       I        a
terest in the thought that those astronomers                    of old worked
like  their younger brethren now.     Whatever superstition
mingled with their labours, whatever errors they may have
taught, or been taught, respecting the heavenly bodies and
their aspects,   can say, in the words of Oliver Wendell
                     I
Holmes       :
             I     am as old as   Egypt to myself,
                 Brother to them that squared the pyramids      ;
                 By the same stars  watch.
                                      I         Iread the page
                 Whose every letter     glittering world,
                                        is
                                        a
                 With them who looked from Shinar's clay-built towers,
                 Ere yet the wanderer of the midland sea
                 Had missed the fallen sister of the seven.

                                3o3
                     DREAM-SPACE
Professor Cayley's      address     at the opening    of the 1883
meeting   of the British Association produced a somewhat
singular impression. That not one in a hundred of those
 who heard or read it could form any opinion as to its value
 was generally admitted ; yet hundreds expressed very strong
opinions   respecting its    extreme    value,   its unusual  pro
fundity.   The newspaper       science   writers   of the  average
class (men like him who spoke of the great sea wave after
the Javan earthquake as a tidal wave, or like that writer in
the ' Times
             '
               who volunteered the amazing statement that
our distance from the earth is greatest when the earth is
on the major axis of her elliptic orbit, least when she is
on the minor axis) were deeply impressed by ideas, new
doubtless to them, about non-Euclidean geometry, ima
ginary points in space, and space of four dimensions or
more.    The ' Globe ' was moved to unusual solemnity by
these mysteries, and recognising in the meetings of the
British Association, with their soirees, conversaziones, excur
sions, and so forth, efforts   at the advancement rather than
the   popularisation of science, commended the opening
address as more suitable than such mere wonder-moving dis
courses as Tyndall, Huxley, and others have addressed to
rapt and delighted audiences.        The ' Times ' talked equal
nonsense.    Even the ' Spectator,' though its editor is a man
of learning and acumen, spoke of Professor Cayley's address
as affording evidence that progress in science involves hard
thinking, instead of proving, as it really did, that there may
be much hard thinking without a trace of progress.             '
                                                                 If

  304                     DREAM-SPACE.
  Professor Cayley,' says the writer in the 'Spectator' (surely
  not Mr. R. H. Hutton himself), ' so excites or so illumines the
  mind of one mathematician that he is induced to redouble
  exertion, and to carry the torch still further onward, more
  is done for mathematics, and therefore for science generally,
  than would be done by years of lectures productive only
  of mental titillation, or of those " discussions " which are,
  for the most part, only mellifluous expressions of gratified
  wonder.'
      To   the  true science worker, whether in the fields of
  mathematical inquiry as directed to the advance of science,
  or in physical researches, the fault to be found with those
  parts of Professor Cayley's address which attracted most
 attention as being most mysterious, lies not in their pro
 fundity, still less in their solidity, but in their relations to
 considerations utterly and necessarily valueless.        There is
 no more difficulty in conceiving   non- Euclidean   geometry, for
 instance, or in working out  a system  of such geometry, than in
 conceiving the geometry    based   on ideas  which  are axiomatic
 to us, and in working out that system of geometry which is
actually in vogue : but work of one kind is useless ; work of
the other    kind tends directly to the advancement of know
ledge.     There is more difficulty in conceiving imaginary in
tersections of lines and curves which according to experience
do not intersect at all, and again in conceiving a fourth
dimension in space ; but each difficulty is as great for a
Helmholtz or a Clifford, a Spottiswoode or a Cayley, as it is
for a college lad of mathematical turn of mind who has
clear conceptions of the meaning of mathematical definitions
and axioms.
      Before commenting on the preposterous (and worse)
waste of time and mental power in the discussion of relations
either non-existent or inconceivable, I will briefly touch on
the notions themselves which have been advanced as if they
were worth considering.        What these notions are can be
made as clear to any reader      of ordinary intelligence  as they
ever can be to the profoundest       mathematician, though it is

                            DREAM-SPACE.                            3o5
  true enough     that only the frofoundest       mathematician     can
  elaborate systems   of  mathematics based on the imagined truth
  of these untrue and    inconceivable fancies.   This is where the
  newspaper     writers referred to above mistake.     They are told,
  truly, that only mathematicians can work out systems of
  non-Euclidean geometry, or of multidimensional space ; and
  they therefore imagine that only mathematicians can know
  what are the ideas on which such systems are based.           But   as
  a   matter of fact the nature of these ideas is quite easily to be
  understood, though no one that has ever lived can work out
  or even conceive the working out of all which would follow
   from the truth of ideas intrinsically inconceivable.
        The simplest perhaps of all the imaginary mathematical
_  ideas is one relating to numbers.        In our actual world two
    and two make four.       But there comes along one of those
   mathematical metaphysicians who are not content to labour
   in advancing knowledge, but prefer to speculate about the
                                                '
   impossible or inconceivable, who asks, What would happen
   with our arithmetic in a world where two and two made
   three, or, it may be, five  ?   In one case processes  of numera
   tion would differ by defect, in the other by excess.         Let us
   see what sort of arithmetic we should require to deal (in one
   case and in the other) with the altered state of things.'       Now
   for this easily understood idea the mathematician or arith
   metician of the kind we are considering can adduce reasons
   as valid as (we shall presently see) he can advance when
   inviting men to consider systems of non-Euclidean geometry
   or of multidimensional space.         It is practically axiomatic,
   no doubt, that in this world, so far as our experience goes,
    two and two always make four.         We are even so far lost to
    all sense of caution in such matters as to imagine that as
    two things of any sort whatever, existing anywhere whatever,
    may be represented for purposes of enumeration by two
    marks, and two other things by two more marks, and as we
    get in this way (as we can prove experimentally if necessary)
    four marks, and not three, it is certain that two and two
    always make four.      But we should rouse our souls to conceive
                                                                 x

3o6                             DREAM-SPACE.
the possibility that elsewhere than in this limited little infinite
universe of ours, the addition of two things to two things of
the same sort may always result in giving three things of that
sort, and therefore we must learn to picture the possibility that
in that other kind of universe the conception that two and
two make four would appear as bizarre and fanciful as the
notion seems to us that two and two should make three.
As for experiment, however often repeated, proving that two
and two make four, that is a delusion and a snare.      The
                                          '
proposition that two and two make four seems      1
                                                    only to
have the character of universality and necessity,' but ' be
cause      a    proposition is observed to hold good for a long
series    of generations,       1,000 numbers,    2,000 numbers,   as the
case may be, this is not only no proof, it is absolutely no
evidence, that the proposition is a true proposition holding
good for all numbers whatever ; there are in the Theory of
Numbers very remarkable instances of propositions observed
to hold good for very long series of numbers which are
nevertheless untrue.'
    Now when we have talked about such a conception, as,
that in some imaginary universe two and two make three,
when we have started a number of metaphysical ' may be's '
and ' might be's and what-then-would-be's,' and so forth, in
                '   '
what way have we advanced science ?   Is the bewilderment
which such talk may produce in the minds of those too full
of faith in the men who profess to teach them, to imagine
that     they    may     be         and talking naught, a
                               merely   talking
feeling which is likely to encourage them to the further
study of science ?    Would the dignity of science have
suffered much      instead of such bewilderment, interest
                         if,
had been excited in the minds of fairly intelligent readers
by some clear non-technical explanation of     matter within
                                                       a
their scope     ?   Ah, but, says the brilliant young buccaneer of
  1
      The quotation    from Professor Cayley's address.
                          is                               He does not
apply the word seems to the proposition that two and two make four,
but he does apply   to proposition of the same character — namely, that
                    it     a
even and odd numbers succeed each other alternately, ad infinitum.

                        DREAM-SPACE.                          307
the press, it is well to show the ignorant crowd that gathers
to  hear a presidential address, how high the minds of
mathematicians soar above not only their knowledge but
even their power of conceiving things knowable.         Is it so ?
But how if the crowd is not so ignorant as we pretend ?
How if nine-tenths of those present are intelligent and well-
educated persons, capable of taking interest, and wanting to
take interest, in scientific truths ?  And so far as the dignity
of science is concerned, how if instead of revering the
mathematics which comes before them in such questionable
shape, they see in the supposed advance only such advance
as there is  from the strength of mid-life to the dotage of
second childhood ? Mathematics in its prime, the mathe
matics of Newton and Lagrange and Laplace, advanced our
knowledge like the mental work of a man in his prime ;
mathematics     dealing with imaginary nonentities is like the
unintelligible fancies of a dreaming dotard who has been
learned and profound, but in his old age lets idle imagina
tions take possession of him.
    Now let us turn to the geometry called non-Euclidean,
and see in what sense or degree it differs from the imaginary
arithmetic   I have just touched on    ; a subject which would
probably have received more attention from mathematicians
than it has yet had, were not its absurdity and uselessness
rather too obvious.
    We are to start by imagining that a plane is a surface
of a perfectly smooth sphere of great size, so that any part
of the surface which could be examined would seem to have
no curvature at all, but to be what in Euclidean geometry
is called a plane.    A straight line would of course be only
an apparently straight line drawn on this apparently plane
but really spherical surface.    Then, the investigation of the
properties of lines and curves on this surface would at first
lead to Euclidean geometry.         Thus two straight lines, as
the poor    deluded inquirers would deem them, intersecting
each other, would seem to draw farther and farther apart
the farther they were drawn from the point of intersection.
                                                          x 2

3o8                                  DREAM-SPACE.
Parallel lines would be drawn which, produced ever so far
           is,
         so far as ever seemed necessary) both ways, would
(that
not meet or seem to approach each other.   The inhabitants
of the perfectly smooth sphere    might very well conceive,'
                                                   '
as Professor Cayley puts      that they had by experience
                                            it,
                                              '
established the axiom that two straight lines cannot enclose
a     space, and the         axiom' on which the theory of parallel
lines   is   based.        But   more extended experience and more
                                    a'
accurate                would teach them that the axioms
                  measurements
were each of them false and that any two lines,
                                        ;         produced          if
far enough each way, would meet in two points they would            ;
in fact arrive at     spherical geometry, accurately repre
                                a
senting the properties of the space    in which they lived.'
                                                           '
Be    noted, Professor Cayley here supposes the inhabitants
      it
of the spherical surface to be limited to the surface.                      They
are not to be regarded as creatures standing on that surface.
Their universe      the surfaceis  itself, with its apparent
properties of length and breadth only, which really are
curved length and curved breadth, and therefore involve
thickness also.   What kind of brains we are to attribute to
these creatures does not appear   but   the recognition that
                                                  ;        if
on    sufficiently extended survey their supposed straight
      a
lines met, did not suggest the idea of thickness, we must
imagine    certain degree of mental density in them.
                 a                                      Pro
fessor Cayley says,     their original Euclidean geometry
                                    '
would be      true system . but
                       a            would apply to an ideal
                                                      it
space, not the space of their experience     in other words,
                                                                '
                                                                ;
these curved-surface creatures would have conceived the
idea of    true plane, and would by experience have been
                 a
taught that their surface-home was not true plane capable  a            ;
of these things, they must of necessity be capable of recog
nising           the   distinction  plane and
                                         between  spherical
                                                       a            a
surface  but ;  sphere has diametral as well as surface
                           a
dimensions.  With the recognition of this would necessarily
have come the recognition of    third dimension — thickness
                                                  a
as well as the    length and breadth they had before
recognised.

                           DREAM-SPACE.                                       3°9
     The next idea suggested            by    the      mathematicians of
impossible and imaginary relations             is, if  possible, still more
outrk.   Let us modify our notion of distance,' says the
         '
geometrician of the imaginary.     (In other words, let us
modify our notion of the fundamental conception of
measurement, in order to see what we may conceive       we             if
begin    by
          imagining the inconceivable.)   We measure dis
tances by some very short measure — i.e.     measure verya
short indeed compared with the distances to be measured —
a   foot, for instance, to measure hundreds             of miles, or
                                                        yard           a
to measure millions.    Then we imagine that the rule or
measure we take about with us, instead of behaving like                        a
respectable footrule, changes in length in different parts of
the universe we live in. The only rule the rule obeys we                is,
are to suppose, that in any the same part of our universe
the rule's length   is   always the same, so that        if   we only knew
where we were we should know what                    the rule's length was,
but otherwise not. Moreover, we are supposed not to
know, but to imagine in the innocence of our hearts, that
our rule    the same in length wherever we may be.
             is
    Of course, thus far, no supposition has been made
which    isinconsistent with possibilities. A footrule of                      a
given substance does change in length when taken to places
of different temperature,        and
                                  we imagine (which
                                       if               quite      is
conceivable) that the temperature      constant at particular
                                              is
points in the universe, the rule would be always of the same
length when brought to any given place, though of differ          a
ent (but also known) length when brought to some other
place.
     Now in such    a    state   of things might measure
                                             as this, we
a given distance as confidently with  varying footrule as
                                                   a
with an unvarying one, for we should never find out any
mistakes we might make, seeing that at every remeasure-
ment the same variations in the rule's length would take
place, so that the result would always               be the same, and we
should never detect our error.   Distances so determined
would not be the real distances, as (in our simplicity) we

3*o                              DREAM-SPACE.
estimate        distances   — that      is,   by   the number       of times they
contain     a    measure       of given and unvarying length.                   Or, as
Professor Cayley remarks, we may arrive at                          a   similar result
through    rather different conception.
             a                            If the rate of pro
gress from    given point in
                 a              given direction be conceived
                                          a
as depending only on the configuration of the ground, and
the distance along   given path, between any two points on
                            a
the path, be measured by the time required for traversing                            it,
then the distance would in this case, as in the last, have                           a
determinate value. But     would not be the actual distance,
                                   it
but the distance estimated in way quite unlike our ordinary
                                              a
conception of distance.
    So far all  reasonable enough.
                     is            The conceptions about
the measurement of distance are no more inconsistent with
reason than the supposition that              rule really only
                                                  if   we had   a
eleven inches long which we supposed to be       true one-foot      a
rule, we should find all our measurements made with                                  it
consistent and congruous, though in reality all our estimated
distances would be incorrect.  What follows, however,       as                  is
inconsistent with reason as   would be to imagine that we
                                         it
could at the same time know the short rule to be one inch
less than     a  foot and conceive measurements made with                            it
as   a   one-foot rule to be exact, as well as congruous inter se.
      For the professor of imaginary geometry                           goes   on to
conceive the   possibility that in universe where  a                           actual
footrules varied systematically in length, or the actual
measurements of distance were for other reasons systema
tically incorrect (though congruous), the ideas of beings
inhabiting such space would be as inexact as those ever-
varying footrules.    He imagines the inhabitants of such
space conceiving of their space as we conceive of the space
we live in, which    of course right enough and also quite
                          is                                    ;
rightly he points out that, as to portions or parts of their
space, they would have erroneous notions      but he treats     ;
these erroneous views as though they actually changed the
distances,    well as the estimate of such distances.
                as                                     To
conceive that   man who has found twelve rule lengths in
                     a                                                               a

                          DREAM-SPACE.      .                   3"
  given distance would suppose the distance to be twelve feet
  if he thought his rule a foot-rule is manifestly right; to assert
 also that  if the rule was but eleven inches long the distance
 would in reality be but eleven feet is also right ; but to speak
 of this erroneously measured distance as though its character
 as a distance differed in some way from that of any correctly
 measured distance, is to suggest a sheer absurdity. Yet this
 is precisely the sort   of mistake into which the followers of
 imaginary geometries insist on falling.
      Suppose, they say, that as the rule moves away from a
 fixed central point of the plane it becomes shorter and
 shorter, and that this shortening takes place with sufficient
 rapidity to make distances which are really finite seem
 infinite, because the rule becomes infinitely shortened, and
 seems therefore to be contained an infinite number of times
 in distances really finite.    If this happens within a finite
 distance from the centre, then around that centre there will
 be a finite space such that, as distances    are assumed to be
 measured,     the  boundary will    seem  to be   at an infinite
 distance from the centre.        It will be impossible by any
 number of applications of the rule to get beyond that
 boundary.      Or if you take the time method of measuring
 distances, then you are to suppose that as the distance from
 the centre increases the time occupied in traversing a given
real distance becomes greater      and greater until at a certain
finite distance from the centre it becomes infinite. Then,
in like manner, it becomes impossible, by any application of
your time measure, or in other words in any amount of
time, to get beyond that finite distance from the centre.
The region around will in either case be an unknown region
to which you cannot attain, for in one case as you near the
boundary you seem to be traversing infinite distances when,
in reality, only traversing finite ones ; and in the other you
seem to be an infinite time traversing         certain distances
when, as a    natter of fact, the distances seeming to require
infinite times for passing them are finite.
      When we either apply such fancies as these, or others

312                        DREAM-SPACE.
not less inconsistent with our innate conceptions, to space
relations, we are naturally led to a geometry unlike that
dealt with by common-sense geometricians. We may call
the geometry to which we are thus led non-Euclidean, and
it may please the fanciful to find in the cumbrous term
something suggestive of scientific profundity.        If we called
these imaginary relations 'dream-geometry,' we should be
somewhat nearer the truth, for it is only in dreams that
men can fancy things are and are not, at one and the same
time.
       The particular    axiom of Euclid's geometry by which
believers in the imaginary find entrance into their dream
region is the twelfth, which really implies that if two straight
lines are found to be diverging when we examine them at
 any point along the length of each, they diverge in that
 direction let them be extended as far as we please.           The
 axiom, indeed, really seems to relate to convergence, for it
 states in effect that if two lines are found by the application
 of   a particular test to be converging in one direction, they
 will continue to diverge till they meet.        But as an earlier
 axiom has already stated that two straight lines cannot
 enclose a space, it is clear the recognition of a point of
 intersection in one direction compels us to believe that
 there is no point of intersection in the other.           In both
 axioms the idea underlying what is held to be obvious in
 the axiom is that     of direction. It has often been suggested
 that    each axiom     is  open to improvement.        The earlier
 might be replaced by the axiom that if two straight lines
 coincide in two points they coincide throughout their
 length, only it might be objected that there is a sort of
  '       '
     bull here, for there is in this case but one straight line.
 Yet in reality this is the axiom which           Euclid assumes
  throughout his geometrical reasoning,       many of his propo
  sitions being open to exception if it be admitted that two
  points are insufficient to determine the position of a line.
   Indeed, his first two postulates practically involve this axiom.
    Let it be granted, he says, that a straight line can be drawn

                          DREAM-SPACE.                                313
from any one point to any other point, and that a straight
line so drawn can be produced to any distance in the same
straight line.   Here manifestly both Euclid's own axiom
that two straight lines cannot enclose a space, and the more
general axiom above suggested, are assumed as self-evident
and necessary truths with regard to the straight line.
    As for the unfortunate twelfth axiom, it is quite true
that it is a proposition requiring proof, not really an axiom.
But, in like manner, the definition of parallel lines involves
a theorem — namely, that there can be such lines as being
produced indefinitely both ways will never meet.         Here,
however, it cannot be doubted that our fundamental con
ception of the straight line enables us to accept the idea of
parallel lines as axiomatic, and also this, which is the
essence of the whole matter : If two straight lines are
parallel, and we draw through a point in one of them any
straight line whatever not coinciding with       this straight
                                                   it,
                                              p               ^   F
line will meet the other, and —               _
                                      A
                                      .
                                              ©
                          '
                                                                        b
will meet    on that side
            it                c            d where the cross
ing line falls between the parallels.    Thus let ab, cd be
parallel straight lines, and through  in ab let any straight
                                          p
line be drawn, say in the direction indicated by the arrows
e,   f.   Then that this thwart line must meet    produced
                                                         CD
towards     and cannot possibly meet cd produced towards d,
           c,
is certainly as axiomatic as the statement that two straight'
lines cannot enclose   space.
                          a
    But dream-geometry starts with the assumption that this
is not axiomatic or necessarily obvious-— that within certain
limits many straight lines might be drawn through    (besides
                                                              p
ab),  which  would not meet cd produced in either direction             ;
or else that   line through
                 a             meeting cd produced towards
                                  p
c  might also meet cd produced towards d, or two straight
lines enclose  space, which in dream-geometry (but in dream-
                 a
geometry only)  not impossible.
                     is
   The idea underlying all this nonsense      is    that within the

  314                     DREAM-SPACE.
  distance over which we extend our survey straight lines may
  preserve the qualities which we associate with straightness,
  and so our geometry be true within the regions for which it
  has been constructed, but that at greater distances than we
  deal with straight lines without losing their straightness  may
  converge   af.cr diverging, may return into themselves, and
  may, in f.ne, play numberless pranks not recognised as
  possible in common-sense geometry.          The late Professor
  Clifford, whose splendid mathematical powers were far too
  often wasted, as have been those of Helmholtz, Cayley, and
  other powerful mathematicians, over mere dream-geometry,
 went so far as to say that two points diverging from where
 he    stood before his audience- at the Royal Institution,
 though seeming within the distances we deal with to increase
 indefinitely their distance apart, might eventually meet again,
 either at a point very far from that whence they set out, or
 at that very point itself.   Now here is   a conception which a
 common-sense, clear mind can deal with as effectively as the
 best mathematical mind the world has yet produced.          What
 is our idea of two lines diverging in a straight line from a
 point ? Certainly this, that throughout their movement,
 whether continued for a few seconds or for a million years,
 or for infinity of time, each is moving directly from the
 other, never inclining by the least conceivable angle from
 the direction which takes it exactly from the position oc
cupied at the moment by the other.           This being so, is it
or is it not absurd to speak of the possibility that these two
points can ever meet? seeing that if they met they must,
long before the time of meeting, have been travelling in such
a way as to be approaching each other.        Can any mind con
ceive, nay, can we even conceive any mind out of Bedlam
conceiving, the approach and final meeting of two points as
resulting from their continual divergence, guided throughout
by their momentary positions, let them be where they may        ?
      But it may be answered that the new geometry would in
this case regard the two points as diverging along certain
tracks possessing the quality of straightness for non-Euclidean

                            DREAM-SPACE.                        315
   Space but really re-entering into each other,    or converging
  so as to intersect somewhere or other.      But this is to adopt
  the idea of a straight line and to give up the idea of a
  straight line at one and the same moment. We define a
  straight line as that which lies evenly between its extreme
  points ; and as the straight line can be produced to any dis
  tance   in the same straight line, the extreme points may be
  any whatever.       Can one at the same time accept the idea of
  a  straight line as lying evenly between its extreme points,
  and also as re-entering into or intersecting itself?
       We find just the same absurdity (as well as mere incon
  ceivability) in the idea of a fourth dimension in space.       It
  is idle to talk    of creatures having only length, and what
  such inconceivable creatures would think of breadth ; idle
 to talk of creatures having only length and breadth and
 what such unimaginable creatures would think of our com
 fortably triple dimensions of length, breadth, and thickness.
 No one can imagine such creatures as actually existent
beings.      No one can imagine a ' body ' having fewer di
 mensions than three.         But if one for a moment could
 imagine such beings, one might very readily admit that their
 ideas about geometry would be as infinitely thin and
 shallow as they themselves were infinitely flat and tenuous.
 But turning to the three dimensions which we recognise,
and cannot but recognise, in every definite portion of space,
whether occupied by material body or not, it is as impossible
to conceive     of a  fourth or higher dimension as it is to con
ceive of a body having but one or two dimensions.             Take
any straight line whatever in which or parallel to which to
measure length, and intersecting it take any straight line
square to it along which to measure breadth ; then you have
a plane in which or parallel to which you measure           length
and breadth.         Conceive this plane extended indefinitely,
preserving its perfect planeness.       Now is it possible to con
ceive of a point anywhere whatever 'which shall not be either in
this plane or on one side or the other      of it ? The distance
of any point from the plane, which may be any whatever

3i6                     DREAM-SPACE.
between   infinity and nothing, corresponds to the third
dimension which completes our conception of space.      If a
point can be conceived which is not perfectly determinable
by its distance from a definite point in that infinitely ex
tended plane, then there may be a fourth dimension in
space.  But to conceive the existence of such a point we
must imagine a point to be somewhere neither in the plane
nor on either side of it. One might as reasonably speak of
a number which was neither equal to some given number nor
greater than it nor less than it.
      Professor Cayley is good enough to explain that the first
step is the only difficulty, and that granting a fourth di
mension we may assume as many dimensions as we please.
It is so, and consequently outside dream-geometry we can
assume no more than three dimensions in space.       The only
argument that has ever been adduced in favour of the geo
metrical existence of fourth, fifth, and higher dimensions
still, is that equations with one unknown may be conveniently
regarded as relating to lengths, equations with two unknowns
as relating to surfaces, and equations with three' unknowns
as relating to volumes ; so that    if,without departing from
space as actually known and conceivable, we might similarly
interpret equations with four, five, or more unknowns,       it
would be convenient and pleasant.       But    would be as
                                                   it
reasonable to argue that as  distance traversed may be con
                              a
                                                            it,
veniently measured by the time taken in traversing          it
would be convenient to find — in one and the same series of
equations — corresponding way of representing
            a                                     surface or
                                                        a
a volume by time intervals.  Thus,    in   certain problem
                                          if   a
relating to the uniform motion of    heavenly body we con
                                     a
veniently represent miles by minutes, might we not conveni
ently in the same investigation represent square miles       by
square  minutes  : and   ifcommon-sense folk say that we
cannot conceive square minutes, why should we not reply
that, though they cannot, yet they show their want of mathe
matical adaptiveness in failing to see that as minutes con
veniently represent miles, square miles which certainly exist

                           DREAM-SPACE.                         317
must have their correlatives in square minutes, which one of
these days we may learn to understand ?
     Nay, may we not in this way fairly parody Professor
Clifford's remark that in non-infinite space of four di
mensions, re-entering into itself and otherwise incon
ceivably comporting itself, he could find relief from the
oppressive     vastness  of limitless space  ?  Time also is pre
sented    to common minds as infinite.         But may it not be
infinite because we with our finite ways of thinking know at
present only of time progressing in one direction ? May we
not conceive of time as having more dimensions than one ;
not mere length but breadth also, and mayhap even thick
ness, and, added to that, density also?           The difficulty is
only in the first step.     If once we admit the idea of time
going on in more directions than one, extending sideways as
well as forwards, we have at once the conception of time of
two dimensions, we may compare squared time to surfaces,
we can picture time when extended indefinitely in what we
suppose to be the same direction re-entering into itself and
so find relief from the oppressive      vastness  of endless time.
All   this,  I   grant, is  nonsense,   sheer   utter time-wasting
absurdity. It all the better symbolises the nonsense which
mathematicians of masculine mind reject, the non-Euclidean
geometry, quadri-dimensional space, and like absurdities, by
which a false idea of profundity is suggested, but which are
in reality vain, idle, time-wasting dreams.

                             3i8
     THE THREE COLD DAYS OF MAY.
It is a singular, and as yet unexplained, circumstance, that
usually in the second week of May two or three cold days
occur. And although the fall of temperature is not quite so
strongly marked as that which occurs between the ioth and
14th of April
              — the 'borrowing days,' — yet the cold days of
May are quite sufficiently marked to be unmistakable.
The mean annual curve of temperature derived from half-a-
century's observations at Greenwich shows a well-defined
depression near the end of the first third of the month of
May ; and a peculiarity striking enough in its occasional
manifestations to attract popular attention, and sustained
enough to show through all the variations which have
occurred in the weather during half a century, must be
regarded as real, not accidental. Its nature is shown in the
temperature curve in p. 277 of the second series of my
'
  Light Science,' where the peculiarity is far from being
exaggerated.  Indeed, the curve is softened off on account
of the method adopted for tracing it. We see in the tem
perature for Greenwich a wave-like rise from January to
July, the curve sinking then to January again ; but the
ascending curve is affected by three well-marked depressions,
one in February, one in April, and one in May, while,
strangely enough, three similar irregularities affect the de
scending curve in the parts for November and December.
It   is,
       indeed, now an established meteorological fact, not
for Great Britain only, but for Europe, that during the first
fortnight in May the average temperature     isconsiderably
below that which might be expected from the increasing

             THE THREE COLD DAYS OF MAY.                     319
 elevation of the sun and duration of daylight. It is not
 altogether true, as   I have seen stated in a Continental
journal of science, that a week of cold occurs with extreme
regularity in the first half of May.    It requires but a brief
search among meteorological records to find instances of
warm first fortnights in May.      If we take up any weather
summary for a few successive years, we find abundant
                                            '
evidence of the irregularity with which       the cold week of
       '
May makes its appearance.        For example, in the summary
of the weather given by Gilbert White in his 'Natural
History of Selborne,' we find such records as follows : In
1771 frosty weather to the end of the third week in April,
followed by spring weather and rain to the end of the first
fortnight in May, and then dry warm weather to the end of
June ; in 1772 the first fortnight of May was dry, with cold
piercing winds ; in 1773, throughout May and June, 'warm
showers   ;' in 1774 no marked peculiarities; in 1775 warm
weather throughout May ; and in 1776 cold weather through
out the month ; the last half of April, 1778, 'snow and ice,'
followed by rainy weather to June 1 1 ; thence warm Mays
till 1782, when the first week of the month was cold and
dark ; in 1783 there was thick ice on May 5 ; in 1784 cold
dry weather during the first twelve days of May; in 1785
mild weather during the first seventeen days, and then cold
weather to the end of the month ; on May 1 and 2, 1786,
'thick ice;' in 1787 fine bright weather to the 22nd, then
warm, but on June 7 'ice as thick as a crown piece ;' in 1778
a  warm dry May ; in 1789 a warm moist month ; and lastly,
whereas May in 1790 and 1791 was a warm month through
out, May in 1792 was cold and bleak.      Certainly there is no
evidence here of extreme regularity.
     It has been already pointed out       elsewhere   that the
praises  bestowed   by the poets  of the sixteenth and seven
teenth centuries upon the month of May do not relate to
the thirty-one days forming the May of our present year, but
to those which now fall between May 11 and June 11. The
May-day of those times fell, strangely enough, at the very

320          THE THREE COLD DAYS OF MAY.
coldest part of what may be called the average cold week of
May, but the month of May, as a whole, was then much
warmer on the average than our present May, and well
deserved    Dryden's warm description : —
           For  thee, sweet month, the groves green liv'ries wear,
           If not the first the fairest of the year ;
           For thee the Graces lead the dancing hours,
           And Nature's ready pencil paints the flow'rs.
           The sprightly May commands our youth to keep
           The vigils of her night, and breaks their sleep ;
           Each gentle breast with kindly warmth she moves,
           Inspires new flames, revives extinguished loves.
    It  is only when the average temperatures of the first
fourteen days of May are considered, that we find the now
                           '                        '
prevalent belief in a cold week in May fully justified. The
curve of temperature for the year from the observations of
the last  half century, shows,       as already mentioned, a decided
depression at the part corresponding to the second week in
May, though it is to be noticed that it dips down quite as
decidedly at the part corresponding to the second week in
April.    It  appears    to me that when we combine the ascer
tained fact that there is on the average a fall of temperature
at this part of May, with the equally certain fact that there
is no regularity in the recurrence of the cold week, we must
regard as extremely improbable the theory which attributes
the peculiarity to a cosmical cause.              This theory was thus
placidly presented some time ago by M. de Fonvielle as a
known truth : —
    '
      The chilliness is due to the fact that the earth passes
behind a ring of asteroids, which absorb a portion of the
sun's warmth, due to us while it remains above the horizon.
The temperature will not resume its ascensional movement
until the annual rotation shall have carried our sphere from
the shadow of the multitude of the small planets which is
always projected on the same point of our orbit.'
    There is something startling in the placid way in which
 M. de Fonvielle advanced, as we have seen, the asteroidal

            THE THREE COLD DAYS OF MAY.                                321
theory of the cold week in May is presented.     It was never
held, even by Ertel, who first advanced               it,
                                              to be anything
beyond  a  probable surmise, nor has       at any time been
                                                 it
adopted by astronomers of standing. But, in reality, the
supposed fact on which Ertel originally based the theory, the
only circumstance which gave to the theory an appearance
of plausibility, has been shown to be no fact at all.   was       It
formerly supposed that the stream of small bodies, to which
we owe the meteor shower commonly                 seen on November
13-14, lis nearly circular in shape. Now, one of the points
where this stream crosses the level of the earth's track
corresponds with the place occupied by the earth on Novem
ber 13. Half year elapses between midnight, Nov. 13-14,
                 a
and May 15, noon but, owing to the earth's more rapid
                      ;
motion in winter than in summer, she crosses just opposite
the place she had held on Nov. 13-14 at midnight, on May
12 about noon.    Ertel reasoned that, assuming the Novem
ber meteors to form    zone of small bodies around the sun,
                       a
the zone being less in extent than the earth's orbit, this zone
must  of necessity cross the level of the earth's orbit at              a
point directly opposite the place of our November encounter
with them, and lying inside the earth's track, or between us
and the sun.   The zone of meteors would therefore intercept
a portion of the sun's heat on or about May 11, 12, and 13.
The August meteors would, in        similar way, account for
                                       a
the cold spell   of February.    And though the April 'borrow
ing days could not be explained by      meteor system giving
        '
                                            a
October displays (for there   no such system), yet the theory
                                is
was not therefore invalidated.     For, of course,     meteor a
system may lie between our earth and the sun at one part
of the earth's annual course without necessarily crossing that
course itself at its opposite point.       Thus   it   seemed as though
there were very strong positive evidence in favour            of Ertel's
explanation of these cold snaps, and no negative evidence
of weight against it.
    This reasoning    often quoted at the present day, when
                      is
all its weight has departed from        We now know very
                                           it.
                                                      Y

            THE THREE COLD LAYS OF MAY.
certainly that neither the November nor the August meteor
systems pass between the earth's track and the sun on any
part of their circuit.   The November meteors cross the
earth's track itself at the point she reaches on or about
November 13-14, and of necessity they cross the level of
her track again at a point exactly opposite, or lying in the
same direction from the sun as the earth does on or about
May 12. But, instead of this second place of crossing lying
between the earth and the sun, it lies far away in the remote
regions of the solar system, near the track of the planet
Uranus, or about twice as far from the sun as Saturn, the
remotest   of all the planets known to ancient astronomers.
In   fact, it is believed that we owe to the planet Uranus the
introduction of the November meteor zone into our solar
system, either through a close approach of that giant planet
to the meteor family at that point of its track where it still
approaches the path of Uranus, or else from the actual ex
pulsion of  meteoric fragments from the interior of Uranus
millions of  ages ago, when the planet was passing through
its sun-like stage.  Be this as it may, it is certain that the
November    meteor system — though at the very time when
these words were written it lay in the same direction from
the sun as our earth does — yet lies some nineteen times as
far away, or, roughly, about 1,650 millions of miles further
from the sun than we are at this present time.  To charge the
November meteor system, therefore, with robbing our earth of
a portion of its supplies of solar heat is to imitate the wolf
in the fable, who accused the lamb of troubling the stream,
though the stream flowed from the wolf towards the lamb.
The sun's rays in May pass our earth on their way to the
November meteor system, not that system on their way to
the earth.  It therefore, now matter of scientific certainty
               is,                a
that the cold snap in May     not caused by the November
                             is
meteor system.   As for the August meteors, their track has
been found to be even far wider, and in February, when
Ertel supposed they were intercepting our supplies of solar
heat, they lie forty times farther from the sun than our earth.

              THE THREE COLD DAYS OF MAY.                                         323
     It   does not of necessity follow that Ertel's theory is
  erroneous ; but now that the evidence he seemed to find in
 its favour from the November and August meteors has been
 shown     to be fallacious,            the   defects        from the first
                                                             which
 characterised the             theory will      be more readily admitted.
These are sufficiently manifest.                 If meteors diminished our
supply of heat, it could only be by coming actually between
the earth and the sun in such a way that they could be
actually visible      sufficiently magnified with
                         (if                       telescope)        a
upon the sun's face. If they formed fine cloud of cosmical
                                                    a
dust, they would reduce his apparent brightness in       mea              a
surable degree      they affected in such degree the supply
                     if
of heat we received from him         and this has never been
                                               ;
noticed.      If   they were individually           large enough to reduce
the supply    of heat, they ought to be individually visible                          as
black objects crossing his face even to the naked eye, but
certainly with powerful telescopes.  No such bodies have
ever been seen.
    However, there         terrestrial test for the theory
                               is   a                                                 by
which its validity could be readily determined. If meteoric
bodies come between the earth and the sun at any time in
such numbers as to make us feel cold in their shadow, they
cool the whole earth, not England, or Europe, or the northern
hemisphere.        If,      careful comparison of the mean
                         then, on       a
daily temperature at observatories all over the world,                           it   is
found that the cold snaps of February, April, and May are
everywhere to be recognised, then     must be admitted, at
                                                   it
least, that the cause          of the peculiarity       is   to be sought outside
the earth herself.    on the contrary — as, for my own part,
                           If,
I suspect would prove to be the case — no trace of these cold
snaps could be recognised — say, in Australia and South
Africa, though cold snaps at other dates might be noticed—
then the peculiarity must be regarded as local.         may              It
extend over the British Isles, or even the whole of Europe,
or  it may even, though this seems unlikely, prevail over
much larger portions of the northern hemisphere but      not         ;       if
recognised (and that, too, at precisely the same epochs) in
                                                                         y   2

324           THE THREE COLD DA YS OF MA                     Y.
 both hemispheres, its cause cannot be regarded as extra
terrestrial.     It should not be difficult, if the cause is on our
earth, to trace it to its source.          I should not be surprised if
that source were found to lie among the icefields of the
North Atlantic.
     Old May-day is May           12.    We must not forget this in
reading what our early poets say of the charms of May.
The month of May has been shifted since the days of those
poets.    When Chaucer, for example, spoke of
                                 the sixth morrow of May,
             Which May had painted with his softe show'rs,
             This garden full of leave's and of flow'rs,
he meant the time         of year corresponding to our 14th, not to
our May 6th. And again, in choosing May for the name of
the naughty lady whom Sir January took to wife, Chaucer
was    assigning emblematically to May 9 the qualities de
                                      '
 scribed by the author of the Menagiana.'                 The reader will
remember that Budgell, in the Spectator (No. 365), referring
 to this description of the kindly warmth infused into earth
 and its inhabitants during the month of May, expressed the
                   '
 opinion that the observation is as well calculated for our
                                                           '
 climate as that of France,' adding wickedly, and some of
 our British ladies are of the same constitution as the French
 Marchioness of S., who told the author of the
                                                           " Menagiana"
 how dangerous she found the month of May.'                     In his ' II
 Pastor Fido,' Guarini describes May as —
                     Bella madre di fiori,
                     D' erbe novelle e di novelli amori,1
     The May-day of the Spectator's time was that which
  I call Old May-day, viz., May 12, for it corresponds with
                                                   '
  May-day at the time when our Bradley robbed the people,'
  as they thought,
                          '
                            of their eleven days.' But if the Old
  Style had continued till now, our present May 13 would be
     1 This line  does not refer in the remotest way to the      Derby or to
  new favourites.

             THE THREE COLD DA YS OF MA                         Y.           325
May-day, for the Julian Calendar caused the dates slowly
to pass away from the seasons they had originally corre
sponded with. It is worthy of notice, however, that the
May-day of the last century, though coming later in the
true year — that    the year of seasons — than May-day of
                          is,
Chaucer's time (our May 9), was not likely to be warmer              a
or brighter day, for from about May 11 to May 14 there
usually occurs    singular, and as yet unexplained,  cold                '
                      a
snap.'  On the average, May           at least one degree
                                           9     is
Fahrenheit warmer than May 12, though our almanacs in
giving the mean temperature make no note of this.
    The change of style has altered the seasons notably
since the days of Spenser, Shakespeare, and Milton. Then
Midsummer fell at the very end of June, Midwinter at
the very end of December.      In one sense this accorded
better with the actual changes of temperature than our
present arrangement     for Midsummer
                                ;           not the hottest
                                                       is
nor Midwinter the coldest part of the year.    The weather
was far more likely to be cold and bitter on Old Christmas
Day — our Twelfth-night — than    on our present Christmas
                                         is it
Day, when, indeed, the weather              is
                                as often soft and warm as
bleak and cold. The last week of December was as apt in
Shakespeare's       time as in the second week of our January to
be   a   time —
                  When icicles hang by the wall,
                    And Dick the shepherd blows his nail,
                  And Tom bears logs into the hall,
                    And milk comes frozen home in pail.
                  When all aloud the wind doth blow,
                    And coughing drowns the parson's saw,
                  And birds sit brooding in the snow,
                    And Marion's nose looks red and raw     ;
                  When blood      nipp'd and ways be foul,
                                    is
                  And nightly sings the staring owl.
    The old May-day ceremonies would show that marked                a
change had taken place in our seasons,    the May morn of
                                                      if
former days fell in the same part of the year of seasons as

326               THE THREE COLD DA YS OF MA                    Y.
our present May-day.      Chaucer tells us, in his ' Court of
Love,' that early on May-day ' forth goth al the court, both
most and lest, to fetche the flowris fresch, and braunch and
blome.' Even kings and queens rose early on May-day, to
fetch green boughs or May boughs.         This is probably the
'               '                       '
  rite of May     referred to in the      Midsummer Night's
Dream,' — ' No doubt,' says Theseus, ' they rose up early to
observe the rite of May.'  On our May-day not many trees
are green, but a few days at this season make a great differ
ence in the aspect of the woods and fields, so that on Old
May-day folks who rise early, and are not troubled by fears
             '
of the              unpaid,' might collect a goodly number of
                 great
'
    flowris fresch ; and braunch and blome.'
      Our poets, despite the effect of the change                    of style,
which has thrown back May-day a full fifth nearer the
spring equinox than it was in Shakespeare's time, still sing
in the same strain of the merry month of May and of the
delights of its opening days. But May-day is only poetically
'
  the merriest, maddest day of all the glad New Year.'  The
change       of style has practically wrought        a change    of weather.
It      brought down the May-poles.
      has                                  A few chimney
sweeps may still carry round their Jack-in-the-Green ; but
the green is usually evergreen, not the fresh growth of the
new May.    We cannot wonder at the melancholy fate of
Tennyson's Queen of the May,                if,   on one of our modern
May-days, she —
      Danced about the Maypole, and in the hazel copse,
      TillCharles's wain came out above the tall white chimney-tops.
Someone should have explained to the merrymakers that
the sun had not yet attained mid-day altitude which could
                                     a
justify these gambols in the hazel copse — that, in fact, they
would probably result in what Sydney Smith calls           our          '
British constitutional coughs, sore throats, and swelled
faces.'          His advice   wrould have    been    scouted,    no doubt,
and he would have been looked upon as                       a    bore and
a nuisance but he would have been right all the same.
                   ;

            the three cold da ys of          ma y.        327
Indeed,    speaking seriously, in these days, when many,
especially the younger folks, look back longingly on old
customs, and occasionally try to revive them, it may some
times be well to inquire even into such dull, dry details as
the effects of the change of style in modifying the relations
of dates and seasons.

                                328
      ARE WOMEN INFERIOR                        TO  MEN?
  A Frenchman       named Delaunay has recently published a
 pamphlet, the object of which is to show that women are
 intellectually and physically inferior to men.     At the outset
it should be noticed that this M. Delaunay must not be
 mistaken for the great French astronomer Delaunay (who
 died some nine years ago).         The point requires noting,
 because the present Delaunay has ere this dealt with statis
 tical evidence relating to astronomical matters, endeavouring
to prove therefrom that the planets Jupiter and Saturn
exercise a marked influence on the phenomena of earth
quakes.     It  is hardly necessary,   perhaps,  to  say that the
proof was hardly so perfect    as  M. Delaunay imagined.       In
fact, his reasoning would not have attracted attention if his
name had not sounded like that of a very eminent astronomer,
of whose death many had not heard.
     M. Delaunay now devotes himself to the task of showing
that those     who regard the two sexes as intellectually or
morally equal, are absurdly sentimental.        He seeks to show
that women are in a lower stage of development than men,
on grounds which he describes as purely anthropological,
though he should rather, it would seem, have described
them as biological, since his inferences respecting the tests
of development are derived quite as much from the study
of other animals as of men. He admits that among certain
lower forms of life, as insects, some fishes, and reptiles, the
females show a superiority to the males ; but among the

              ARE WOMEN INFERIOR TO MEN?                                          329
higher races of vertebrates (backboned animals) it is different.
Among birds and mammals (he might have added marsupials,
or pouched animals, as kangaroos, opossums, &c.), the
male is nearly always superior to the female.   The inference
   that whereas in lower races the female
 is,                                           superior to the
                                                           is
male, the male    equal to the female in races more advanced,
                   is
and superior to the female in all the superior species.     The               '
supremacy of the female    therefore] he says,
                               is                the first form
                                                                '
of the evolution undergone by sexuality, while the supremacy
of the male   is   the last form.       The conclusion              is   calculated
to be so satisfactory        to men that they may be permitted,
perhaps, to pass over the manifest weakness of the reason
ing.  The law, which should be universal to be of avail,                          is
admitted to be only general     and ;     noteworthy that the
                                            it   is
reasoning really points to the conclusion that the higher the
race, the lower relatively     the female
                                   is       so that   :would             it
seem that the first point to be established by one who
would prove his nation in advance of others, should be the
inferiority of the women of his race.  If this were really so,
we imagine that there are some races of men, not supposed
to be far from the very forefront of human progress, who
would not care, at such   cost, to establish their claims to
                              a                                                   a
high position.
       M. Delaunay   careful to show why he thinks the female
                     is
inferior to the male in the higher races.   First, we find that
among birds and mammals, including man (who shares with
the pig, the monkey, the dog, &c., the privilege of breast
nourishment), the nutritive phenomena are more intense
than in the female.    Man eats more than woman and he                   ;
is, therefore, incontestably her superior.       Yet, although
                                                           '
she eats less, the woman       more of
                               is         gourmande, and eats
                                             a
more frequently.'     (This may be proved by comparing
aldermanic feasts and club dinners with the favourite forms
of feminine gourmandism.)      Next we observe that the
                                        '
breathing of men     more intense than that of women.
                        is                               For
an equal height he has      greater capacity of chest, and
                               a                                                  a
larger thoracic index than the woman       greater breathing
                                                 '
                                                      (a

330              ARE WOMEN INFERIOR               TO MEN?
capacity).
                 '
                     He   also absorbs more oxygen, though his breath
ing is slower.'  (Why should not this be regarded as a proof
of inferiority ? Suppose a woman were writing, and should
put it this way, Woman requires less oxygen than man, and
                                              '
is therefore superior to him ; how then ?)      The tempera
ture is higher in man than in woman, and the pressure of
the blood greater, though the pulse is less frequent'             This,
again, might be quoted the other way by women.               It   would
be almost as logical to say,           Man is superior to woman be
cause he wears a beard, and the hair on his head is shorter
than hers.
      It   appears that the frame      of man,
                                         compared with that
                                                 as
of woman, proves incontestably his superiority. He has a
heavier skeleton, absolutely as well as relatively.    'The
woman in all the physical characteristics of her skeleton is
intermediate between the child and the man, according to
Topinaud.' Must we then rank the elephant as man's
superior  his skeleton is certainly heavier than man's, not
             ?
                                   '
only absolutely but relatively.      The woman is not so
right handed as the man ; the pre-eminence of the right
side over the left is not so marked with her as with the
male.'  Charles Reade would probably regard this as evi
dence of superiority rather than inferiority ; and many men
who have not been thought inferior to their fellows, but the
reverse, have been at no small pains to train the left side to
equality, or as near equality as they could attain with the
right side.
    Worse remains, however, to be told. ' The male externally
is always larger than the female.          The woman is not so heavy
as the                            often appear larger on
            man, although she would
account of the development of the adipose system, which in
her is greater than the man.'
    The next point, if established satisfactorily, would be
rather more to the purpose.    '
                                 In all our Hindo-European
races,' says Topinaud, 'the woman is more prognathous
than the man,' that  her jaws are relatively more project
                              is,
ing than .those of man.  This would be       strong point,
                                                      a

             ARE WOMEN INFERIOR             TO MEN?           331
because there really appears    to be a correlation between the
position of the jaws in animals and the capacity (relative, of
course,) of their brains.     But it would be desirable to have
all the particulars by which the peculiarity referred to has
been established.    It would be easy to select classes either
of men or of women who would be very unfair representatives
of their sex taken   as a   whole  ;  and though I would be far
from saying that anything of this sort has been done, I
would note that it is a much more difficult matter than
many would suppose (who have not tried) to obtain a large
number of either sex who could be regarded as absolutely
free from class influences.      The task would be easier if
men and women pursued similar avocations.             As they do
not, the statistics collected by Topinaud may, for aught
that appears,   have  tended,   if  rightly interpreted, to show
that such and such avocations either affected intellectual
development, or were selected by persons of inferior intellect,
rather than anything specifically distinguishing       men from
women.'
     A  similar objection applies, but yet more strongly, to
M. Delaunay's next point. He says that, 'according to his
own researches, woman is more flat-footed than man, and
has a foot less arched — a sign of inferiority — hence the pre
ference   of women for high-heeled boots.' It is a rather bold
assumption that the form of the feet thus indicates in
tellectual development.      But assuming that it were so, I
apprehend that the statistics of feet-forms would show very
different results according to the classes that might be se
lected.    Supposing, for instance, M. Delaunay had measured
the feet of a few hundred waiters, and compared them with
those   of a few  hundred opera-dancers, he might, perhaps,
have inferred either that opera-dancing conduced far more
than waiting at table to intellectual development, or else
that women were far superior to men.          I do not say that a
selection so unlikely to lead to a correct result as this has
actually been made ; but we require to know much more
than we do about M. Delaunay's statistics before we can

  332          ARE WOMEN INFERIOR TO MEN?
  accept his conclusion, even if we admit that the mental and
 moral qualities can be deduced from the shape of the feet.
 The fancy for wearing high-heeled boots may reasonably be
 regarded as showing that women regard a high instep as a
 natural feminine beauty, to be enhanced where present or
 imitated where wanting ; that, in fact, women are more
 particular in this respect than men.       So viewed, it would
 no more prove that women are commonly flat-footed than
 their wearing chignons or switches would show that they
 commonly have shorter hair than men. In fact, M. Delaunay's
 argument here is decidedly unfavourable to his theory, if a
 high instep really is a proof of intellectual superiority ; for
 women try more to enhance those qualities which they regard
 as  feminine, and therefore attractive, than those which they
 share with men.
      '
        The female voice is sharper than that of the male. Both
 in wild and domesticated animals the male has the muscular
 system more developed than the female.'         All this may be
 granted   ; but it proves nothing to the purpose.      The bull
 has a deeper voice than man, and the gorilla has the muscular
 system far more developed ; but we do not infer that the
 bull or the gorilla stands higher in development on either
 account than man.
      '
        The movements are more precise in man than in woman.'
                          '
 (What movements ?)         Among pianists of the two sexes the
 mechanism reaches a much higher degree of perfection in
men.' As musicians, whether we consider composition or
execution, women certainly are surpassed by men ; and I
may note among the absurdities of our system of education
that almost every girl in the middle and upper classes ' learns
             '
the piano (save the mark !) though not one in a hundred
has any natural aptitude for music, while among boys music
is comparatively neglected.        There is little, however, in
feminine execution to justify the statement that their move
ments are less precise.      On the contrary, numbers of girls
acquire wonderful precision in playing ; only, unfortunately,
most of them want that aptitude for music which can alone

              ARE WOMEN INFERIOR TO MEN?                    333
make mere perfection       of digital mechanism of any account.
It   is not easy, however,   to see why musical skill should be
regarded as a test of mental or moral qualities. I am dis
posed, on the contrary, to consider that women in our day
are handicapped by their musical education ; and that pro
bably, if so many were not compelled (without musical talent
to help them) to waste many years of their life in the weary
work of      practising,' we might have better opportunities of
           '
learning what women are capable of in other ways than we
are actually afforded. Music, at any rate, is one of the weak
points of modern feminine education, if not its worst feature.
Even as musicians, women would be far likelier to show
 power if only those who possessed aptitude for music received
 a musical training.      How can the real musician among fifty
girls get any chance, when she has to go through, with the
 forty-nine who are not musicians, the weary music-killing
 work of our present system of so-called musical training?
 (Is not this matched, however, by the existing systems of
 classical and mathematical training for boys, irrespective
 altogether of any aptitude for classical or mathematical
 work ?)
       We come next, in M. Delaunay's paper, to the more
 important question of cranial capacity and form ; for
 certainly (setting aside, of course, phrenological absurdi
 ties), the shape and size of the brain are more likely to
 indicate mental and moral capacity correctly, than are the
 shape   of the feet, the tone of the voice, and the muscular
 development.
       So far as we have gone, M. Delaunay's arguments
 remind us, more than we should have thought possible
  in a scientific brochure, of the reasoning in a humorous
  article which appeared a year or two ago in the ' New York
  Times,' wherein it was gravely argued that the inferiority of
  woman to man is proved conclusively by women's habit of
  sitting on the ground to take off, or to put on, their shoes
  and stockings. In fact, I am not sure that M. Delaunay
   might not find more in favour of his theory in this argu

 334           ARE WOMEN INFERIOR               TO MEN?
 ment than in any of his own that have thus far been con
 sidered.
     M. Delaunay next proceeds to compare the brain ca
 pacity of men and women.    Huschke estimates the mean
 capacity of the cranium for Europeans to be 1,446 cubic
 centimetres  (about 88^ cubic inches) for men, and 1,226
 (about 74! cubic inches) for women, or the masculine
 brain exceeds the feminine, on the average, nearly 18 per
 cent. in capacity.  However, before we too hastily assume
 that this implies inferiority, we may as well consider the
 relative dimensions of men and women in other respects.
We have to take into account rather the relative than the
actual dimensions of the brain.  Now, the average height
of men in European countries exceeds that of women by
about one-seventeenth part, that      men are taller than
                                          is,
women in about the ratio of 18 to 17.  Men, therefore, ex
ceed women in bulk in about the ratio of 18 times 18 times
18 to 17 times 17 times 17 (for the volumes of bodies vary,
not as their linear dimensions, but as the cubes of these
dimensions), or rather more than the ratio of 118 to ioq.
Hence, so far as Huschke's estimate can be trusted, the
cerebral capacity of women    relatively greater than that
                                is
of men.
    We learn from Broca, though one would like to be assured
that the statistical evidence  trustworthy, that the brain of
                              is
man    heavier than that of women as
       is                                 to 100.
                                          1
                                          1
                                          1        This, like
Huschke's evidence, but in even greater degree, would be
unfavourable to M. Delaunay's position.      But Broca also
notes that the female cranium      longer and less high than
                                     is
the male.   The broader-headed among men will probably
regard this as evidence of inferiority, while the dolicho
cephalic, or long-headed, will regard     as proof positive that
                                          it
at any rate women have equal, or probably superior, brain-
fitness, so far as shapeis concerned.
   '
      The graphic curves of feminine brains of various races,'
says M. le Bon,      shows that even in the most intelligent
                  '
societies, as the Parisians of to-day, there     isnotable pro
                                                      a

               ARE WOMEN INFERIOR             TO MEN?              335
  portion of the female population whose brains approach
  more to the volume of those of certain gorillas than the
  least-developed crania of the masculine sex.' This sounds
  unflattering, but in reality it means very little.        For the
  worst-developed crania which are here compared include,
  both among male and female specimens, abnormal cases,
  from which it is not easy to infer the true relations of brains
 of that class. Moreover, the men of worst-developed brains
 are more apt to get eliminated from society, so that, the
 very   worst   specimens   of masculine crania being removed,
 the comparison between         the bad male and the bad female
 heads is affected unfavourably for the latter.
                            '
      The frontal lobes,      the seat  of the highest intellectual
 faculties, are less developed in woman than in man, while, on
 the other hand, the occipital lobes, which especially preside
 over the life  of sentiment, are more voluminous in the woman
 than in the man.'        In its totality, according to Professor
            '
Wagner, the brain of the woman is always in a state more
 or less embryonic' This must, of necessity, relate to averages
 not to individual brains.      If the brains of those women who
have been distinguished for genius were compared with the
brains of ordinary men, there would not be found any
evidence of a state more or less embryonic.         This, of course,
would by no means dispose of the argument, but it indicates
a circumstance to which in all statistical inquiries attention
should be carefully drawn, the effect namely of selection,
conscious or unconscious, in affecting the result.         Is it cer
tain that the female crania which have been at the disposal
of anatomists for examination have come from the same
classes (or in the same degree from those classes) as the male
crania?       Are there not reasons for thinking that, on the
whole (and in considering averages this would be a sufficient
objection), the women whose crania have been examined
belonged to lower classes than the men ?
     We note these points, not that we would confidently
deny the asserted superiority of male craina, on the whole, in
capacity and shape.        Such superiority may exist, but may

336          ARE WOMEN INFERIOR                   TO MEN?
indicate no original difference of capacity.             Brown-Sequard
has shown how the brain grows with use ; and it is certain
that existent systems of education give, on the whole, far less
exercise to feminine than to mascuine brains.                In America,
where women are more fairly treated, the customary tests                of
capacity show by no means that degree of masculine supe
riority which might be inferred from M. Delaunay's reasoning.
On the contrary, the feminine brain holds its own so well
against   the masculine as to suggest the thought that had
equal chances been given for as many centuries as years, the
superiority might be quite the other way.             Nor has this been
the case only during the earlier stages              of education    ; but
often up to the final examinations.
     In  passing, we may note that at present it can hardly be
said that the frontal lobes of the brain have been proved to
preside definitely over the intellectual, while the occipital
lobes preside over the life of sentiment. The animals whose
brains have been experimented on do not exhibit so clearly
the respective action of intellectual and sentimental ideas,
that the different functions of parts of the brain can be thus
localised.     Post-mortem examinations are confessedly unsatis
factory.    The relation assumed by M. Delaunay without any
doubt or scruple most probably exists, but it has not yet been
demonstrated.
     To the objection    that the intellectual inferiority      of women,
assuming it to exist, is due to the fact that for centuries she
has not received the same education as man, M. Delaunay
replies that it is unsound.
                                    '
                                      In past centuries the mass of
the people were sunk in ignorance ; neither the one sex nor
the other received any education.'           He therefore maintains,
with Professor Bischoff, of Munich, that women have not
                                               '
had to the exercise and evolution of their brains any other
hindrances than those proceeding from their constitution and
their capacity for development.'              On this point he uses
 Cyril's argument :   —
             ' They hunt old trails,' said Cyril, ' very well ;
               But when did woman ever yet invent ? '

                   ARE WOMEN INFERIOR              TO MEN?                 337
'                                     '
  Female musicians receive,' he says, the same education
as males, and yet it is well known that, though there
have been some excellent female performers, there is no
instance of a great female composer.    It is the same with
painters and with the culinary art ; among the thousands of
women who have exercised the latter, there have been few, if
any, cordons bleus. If we prepare a list of the men and another
of women most distinguished in poetry, painting, sculpture,
science, and philosophy, each containing a dozen names, the
two lists would not bear any comparison.'       He cites the
opinions of manufacturers and commercial men who employ
individuals of both sexes.   'They all agree that women are
more assiduous, but less intelligent, than men.   In printers'
    establishments, for example, women work with minute care,
    mechanically, without knowing very well what they are doing.
    Thus they make good compositors in the case of reprints, a
    work not demanding much intelligence, but set up manu
    scripts badly, not understanding them so well as men.' To
    which it may be replied that as yet the capacity of women for
    such work has not been fairly tested.    Miss Emily Faithfull
    asserts, however,      that well-trained female     compositors show
    as   much readiness to deal with manuscripts as the best male
    compositors.
       M. Delaunay touches, indeed, on the moral qualities of
    men and women, referring to the many authors who have
    maintained that women are more prone to every kind of
    wickedness than men, though he admits they commit propor
    tionately fewer crimes.Poisoning is more favoured by women
    — that    the poisoning of others — than by male criminals.
             is,
'
     Moralists have noted that woman        more playful, more
                                                   is
    changeable, more capricious than man.      She    also more
                                                              is
    destructive and less circumspect. The number of women
    run over in the streets      greater
                                       isthan that of men.'
    Quorsum Juec tarn putida tendunt     What has all this to do
                                               ?
    with M. Delaunay's subject?      The argument which M.
    Delaunay uses to clinch his case supplies the best answer to
    this part      of his reasoning.    '
                                            All known   legislators   take for
                                                                       z

338            ARE WOMEN INFERIOR        TO MEN?
granted the intellectual inferiority of the feminine sex as
compared with the masculine.         Everywhere woman is
regarded as a minor, incapable of taking care of herself, and
requiring a guide and tutor.' The laws, in fact, having been
made by man, assert his superiority, and, so far as they can,
ensure   it.   Woman  carefully placed in an inferior position,
                       is
and then assured that she   isan inferior being.

                                   339
                        UPRIGHT MAN.
 At    a certain age, varying with individual aptitude, the child,
 who has hitherto been in the habit of crawling on all fours,
 stands upright and begins to walk on two feet instead of
 four.    If you watch him at that interesting period of child-
 life, you will observe    that   he   often acts as if in doubt
 whether he has not been too hasty in assuming the erect
 posture.     He looks anxiously round      as  if thinking that the
 base on which he is balancing is not wide enough for safety.
 He occasionally reverts to the quadrupedal method of
 standing, and still oftener adopts the quadrupedal system of
 walking.     It is not until after several months have elapsed
 that he definitely resigns himself, so to speak, to becoming
 a biped.
      If instead of observing only his actions you consider the
baby's structure, you will find that this also is suggestive of
the quadrupedal attitude as better         suited than the bipedal
for that early stage of life.     The abdomen is too protuberant     »
to be comfortably sustained while the erect attitude is
assumed.       The head leans forward. The toes are more
active than they are later on, and are ready to work against
the ground as they can only work when the child is on all
fours.
      Now it has been well remarked that the various          stages
of childlife correspond in marked degree with the various
stages through which, according to the theory of develop
ment,    the human race itself has passed.         Biologists begin
with still earlier stages of existence, but we need not follow
                                                             z 2

34o
                           Upright     man.
them so far.   From birth onwards, we find the bodily and
mental characteristics following a process of development
akin to what has been recognised in the development of man
himself. The new-born babe is in his mother's eyes a very
sweet creature, but he is nevertheless of much lower type, re
garding him as an animal, than the grown man (unless the
man has developed the wrong way, as unfortunately many
men do).  In the first few months of his existence the babe
shows a number    of very monkey-like traits.        He may    be a
nice little monkey, or a nasty little monkey ; but even his
nearest and dearest friends (always excepting his mother,
who is ' possessed ' by him at this stage) must admit that he
has very much of the monkey type.       He simulates and dis
simulates as only simians do.   He imitates or rather mimics
all he sees and hears.   He cannot speak, but he can make
sundry noises which mamma regards as speech.             Every
thing  he can lay  hold  of goes to his mouth,  just as it does
in the monkey's case.       (I speak from experience, having
once, when a boy, offered a monkey my hand in the politest
fashion ; the monkey immediately conveyed it to his mouth
quite calmly, and tested it with his teeth.)   Baby      is,
                                                        even at
this stage of his existence, quadrumanous, his toes being not
only longer relatively than they are later, but capable
of holding on insomuch that he can climb up mamma's
dress with their aid.
     But about the time when baby begins to put away
monkey manners, and to stand on two feet like        man, he
                                                         a
begins to show in very marked degree the characteristics
of savage tribes.   For two or three years of this part of his
life the best baby    islittle savage. His ideas of property
                           a
are intensely savage.          He may be said to be always more or
less on the grab       object to slang as much as any man,
      '           '
                       (I
but really there isno other way of describing the tendencies
exhibited at this stage of baby's career).    If he has small
brothers or sisters (or both), he     always more or less at
                                         is
war with these neighbouring savages.     If he deprived of
                                                    is
anything he has come to regard as his property (quite mis

                        UPRIGHT MAN.
takenly, it may well be), or if he sees in the hands of his
small kinsfolk any goods or chattels, which seem pleasing in
his eyes, he has but one way of expressing his wishes ; he
goes for the possession of the desired object, using his hands
as weapons if he have no other handy, but bringing down a
stick or brush or book (as the case may be) on the head of
his enemy with all the zeal of a Fijian or an Ojibbeway on the
war-path.      Girl babies are pretty nearly as bad as boy
babies in these matters, only the girl savage differs from the
boy savage, much as savage woman differs from savage man.
Of   course  there  are many baby boys and baby girls who
show little tendency to savagery, just as there have been
many uncultured races of man who have been gentle and
innocent.     But the quiet babies are always weak and un
healthy. In the struggle for existence they succumb before
their more ferocious brothers, just as the quiet and gentle
savage tribes perish before their tomahawk-flourishing,
spear-throwing, club-wielding neighbours.
      Regarding child-life, thus, as typifying on a small scale
the life of the human race, it might be expected that there
 should be recognised a period in the development of the
 human race akin to that period of tioubt and indecision in
 the career of the babe which I mentioned at the outset.
 Assuming the theory that the human race was originally de
 veloped from lower races of animals to be sound — and I
 suppose scarcely any competent person now questions the
 truth of the theory — we see that the upright bipedal attitude
 of man must be a product of evolution, and must for a time
 have been hampered by some disadvantages, even after it
 had become on the whole the best attitude man could
 assume.    Nay, considering the enormous periods of time
 which every process of evolution by which the character
 istics of a race are changed requires, the painful thought
 suggests itself that possibly even now the upright attitude
 has not so far established itself but that there may still re
 main serious disadvantages in it — though I need hardly say
 I would not suggest the possibility that these disadvantages

  342                     UPRIGHT MAN.
 approach in importance to the manifest advantages of the
  bipedal system.    It is clearly better for man to stand on two
  limbs than on all four ; but may there not be still some
  objections to the upright attitude worth considering, though
 we cannot perhaps remove them ?
      Dr. S. V. Clevenger, formerly Professor of Comparative
  Anatomy and Physiology at the Chicago University, has
 called attention to some very marked disadvantages of up
 rightness in man.     He has shown that vast though the period
 must be which has elapsed since our race assumed the
 upright position, the process of development has not yet
 eliminated all the traces of our former attitude, and that
 some of these, while telling us of important advantages pos
 sessed by our four-footed       ancestors, speak also   of serious
 disadvantages   to which we, their upright descendants,         are
 exposed.
      Let us begin, however, with the more pleasing considera
 tion of what nature has already done for us.         In the profit
 and loss account which we have to examine, the profits may
 be shown to be far in excess of the losses ; and we shall con
 sider these losses more cheerfully after we have noted how
 much the upright man has gained.
      If we examine the way in which man's head is set on his
 shoulders, we shall find clear evidence that he is fitter to
stand upright than any of his four-footed relatives.           The
passage through which the brain is connected with the spinal
cord is so placed that the upright position brings the brain
into equilibrium.     When an animal is on its hind legs the
head is evidently not in equilibrium.       Watch a horse in the
circus when he is forced to assume this unnatural position,
or note the ways of Carlo or Fritz when he is begging, or of
pussy when your as yet untamed young savage sets her on
her hind legs. The head in each and every case keeps
coming forward, and is then retracted by direct muscular
effort.   There is indeed a ligament which helps to keep the
head up, but it is insufficient for the purpose.      We keep our
heads up without conscious effort.       In that there is evidence

                           UPRIGHT MAN.                                 343
of many long ages since man first got up on what were                  then
his hind legs.
     But not only is man helped thus to retain the upright
attitude, and prepared to contemplate the heavens at his will
(the real end, I feel sure, of his uprightness), but he has
become unfitted for walking on all fours.               I   do not lay much
                                                '
stress on the argument used in the London Journal of
Science,' that if we keep our legs straight, though 'we may
touch the ground in front of our feet with the tips of the
fingers, we cannot place the palms of the hands upon the
ground, and use them to support any part of our weight in
walking.' For there is not a quadruped on the face of the
earth which keeps its hind legs straight in that sense.                Nay
there    is not a quadruped,        so far as       I
                                             know, which can
straighten its legs as we do.  What corresponds to the human
knee is in all animals bent towards the belly, and I imagine
you would find Carlo or Fritz objecting strongly to any effort
to straighten the limb at that joint.    But let anyone try to
walk as most animals walk, with the knees and elbows bent,
the heels and wrists in the air, and the toes and fingers doing
the work of bearing the body, and he will find that nature has
unfitted man long since for true quadrupedal movements.
Whether he goes on his toe-tips and finger-tips, as horses do,
or on the insides of the fingers and the underparts of the
toes as cats do, or on the palms of his hands and the soles
of his feet   as   bears   do, he    will   very soon          acknowledge
that it is better to walk uprightly on the earth.
     Nature has further fitted man for the upright position by
flattening what we unscientifically call the stomach, really
the abdomen or belly.   Obese persons may not be aware of
it,but flat abdomens are the correct thing with the human
race.   Moreover, the more advanced the race, the flatter
(apart from corpulence) are their abdomens.         have seenI
Polynesian Islanders whose rounded abdomens strongly
suggested that they might return to all fours with advantage,
so unstable did they look with their protuberant paunches
(though not at all obese).

344                              UPRIGHT MAN.
      Many other points might be noticed which show how
nature has gradually prepared man for the upright attitude
which undoubtedly suits him best, or, as teleologists would
say, points showing how man has, from the beginning, been
adapted for uprightness.
      If,
       on the other hand, we ask for outward and visible
signs that there may even now be disadvantages in the up
right position they are not far to seek.
    To begin with, man stands on less stable footing than
                                                        a
his four-footed kinsfolk.       As the 'London Journal of
Science well puts        four-footed animals in their natural
                               it,
             '                   '
haunts are little liable to fall     one foot slips, or fails to
                                               ;   if
find hold, the other three are available. If fall does occur     a
on level ground there     little danger to any mammal nearly
                                     is
approaching man in bulk and weight.          Their vital parts,
especially the heart and the head, are so near the ground,
that, to them, the shock       comparatively slight.
                                          is           To human
beings the effects of     fall on smooth level ground are often
                                a
serious or even deadly.' Those animals of the ape and
baboon tribes which occasionally walk upright, seem to use
occasionally    stick, or
                      a      branch plucked from
                                      a              tree. Man,       a
in like manner, indicates his sense of the instability of the
upright attitude          by
                   using the walking-stick.
    Then again the human abdomen         exposed to dangers is
from which the abdomen of the animal           comparatively     is
safe.       A
          blow or kick may be fatal, and the human abdo
men     exposed to either.
        is                  In the quadruped there     much                    is
less chance of injury whether from accident or intention.
    Another very important risk resulting from the upright
position,    that to which the femoral artery (the great
                 is
artery running along the inside of the thigh)     exposed.                is
Almost all the arteries are deep-seated and thus safe from
the effects of accidental blows or wounds.       Even the
temporal arteries, though seemingly exposed                           to danger, are
in reality rendered relatively safe because of                        their proximity
to the eyes which can look out for them                                as well as for
themselves.    But the femoral arteries, which                         in quadrupeds

                                UPRIGHT MA!f.                  345
are exceedingly well protected, in fact practically unreach
able, are in man— and especially in savage man — exposed
to attack.  How large a proportion of fighting men in the
good old times, when to be a man was to be a fighting
animal, lost their lives by thigh wounds in which the femoral
artery was severed, it would be difficult to say.      But con
sidering the difficulty of stopping the effusion of blood when
the femoral artery has been cut, the number must have
been considerable.  The wonder                  is,
                                   that with so serious         a
danger affecting those whose femoral arteries were thus
exposed,     the      process     of development, arising from the
survival of the fittest in those fighting days, has not resulted
in removing the femoral artery to        safer depth.
                                                a       Perhaps
it will hereafter.        may be that traces can already be
                          It
recognised of the gradual recession of the femoral artery in
the more advanced races, though possibly              should be
                                                      it
among the most fighting tribes that we ought to look for the
best placed femoral arteries, since among them the elimina
tion of the least fitted in this respect would go on most
rapidly and effectively.
    Another form of danger to which man became exposed
after he had adopted the upright attitude need not par
ticularly be insisted upon.        certain that in this special
                                      It   is
respect man must have been made aware of his nakedness
 by multitudinous mishaps in the fighting times through which
the race had to pass when           it was young and long after.
      But   it   is   when   we    turn to the hidden parts of the
structure of man's body that we most clearly recognise the
disadvantages which still attend the upright attitude.  The
truss, and possibly even the corset, may be regarded as
artificial means for compensating the deficiencies of nature
or correcting ill effects caused by them.  As to the foimer,
it    evident from the great number of cases in which the
     is
abdominal muscles have failed to sustain the abdominal
viscera, so that the truss has been rendered necessary, that as
yet nature has not fully provided the human races with
muscles strong enough for the extra work thrown on them

346                        UPRIGHT MAN.
by man's change        from the prone to the upright position.
It  may be urged,       of course, that trusses are developments
of  civilised times   ; but as civilisation is a part of the natural
development of man, this in reality leaves the argument
unchanged.       In the lower animals the pectoral muscles
help the abdominal muscles to sustain the viscera, and
hernia is rare or unknown : in man all the work is thrown
on the abdominal muscles and the pelvis, hence, as the
'
  London Journal of Science ' puts the case, ' Art is called
in to compensate the deficiencies of Nature, and an immense
number of trusses have to be manufactured and used.'
     As to the use of corsets the case is not quite so clear.
When      we hear it confidently      stated   by women that    they
cannot      live  comfortably    without     corsets   and a certain
amount of corset compression, and are told that doctors
simply talk nonsense when they urge the disuse of corsets,
the idea certainly seems strongly suggested that nature has
not yet fitted women, at any rate, for the upright position.
Were what so many women say but true, we should be
forced to reject the poet's dictum that ' woman is not
undeveloped man, but diverse,' for assuredly developed
man could stay upright without stays,                Even if it were
merely true that a great number of women could not have
shapely forms without wearing corsets, it would look as
though nature still had a good deal to do in adapting
women to the upright position ; for the blame would have
to be thrown on uprightness : no one thinks of putting
stays on a horse or a dog, whether masculine or feminine.
     In   the pages   of   '
                             Knowledge,' a writer who used the
                    '
nom de plume          An Observer,' adopted this view of the
corset question.        He did not, indeed, adopt its obvious
consequences.        He did not say nature's work was incom
plete or imperfect. In fact, as he was an energetic opponent
of all evolutionary ideas, he naturally would not think that
nature still had a good deal to do for the fair sex ; though
how he reconciled his views about the necessity for corsets
with his view that the human race was thoroughly well made

                             UPRIGHT MAN.                              347
 from the beginning, I find it difficult to understand.                Be
 that as it may, every evolutionist (and that is almost like
 saying every biologist) must see that if corsets are essential
 either for safety or shapeliness in the upright position, then we
 have a very strong argument in the fact for the doctrine that
 a long time has still to pass, and nature has still a good deal
 to do, before the human race will have become thoroughly
 fitted for uprightness.
       But I believe that so far as corset-wearing is concerned
 the argument is entirely erroneous.             Nature must not be
 blamed for faults for which she is not responsible.              I learn
 from those who know that corsets are no more essential to
 health or to shapeliness, than the yard-long stomachers of
 Queen Bess's time, the high, pointed heels of our own, or
 the long, pointed toes       of Plantagenet days.      Within my own
 family circle, ladies rather delicate than strong, long used
 to wearing corsets, and altogether unwilling to make any
 change of attire which could be recognised even by the
 keen eyes     of their own   sex, have of their own notion (I would
 never venture a hint to grown folk on such matters) given
 the disuse of corsets a fair trial.         So many try for a day or
 two and then despairingly yield themselves afresh to their
 imprisonment ! That at first there was some discomfort
 proved not that nature had not fairly done her work but
that art (most inartistic art) had done mischief.1            After a few
 days this discomfort        disappeared.      After a few weeks in
creased strength        and activity showed that the change had
done good.         (In passing, I may remark that probably any
lady who may try the change, without other change in her
attire, would find the result different        : yet the other change,
     1
        In a long controversy, a year ago,  in the pages of Knowledge, I
failed utterly to make '   An Observer ' see the force of the following
argument : One who is     in the habit of wearing stays suffers when they
are removed and feels better when they are put on again ; therefore
stays are injurious.     Yet it should be obvious enough. When any
artificial aid has led to a state such that it cannot be dispensed with,
that artificial aid has done mischief.

34«                         UPRIGHT MAN.
though it has been made conspicuous and unattractive by
some of its advocates — I refer, I need hardly say, to the
divided skirt — is absolutely indefectible, in the cases          I am
considering, by the keenest feminine eye.) The strips of
whalebone which had at first been necessary to prevent the
waist of the skirt from wrinkling, could after a time be dis
carded, because nature presently provided a natural corset
of muscle where before the muscles had been atrophied for
want of use.       So far from increasing, the waist measurement,
which had been small, decreased.              (Of course there had
not formerly been much or perhaps any actual compression.)
Now after fourteen or fifteen months, the ladies I am
speaking of would, I fancy, as soon take to nose-rings or
lip-rings, as readily use crutches or thumbscrews, as resume
their former bonds. 1 Whence we may conclude that nature
has been ready         enough,    so far as waist  muscles are con
cerned, to fit the human race, feminine as well as masculine,
for the upright position which they have so long found it
desirable to assume.
      The bony structure of the human frame gives further
evidence which there is no mistaking of the comparative
recentness      of the change to the upright posture.          We can
trace in the bones of the various races of men               a distinct
     1
       An  effect of this change within my own family circle, on myself,
may be worth mentioning.        Like all men (and women too) who have
any eye for shapeliness of form and grace of movement, I had, as long
as I remember thinking on the subject at all, objected strongly to the
unshapely forms and the wooden movements of the average society
waist, whether in the street or in the drawing room.     But I find that
my distaste for these fashion-book beauties has largely developed,
though unconsciously, during the time when natural shapes and move
ments have been observable at home.        I may remark in passing, that
most women and many men seem to imagine that because the straitly
 laced do not want admirers, therefore strait-lacing is itself admired.
 Young men no more adore tightened corsets than they love panniers
 or tiebacks, or than the young men of former generations loved crino
 lines or hoops.    It would take a worse fashion even than tight lacing
 to lose women the love of men ; but they are loved in spite of foolish
 fashions, not because of them.

                          UPRIGHT MAN.                       349
progression from the forms observable in the lower animals.
Thus the bones of the negro leg are much nearer in form
to the corresponding bones in animals, than are the bones
of the European lower extremities.        But it is in the pelvis
that we see the progress of .development most clearly marked.
Quadrupeds have a box-shaped pelvis.           The ape's pelvis
usually measures more from front to back than from side to
side. The pelvis of European races is oval, the diameter from
front to back measuring less than the diameter from side to
side.    Now it is noteworthy that in the negro the pelvis is
wedge-shaped,      or elongated from front to back like the
ape's.    The Mongolian pelvis is square or box-shaped ; the
pelvis of the Red Indian is round.          It is only when we
reach the Aryan races that we find the oval pelvis, with
the greater diameter from side to side.           But in young
children even of European parentage we find the box-shaped
 pelvis, in company with a prominent abdomen like that of
 the gorilla.    Examining this question mechanically, we may
 say with Prof. Weber of Bonn, that it would appear as
 though the longer a race had remained in an upright posi
 tion, the lower is the sacrum, and the greater the tendency
 to approach the larger lateral extension of the European
           '
 pelvis.     The front to back diameter of the ape's pelvis is
 usually greater than the measurement from side to side.        A
 similar condition affords the wedge-shaped pelvis, from
 which it may be inferred that the erect position in the negro
 has not been maintained so long as in the Mongol, whose
 pelvis has assumed       the quadrilateral shape  owing to the
 persistence   of spinal axis weight for a greater time.    This
 pressure    has  finally culminated 'in expanding the pelvis
 laterally and contracting the diameter from front to back'
      This change is a mechanical one, not the result of
 evolution.     In fact evolution would work the other way.
  For the change undoubtedly tends to destroy many lives.
  Millions of otherwise healthy and well-formed mothers and
  children have been killed, because of the shortening of the
  front to back diameter of the pelvis.       Mechanical action

 350                     UPRIGHT MAN.
has, so to speak, opposed evolution, which set man on his
feet through one set of causes operating in the struggle
for life, while the mechanical resistance to the upright
attitude has caused the loss of many lives and so brought
death into the world.  The pangs and labour of childbirth
have been increased in such sort as almost to justify Prof.
Clevenger's quaint saying, that if these miseries were the
punishment for the original sin, and        as appears, we must
                                              if,
attribute them to the undue mechanical contraction of the
pelvis, then the logical inference that man's original sin con
                                      is
                 '
sisted in his getting upon his hind legs,' or rather upon what
were his hind legs, for having now no fore legs man cannot
be said to have hind legs either.
     And this leads us to Prof. Clevenger's special contribution
to the problem we have been considering. The character
istics we have thus far been considering are comparatively
obvious. But Prof. Clevenger has detected traces of man's
former four-footed condition which lie much deeper, and yet
seem more convincing when their real bearing    considered.
                                                     is
       It  known to everyone that there are valves within the
            is
veins by which the blood     allowed to pass one way but not
                               is
the other.   The use of these valves in resisting the action of
gravity    manifest.
            is        Thus in the veins of the arms and legs,
which are mostly in       vertical position, the valves assist
                          a
obviously in preventing engorgement.        If the arms were
always or nearly always in      horizontal position, the valves
                                 a
would be worse than useless         they would be an actual
                                     ;
obstacle to the free flow     of the blood.
       If, then, man had been always upright, or     if   the method
of speaking adopted by tcleologists indicated an actual
truth, and man had been specially intended from the very
beginning of his career to stand on two legs,        tolerably
                                                     it
                                                     is
obvious which sets of veins would be provided with valves.
All those which are vertical when man      upright, and thus
                                                is
extend in    downward direction (tracing them from their
                 a
larger to their smaller parts) from the centre of circulation,
would have valves, all those which are horizontal would be
without valves.

                        UPRIGHT MAN.
    But, on the contrary, we find both these requirements in
certain remarkable cases unfulfilled.     There are no valves
in several important vertical veins, which sometimes seem
to need valves very much as in the spinal veins, the portal
veins, and others, while in veins which are horizontal     and
need no valves (so far as we can judge) at all, but rather are
obstructed by their presence, we find valves.      Thus there
are valves in the intercostal veins (horizontal veins near the
ribs) and though these do no harm when man is upright,
they do no good, while, when a man lies on his back, they
prove an obstruction to the flow of blood.    (Brown-Sdquard
recommends in spinal congestion that the patient should
be placed on his abdomen, by which these valves are in
effect brought into the position where they assist the flow of
blood, the veins becoming vertical and the valves horizontal
— opening upwards — as     such valves  should be to serve the
purpose of assisting the blood to return against the action of
gravitation.
    These peculiarities may be regarded as anomalous, to
say the least.   But ' if we place man upon all fours these
anomalies disappear, and a law is found regulating the pre
sence or absence of valves, which appears to be applicable
to all quadrupeds, and to the so-called quadrumana.'     Veins
which have to carry the blood against gravitation when the
human body is put on all fours are provided with valves, all
others are without.    The few exceptions are only apparent.
    Now, whether we regard this curious relation from the
teleological or from the evolutionary point of view, it is
highly significant. Supposing I were shown an equatorial
telescope (that is one that turns around an axis directed to
the pole  of the heavens) and found on examining it that
several of its mechanical arrangements would be much better
suited for the work they have to do if the main axis instead
of being directed to the pole were vertical, I should feel
tolerably certain that the telescope had been originally
meant for an alt-azimuth, which is the pleasing technical
name for the ordinary form of mounting by which a telescope

352                     UPRIGHT MAN.
has its chief axis vertical.    But     if,   when I     came to examine
interior details,Ifound nearly all of them, and especially
those not capable of being readily altered, suited to the
alt-azimuth form and not suited to the equatorial,   could        I
no longer feel the least doubt.     should say at once and
                                        I
positively, This telescope was meant to be used as an alt
             '
azimuth     and   might even go on to consider how far the
          '
         ;       I
owner of the telescope had been wise in converting     to             it     a
purpose for which     it   was not intended.             In like manner,
seeing that man's frame shows many obvious signs of having
been originally suited for the    all-fours position, the
                                         '               '
teleologist would be justified in suspecting that that was the
attitude originally provided for, and he would be almost
compelled to adopt that view when he found          number of a
interior details of structure suited to that attitude and
unsuited to uprightness. He might even go farther and
doubt whether those who first adopted the upright attitude
had been well-advised, though          now obviously too late
                                      it      is
to resume the attitude originally intended.
    The evolutionist must view the matter differently. He
sees that the adoption of the upright attitude was practically
forced on the human race       by
                              the requirements of his environ
ment.    He sees that the peculiarities belonging and appro
priate to the four-footed animal would for the most part be
modified in the course of time, as in point of fact they have
been.   And though some might remain, he would know
(from the fundamental laws governing the process of evolu
tion) that they must of necessity be such as would not be in
great degree destructive to life.  That much suffering and
some loss of life have been occasioned by the absence of
valves in certain veins which now have to carry the blood
against gravitation, but in the all fours position carried
                                    '                '
                                                                             it
horizontally, no physician can well deny.   (To the absence
of valves in the hsemorrhoidal veins, for instance,               '
                                                                      many   a
life has been and will be sacrificed,' to say nothing of dis
comfort and distress, and consequent diminution of vitality
and of working energy.)    But that the effect   slight  the is        in

                        UPRIGHT MAN.                        353
struggle for life is shown by the very fact that the defect has
not yet been corrected.
     The conclusion from the consideration of man's outward
configuration, the position of his vital organs, the structure
of his body and especially of his skeleton, and lastly (but
even more strongly) from minute details of interior structure,
seems clearly that the remote progenitors of man were
originally fitted (we need not ask how or why) for the quad
rupedal attitude. Since the race adopted (gradually and
tentatively, no doubt) the upright attitude, several important
changes have been wrought in the human frame, but much
still remains to show what was man's original position.
Unless we suppose these peculiarities devised simply to lead
men astray in their interpretation of observed facts, we must
find in them a strong argument — perhaps the strongest argu
ment that has yet appeared — against the doctrine that man
and beast are entirely and absolutely distinct.

                                    354
       EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE}
In   the year       1867  a statement     was   made    by   Dr. Stark,
Registrar-General for Scotland, which attracted a good deal
of notice.      He announced, as the result of his investigations
into the relative death-rates of married and unmarried men,
that the mortality is very much greater among the latter than
among the former. Since then several years' statistics have
been published by Drs. Stark, Drysdale, and others, in this
and other countries, and they appear to corroborate the
doctrine that marriage may be regarded as a sort of life-
insurance.        It is not with any desire to invalidate the truth
of this doctrine that we propose here to point out the great
uncertainty of such statistics as these. There are enough
arguments in favour of matrimony without introducing false
 ones.     An old proverb tells us of the advisability that no
 cask should rest on an alien basis, and this is especially the
 case where the basis of our figurative cask is already wide
 enough to secure stability. The advocates of marriage will
 therefore, we trust, look upon us rather as an ally than as a
 foe if we exhibit, as we think we shall be able to do, the
 unsubstantial nature of the argument based on such statistics
 as we have      referred to above.
       Let us in the first place see what the evidence is on
 which the argument is founded.            A single case will suffice.
     1
        This article, excepting a few words relating to its more extended
 application, and bringing it down to date, was written in the summer
 of 1867.

               EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.                        355
  Take the earliest by combining the results of two years'
observations.       Dr. Stark thus compares the mortality per
thousand of married and unmarried men : —
                                 Husbands and
              Ages                                    Unmarried
                                   Widowers
   20 to 25                           6-26              12-31
   25 „ 30       ¦                    8-23              14-94
   3° >. 35      .                    8-65              I5-94
   35    40      .                   11-67              16-02
   40 „ 45       .                   14-07              18-35
   45    5°      .                   17-04              2118
   5o .. 55      ¦                   I9-54              26-34
   55 „ 60       .                   26-14              28-54
   60 ,, 65                          35-63              44-54
   65 „ 70       .                   52-93              60-21
   70  „ 75      .                   81-56             102-17
   75  „ 80       .                 117-85             143-94
   80 „ 85       .                  173-88             195-40
      At first sight, it might seem that nothing could be clearer
 or more satisfactory than this evidence.       We see that between
the ages of 20 and 25, the death-rate of the unmarried men
is nearly twice that of the married men.         After this the ratio
gradually diminishes, so that when we come to the quin
 quennial period between 45 and 50, the ratio, instead of
 being 2 to 1, is only 21 to 17, but still it is a ratio of excess ;
 and so, up to the last recorded period, we find the same
evidence in favour of the married men's prospects.
      And again, let us take another view of the matter.         It is
 easy to determine the mean age of the married men and of
 the bachelors at death.       We find that the former age exceeds
the latter by fully 19 years !
      Here, then, we seem to have the most striking evidence
in favour of matrimony as an agent in producing longevity.
It would seem almost that all we need fear would be the
undue extension of the argument.              If one wife does so
much to prolong a man's life, what effect, it might be argued,
should two, three — nay, a dozen wives, for that matter — no
produce     ?   Passing over this view, as a manifest invention

 356          EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.
 of that enemy of social happiness, the confirmed old bachelor,
let us seriously inquire what force there really is in the evi
 dence adduced ; for the evidence is not wholly without force,
 only it has been asked to bear rather more than it is capable
of doing.
      There are two most important rules in the application of
statistics, for want of attending to which many have fallen
into serious error.     First, we must assure ourselves that there
is nothing in the examples collected which savours of selec
tion   ; and secondly, we must have a sufficient          number   of
examples.
      As respects the second rule, we do not think there is any
reason to complain of the evidence.              For although the
period over which the results extend is not a very long one,
yet the wide range of country included in the registering is
fully sufficient to make up for the defect in point of time.
In   fact, the close accordance observed by Dr. Stark between
 the results  of the first two yearly periods dealt with was quite
sufficient to prove that a more extended series of observa
tions was not needed.         Results of this sort only repeat them
selves when they are severally founded on a sufficiently wide
range of statistical inquiry.
      But, as respects the first rule, we think there is very
strong reason for suspecting the evidence before us.             We
 must note, in the first place, that it is one of the most diffi
cult things in the world to free results from ' selection ' in
some form or other.          Take the simple instance of tossing
up a halfpenny ; is the chance perfectly equal that head or
tail will turn up   ?   It  seems so, but it is not necessarily so.
As    the halfpenny turns over and over in the air, there may
be an irregularity — imperceptible       to the sense — due to the
unequal distribution of the metal on the two faces. And
here we see the importance of the second rule mentioned
above.       Any irregularity in the figure of the coin will
show itself in a sufficient number of trials, as certainly as
by the most accurate measurement and the most careful
examination.

                EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.                     357
        We had lately a remarkable instance in our own expe
   rience of the difficulty of removing all trace of selection.
       We wished, for a particular purpose, to distribute a
   number of dots or points, perfectly at random, over a square
   surface.   This may seem a simple matter — but we did not
  find it so.    It may be suggested — ' Take a handful of grains
  and throw over the surface at random       ; then mark the place
  of each.' The fact, however, that the grains did form a
  handful, and were spread out, will show itself.         Another
  method may be suggested :    —  '
                                    Prick a number of holes with
  out directing the motion of the hand by the will.' But how
  are we to do this very thing ?     If we close our eyes we shall
  naturally make for the central parts of the surface, for fear
  of missing the surface      altogether,  and here at once is
    selection ; and if we open our eyes it is absolutely im
  '           '
 possible not to aim each stroke with some object, however
 much we may persuade ourselves that we are striking quite
 at random.
       The method we finally adopted was this. We divided
 each side    of the square into  100 parts,   which we numbered
 in order, and drawing lines through the points of division
 we divided the square into 10,000 small squares.        We then
 took a book full of figures (in fact that inviting work, a table
 of logarithms), and opening at random placed the point of
 a pencil at random on the page.        The figure nearest to the
point we marked down, and we took out in this way 4,000
figures.     We now took the first four figures — 8, o, 1, 7 say,
and did thus with them, — the first two gave the number 80,
the next two the number 17, and we accordingly marked a
dot on the eightieth row of squares, in the seventeenth square
of the row. Thus we had 1,000 points distributed as we
thought quite at random. But on a closer inspection we sus
pected the influence of selection : and where does the reader
suppose we detected it ? In the shapes of the figures used
to represent numbers.       In taking  the number nearest to the
pencil point we had omitted to notice (when the point seemed
half-way between two figures) that the i's, the 4's, and the 7's,

358              EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.
do not cover quite as much space as the other figures.         And
in fact, when we came to count over our list of numbers we
found there was a marked deficiency of these, and a marked
excess of 8's, 5's, and 2's.       This excess showed itself in the
arrangement of the dots over the square surface.
       We seem to have wandered a long way from our bachelors
and married men, but if we have succeeded in showing how
subtle an influence selection, conscious or unconscious, is
capable of exerting, it will be found that our digression is in
reality very much to the point.
       It may be asked, ' If Dr. Stark took the mortality of the
                                                                    '
whole population, how can there have been any selection ?
We answer by another question, ' Is there nothing in the
 state     of bachelorhood itself which affords suspicion of selec
 tion    ?
           '
               In answering this question we wish to avoid possible
 misconception.        In dealing with averages, individuals are
 not to be considered.        And therefore, if we say anything of
 bachelors, as a class, which may seem disparaging, individual
 bachelors are not to be on that account offended ; though,
 perhaps, many of our readers would not be greatly troubled
 even      if offence were given to a few  of the single-minded.
       Well, then, it appears to us that if we look on bachelors
 as a class, we shall see evidence that they are not on a par
 with married men.
        It will not be denied that many men are prevented from
 marrying by ill-health or a weakly constitution.         This may
 happen in more ways than one.           A man may either, through
  ill-health, suffer by comparison with the hearty and stalwart,
  or he may feel that he is unfit to struggle with other diffi
  culties than those he has as a single man — that he is unable,
  perhaps, to provide for wife and children, or that the cares
  and anxieties which married life necessarily brings with it
  would be more than he could bear.          For instance, the very
  thought of a crying child disturbing his night's rest would
  shake the nerves of an invalid.       Or again, if a man is con
  sumptive, or suffers under any other ailment which is apt to
  repeat itself in successive generations,       he may well and

               EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.                                        359
wisely eschew the thought of marriage, fearing lest he should
become the parent of unhealthy children.     In these and in
many other ways, unhealthy or weakly-constitutioned men fall
into the list of bachelors. No one can fail to recognise the
influence of this form of 'selection' on the comparative
mortality of the two classes we are considering.
    Again, it cannot be doubted that very indigent persons
and the members of unhealthy trades are, on the whole,
kept somewhat from the lists of marrying men.      Of course,
hundreds of these marry in any given country; but compar
ing them as classes with other classes, there    undoubtedly,is,
such   atendency as we have mentioned.     The influence of
this cause, again, cannot be doubted, since the longevity of
the classes we have named       undoubtedly inferior to the
                                              is
average longevity            of the population.
    Here, then, we see two causes (and many others might
be mentioned) tending to add to the lists of bachelors
classes of men of inferior longevity.  How great the in
fluence to be assigned to such causes may be      not easy         it   is
to determine, but we cannot doubt that the influence    an                    is
important one.               At    impossible to estimate the
                                  any rate,   it   is
value of results in which allowance has not been made for
influencing causes of this sort.    So long as there      any                is
suspicion that the classes from which we make our estimates
are not equally balanced, no confidence can be placed in
those estimates.
    In     fact,   it   is    by   selection of this sort that      '
                                                                          facts and
figures' have been made to 'prove anything.' We might
prove that to have  title conduces to longevity, because the
                              a
average age to which noblemen live     above the average for
                                                        is
the whole country.  We might prove that to be       lawyer or           a
to be                  great elixir vitae,' for similar reasons.
                             is
          Quaker
                                        '
        a                    a
The argument against such assertions as these          of course,   is,
similar to that which we have applied to Dr. Stark's reasoning.
The death-rate of the nobility     lower because they are as
                                               is
a class richer than the average population of the country,
and therefore have more comforts, less occasion for entering

360              EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.
on dangerous or unhealthy occupations, and so on. And
similarly with the other cases adduced.
    We might establish the very reverse of Dr. Stark's
conclusion      instead of taking the whole population of
                  if,
bachelors, we were to compare the death-rate of married
men with the death-rate of the Catholic priesthood, or of
Fellows of Colleges. And we should be making an error
differing only in degree, not in kind, from that which, we
submit, Drs. Stark and Drysdale made.     We should be
taking    set of men from which many unfavourable classes
           a
are eliminated, just as he has taken   set into which an
                                           a
unduly large number from unfavourable classes have been
introduced.
    But we have said that we do not consider Dr. Stark's
evidence to be wholly without weight. We think the pre
ponderance of deaths among bachelors   somewhat greater
                                            is
than was to be expected from the preponderant presence,
among bachelors, of persons from the classes we have spoken
of.  We think, however, that what      is proved by this pre
ponderance     little more than what might have been reason
                  is
ably anticipated.    It would be idle to point out the variety
of ways in which the life of married man, or of widower,
                             a                        a
has an enhanced value, since every one recognises the fact.
He must be indeed unfamiliar with human nature, who                is
not aware that the mere love of life  isno all-sufficient check
upon recklessness.     The consideration that others will suffer
by our death, that wife or children will be left desolate,    is   a
restraint on many men, who would but for this freely expose
their lives to danger.   The mere fact that marriage brings
with  it home duties and domestic habits,      of itself an im
                                                 is
portant              for good.
               influence           That hundreds of married
men neglect those duties and do not fall into those habits         is
true enough     but the fact that large numbers are kept within
                  ;
the home-circle, cannot but have an important influence on
the death-rate.    In individual instances bachelor habits
                                               '                   '
may not affect longevity, but in taking the average of large
                                                          a

              EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.                       361
  number, the truth will appear of the old French proverb
  '
    Oil peut-on etre mieux qu'au sein de sa famille ? '
       That the whole of the preponderance exhibited by Dr.
  Stark is not due to the considerations just discussed seems
  to us to be very strikingly shown by the distribution of that
  preponderance among the different ages. It appears to us
  that the influence of the more regular habits which belong
 to the married state would not be likely to show itself most
 strongly between the ages of twenty and twenty-five, but
 would rather appear with a gradually increasing effect in
  successive quinquennial periods.      On the other hand, the
 influence of the causes which keep within the list of bachelors
 large classes of short-lived persons, would undoubtedly show
 itself most at the earlier ages.   For of men so weakly as not
 to be likely to survive the age of twenty-five scarcely any
 would marry ; men whose expectation of life was somewhat
 greater would be somewhat less likely to remain un
 married ; and so on.       In other words, the list of bachelors
 would be more largely recruited from classes tending to in
 crease the death-rates for the earlier quinquennial periods
 than for the latter.
      In fact, Drs. Stark and Drysdale in their method of
treating the statistics afforded by general           registration
neglected    those rules to  which M. Quetelet, in his work on
probability, called the particular attention of statisticians.
The laws of probability applied to statistics afford evidence
of the highest value, when suitable care is taken to exclude
all influences due to selection and therefore not falling fairly
within the province of probabilities.     But when attention is
not paid to such considerations, it becomes impossible to
                                              '
say what absurdities may not be proved by facts and figures.'
In   the case we have been considering the results are not
absurd, it is true ; but they are certainly exaggerated.      We
cannot accept Dr. Stark's conclusion that ' bachelorhood is
more destructive to life than the most unwholesome trade, or
than residence in an unhealthy house or district where there has

362         EFFECT OF MARRIAGE ON LIFE.
never been the most distant attempt at sanitary improvements of
any kind.'    But we may accept his opinion that 'statistics
have proved the truth     of one of the first natural laws re
vealed  to man — It is not good that man should live alone.'
Whether the law required any proof is a question into which
we need not enter ; our readers must form their own con
clusion on this point.

                                    3^3
            STIMULANTS AND STUDY.
Mr. Arthur Reade,            described in Les Mondes as author of
the Litterary Soudth, has recently elicited from my esteemed
friend, M. l'Abbe Moigno, certain useful notes about the
habits suitable for literary or scientific workers. Mr. Reade
had remarked that men of letters are commonly                supposed
to sustain themselves by stimulants.           It is to be  feared,  he
says,1 that fifty years ago there was somewhat               too close
a connection between stimulants and literature ;             but since
then the habits of men of letters have, fortunately, under
gone great changes.            The inveterate smokers and wine-
bibbers no longer exist ; six-bottle men have become as rare
as the dodo.       Still the question remains, Are stimulants a
useful   auxiliary    to   intellectual work ? The opinions of
medical men as to the use of wine are too diverse to have
much effect. Nor are they in much better agreement as to
tobacco.     That tobacco is      a  poison is certain ; so are many
things we use, not only in medicine, but in food.                   The
influence of tobacco on brainwork has been the subject of
interminable controversy, and the question has occupied all
classes of society.      One argument is that smoke helps men
to think (to dream, rather), and it is asserted that the
journalist smokes in writing, the man of science in solving
a problem, the artist in painting, the clergyman in com-
    1
      What follows, up   to  Abbe Moigno's communication, is partly an
abstract, partly a translation, of the version of Mr. Reade's communi
cation given in Les Mondes.

  364              STIMULANTS AND STUDY.
 posing his sermon ; that, in fact, every man great in science,
 in literature, in arts, climbs the ladder of fame with a pipe or
 a cigar in his mouth. Tennyson has composed, it is said, his
 sweetest idylls under the influence of nicotine.     Carlyle has
 taught the world philosophy, smoking.       Not the young only
 have these ideas.      According to Andrew, Moltke is a great
 snuff-taker, and it was due to snuff (la prise aurait tout fait)
 that     Napoleon was so pitilessly expelled from Belgium.
 Mr. John C. Murray, in his volume on smoking, undertakes
 to show when it is dangerous, neutral, or beneficial to smoke.
 He claims      that  Raleigh, Milton, Dryden, Newton, Picot
 {sic), Steele, Addison, Swift, Congreve, Bolingbroke, Pope,
 Johnson, Byron, Burns, Scott, Campbell, Moore, Dickens,
 spoke, wrote, and sang under the influence of coffee, that
 plant of mystic power.       But for those who have recourse to
 tobacco, he adds, their genius is generally but a lightning-
 flash or a meteor, involving too great mental tension, likely
 to drag reason from her throne and plunge it in the night of
chaos.      (By my troth, these are very bitter words.) Another
medical authority says that a moderate use of tobacco is as
necessary to the brain-worker as moderation in the use of
alcohol.
       On the other hand, the adversaries of tobacco regard the
idea that smoking helps sound thought as a most mis
chievous delusion ; they maintain, on the contrary, that it
renders men incapable of intellectual labours. Tobacco
leads to physical and mental indolence.
      Mr. Reade      considers that the use of stimulants is a
subject which should be examined in the light of the expe
rience of poets, artists, journalists, men of science, authors,
&c., in Europe and America.
      M. 1' Abbe" Moigno makes the following remarks in reply
to Mr. Arthur Reade's questions : —
      '
        Though I cannot offer myself as an example, because
my temperament is too exceptional, my experience may have
some degree      of usefulness.
      '
        I have published already   a  hundred and fifty volumes,

                       STIMULANTS AND STUDY.                              365
small and great ;           I
                      scarcely ever leave my -work-table ; I
never take walking exercise ; yet I have not yet experienced
any trace of headache, or brain-weariness, or constipation,
or any form of urinary trouble, &c, &c.
    '
      Never, in order to work, or to obtain my full clearness
of mind, have I had occasion to take recourse to stimulants,
or coffee, or alcohol, or tobacco, &c. ; on the contrary, in
my case, stimulants excite abnormal vibrations in the brain,
unfavourable           to   its   prompt     and   steady   action   (exerrice
rtgulier.)
      'Often during my life             I                 habit of
                                            have fallen into the
taking snuff.    It is a fatal practice ; foul to begin with, since
it puts a cautery to the nose, filth in the pocket (un fumier
dans la poche) ; unwholesome also ; for he who takes snuff
finds each morning his nose stopped up, his breathing
difficult, his voice raucous or with a nasal twang, because
the action of tobacco             is,
                              in reality, to draw humours to the
brain     ;   lastly, unfortunate (nefaste), because the use         of snuff
gradually destroys the              memory, — this
                                         last effect being for
me completely proved by my own experience and that of
many others.'
   Abbe" Moigno then gives the proof that — in this form, at
any rate — tobacco injures the brain.     We believe all our
readers will be interested to learn how this veteran scientific
worker has accomplished his long-continued and arduous
labours, while yet retaining not only good but wonderful
health.
      '
      I       have learned,' he says,
                              'twelve foreign languages, all
 by the method which     have published in my " Latin for
                                  I
All   ;"
       that   to say,
                  is   draw up the catalogue of the 1,500
                                I
or 1,800 root words, or simple primitive words, and      fix           I
their meaning in my memory by mnemotechnic formulas.
I had thus taken into my mind nearly 41,500 foreign words,
whose connection generally, or oftenest, has no connection
 with the word itself, and from ten to twelve thousand facts,
 with their precise date.
      All this existed simultaneously in my memory, always
      '

366                STIMULANTS AND STUDY.
 at my disposal when        I  wanted the meaning       of a word or the
 date of an event.       If   any one asked me, for example,         who
was the twenty-fifth king          of England,      I  perceived in my
 mind that it was Henry II. called Plantagenet, who ascended
the throne in 1154.         I was, as respects philology and chro
nology, one of the most extraordinary characters of my time,
and Francois Arago used laughingly to threaten to have me
burnt as a wizard.
     '
        But I had lately fallen into the practice of snuff-taking,
and an abode of several weeks in Munich, where                  I passed
my evenings      in a  smoking-room       with  the   learned  Bavarese,
who would      each   smoke     four or five cigars, and drink two or
three cans of beer (the most illustrious of these savants,
Steinheil, used to boast that he smoked six thousand cigars a
year — sechs tausend Cigarren im Jahr),          I attained to smoking
three or four cigars a day.          When I edited my treatise on
the Calculus of Variations        —  the most difficult of my mathe
matical treatises    —  I would at times, without thought of mis
chief, use up in a day the whole contents              of my snuff-box,
which      contains twenty-five grammes          (nearly an ounce) of
snuff.      Now, I was painfully surprised one day to have to
 recognise that I was constantly obliged to turn to my
 dictionaries for the meaning of foreign words, which before
 happened to me seldom, or never, and that the dates of
 numerous facts which I had made my own had fled from
my memory.
     '
        In despair at this melancholy failure of my memory, I
 took forthwith an heroic resolution, which nothing since has
 been able to shake.         On Aug. 31, 1863, I had smoked three
 cigars and used 25 centimes (about 2\d.) worth of snuff;
 the day following, September 1, 1863, and to the day of
 writing this, June 25, 1882,        I have not taken a single pinch
 of snuff or smoked a single cigarette.
      '
        It was for me a complete resurrection, not only of the
 memory, but of the general health and well-being.                It was
 only necessary for me to do what I did eighteen years later,
  to diminish nearly one-half the quantity of food which took      I

                   STIMULANTS AND STUDY.                         367
each     day, to eat less meat    and more vegetable food, to
obtain such incomparable health as one can scarcely ima
 gine — indefinite capacity for work, unconscious digestion,
perfect assimilation of food, no haemorrhoids, no constipa
tion, no wrinkles, pimples, &c., &c., and I may be permitted
to affirm it with perfect confidence — those who follow in my
footsteps will be rewarded as I have been.
     'Add to this the habitude, irrevocably established, of
never saying     /             /                /
                   will do, or am doing, but have done, and
you have the secret of the enormous quantity of work               I
have^been'able to achieve, and which         I achieve each day,
despite my eighty years.       No one will deny me, hereafter,
the honour of having been one of the greatest workers of
my age.
     '
       I ought, finally, to add that I find it well for me to take
at breakfast a small half-cup of coffee without milk, to which,
when only two or three teaspoonfuls remain at the bottom
of the cup,     I  add a small spoonful of brandy, or other
alcoholic liquor.      That is my whole allowance[of stimulants.
How happy would those be who should adopt my regime !
They would be able, without harm, to sit at their desk im
mediately after breakfast, 'and 'to stay there till dinner-time.
No sooner would they be in bed, at about nine o'clock, but
they would be softly asleep a few minutes later, and could
rise at five in the morning, full  of strength/after   a nourishing
sleep   of eight hours.
                                                  '
                                                    F. Moigno.'

                                 368
      POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE
                              LAWS.
Our     literature is permeated with words and expressions
derived from the times when all men, or all save the few
who knew and reasoned on what they knew, believed in the
influences of the stars. We read of this man that at such
and such a time his fortunes were in the ascendant, of
another that he was in the zenith of his fame ; we hear of
fortunate and evil aspects, of Mercurial, Jovial, Martial, or
Saturnine dispositions ; and if our modern historians do
not actually tell us that the stars in their courses fight for
or against the men of whom they write, they use expressions
whose real meaning is derived from the old belief that the
stars were set in the heavens to be for signs and portents to
mankind.        But if our literature is full of astrological
verbiage,    the lighter literature  of a great nation speaking
the same language as ours is becoming still more markedly
characterised by words and expressions drawn from games
of chance, and especially from one game which seems
likely to displace all others among gambling men.            The
common speech of America is impregnated with the verbiage
of Poker — a significant circumstance truly, if we consider
that it implies the universal recognition of this as the
national game, and remember what the game is.
     It is singular, indeed, to note how the human race have
throughout all ages been attracted — as moths round a fire
that will destroy them — by the belief in luck.        It is this

        POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                     369
 that underlies     all systems of prediction — faith in happy
 stellar influences, belief in fortunate palm-markings, trust in
 omens, and, in our own time, the gambler's confidence in
 his luck.     Faith in good luck that will stay, conviction that
 bad luck will change, these rival absurdities have in all ages
 led men astray.       They have been the will-of-the-wisp of the
 foolish ; but to the swindlers who take advantage of their
 fellow-men's weakness, these delusions have been a veritable
 stock-in-trade.
      The game of Poker has attained in America the dignity
 of a science.     A recent writer speaks of ' the idea ' of this
             '
game as        higher than that of any other game of cards.
 For,' by its various devices, ' which may be regulated by
 strict scientific principles,           it elevates the idea of
speculative combination to the greatest possible dignity in
connection with mental pastime.         The forces that in their
resultant have created Draw-poker are all well-indicated
and healthy mental efforts ; and the sum total is appreciated
by the best intellects in the United States, as the most
interesting game of cards that the human mind has yet
produced.'       So says Mr. John Blackbridge, actuary and
counsellor-at-law, in his treatise on ' The Complete Poker
         '
Player ; and what he says may be matched by a note which
an English writer has appended to Ben Jonson's ' Every
Man in his Humour,' where, speaking of a kindred game,
the writer says that to understand it ' would employ all the
time and more than all the wits of the modern profession ;
gambling was then a science, and a young man could not
well be ruined by it without an attempt at least to exercise
his faculties.'
     The existence and still more the flourishing condition of
such a game as Poker, outside mere gambling dens, is one
of the most portentous phenomena of American civilisation,
though it is not in this aspect that I propose just now to
consider it ; for the art which chiefly avails to help the
gambler in playing this game is nothing more nor less than
that art of which the enemy of man is proverbially said to
                                                         13 b

370       POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
be the father.   Poker has an advantage over whist in one
respect.    In whist skill will do somewhat ; but it will not
avail to make good cards yield to bad ones.      In poker the
case is otherwise.    A man shall have not a point in his
hand ; yet by sheer bluffing — in other words, by lying— he
shall cause such an idea to be formed of his hand, that
everyone else at the table will throw up his cards, and leave
to the liar full possession of the stakes. Yet, as Lawrence
    '
in Guy Livingstone,' and Hawley Smart in half-a dozen
novels,  describe with approval the success of daring
swindles, so the enthusiastic poker-player will tell you with
pride of achievements in bluffing which can only be viewed
in one way by men of honour.
    The game of poker is sufficiently simple, though, as
usual, the explanation given by those who play it is obscure
in the extreme.     To everyone in the circle five cards are
dealt in the usual way.    The eldest hand — i.e. the player
next the dealer on the left — stakes a sum, which must be
doubled by all who intend to stay in ; the eldest hand
doubling his original stake if he decides to stay in, other
wise forfeiting it.  When this is done all who stay in have
staked an equal sum.      Each player may (in their regular
turn only) increase his stake, in which case all who wish to
stay must see him — that
            '    '
                                raise their stake in the same
                                is, is,
degree, or go better
                     — that    raise the stake further. When
all are equally in, each of the players can throw out any of
his cards, and draw as many more, to improve his hand.
This done, the real business begins.        In due rotation the
players left in raise  the stake, or follow  in seeing
                                              '      '
                                                          — that
                                                         it
is, in bringing up their stakes to the increased value. This
may go on, and generally does go on, till each has staked
a large sum.    If sum named which player unwilling
                  a      is               a        is
to see,' he lays down his hand. _ If all the other players
    '
are unwilling to      see     bet, they all throw down their
                   '    '
                            a
hands, and the bettor takes the pool without showing his
hand.   But when the bet goes round to the last player
remaining in, and he does not wish to go better, he may

            POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                                                                        371
         '     '     '     '
 simply see it and call ; on which all playing must show
 their hands, and the best hand wins the pool.
     On the rules which determine the value of the several
hands depend whatever qualities the game of poker has
as a game of skill. Just as in vingt-et-un, hazard, and like
games, there are certain rules of probability which ought to
guide the player    he must gamble), so also in poker there
                                   (if
are rules, though they very little affect the play of the
average poker-player, while the really skilled professors                                                            of
this cheerful game pay no attention to them whatever.
    The points which give hand value are the presence of
                                                  a
cards of the same denomination (as       pair, or two of the              a
same denomination    triplets, or three of
                                     ;       kind and fours,                        a            ;
or four of                    —
             kind) sequence that
                   a                ;   all the cards in the             is,
hand being in sequence, as         10, knave, queen, king   9,                                                        ;
aflush, or all the cards of the same suit. The lowest kind
of hand    one which has none of these points such
              is                                      hand                                   ;               a
is    estimated           against others          of the same kind by the highest
card in      it    (the value            of the cards being
                                             in whist).   Next                  as
in value      hand with one pair in
              is   a                    next   hand with two         it  ;              a
pairs (different pairs, of course)  next     hand with three    ;               a
cards of the same denomination, called       threes     next
                                                                                    '                '
                                                                                                     ;               a
sequence hand     next flush hand then full hand — that
                              ;           a                          ;               a
is,a hand containing one pair and one triplet      then fours,                               ;
a hand containing four cards of the same denomination                                                                ;
and, lastly, that   highest and best of all, flush sequence —
                               is                                                    a
that       sequence of high cards all of the same suit.
           is,
           a                                                In
every case where two hands are of the same kind, the cards
of highest denomination in the pair, triplet, four, flush, or
sequence,          wins.            Thus      a   flush sequence                        of knave,            10,     9,
8,    7,   beats   a      flush sequence           of      9,    8,   7,       6,   5
                                                                                    ;       four aces beat
four kings or four queens        full of three aces and two
                                                  ;   a
deuces beats   full of three kings and two queens, but
                          a                               full                                               a
of three aces and two threes beats     full of three aces and        a
two deuces            a    flush     of king,         7,   5,   3,   2,   beats         a   flush    of queen,
knave,       10,   9, ;   7;      and so on.           In       cases        of tie the stakes are
                                                                                '        '
divided.
                                                                                                         B   B   2

372        POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
      It   is clear that the game itself is as good as many which
are played            in the domestic circle.               In such   a   game   as
vingt-et-un, for instance, where     players are all against
                                                      the
the dealer, there is about the same element of chance and
about the same room for the exercise of judgment that
there is in a game of poker which is to end with a call. But
the bluffing element, which is what gives the game its real
value           gambling fraternity, is independent of any
           to the
qualities possessed by poker as a card game.    Where there
       '      '
is no    limit (that         is,
                       no stated sum beyond which no bet
must go), one can            bluff
                            well, and almost as safely, over
                                        as
abad hand as over good one — one possesses the requisite
                            a                     if
qualities of false face and
                      a      steady nerve.   a
   But wish just now to consider the qualities which this
           I
game possesses as an exercise of the judgment. No judg
ment   shown by one who sits down to gamble at poker
           is                                                                     ;
but in the game itself there are points depending      good                a
deal on judgment, and especially on a knowledge of the
laws of chance.     Here, oddly enough, the professional
poker-players have made, for the most part, little progress.
We have before us the reasoning of one who claims to
teach, calling his book  The Complete Poker Player,' and
                                    '
we find not only much that      incorrect in theory, but an
                                                 is
absolute failure to understand the real value of the principles
of probability to the poker proficient, and indeed to all
who gamble.      He deliberately tells us, in fact, that while
theory shows the odds to be such and such, experience
points to other odds, the real fact being that experience
and theory are in most perfect accord in all matters of
probabilities.
      In       first place, the problems connected with the
                the
decision, whether to stay in or retire on          given hand, are
                                                               a
very pretty.      The  case     entirely different from that to be
                                    is
dealt  with   in   such     game as vingt-et-un, where only the
                                a
dealer  has  to  be  considered, each player being as      were in        it
contest  with   him.    In  poker     player has to consider, not
                                                 a
the chance of having           better hand than some particular
                                    a

                                                                         F
         POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                         373
adversary,  but the chance that he holds better cards than
any of the others.    This modifies the chances in a very
interesting manner.   Not only are they different from those
existing where each player is matched against the dealer,
but they vary according to the number of players.     Where
the players are few a moderately good hand may be trusted
to win against the company, in the average of a great
number of trials ; but where there are many players there
is more chance of a strong hand lying somewhere to beat
it, and therefore, the hand in which the player should
decide to trust must be a better one.     For instance, with
few players     pokerist might safely decide that he would
                   a
not go in on less than      high pair, as kings or aces, and
                                    a
adhering to that rule throughout the play would be likely to
come out without heavy loss.      But    there were  if  largea
party of players, the average Jaest hand at each deal would
probably be better and he might, therefore, deem
                            ;                              well
                                                              it
to put low threes, as three fours or three fives, as the limit
below which he would not back his hand.           Apart from
  bluffing,' such rules are not affected by the probability that
'
    call may be made       for the persistence of other players
a        '
 '                              ;
in raising will depend on the quality of their hand.
     But we touch here on        characteristic of this game of
                                        a
poker, which makes             really excellent game for non-
                                it   a
gamblers, because calling so largely on the exercise of
judgment, and also depending so much on individual
 character.        As parlour game, with counters instead of
                        a
 coin,   it   one of the best and most amusing
              is                                      know of —
                                                          I
 strangely contrasted with whist.       calls for the exercise of
                                                It
 very different mental faculties,     but brings out traits of
 character in quite as marked     degree.   a
     Thus,   some  players have   faith in their good luck or
                                            a                        a
 dread of their bad luck, which prevents them from following
 the guidance of the laws of probability.      The sanguine will
 back hands (not now and then, but as         rule), which in the
                                                      a
 long run must fail him while the despondent loses equally
                                ;
     failing to avail himself of the chances which the game
    by

 374     POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
 throws in his way.        Or, instead of this general tone of
 hopefulness on the one hand or of depression on the other,
 we find a readiness to believe that luck has set in, one way
 or the other, which equally leads to eventual disaster.         A
 player shows faith in the nonsensical belief of the pro
 fessional gamblers, that there are times when you are in the
 vein, and other times when the fates are against you.          Or,
 he may believe that he is lucky in this or that seat, or with
 the deal, or on the dealer's      right or left, unlucky in other
situations, or vice versa ; or that special modes of cutting or
shuffling are likely to be favourable or the reverse.
      Very rarely does one meet a card-player, or indeed any
man whatever, who does not hold some notions of this sort.
Emerson has well said that weak men believe in luck, or in
special    interpositions of Providence, strong men consider
cause and effect.      It is true, but it is also true that most
men are weak, and that many who are strong in the main
have special weak points, so that most men believe in luck,
and many even of those who are strong enough to recognise
the    utter absurdity — speaking generally of any faith in
luck— have yet some weak point at which, even against
their better sense, a foolish fancy holds them.           Thus,   I
have known men who reject most           of the absurdities about
luck who would hesitate to take the cards of the losing
partners at whist, when their cut has given them the right
to choose their pack.       Yet the notion is an absurdity of the
most irrational kind that the cards which have won once
will in any way improve the chances of the next holders.
It   is  absolutely impossible to show any possible way in
which the result can depend on the pack selected — except
one, which certainly is not thought of among respectable
card-players — viz. that the cards of one pack being in some
way marked       might give    either partner or the    enemy   an
unfair advantage.
     That sort of luck which the old gambler Steinmetz
called being ' in the vein,' is one of the strangest of all the
wild fancies which have ever come to be regarded as sound

          POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                           375
doctrine.      I  touch on it here as particularly affecting the
                                                                      '
poker-player, but it is worth considering in itself.                    A
prudent player,' says the notorious gambler just named,
'
   before undertaking anything, should put himself to the test
to discover if he is
                          " in vein " or " in luck ; " ' and then, two
                            '
sentences farther on, before risking your money study your
" vein," and the different probabilities of the
                                                          game, termed
as aforesaid,
                    " the maturity of the chances."
                                                           '
                                                              Now, ' the
                                  '
maturity     of the chances          is  a   principle   discovered by
gamblers, who must be clever men, seeing that no such
principle exists — viz. this — that In a game of chance, the
                                         '
oftener the same combination has occurred in succession,
the nearer we are to the certainty that it will not recur at
the next cast or turn up.' This, says Steinmetz, is the most
elementary of the theories on probabilities.
      Now, in reality, an enormous fortune might be made by
a   swindler, who having carefully initiated a great number of
victims into this false faith, should proceed to wager with
them on the precisely opposite principle.               Thus, it is easy
                                                              '
to persuade many people that the tossing of ' size six times
running is antecedently so improbable as to justify very long
odds against a sixth throw of ' size after five have been
                                                '
already thrown.          The real odds of course are five to one ;
but one could easily persuade most persons that the true
odds were ten to one at least.           Now, if this were done, and
similarly excessive odds were agreed upon where two, three,
                   '
or four ' sizes had been thrown, a series of wagers conducted
on this principle would inevitably place a large sum in the
pockets of the bettor who took the odds.
      Let us see what would be sure to happen : —
      First, if the   other bettor laid 100/. to 10/. against a sixth
 '      '
   size being thrown alter five had been already thrown, no
bets being made except when this had happened.                  Suppose
that by patient continuance in dice-throwing a thousand, or
say for convenience 1,200, cases of the kind occurred in a
week or so.        Then 1,200 times would 100/. to 10/. be laid
                                    '      '
against the appearance         of a   size   at the  sixth throw.   It  is

376     POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
practically certain, however, in so large a number of trials
that in about one sixth of these 1,200 cases 'size' would be
thrown. Thus, in about 200 cases the layer of the odds
would have to pay 100/., while in about 1,000 cases he
would have to receive 10/. ; thus he would win about 10,000/.
and lose about 20,000/., or lose a balance of about 10,000/.
     Secondly, an arrangement might be made for the more
convenient plucking of the unfortunate 'pigeon,' that after
tossing any number of the six once, rather more than 5 to 1
should be laid against the same number appearing a second
time ;   if it did, yet greater odds against it appearing a third
time ; and so on, until some limit had been reached, as five
times, when, as in the other case, 10 to 1 (say) might belaid
against its appearing a sixth time ; after that the tossing to
begin again on the same plan.        The effect of this arrange
ment would be the same as the former whenever the same
number was tossed five times in succession ; but the cases
where it failed to appear so often would be utilised by the
taker of the odds to reduce his losses and increase his gains.
Thus, suppose the odds laid in the several cases, instead of
being what they should be, 5 to 1 in every case (against the
tossing of any named number), were 6 to 1 after a number
had appeared once, 7 to 1 after it had appeared twice, 8 to 1
after it had appeared thrice, 9 to 1 after it had appeared
four times, and 10 to 1 after it had appeared five times,
 10/. being always wagered by the taker of the odds.        Then
in any case where the number failed to appear at the second
trial, the taker of the odds would have to pay 10/. : this
would happen in about five-sixths of the trials ; when it
only failed to appear at the third trial he would have to pay
 10/. ; but he would already have received 60/. for the second
appearance       of the number. Now, on the average, this
would happen in one-sixth of the trials, so that he would
probably clear 10/. on the average, in every six trials, apart
 from any third throw. Of the third throws, about five in
 six would bring him loss, making 50/., but one in six would,
 on the average, be successful,   bringing him 70/.  ; so that for

          POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                            377
        of these cases he would, on the average, clear 20/.
every six
on account of a successful third throw.  But six of these
trials would arise, on the average, in thirty-six trials in all,
and these would give him about six wins at the second trial ;
or, as we have just seen, a profit of 60/. — making 80/. in all
in every thirty-six trials on the average.   So we proceed to
the other cases.    The average number of throws giving a
successful         trial would be 6x6x6x6x6 or 7776.
                  sixth
On the average, he would clear in these trials 50/. for the
one successful throw six successive times, 6 x 40 or 240/. for
six successful throws five successive times, 36 x 30 or 1,080/.
for thirty-six successful throws four times in succession,
216 x 20 or 4,320/. for 216 successful throws three times in
succession    and lastly, 1296x10 or 12,960/. for 1,296 suc
                  ;
cessful throws twice in succession — that            is,
                                                 in all, 18,650/.
This     his clear average gain on 7,776 trials, and
          is                                                 very  a
pretty gain    is. Yet
                  it     there would not be -the  slightest  diffi
culty  in  persuading ninety-nine people    out   of     hundred
                                                               a
that such betting was perfectly fair throughout.      The advice
of   aprofessional gambler, carefully followed, could lead only
to disaster    but anyone acquainted with the laws of proba
                  ;
bility could (were he      professional swindler) make large
                              a
profit out of his knowledge and the ignorance of others.
     As    result of confidence in luck, either general or at
              a
any particular time, poker-players often trust in hands of far
less value than such as would give         a   fair chance of winning.
It   never seems to occur to them          that the possession         of   a
bad hand should in itself be regarded,   the theory of luck
                                                if
were sound, as an evidence that at the moment they were
not in the vein   and that the principle   back your luck
                                                     '                       '
                          ;
would suggest that the hand should be thrown up, for back
ing    means backing bad luck.
         it
      Of      course this does not apply to bluffing, which, however,
is  not considered good poker-playing, at least as      system.a
A   player may bluff on almost any hand, and the bolder his                      .
 bluff the better his chance of winning   for his opponent has
                                               ;
 to pay to see his hand  — he has, indeed, in     sense, not to
                                                           a

378      POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
pay but simply to stake so much money                       but, according to
                                                               ;
the true doctrine              of chances,       staking means payment of a
certain sum for a certain chance.       Now, when a poker-
player raises the stakes by a very large amount, he means,
if he is not bluffing, ' I have a very good hand ; ' and it is
not wise, if that is the case, to pay a large sum for the
privilege of seeing how good his hand        unless your own   is,
is so good as to give you      very good chance of having the
                                          a
best.   Even then         better to see and go better than to
                               it   is
call.       For   doing you have two chances to one — the
                     by   so
chance that, seeing you so confident, he will not go on, and
the chance that when the call    made you will be found to
                                                is
have the better hand.                    Now,   a    bold bluff often forces suc
cess —  if       the player    is   not given to bluffing.           If he   is,   he   is   soon
found   out   and thereafter he bluffs at his proper peril.
                   ;
Probably no bluffing poker-player has ever been successful
for any great length of time. Even     he   so wealthy that
                                                         if          is
he can stand             a   few checks so far as his pocket              is   concerned,
he begins          to lose nerve          when   a    few large bluffs have been
met with    call and his pockets have suffered accordingly.
                 a
But the player who nine times out of ten plays the straight
game, may often win largely by an occasional bluff— he                                       if
isready to overlook the fact that  bluff     lie.    a         is    a
    How the bluff works may be seen from the two
following tales told by the author of Poker and How to
                                                           '
Play It.'
     The first case relates to play between two eminent
American politicians (and really one cannot wonder that the
name      no longer in good odour in America) — Clay and
            is
Webster.       was Webster's deal.
                   '   It           Clay took one hand and
Webster stood pat.'   In other words. Clay indicated that he
had hand which might be bettered
        a                               one card were altered,
                                                         if
and his draw of one card only suggested   good hand for one   a                     ;
card may be drawn with advantage to triplet (to give eithera
'
  fours or
            '
               full hand,' or to complete
                     '
                         a                     sequence or            a                           a
flush) while Webster leaving his hand unchanged implied
         ;
 that   it   was     a    good one.           They went on betting until they

       POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LA WS.                               379
had each 2,000 dollars on the board, when Clay called.
Webster laughed, shrugged his shoulders, and threw his
                                                        '
hand on the pot, saying, ' I've only a pair of deuces.'   Then
the pot is yours,' Clay said, also laughing ; I have only ace-
                                               '
high.' Each felt sure that the other was bluffing, and both
were right {Arcades ambo).'
                            '
                              It was good evidence,' proceeds
the narrator, of what shrewd and evenly matched players
              '
they were, but then theirs were great heads.                We have none
like them now.' The strange part of the story is that Clay
should have called ; for apart from any question whether
Webster were bluffing or not, ace-high is not a hand on
which to call. If Clay felt sure the other was bluffing, his best
chance was to bluff boldly too.             He should     have taken   King
                   '
John's tone,           Here have we war for war, controlment for
controlment    ;       so answer France.'
   The second case takes rather longer in the telling, but
is equally impressive and suggestive.  Five players were
engaged, all wealthy —three           large cotton merchants,      one an
extensive manufacturer          of fertilisers, one
                                          hotel proprietor.
                                                      a
It appears from the sequel that one was called ' the Major,'
but whether the Major was a cotton merchant or a hotel
proprietor is not made manifest. The Major, whatever other
business   he may have had, was unlucky on this occasion,
though a strong player, and had soon lost over 10,000
dollars.   All this favoured his chance in bluffing ; for in
poker, as in other things, the man who can wait generally
wins.    At last the Major felt his time had come (we are
giving the story, scarce wittingly, quite a new complexion,
for in the original nothing suggests that the earlier losses
were part of the Major's plot).       He laughingly remarked,
                                    '
when it was his turn to put up, Gentlemen, this game is
going a little slow.    I'll make it 1,000 dollars to play.'
Three of the others 'saw'        and when his turn came the
                                    it,
Major raised the blind 1,000 dollars. This was also seen          '       '
by the others, 'and on the draw for cards he drew one card
fora  flush and made        pair of deuces
                               a             the second man
                                                      ;
drew three cards,          the third one card,    and the fourth two

380       POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
cards.      Each of the others bet a " chip," and the Major bet
5,000 dollars.       The second and third men dropped ; but
the fourth, remarking,
                              " Major, you can't bluff me," raised
him 5,000 dollars. Without moving a muscle of his face,
the Major drew out his book, and writing a cheque for 25,000
dollars, threw it on the pile, saying, " If you think I'm
bluffing come and see that." This was too much for the
fertiliser gentleman, and he laid down three kings, while the
Major scooped in the 42,000 dollars." Perhaps it may
interest the reader to inquire how the sum       of 42,000 dollars
was made up, and to determine how much the Major won.'
      It  is clear that here an element comes    in which is quite
remote from any question of skill or judgment, otherwise
 than as the swindler shows judgment in selecting his victims.
 When poker is played as a parlour game bluffing should be
 omitted, as practice in this department of the game is really
 practice in the art of lying with unchanging face, and this
 is not a desirable      art,  whatever  rogues  may think.    The
 gain which can be made by skill in lying is more than
 matched by the loss which a reputation for such skill is sure
 to bring.
       But the avoidance of bluffing takes away none of the
 good qualities which poker has as a game of skill. The
 player may still back his hand with more or less boldness,
  according to its quality and his temperament. He still
  requires to exercise judgment as to the actual or relative
  value of a hand ; he still has to note observantly what is done
  by other players, what cards they draw, what their ways are
  in standing on a hand, in holding when advances are made
  by others, and so forth.
       In actual play for money the use of a good limit below
  which the player makes it a rule to stand out is sound
  policy ; for in the long run the player whose lowest hand
   for backing is a strong one, as two aces, or low threes at
  the least in small companies, and high threes in large com
  panies, must come off well.         He will win more than he
   loses.    But it must be remembered that constant caution is

        POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                         381
apt to diminish       the profits  of successful    ventures.    The
poker- player wants others to play high when he has a
winning hand, and if it becomes known that he never backs
                                        '       '
any but strong hands, none will            raise very much against
him.      To succeed in pocketing a large share of other
people's money, which is the true poker-player's object, the
most cautious player must indulge in an occasional ex
travagance.      So also with a very strong hand — one that is
practically sure to win — the judicious poker- player must play
a waiting game.        He must reverse the tactics of the bluffer,
who tries to persuade others that his hand is better than it
really is ; he must try to persuade the rest that his hand is
but a poor one ; so will they see and raise, see and raise,
until there is something in the pool worth winning, when he
can see and raise more boldly, and finally call or await the
call with confidence.      (In  fact, lying in wait is the secret   of
 success at poker.)
     Let us consider briefly what         are the chances   for each
 different kind of hand at poker.
      First, the total number of ways in which a set of five
 cards can be formed out of a pack containing
                                                        52 cards has
 to be determined.        This is easy enough.        You multiply
 together 52, 51, 50, 49, and 48, and divide the product
 by that obtained from multiplying together 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5.
 You thus get 2,598,960 as the total number of poker- hands.
      It  is very easy to determine the number of flushes and
 sequences and flush sequences which are possible.
      Thus, begin with the flush sequences.         We can have in
 each suit, Ace, 2, 3, 4, 5 ; 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 ; 3, 4, 5, 6,
                                                              7 ; and
 so on up to      10,  Knave, Queen, King, Ace ; or in all there
 are ten flush sequences in each suit, forty flush sequences
 in all.
      The number of sequences which are not flush may be
 thus determined. The arrangement of numbers may be any
 one of the ten just indicated.             But taking any one of
 these, as 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, the three may be of any suit out of
 the four ; so that each arrangement may be obtained in

   382     POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
   four different ways as respects the first card ; so with the
   second, third, &c. ; or in all 4 times 4 times 4 times 4 times
   4, or 1,024, four of which only will be flushes.         Thus there
   are 1,020 times 10, or 10,200 sequences which are not
   flush.
        Now   as  respects flushes    their  number is very easily
   determined.     The number of combinations of five cards
  which can be formed out of the 13 cards of a suit are given
  by multiplying together 13, 12, n, 10, and 9, and dividing
  by the product of 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 ; this will be found to be
   1287.    Thus there are 4 times 1287, or 5,148 possible
  flushes.    Of these 5,108 are not sequence      flushes.
       The total number of 'four' hands may be considered
  next.    The process for finding it is very simple.        There are
  of course only 13 fours, each of which can be taken with
  any one of the remaining 48 cards; so that there are 13
  times 48, or 624, possible four hands.
       Next, to determine the number of ' full hands.' This is
  not difficult, but requires a little more attention. A full
 hand consists of a triplet and a pair.        Now manifestly there
 are four triplets of each kind — four sets of three aces, four
 of three kings, and so forth (for we may take each ace from
 the four aces in succession, leaving in each case a different
 triplet of aces ; and so with the other denominations). Thus,
 in all, 4 times 13, or 52 different triplets can be formed out
 of the pack of 52 cards. When one of these triplets has
been formed there remain 49 cards, out of which the total
number of sets of two which can be formed is obtained by
multiplying 49 by 48 and dividing by two ; whence we get
 1,176 such combinations in all.          But the total number of
pairs which can be formed from among these 49 cards is
much smaller.        There are four twos, which (as cribbage
teaches us) will give six pairs of twos ; so there are six pairs
of threes, six pairs of fours, and so on ; or as there are only
twelve possible kinds of pairs (after our triplet removed)
there are in all 6 times     12, that   is 72, possible pairs which
can with the triplet form a full hand.          Hence, as there are

         POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                      383
52   possible triplets, the total number of full hands is 52
times 72, or 3,744.
      The number of triplet hands which are not also fours or
fulls (for every four hand contains triplets) follows at once
from the above.         There are 52 possible triplets, each of
which can be combined with 1,176 combinations of two
cards out of the remaining 49, giving in all 52 times 1,176,
 or 61,152 sets of five, three at least of which are alike.    But
 there are 624 four hands, each      of which is not only a triplet
 hand but will manifestly make four of the triplet hands our
 gross reckoning includes (for from every four you can make
 three triplets), and there are 3,744 full hands.       These (to
 wit 4,496 fours and 5,744 fulls, or 6,240 hands in all) must
 be removed from our count, leaving 54,912 triplet hands
  (proper) in all.
       This last result might have been obtained another way,
  which (as I shall use it for counting pair hands) I may as
  well indicate here.      Taking any triplet of the 52 there
  remain 49 cards, one of which is of the same denomination
  as the triplet.   Removing this, there are left 48 cards, out
  of which the number of sets of two which can be formed is
  obtained by multiplying 48 by 47 and dividing by 2 ; it is
  therefore    1,128, and among these 72 are pairs.         There
  remain then 1,056 sets of two, any one of which can be
  combined with each of 52 triplets to give a triplet hand pure
  and simple.      Thus, in all, there are 52 times 1,056 triplet
  hands, or 54,912, as before.
       Next for double and single pairs.
       From the whole pack of 52 cards we can form 6 times
   13 pairs ; for 6 aces can be formed, 6 pairs of two, 6 pairs
   of threes, and so forth. Thus there are in all 78 different
   pairs.  When we have taken out any pair, there remain 50
   cards.    From these we must         remove   the two cards of
   the same denomination, as either or both     of these must not
   appear in the hand to be formed.       There remain 48 cards,
   from which    we  can form  72 other pairs.  Each of these can
   be taken with any one of the 46 remaining cards, except

384      POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
with those two which are of the same denomination, or with
44 in all, without forming a triplet.              Each of these com
binations can be taken with each of the 78 pairs, giving
a two-pair hand, only it is obvious that each two-pair hand
will be given twice by this arrangement.                    Thus the total
number of two-pair hands is half of 78 times 72 times 44, or
there are 123,552 such hands in all.
     Next, as to simple pairs. We get, as before, 78 different
pairs.      Each of these can be taken with any set of three
formed out of the 48 cards left when the other 2 of the
same denomination have been removed, except the 72
times 44 (that is 3,168) pairs indicated in dealing with the
last case, and the 48 triplets which can be formed out of
these same 48 cards, or 3,216 sets in all.                  Now the total
number of sets of three cards which can be formed out of
48 is given by multiplying 48 by 47 by 46, and dividing by
the product of the numbers 1,2, and 3.                   It is found to be
 17,296.       We diminish this by 3,216, getting 14,082, and
find that there are in all 78 times 14,082 or 1,098,240.
      The hands which remain are those which                      are to be
 estimated by the highest           card in them      ; and their number
will of course be obtained by subtracting the sum of the
 numbers already obtained from the total number of possible
hands.        We thus obtain the number 1,302,540.
      Thus of the four best classes of hands, there are the
 following numbers : —
         Of flush sequences there may      be  .                     4°
                                        ....
          ,, fours    .                                             624
          ,, full hands                                           3.744
          ,, common flushes       .     .      .   .     .        5>108
          „ common sequences                                     10,200
          ,, triplets                                           54.912
          ,, two pairs                                         I23.552
          „ pairs                                            1,098,240
                            1
          ,, other hands                                     1,302,540
               Total number of possible hands       .     .  2,598,960
     1
       It  is easy to test the accuracy   of the whole series of calculations

         POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                                  385
      It will   be seen that         those who        devised the rules for
poker play set the different hands in very proper order. It
is fitting, for instance, that as there are only 40 possible
flush sequence hands, out of a total number of 2,598,960
                                       '       '
hands, while there are 624 four hands, the flush sequences
should come first, and so with the rest.                     It is noteworthy,
however, that when sequences were not counted, as was the
rule in former times, there was one hand absolutely unique
and unconquerable.              The holder of four aces then wagered
on a certainty, for no one else could hold that hand.                        At
present there is no absolutely sure winning hand.                          The
holder of ace, king, queen, knave, ten, flush, may (though it
is of course exceedingly unlikely) be met by the holder of
the same cards, flush, in another suit. Or when we remem
ber that at whist it has happened that the deal divided the
 four suits among the four players, to each a complete suit,
we see that four players at poker might each receive a flush
 sequence     headed by the ace. Thus the use of sequences
has saved poker-players from the possible risk of having
 either to stand out or wager on a certainty, which last would
 of course be very painful to the feelings of                    a professional
 gambler.
      We might subdivide the hands above classified into                      a
 much longer array, beginning thus : 4 flush sequences
 headed by ace ; 4 headed by king, and so on down to 4
 headed by five ; 48 possible four-aces hands ; 48 four-kings
 hands ; and so on down to 48 four-twos hands ; 24 possible
 '
   fulls
         '
           of   3 aces and        2  kings ; as many of 3 aces and             2
                                                          '
              and so on down to 24 fulls of 3 twos and
                                                   '
 queens    ;                                                                   2
 by determining independently how many hands there are not belonging
 to the first eight classes.     Thus, as all the cards of the five are of dif
 ferent denominations, we first take the combinations of the thirteen
 card names five together. These (as in dealing with common flushes
 above) are 1,287 in number.             But, as in dealing with common se
 quences,   we  must  multiply     these   by 4 times 4 times 4 times 4 times
 4, or by 1,024, getting 1,317,888.          Subtracting thence the flushes and
  sequences,   15,348  in  all,   we   get   1,302,540   as the total number of
 common hands (not containing pairs           or the like) as above.
                                                                       C C

386      POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
threes, and so on.       Anyone   who cares to do this can, by
drawing the line at any hand, ascertain at once the number
of hands above and not above that hand in value : and thus
determine the chance that any hand taken at random is
above or below that particular hand in value.               The
comparatively simple table above only shows how many
hands there are above or not above pairs, triplets, and the
like.    But the more complete series could be very easily
formed.
     We note from the above table that more than half the
possible poker hands are below pairs in value. So that Clay
was right enough in wagering on an ace-high hand, seeing
that there are more hands which will not beat it (supposing
the highest next card a king, at any rate) than there are hands
that will   ; but he was quite wrong in calling on such a hand,
even against a single opponent.
     The effect of increase in the number of hands can also
readily be determined. Many even among gamblers know
so little of the doctrine of chances as not to be aware of,
still less to be able to measure the effect of, the presence of
a great number of other contestants.          Yet it is easy to
illustrate the matter.
     Thus, suppose a player casts a die single against one
other.     If the first has cast four the odds are in favour of
his not being beaten ; for there are only two casts which
will beat him and four which will not. The chance that he
will not be beaten by a single opponent is thus fths or f.
If there is another opponent, the chance that he individually
will not cast better than 4, is also §. But the chance that
neither will throw better than 4 is obtained by multiplying
       f
§ by . It is therefore % ; or the odds are 5 to 4 in favour
of one or other beating the cast of the first thrower.        If
there are three others, in like manner the chance that not
one of the three will throw better than 4 is obtained by
                          f
multiplying § by § by . It is therefore           ; or the odds
are 19 to 8 in favour of the first thrower's cast of 4 being
beaten.       And so with every increase in the number of other

          POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                               387
throwers,       the chance       of the first thrower's cast being beaten
is increased.   So that if the first thrower casts 4, and is
offered his share of the stakes before the next throw is made,
the offer is a bad one if there is but one opponent, a good
one if there are two, and a very good one if there are more
than two.
   In like        manner, the          same    hand which
                                                it would be
safe to stand on (as  a  rule) at poker against two or three
opponents, may be   a  very unsafe hand to stand on against
five or six.
      Then the player has to consider the pretty                   chance-
problems involved in drawing.
    Suppose, for instance, your original hand contains a
pair — the other three cards being all unlike : should you
stand out ? or should you draw ? (to purchase right to which
you must stand in) ; or should you stand in without draw
ing?    Again, if you draw, how many of the three loose
cards should you throw out ? and what are your chances of
improving your hand ?
    Here you have to consider first whether you will stand
in, which depends not on the value of your pair only, but
also on the chance that your hand will be improved by
drawing.     Having decided to stand in, remember that
discarding three tells the rest of the company that in all
possibility you are drawing to improve a pair hand ; and at
poker, telling anything helps the enemy.     If one of your
loose cards is an ace, you do well to discard only the other
two   for this looks like drawing to a triplet, and you may
      ;
chance to draw a pair to your ace. But usually you have so
much better a chance of improving your hand by drawing
three that it    as  rule, better to do this.
                     is,   a
    Drawing to     triplet a  usually good policy.
                                      is               'Your
mathematical expectation   of improvement       slight,' says
                                                            is
'
 The Complete Poker Player,' being        to 23 of
                                           '
                                                     1 fourth     a
card     should be the fourth card) of the same denomi
          (it
      '                                          '
nation, and  to 23 of another pair of denomination different
                 2
from the triplet,'         a   remark suggesting     the   comment that to
                                                                  c
                                                                  c   2

388     POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
obtain a pair of the same denomination as the triplet would
require play something like what we hear of in old Missis
                             '                 '
sippi stories, where a straight flush would be met by a
very full pair of hands, to wit, five in one hand and a
revolver in the other ! The total expectation of improve
ment is i to 8 ; but then see what an impression you make
by a draw which means a good hand.               Then, too, you may
suggest a yet     better    hand, without much impairing your
chance of improvement, by drawing one card only. This
gives you one chance in 47 of making fours, and 1 in 16 of
picking up one of the three cards of the same denomination
as the odd cards you retain.          This is a chance of 1 in 12.
     '
       Draws to straights and flushes are usually dearly pur
chased,' says our oracle ; ' always so at a small table.
Their value     increases      directly as the   number    of players.
              '           '
(The word       directly is here incorrectly used, the value
increases as the number of players, but not directly as the
number.) Of course in drawing to a two-ended straight,
that is one which does not begin or end with an ace, the
chance of success is represented by 8 in 47, for there are 47
cards outside your       original hand of which only eight are
good to complete the straight.           For a one-end straight the
chance is but 4 in 47. With a small chance, too, of
improving your hand, you are trying for a hand better than
you want in any but a large company.
                                                    '
                                                      If you play in a
large party,' says   'The Complete Poker Player,' 'say           seven
or eight, and find occasion to draw for a straight against six
players, do so by all means, even if you split aces.'             The
advice is sound. Under the circumstances you need a
better hand than ace-pair to give you your fair sixth share
of the chances.
     As to flushes your chances are better, when you have
already five of a suit.         You discard one, and out of the
remaining 47 cards any one of nine will make your flush for
you. Your chance then is 1 in 5$.                In dealing with this
point our oracle goes altogether wrong, and adopts a principle
 so inconsistent with the doctrine of probabilities as to show

        POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                                     389
that, though he knows much more than Steinmetz, he still
                                               '
labours under somewhat similar illusions.        Theoretically,'
says he,
         '
           the result just obtained is absolutely true ; but                       I
have experimented with six hands through a succession                            of
500 deals, and filled only 83 flushes in the 500, equal to one
in six, and one twentieth draws.        Of course      am not         I
prepared to say that this would be the average in many
thousand deals ; theoretically it is an untrue result ; but I
here suggest a possible explanation of what I confess is to
me a mystery.'      Then he expounds the very matter on
                                   '
which we touched above.              In casting dice,' he says,
'¦theoretically, any given throw has no influence upon the
next throw, and is not influenced by the previous throw.
Yet if you throw a die and it turns up six, while the chances
                               '
are theoretically one to six (one in six it should be) ' that
the next throw will produce a six because the previous throw
of six lies absolutely in the past, yet you may safely bet some
thing more than the usual odds against        Then supposeit.
the second throw turns up   six, that throw also now lies in
                                  a
the past, and cannot be proved to have an influence upon
throw number three, which you are preparing to make.      If
any material influence  suspected you may change the box
                             is
and die and you may now bet twice the usual odds against
           ;
the six.  Why    ?  Because you know                 by
                                            experience that                      it
is extremely difficult to throw six three times in succession,
even you do not know the precise odds against it.
      if                                             Granted,
certain odds against throwing six twice in succession, &c.,
yet at any given moment when the player shakes the box in
which   is  six-faced die, he has one chance in six of throwing
             a
a  six;  and yet  if he has just thrown sixes twice, you may
bet twelve to one that he will not throw            six in that   a
particular cast.' If did not hold gambling to be near akin
                       I
to swindling, and could find but        few hundred who held
                                            a
this doctrine, how much money might        not gain
                                                I       accept        by
ing any number of wagers of this wise sort                !
     The fact    is,   the   mistake here       is   just the         ridiculous
mistake which Steinmetz called            the maturity          of the chances
                                      '                                          '

39Q     POKER PRINCIPLES AND CHANCE LAWS.
over again.   It is a mistake which has misled to their ruin
many thousands of gamblers, who might have escaped the
evil influence of that other equally foolish mistake about
being lucky or unlucky, in the vein or out of it. Steinmetz
puts the matter thus : In a game of chance, the oftener the
                       '
same combination has occurred in succession, the nearer
are we to the certainty that it will not recur at the next cast
or turn up     this is the most elementary of the theories on
                  :
probabilities ; it is termed the maturity of the chances.'
The real fact being that this is not a theory of probabilities
at all, but disproved by the theory of probabilities, and dis
proved, whenever it has been put to the test, by facts.
    Take the case considered in ' The Complete Poker
Player,' and note the evidence on the strength of which the
author of that work rejects the theory in favour of a practical
common sense notion (as he thinks), which                  is,
                                                     in reality,
nonsense.    You may expect      successful draws to
                                          9             flush in a
47    handstherefore, in the 500 deals he experimented upon,
              ;
he might have expected 95 or        and he only obtained 83.
                                              96
                                               ;
Now 500 trials are far too few to test such     matter as this.
                                                       a
You can hardly test even the tossing of      coin properly by
                                                   a
fewer than   thousand trials and in that case there are but
                  a                       ;
2  possible events.   Here there are 47, of which          are           9
favourable.        the failure to recognise this which led the
                      It   is
Astronomer Royal for Scotland to recognise something
mystical and significant in the preponderance of 3's and
the    deficiency          of
                        among the digits representing the
                                7's
proportion of the circumference to the diameter of circle.       a
In casting    coina  great number of times, we do not find
                                a
that the occurrence of     great number of successive heads
                                      a
or tails in any way affects the average proportion of heads
or tails coming next after the series. Thus      have before
                                                       I
me the record of     series of 16,317 tossings, in which the
                                a
number of sequences of tails (only) were rendered      and           ;       I
find that after 271 cases, in which tails had been tossed                    5
times in succession, the next tossing gave in 132 cases heads,
and in 139 cases tails. Amongthe 16,317 tossings, two cases

       POKER rklKClrLES AND CHANCE LAWS.                  391
occurred in which tail was tossed 15 times in succession,
which, as it happens, is more than theory would regard as
probable.
    Here, however,   I must draw these notes to a close.    I
have been already led on farther than I had intended to go.
I shall note only one other of the doctrines (mostly sound
enough theoretically) laid down in the 'Complete Poker
Player.'   Players sometimes, he says, act on the strange
principle that if they are in bad luck, it is well to try the
bold experiments usually regarded as bad play — as two
negatives in algebra make a positive, so they think that bad
play and bad luck united will win. On this our author
makes the significant comment, ' a slight degree of intoxi
cation aids to perfect this intellectual deduction.'  Poker-
playing generally, as a process for making money more
quickly, is much improved and enlivened by a slight degree
of intoxication.

                                  392
           THE LA WS OF PROBABILITY.
There     are few subjects in which men take a more general
interest, yet few in which they make greater      mistakes, than
the subject   of probabilities.    From the man whose mind is
most perfectly trained in the analysis of evidence, down to
him whose thinking apparatus can scarcely be regarded as
a mind at all, all men endeavour to guide their conduct in
matters uncertain, or at least to form their opinion on such
matters, according to the probabilities.       They would use
different words in describing their purpose.        A mathema
tician might, perhaps, speak definitely of the A priori and
d posteriori probabilities in favour of an opinion or of a
course of conduct        Wendell Holmes' 'lout,' he 'who lies
outstretched     on a tavern bench with just mental activity
enough to keep his pipe from going out,' would hardly use
the same expressions ; but in his imperfect way he is all his
life doing the same thing.       He does not even stretch out his
ungainly limbs on one bench rather than on another, or in
 one attitude rather than another, without to some degree
 considering his chance of comfort or security.        But in all
the ordinary relations    of life he more definitely weighs the
chances,    though often,   if  not always, in an utterly inexact
balance.
     It is not the loutish mind only, however,   nor the average
 intellect, which inexactly estimates probabilities.    The most
profound knowledge of the mathematics of chance does not
save men from error.        Often, indeed, the grossest blunders
have resulted from an attempt to weigh ordinary matters in
a mathematical balance.         The fault has not lain, however,

                 THE LAWS OF PROBABILITY.                     393
with the balance, but with the user.       If a man chooses to
weigh groceries in a chemical balance, paying no attention
to the fact that either the parcels he weighs come in contact
with other things lying round, so that the balance cannot
possibly show their true weight, or else, perhaps, that the
construction of the balance is such as will only permit of its
 indicating true results within certain very narrow limits of
weight, he will obtain a much less satisfactory   result than he
would    if he used a common weighing machine incapable        of
showing differences of a few grains or scruples.          Yet he
should not condemn the balance, but himself for misusing it.
     Not unfrequently mathematicians have fallen into a
parallel error.     Indeed, there are those who assert that
mathematicians are more apt than other men to err in this
way, because they try to apply the exact laws   of probability to
matters about which they only have inexact knowledge.         To
use an illustration of Huxley's, mathematicians possess a
mill of exquisite perfection, which grinds you stuff of any
degree of fineness, but they are apt to put peacods into it
and to regard the product of their grinding as wheaten flour.
     However, there is no real connection between profound
mathematical research and utter absence of common sense.
Mathematicians do not often err in this way. The laws of
probability would be worth knowing even if fhey did. Nor
is the application    of these laws to many cases where they
really are applicable likely to detract from what is commonly
called the common sense way of viewing matters.          Indeed,
the common sense method may be regarded as only a rough
way of applying the just method.         The probability of its
leading to a tolerably correct result is much less than the pro
bability of a correct result when due account is taken of
details ; just as the chance of correctly estimating the cost
of a complicated work by roughly adding a number of
roughly-estimated items is less than the chance of a correct
estimate when these items, separately estimated as exactly as
possible, are properly added together.       In neither case do
 we get an exact result, but the chances of gross error are

394           THE LAWS OF PROBABILITY.
much greater in the former than in the latter ; for to the
chances of error arising from an exact estimate of the several
items in the latter case there is added the chance of a large
error in a rough estimate of the totality of these items.
     It must be admitted that by justly combining the various
probabilities on which a question depends, we ar.e more
likely to attain a correct opinion than if we formed only a
rough idea of what would result from such a combination.
Yet the incautious application of the laws of probability,
combined with undue reliance on results which, at the most,
had been only shown to be probably true, has often led to
absurd blunders.

                                 395
             5 TRA NGE COINCIDENCES.
Many imagine that because of the singular nature of some
series of coincidences, there must have been special signi
ficance in them.       It is well, therefore, to notice that odd
coincidences, in which it would be absurd to imagine any
particular meaning, very frequently occur, nay probably are
all the time occurring, only most of them remain unrecorded.
     A case was cited recently in the 'Times.' A person
whom we may call Brown No. i, only the real name was not
so common, found in his pass-book the sum 22I. os. id.
entered on the credit side, and not knowing how it came to
be recorded there, asked for particulars.           Inquiry being
made, it appeared       that the sum    of 22/. or. id. had been
paid in for another customer of the same name (surname
and Christian name both) on the same day that the entry of
22/. os. id. had been made on account of Brown No. 1.
It  was naturally     supposed that there was some mistake.
But on further inquiry it appeared that both entries were
correct, — the odd amount being made up in the case of
Brown No. 2 by a number of small items, while in the case
of Brown No.     1 the odd sum was a dividend on some      Indian
stock.    If  the case were not so obviously insignificant, how
clearly it would seem that there was a special meaning in
the series   of coincidences   !  That among the customers of   a
bank two should have the same (not very common) surname
and Christian name, is not very wonderful.            That to two
customers the same sum should be paid in on the same day

396                   STRANGE COINCIDENCES.
 would not seem very wonderful, unless, as in this case, the
 amount were rather an odd one — and even then, if the amount
 arose in the same way, as a dividend for instance on a round
 sum like 1,000/., it would not be very remarkable.         But the
 actual combination was exceedingly remarkable, and if one
 could only imagine any conceivable warning or token con
veyed by facts so unimpressive in themselves, one would say
here certainly was a sign or portent meant to be most care
 fully attended to.
      I was reminded of this 'Times' story by two or three
odd little coincidences which happened to me lately — all
 within a week.
      First,   I  received when at Plymouth a letter from the
neighbourhood of Birmingham, in which an old college ac
quaintance, a stroke behind whom I had rowed in several
                    '       '
races, invited me to stay at his house during my visit to the
 Midland metropolis. Within a few hours, I received a letter
from another old college friend, a stroke behind whom I
had rowed in several races, inviting me to stay at his house
in Tavistock during my lecture tour in the west.         I had not
seen or heard from (or even heard of) either of these
Johnians for more than 25 years. Moreover, they were the
only strokes behind whom I ever rowed in college races,
having myself been stroke in all the other races in which I
rowed.       It was surely an odd thing that when in a city far
from the abode of either, I should within a few hours receive
letters from both to the same general purport.        Yet as surely
I could find no sign or portent in the matter.
      Four days later     I   learned at Malvern that a letter duly
placed in the delivery box of the Queen's Hotel, Birming
ham, had been delayed in transmission.          I presumed it had
been put in when the box was empty.            The envelope was a
large light-brown one (as large as a page of this work), the
contents not enough to take away from the flatness of the
letter, and     I fancied it must have lain unnoticed when the
small letters above it were taken out.         Hearing of its non-
arrival in London, I telegraphed to the manager of the hotel

                   STRANGE      COINCIDENCES,                      397
(where    I   expected  to be the same day),       '
                                                     Important letter
posted Tuesday not yet received (Thursday) ; see if in your
                                     '                 '
letter-box,' &c.      This was misunderstood, and reply came,
'
  Large packet of letters received ; am forwarding it and
other letters by 1 2.40 train.' My reply to hold letters till I
                                                        '
came was just in time to prevent a number of Knowledge '
letters from being sent on a useless journey, which would
have considerably delayed my work with them.               The way in
which the letter had miscarried was rather strange.             I had
written a little note on the corner telling the person to whom
the letter was sent what my address would be the following
day ; and some foolish clerk had carefully sent the letter,
not to the address written staringly across the envelope, but to
the address appearing as part       of this little corner note.    (It
is hardly necessary to say that after this foolish blunder and
the annoyance caused by it all round, an extra charge was
made when the letter was delivered.)          Here the coincidence
 consisted in the odd and almost inconceivable stupidity of
the post-office people on the one hand, and on the other in
the circumstances which made it antecedently likely that the
mistake arose at the hotel.        Then the misinterpretation of
my telegram came to complete the cross-purposes.               In this
 case there was really a warning.       For it made me tremble
 (with two r's) to think what would have happened if my
 editorial letter to the printers with make up, proofs, &c., &c.,
were at any time to be similarly interrupted in transit.
     However, this was not quite the end.          After sending off
the second telegram, I was on my way from Malvern to
 Birmingham, where I expected to be at 4.47.              Changing at
 Worcester, I had bestowed myself in a first-class through
 carriage for Birmingham.         Now, grant the following con
 ditions, and consider the infinitesimal minuteness of the
 chance of my not reaching Birmingham by that train : —
 First, I    am alone in a first-class carriage ; secondly, the
 carriage is really a through one for Birmingham ; thirdly, no
 accident occurs ; fourthly, no occasion arises for me to leave
 my seat   ;  but— here are the elements out of which disturbance

398                         STRANGE          COINCIDENCES.
is to be produced — fifthly, two first-class passengers are at
Bromsgrove (where we get 2 1 minutes after leaving Wor
cester) intending to go to Derby ; one second-class passenger
                                                     I
is alone in a rear carriage of the train am in ; that rear car
riage is badly attached ; at Barnet Green there is an excitable
station-master  and finally in our train there is a stolid guard.
                        ;
Can these elements be so combined as to cause me to be
delayed at Birmingham, and so to lose certain opportunities
for work, on which I had counted?         They could, unlikely
though it may seem ; and, as a matter of fact, they did.
The two first-class passengers get by mistake into a Bir
mingham carriage ; the second-class passenger,         being
alarmed by the swaying of his carriage, gets into mine ; a
                                  '
telegram is sent to Barnet Green, Two first-class passengers
                                       '
for Derby in the Birmingham train ;       excitable station-
master there says to stolid guard, 'Find two first-class
passengers for Birmingham (sic) and put into forward car
            '
riage   ;stolid guard, though knowing       appears later) that
                                                         (it
the forward carriage    not going to Birmingham, nevertheless
                                    is
does what he      told. is  and unfortunate fellow-passenger
                                         I
(who     going up to Birmingham to get ten minutes' walk
        is
with    friend who leaves at 5.10) are busily bundled into the
        a
wrong carriage      and at the next station are informed by
                        ;
stolid guard that    does not go to Birmingham.      am left to
                               it
                                                                I
kick my heels till           a
                      train arrives which will take me to Bir
mingham and unfortunate passenger takes the next train
                ;
back to Worcester.     What were the chances that these things,
unless specially planned, would have come off so strangely                  ?
    If had so chanced that either the carriage got out of
        it                                                      I
or the one      got into had been smashed up in
                I                                      railway      a
accident, what view ought       to have taken of the escape in
                                         I
the one case or the mishap in the other?          When      was         I
injured in     railway accident, recently,
                    a                          happened by it               a
singular chance that my wife, who with some relatives had
been travelling with me up to the previous evening, was for
a few hours not in my company, but was to have joined me at
Bishopstoke, into which place my train was running when the

                  STRANGE        COINCIDENCES.                  399
collision took place.     If I regard it as a lucky chance, which
assuredly I do, that she was not just then with me, how am I
to view the unlucky chance for me that just then I was not
with her ? A thought of that sort always suggests itself to me
when    I  hear expressions of special thankfulness for escape
where others have suffered.          Logically one cannot assert
special favour in one set of cases without asserting special
disfavour in the others.        I suppose, indeed, it is thus that
persons who (being of unscientific turn of mind) have no
idea of causation, recognise special judgments when some
striking accident happens, deeming that those destroyed
must needs have sinned in some way beyond other men
— an idea still commonly entertained, though           so strongly
rebuked when propounded in the case        of the Tower of Siloam.
Even more unreasonable is the idea that though most of the
men, women, and children, who perish in some great disaster
— like the destruction of the ' Princess Alice ' for example —
were no worse than their fellows, the disaster       was specially
sent to punish some national shortcoming, for which they
were the scapegoats.       Here is the veritable Oriental idea of
 Deity, as originally conceived by those who knew and rever
enced only one form of power, that of the Sultan or Caliph,
who, when offended, deems it good' policy to punish the
offender's kindred, however innocent of offence.
     If I believed in luck I might regard journeys into Bir
mingham as unlucky for me. It may be remembered that I
have elsewhere      described how oddly I was removed from
my proper carriage and put into one not going to Birming
ham.      I was all right and alone ; two passengers got into a
wrong carriage ; a second-class passenger was put into mine
(first class) because of a loose coupling ; and at the next
station, a nervous station-master,       wired to about the two
wrongly-placed passengers, rushes to the wrong carriage, asks
if we are for Birmingham instead of some other place, as he
intended, and receiving 'Yes' for reply, bundles us — the
wrong passengers — into the carriage for that other place,— so
that I get to Birmingham much later than I intended, and my

400                STRANGE COINCIDENCES.
companion, who had a special appointment there, finds it
useless to go there at all, and returns home.
      Well, a short time since, running into Birmingham from
Knowle, I narrowly escaped ' a real misfortune,' as Mrs. Brown
would say.      I put down the Bag containing the pictures for
my lecture (the train was only to reach Birmingham five
minutes before the lecture hour) ; go across a bridge to send
off a telegram, and returning, enter train without my bag.
I had not made such a mistake since February 3rd, 1881,
when I let a train run out from Sacramento, Cal., with my
lecture pictures.     That time I was saved from shame and
disaster by a rainstorm so violent that my lecture had to be
postponed ; and by next day kind friends in the eastward
bound train had sent back my pictures.           This time, kind
friends (one of them the same as in my Sacramento trouble)
wired for my bag, and eventually it was brought in to me at
the Birmingham Town Hall, just as I had gotten through
the introductory part      of my lecture.
      This was rather an odd coincidence, but this was not the
end of these Birmingham-nearing sorrows.
      A   few days later I  am leaving Coventry for Birmingham,
meeting my wife (from London) at the former station.
                                                               '
                                                                 I
will be careful,' I remark to myself, that no mistake of mine
                                          '
causes me any trouble.'          Vain hope !   I see my heavier
luggage labelled.      On the arrival of the London train a lady
and gentleman get out from the carriage in which my wife is
 sitting.    They claim their smaller luggage, and my porter
 puts my precious lecture-bag on a seat.        I turn to put my
 umbrella in the rack, or perchance to salute my wife. ' There
 was our error, boys,' as old Belarius says. ' Oh, you mistook ;
                                        '
 you should have seized your bag (as Milton does not say),
 I might have said to myself. But, unconscious of disaster,
 I begin to inquire about the little ones at home. In the
 midst of these domestic cares suddenly I miss my bag. You
 guess what had happened ? A wretched porter, sent back
 by my wife's fellow-travellers to see that nothing was left,
 had opened the door the instant my back was turned, and
 had seized my bag as his lawful prey       !

                 STRANGE        COINCIDENCES.                   401
    We wired from Stechford and anon from Birmingham.
                 '
 Reply comes, All luggage put out at Coventry claimed by
 Mr. B., of So-and-So Park.'           More urgent telegrams bring
 us news that So-and-So Park is seven miles from station.
 How again the same good friend (and somewhat more) who
at Sacramento had sent back my bag, and at Knowle had
helped to restore it to me, had to go to Coventry — while I
lectured {minus some of my best pictures) at Birmingham
— how Mr. B. had seen nothing of the bag, but how it turned
up eventually along with his luggage, which had been sent
unsorted to a lumber-room at the top of the house, need not
here be told. The triple coincidence was complete, and I may
hope to have no more trouble of the kind when nearing
Birmingham.        But I can understand how some folk get to
imagine that particular places are unlucky to them.
                              THE END.
                         LONDON :   PRINTED  UY
             SPOTTISWOODE   AND   CO.,  NEW-STREET SQUARE
                       AND  PARLIAMENT    STREET
                                                          n D




L
-
! ;
 i

       UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY
    THIS BOOK IS DUE ON THE LAST DATE
               STAMPED BELOW
IN 90   1930
               RCT'D  JUL  1   1982
                                       30m-6,'14
                                                 j

                    YB   1745c
           285561
UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA LIBRARY


