This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
http://books.google.com

- .* ----- -._.



THE MODERN PLAYMATE.


   J
              •     *
I roi,E A CCl IMTL 1SH. MF.S TS.





                               THE
Modern Playmate
                         A BOOK OF
 GAMES, SPORTS, AND DIVERSIONS
               FOR BOYS OF ALL AGES.
                   COMPILED AND EDITED BY
      THE REV. J. G. WOOD, M.A., F.L.S.,
           AUTHOR OP "THE ILLUSTRATED NATURAL HISTORY.
                A NEW REVISED EDITION.
 WITH SIX HUNDRED ORIGINAL ILLUSTRATIONS,
            ENGRAVED BY DALZIELS, HODGKIN, etc.
                        LONDON:
  Frederick Warne and Co.,
                  Bedford street, strand.
    New York : SCRIBNER, WELFORD, AND ARMSTRONG.
          2L9.           l.        IIf.


                        PREFACE.
       JN a work of this character, but small preface is needed, the title
          of the book being its own preface.
    The Editor believes that in the pages of the " Modem Playmate "
 are found the rules and modes of playing every game which is in vogue
 at the present day, besides those of games which have yet to make their
 way, and of those which have been neglected, but will assuredly resume
 the position which they once occupied.       For example, the simple and
 almost abandoned game of " Rounders " has risen to a science under
 the name of "Base Ball;" while such as Croquet, Football, Cricket,
 and La Crosse, are given as they now exist after many years of practice
 have reduced their varied rules to a common standard.
    Such accomplishments as Archery, Boating, Sailing, Shooting, Fishing,
 Swimming, Skating, and Pedestrianism, have been entrusted to Authors
 equally skilful in practice and theory ; while the whole of the series
 entitled " The Young Workman " has been written by gentlemen who
 have been trained to their various subjects.
    The department which includes Science has been executed by gentle
men who have obtained a wide reputation by their practical and theo
retical knowledge; such names as Adams, Cherrill, Cooke, Drayson,

vi                            PREFACE.
 Preece, and Rowsell, being a sufficient guarantee for the excellence of
their work.
   The entire volume has been superintended by those who have had very
many years' experience of English boys and their games, and the Editor
confidently trusts that a book of this nature—original in every possible
point— will supply a hitherto existing want, and become the constant
companion of every one who desires to become a
                                           MODERN PLAYMATE.

                      CONTENTS.
                       OUTDOOR  GAMES.
                                                             Page
PLAY-GROUND GAMES-         p      Rackets                      20
 Hare and Hounds              i   Hockey or Bandy              23
 Prisoners' Base              3   Rounders                     26
 Blackthorn                   4  Trap-ball                     28
 Follow my Leader             4   Knurr and Spell              29
 I SFY                        5   Pitch Stone                  30
 Warning                      6   Duck Stone                   31
 Jingling                     7   Nine Holes                   32
 Tierce                       8   Hop-Scotch                   3a
  Sling the Monkey            9   Battledore and Shuttlecock   33
  Dicky, show a Light        10   Tip-cat                      33
  Fox                        10   Aunt Sally                   35
  Baste the Bear             11   Knock-'em-downs              36
 Tig                         12 GAMES IN THE SNOW—
  Cross Tig                  12   Snowballs                    37
  Tig Touch-wood             12   Snow Castle                  37
  Knights                    12   Snow Giant                   40
  Cock-fighting              13   Coasting or Sledging         4°
  French and English         14 Hoops                          42
  Leap-frog                  15 Kites                          44
   Spanish Fly               16 Sling                          48
   Fly the Garter            16 Javelin                        49
   King of the Castle        17 Boomerang                      5°
   Lawn Tennis .             18 Pea-shooter                    52
   Badminton   -             18 Catapult                       53.
  Fives                      18 Cleft Stick                    54

vi n                           CONTENTS,
                          OUTDOOR QtAXBS-coHtiuued.
                                Page                            Poet
Cross-bow                          55  Lawn Billiards              64
Throwing the Cricket Ball          55  Golf                        66
Throwing the Hammer                56  Base Ball                   68
Duck and Drake                     57  Curling                     71
Quoits                             57  Dog-stick and Silent        72
Skittles                           59  Les Graces                  73
Dutch Pins                         60  La Crosse                   74
Nine Pins                          60  Croquet                     91
American Bowls                     61  Football                   112
Bowls                              62  Cricket                    120
                            INDOOR GAMES.
Games with Marbles                151  Cup and Ball               174
Games with Tops                   159  The Flying Cone           175
Puff and Dart                     164  The Bandilore              176
Watch-spring Gun                  166  The Water-cuttek           177
Ring the Bull                     167  Cupolette                  177
Jack's Alive                      168  Lawn Cupolette             178
Cannonade                         169  Parlour Ringolette         178
Navette                           171  Schimmel                   179
Cockamaroo                        171  Dutch Rackets              180
German Billiards                  172  Sucker                     180
German Balls                      172  Sou ails                   181
Skittle Cannonade                 173  Bagatelle                  182
Royal Star                        174  Spillikins                 183
Revolving Ring                    174
                       EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
The old Family Coach             184   The Giant                  196
Twirl the Trencher               184   Head, Body, and Legs       197
Puss in the Corner                185  Decapitation               198
Hunt the Slipper                  186  Consequences               199
Blind Man's Buff                  186  Adjectives                200
Simon Says                        188  Crambo                    200
Knight of the Whistle             189  Definitions               201
Presented at Court                190  How do you like it?       202
Magic Music                       191  What is my thought like?  203
Shadow Buff                       192  Proverbs                  204
Fright                            193  Mesmerism                 205
German Dwarf                      194  Forfeits                  207
                            ACTING CHARADES.
Puss in Boots                    209 I Conflagration ,

                                     CONTENTS.
                  ATHLETIC SPORTS, ACCOMPLISHMENTS, Sec.
                                          Pagt                                 Page
GYMNASTICS                                  244   Riding                         271
   The Horizontal Bar                       251   Driving                 „      287
   Hanging Bar                              258   Archery                        290
   The Parallel Bars                        258    Fencing                   _   30a
   The Vaulting-Horse                       261   River-Boating                  321
   Hanging Rings                     ».. 264         Boats                       325
   Climbing Ladders, Ropes, Poles, &c. 266           The Art of Rowing          328
GYMNASTICS WITHOUT APPARATUS—                        Boat-Racing                 334
   The Three Chairs                        268    Sailing                        336
   Kicking the Cork                        268    Swimming                       354
   The Stooping Stretch                    269    Skating and Sliding           372
   Stilts                                   269   Pedestrianism and Training    377
   The Wall-Spring                         270
                            THE YOUNG- WORKMAN.
Carpentering                               387    Ship-Building and Rigging     434
 Plain Turning in Wood and Ivory            395     Knots and Splices           445
   Ornamental Turning                      397    Gardening                     451
The Amateur Engineer                       410    Traps                         458
                                         SPORTS.
Fishing                                 .  468      Sea Fishing                 495
  On Rods, Lines, &c                       473    Shooting                      498
  Baits                                    49*      Rifle Shooting              499
  Fly-Fishing                              493      The Shot Gun                506
                                   HOME PETS.
Cage Birds                                 526    Hares                         566
Crows, &c                                  542    Hedgehogs                     567
Parrots....                                545    Mice                          567
Pigeons....                                551    Guinea Pigs                   568
Doves                                      560    Tortoises                     569
Rabbits...                                 561    Ferrets                       569
Sqcirkels .                                565
                                   PISCICULTURE.
Artificial Fish-hatching and Culture
                                      SCIENCE.
Chemistry                           ....   581  I   Optical Instruments         606
Optics                                     599    Acoustics                     609

                                   CONTENTS.
                                  SCIENCE—continued.
                                     Pap                                           Pan
Mechanics                             617   The Weather                             684
Hydraulics                            63s    Sun-Dials                              686
Electricity                           641   The Microscope                          690
  Static or Frictional Electricity    64a    Botany                                 701
  Dynamic or Current Electricity      652      Collecting and Preserving Plants...  734
Astronomy                             670    Ferns,....                             727
                                      ARTS.
Surveying                             740    Glass-blowing and Working              761
Perspective and Sketching             746    Philately or Postage-Stamp Collect
Photography                           751        ing                                766
                              GAMES    OF   SKILL,      &c.
Chess ..„                             789 1 Dominoes                                818
Draughts                              805 J Fox and Geese                           827
Nine-Men's Morris or Morelles         812    Solitaire                              827
             CONJURING, PUZZLES, KIDDLES, ACROSTICS, &o.
Parlour Magic                         828    Acrostics                              865
  Sleight-of-hand Tricks, &c          838    Answers to Questions                   869
Puzzles                               851               to Riddles                  869
Questions                             856               to Acrostics                871
Riddles                               860
                     VENTRILOQUISM         AND      POLYPHONY.
Ventriloquism                                                                       87a

THE MODERN PLAYMATE.

                                      THE
       MODERN PLAYMATE.
                                A BOOK OF
 6anus, Sports, ani> gibersions for $ons cf all ^ges.
                            (Dntboor (Saints.
                     PLAY-GROUND GAMES.
                         HARE AND HOUNDS.
 IN playing this game one boy (or in a long course two), represents the Hare,
     and the rest the Hounds. The hares carry with them bags full of paper
torn up very small, which they scatter behind them as they run, to represent
scent, and by this the hounds trace them up and endeavour to capture them.
The hares, of course, endeavour to mislead them by all sorts of doublings
and twistings, or by going over difficult country.
  A very good plan, if the hares have time, is to get among gorse or thistles,
to make two or three feints of starting off in different directions, and then re-
                                                                     1

                              OUTDOOR GAMES.
 turning on their tmcks some way back, to make a fresh start in quite another
 direction ; or, if they wish to be very clever, to come round again to one of their
 false starts, and go on from thence. There is no limit to the dodges a skilful
 hare will try to bother the hounds. If there be two hares, they must not
 separate under any circumstances : for all the purposes of the game they are
 to be considered as strictly only one individual.
     The hounds will find a little organization and discipline a wonderful assist
 ance to them in baffling the tricks of the hare. A captain and whipper-in
 should be chosen, the former to lead and direct, and the latter to bring up the
 rear. As long as the scent is strong, the whole band will go somewhat in Indian
 file, merely following their captain ; but when he is at fault he must sound the
 horn, which he carries ex officio, and call a halt. The whipper-in thereupon
 takes up his post at the point where the scent is broken, and the others sweep
 round in a great circle, covering every inch of ground, to discover the lost
 trail. Sometimes the captain and whipper-in carry white and red flags re
 spectively, and use them to mark the points where the scent is broken.
     The hares should not be the swiftest runners, or they would never be caught.
 Endurance, pluck, and a readiness of invention are the great points in a hare.
 The more he trusts to his head and the less to his legs, the better the chase.
 The hares are generally allowed ten minutes or a quarter of an hour's law,
 according to circumstances. They should take care to survey their ground
 before they go over it, or they may get themselves into all sorts of difficulties.
 A pocket compass will be found an invaluable companion both to hares and
 hounds. From twelve to fourteen miles is a good run ; but some little training
 and practice are requisite before such a long course can be covered.
     At first some considerable difficulty will be experienced in keeping up even
  a moderate pace ; but after a lime the pace will come of itself; that is, with
  practice, and a little care in the article of food—avoidance, for example, of
  too great indulgence in puffs and tarts, and similar anti-condition comestibles.
      Pace is one of the first requisites for a good run, but it should not be carried
  to extremes : a good slinging trot of from five to six miles an hour over good
  ground, and something less on bad, is quite enough to try the endurance of
  the best runners. Above all, too much pace should not be put on at first : if
' there be any to spare at the finish, put it on by all means, but for the first mile
  or so steady going should be the order of the day.
      If at the end of the day's sport a boy feels himself feverish, knocked up,
  and unable to eat, he may be sure he is getting harm rather than good, laying
  up for himself sickness rather than health by his exercise. Either the pace
  has been too much for him, or he is not in proper condition. In the former
  case he must restrain his ardour for a time at least, and be content to take a
  little longer time over the work ; if the latter, in nine hundred and ninety-nine
  cases out of a thousand, it will be from over-indulgence in food; and he
  must make up his mind either to be a little more temperate, or a little less
  athletic
      Many boys are under the impression that light boots are the best for these
  long runs ; but this is a great mistake : the feet get terribly beaten on hard
   soil, and in mud or over ploughed fields light boots are almost worse than
   none at all. A pair of good solid broad-soled lace boots, with thick worsted
  socks, are the only wear for the feet. Short six-inch gaiters—unless knicker
  bockers, which are distinctly preferable to trousers, be worn—will be found a
   great protection, and will serve to confine the flapping ends of the trousers,

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
and make them play a little looser at the knee, a matter of fast importance in
a long distance. One more word of advice. Let no sense of fatigue, how
ever great, prevent your changing boots and socks at least, directly you get
home. You will find it well worth the extra exertion.
                              PRISONERS' BASE.
   Very few preliminary preparations are needed for this game. Two bases
or homes must be marked out on the ground, as A B in the accompanying
diagram, each large enough to contain half the players ; and two similar but
smaller bases, called prisons, at some distance off, as at A* and B* : a mark
must also be made somewhere about the centre, as C, for " Chivy." These
may all be roughly traced out in a very few minutes, accuracy in dimensions
and distances not being requisite. The diagram may, however, be taken as a
guide to approximate dimensions.
   Two captains are chosen, and they choose their respective sides by select
ing in turn each a player, until all have been chosen.
   Having tossed up for homes and taken their posts, the game begins by one
side sending out one of the inferior players
to C, who cries " Chivy!" and then makes
for home. If one of the opposite side can
touch him before he gets home, he has to
go to prison ; if belonging to A side to A*,
if to B side to B*, until one of his own side
can fetch him.
    The pursuing player is, of course, not
 allowed to chase the " chivy " unmolested,
 one of " chivy's " side being commissioned
 to pursue and touch him, and this latter
 becomes in his turn an object of pursuit ;
 and thus the game waxes warm, each
 player pursuing and being in turn pur
 sued.
    A player may only touch that oppo
 nent who has left the home before himself,
 and can of course only be touched by him
 who has left after him. When a player
 has achieved a capture, he has the right
 of returning home unpursued—he cannot
 be touched until he makes a fresh sally, The same immunity is enjoyed by
 those bringing home prisoners.
    A player once touched gets quickly to his prison, and waits with outstretched
 arm the advent of some deliverer—one of his own side who can run the
 gaundet of the enemy, and reach him untouched. The prisoner is required
 only to keep a part of his body within the prison, and, granting that, may
 reach out as far as he can ; even with two or three prisoners, all that is required
 is that the connection with the prison should be touched by one, and the
 others may form a chain, hand in hand, with as many links as there are
 prisoners.
    The whole spirit of the game lies in the operations for the relief of prisoners,
 and it is here that a good captain makes his generalship felt, marking down
 and cutting off the best of his opponents, until the residue cannot muster even
                                                                   1—2

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
one player capable 'of eluding the strong body of pursuers ready to be launched
after him, and thus must succumb one by one before the superior prowess of
their opponents.
   In some places a rule prevails that prisoners may only be released in order
of their capture; but this, though it is apparently fairer for the worse players,
is really a great disadvantage to them, for a good player released out of turn
will soon make up fcr it by releasing several more—far sooner than they would
otherwise have a chance of getting out.
   A local rule which allows the game to be claimed by either party if they can
get into their opponents' home while untenanted, is perhaps not to be depre
cated where there are many players on each side ; but it undoubtedly cramps
the game very much where there are few.
                                BLACKTHORN.
   Blackthorn is a very good game, but rather apt to be destructive to the
clothes. A base is marked off at either end of the play-ground, leaving a
space in the middle. One of the players volunteers for, or is chosen, " Fox,"
and takes up his position in the middle between the two bases ; the rest run
across from base to base, while he endeavours to catch and hold them. If he
can hold one while he can count ten, it is considered a fair catch, and the
prisoner becomes fox too, and assists in the capture of more—all of whom, as
soon as caught, go to swell the number of foxes. Thus it will be seen that the
game continually increases in life and interest up to the final capture, each
capture making the passage across more hazardous.
   As a general rule, the worst runners and weakest players are caught first,
and the better ones only succumb one by one, overwhelmed by numbers. With
so many enemies, speed alone must soon give in ; but speed and weight
combined will often break through a whole crowd of opponents.
    The game in many places goes by the name of " Fox and Geese," and in
some is known as " King Senio." A player, when he has once started, is not
allowed to turn back, but must cross to the other base.
                           FOLLOW MY LEADER.
    A number of boys select a leader, who sets off with them at his heels in
 single file. Whatever he does they must do also ; the whole game thus depends
 solely upon the qualifications of the leader : if he be a lad of some sprightli-
ness and humour, the game will prove a source of considerable amusement ;
 if he be not, and there be no such leader forthcoming, the game had better
 not be attempted.
    It is usual to exact some forfeit from those who fail to follow their leader,
 and to offer some small reward to those who better succeed. One way is for
 each player to pay into stock a certain number of marbles or nuts. The players
 are ranged in line by toss before the game begins, and then after each feat
 those who have failed have to go behind those who have succeeded. At the
 expiry of the time previously agreed upon, the players halt, and share the nuts
 or marbles according to their place in the ranks. Thus, supposing there were
 ten players besides the leader, each would pay in six marbles or nuts ; at the
 end of the game these sixty would be divided as follows : the first would take
 ten, the second nine, the third eight, and so on ; the five that remained would
 go to No. I, if he has not failed in a single trick; if, however, he has, they
 go to the leader.

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                                                       'J        *
                                      I SPY.
   This is a game at hide and seek, and can only be played where there are
 plenty of nooks and corners for concealment. The players divide into two
parties. The hiding party set off to conceal themselves, giving a signal when
they are ready, and the seeking party remain in the home. Upon hearing the
signal they sally out in search of their opponents. As soon as they see one of
the hiders, they cry out, " I spy " to him, giving his name and hiding-place ;
he must then come out, and while the seeking party run for home, he pursues
and tries to touch one or more of them ; and so on with each player of the
hiding party.
   The player is not obliged to wait to be discovered, but may come out at
any time he sees fit, of course at the risk of gaining nothing by it. He must
come out when properly called ; but if the name or the hiding-place called be
incorrect, he is not bound to show himself.
   If, when all the hiders have been found, they have succeeded in touching
four or five, according to previous agreement, of the seeking party, they hide
again ; if not, the two parties change places.
   This is an admirable game where circumstances are favourable, but it is
greatly dependent upon a good supply of suitable hiding-places. In favoured
localities there is no limit to the amusement to be got out of this game : there
is so much room for the exercise of ingenuity and invention on both sides that
it never palls.
   The hider, in selecting his place of concealment, must bear in mind that he
has not only to conceal his body from the searchers, but must be able to start
out in pursuit at a moment's notice. A judicious player will often hardly

                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
trouble himself about any effective concealment if he can find a place from
which he can burst out with advantage.
   The seekers should always keep to one golden rule—to take nothing for
granted—to test every place thoroughly before they trust themselves too near
it, above all, before they pass beyond it ; for if once cut off from the home,
their case is desperate. It is a very common ruse of the hiding party to take
advantage of the rush for home to slip into a place previously unoccupied and
nearer the home, hoping thus to catch the searchers unawares ; the latter, there
fore, on their part, must be ever suspicious : for that a corner has been found
unoccupied twice affords no guarantee that it will be so a third time. Even
a place unsuitable for concealment should not be trusted in too implicitly: a.
crafty player will sometimes take advantage of this over-confidence, and effect
a touch simply by hiding in too obvious a place, so obvious that no one dreamt
of his hiding there.
    The game is sometimes played with local modifications, but the most ortho
dox way is the one described.
                                   WARNING.
   A really capital game. A home is marked out in one corner of the play
ground ; one of the players is chosen " Warner," and takes possession of the
home; hence he sallies forth, after crying "Warning!" three times, with his
hands clasped in front of him, and strives to touch one of the others without
unclasping his hands. If, before he can effect this, he unclasp his hands, or
be made to do so by the others pulling at his arms, he must run home as fast
as he can, subject, if caught, to be compelled to carry his captor home. Once
home, he is safe.
    If, however, he can touch any one without unclasping his hands, they both
scurry home as above, and then sally out afresh, hand in hand, after duly calling
"Warning!" and try to make a fresh capture without breaking hold. After
each capture they hurry home, and sally forth afresh after admitting the new
comer into their ranks ; thus the line of warners is constantly increasing, and
the difficulty of escaping it increasing in almost equal ratio. Its very length,
however, makes it not only unwieldy, but more likely to be broken in the
middle ; so that a player hard pressed will often make his escape by a frantic
burst through the weakest part of the line. As, of course, only the players at
either end have a hand a-piece at liberty, they are the only two who can touch,
and this gives the runner a certain advantage in breaking through.
    A great deal of the success of the warning party depends upon the arrange
ment of their men : two weak players should never, where it can be avoided,
be allowed to hold hands together; a strong player should always be placed
between them.
    This game must be played within tolerably strait boundaries. The only
chance of the warners is to pen the fugitives up: running them down in an
open field is simply out of the question.
    The warning party are only allowed to resist their opponents passively ; no
kicking or similar mode of offence is permissible. The first warncr is generally
allowed to retire after catching two or three, and the last man untouched goes
warner for a fresh game.
    In some parts of the country this amusing game is called " Widdy Widdy
Wav."

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                   JINGLING.
   A ring is staked and roped out upon a piece of turf, and inside this the
players take their places. One of them is armed with a small hand-bell, which
he is bound to keep going; all the rest are closely blindfolded. The " Jingler,"
or bell-man, tries to escape from the blind men ; while they, guided by his bell,
do their best to catch him. If the number of players be duly apportioned to
the size of the ring, or vice versd, there is positively no end to the fun that
may be got out of the game : a good jingler will lead the blind men into all
sorts of scrapes, of course without compromising himself— into each other's
arms, over the ropes, or over some luckless companion who has come to grief
in labouring after the jingler, or a hundred other devices equally effective and
amusing.
   Perhaps the most absurd scenes occur when two or more blind men rush
into each other's arms and grapple frantically, each persuaded that the other
is the jingler, and ready to drag or be dragged anywhere rather than relax
their grasp.
   In a match the winner is either the jingler himself, if he can contrive to
keep clear of his pursuers for the requisite time, or, if he be caught, the blind
man who catches him.
   Jingling matches are very popular at country feasts and fairs, and attract
great crowds of spectators to see the fun.
   A somewhat similar though rougher game is played in some parts of the
country. A pig is substituted for the jingler, and the blind men are all armed
with cart-whips. He who hits the pig gets him.
   At first the players are very cautious and try to find out the pig before they
strike ; but they soon find that does not pay, and begin slashing about reck

8                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
lessly right and left, and the fun gets fast and furious: their heads and faces
are protected from the blows, but the way they belabour each other, especially
about the legs, is enough to make the spectator die with laughter. The utter
absurdity of the whole scene is beyond description. The spectacle of ten or
a dozen burly men belabouring each other handsomely in the blind endeavour
to hit an unlucky pig is ludicrous enough; but when to that is added the
sight of the pig himself, the Helen, as it were, of all this strife, charging in
and out of the struggling throng in hopeless attempts to escape, upsetting his
persecutors right and left, grunting the while his discontent and dismay, the
situation becomes almost painfully ridiculous.
   Sometimes two players strike the pig at the same time, in which case they
divide his value, or come to some agreement. An umpire decides who is the
real striker of the pig.
   This sport is dying out fast, but may still be seen occasionally. It is not so
cruel as might be thought, unless perhaps to the men, for the pig seems to have
rather the best of it, all his sorrows being confined to the one blow that wins
the game, unless distress of mind be numbered amongst his woes.
   This is hardly a game for boys, even if they could muster the requisite plant
of pig, whips, &c; but it is undoubtedly very good fun for all that — to the
spectator.
                                    TIERCE.
   If smartly played, this is a very good game for cold weather. To play it
properly there should be at least eighteen or twenty players, who arrange
themselves thus :
                                      ©
                                             /
                               o
                                             *
all in pairs, except one set of three, and the game is as follows : the outside
player, marked *, runs round the circle, and tries to catch three or a " tierce "
together in a line. If he can do this, and touch the outsider, he takes his
place in the circle, and the player just touched becomes outsider.
   The outermost man of the tierce, therefore, when he sees the outsider
coming his way, slips from his place into the middle of the ring, and stations
himself in front of some other pair at a distant point in it, thus making a
fresh tierce, to which the outsider has to hasten, only, perhaps, to be dis
appointed in like manner.
   Where there arc many players, and the ring is consequently large, there
should be two or more tierces, and thus the game will be made more lively by
making it more difficult to avoid being caught. The game must be kept up
with spirit or it soon falls tame, but with lively players it is excellent fun.

                             OUTDOOR GAMES.
                           SLING THE MONKEY.
    This is a capital game, and can be played anywhere where there are trees.
 One player, who is chosen by lot, takes the part of Monkey, and is fast
 ened to a tolerably high branch of a tree by a strong cord knotted in a " bow
 line" loop and passed round his waist. The other players now baste the
 monkey with knotted handkerchiefs, and he, armed in like manner, endeavours
 to retaliate. If he succeeds in striking one of them, he is at once released,
and the other takes his place as monkey. He must make haste in doing it,
 or he may be basted until he is fairly in the loop. With players who don't
mind a little buffeting this game becomes exceedingly lively : an active monkey
is very difficult to approach with safety, and of course gives much more life to
the game.
   The cord should be just so long as to enable the monkey to reach the ground
comfortably under the branch. Half the fun of the game lies in actual
slinging of the monkey, one of whose most effective ruses is to throw himself
forward on the rope, pretend to start off in one direction, and then come back
with a swing in the other.
   The branch to which the cord is attached should be some considerable
height from the ground, or there will not be play enough in the rope ; and it
need scarcely be impressed upon the reader that both rope and branch must
be strong enough to bear the strain put upon them by the weight and move
ments of the monkey.
   This is a favourite game on board ship.

io                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
                          DICKY, SHOW A LIGHT.
   This game can only be played on a tolerably dark night, and is a kind of
combination of " Hare and Hounds" and " I Spy" in the dark.
   One or two' players, armed with a policeman's dark lantern, undertake the
part of " Dicky," and start off to conceal themselves, while the rest, also with
a lantern, after allowing a few minutes' law, proceed in search of them.
   When the Dicky is ready, he flashes his light in the direction of the searchers
and " makes tracks," while the searchers come after him in full cry. If they
are at fault they may cry, " Dicky, Dicky, show a light," when he is bound,
unless dangerously near, to flash his light ; so that, if they see the light, they
get a fresh start ; if not, they know that they are close upon him.
   A good Dicky, however, will scarcely ever give them an opportunity of doing
this, but will lead them, especially if he knows the country thoroughly as he
ought, a regular will-o'-the-wisp dance, through hedges, over ditches, and into
quagmires, without ever allowing them to catch him ; flashing his light, now
far, now near, now here, now there ; disappearing for a moment in one direc
tion, and flashing out again suddenly in a totally different quarter; ever leading
them on, but always keeping a wary distance; or, most annoying of all,
allowing them to come nearly up with him, only to find themselves brought
up by some impassable obstacle—a deep river, for instance, with the Dicky
laughing at them from the other side.
   The Dicky has many advantages over his pursuers, amongst which not the
least is his knowledge of their movements, while they are ignorant of his :
this, as it makes mere avoidance so easy, renders it desirable to fix beforehand
some not very extended boundaries within which the game shall be played ;
otherwise, with any very considerable area of operations, the pursuers might
"whistle" for their Dicky.
   A Dicky when hard pressed will sometimes effect his escape by turning
sharp upon his pursuers and blazing his bull's-eye in their faces ; before they
have time to recover from their surprise, the Dicky is off into the surrounding
darkness, and may contrive, if favoured by the ground, to be non est by the
time their eyes have got over the sudden glare.
   Whatever time of year the game be played, all the players should be warmly
clad, and the Dicky should be especially careful when hiding not to lie down
on the damp ground, however dry he may believe it to be : the game, however
great may be its attractions, is not worth the risk of a bad cold, much less of
rheumatism or a chest complaint.
   There should not be too much standing about, either, when heated with
running: the same liberties, it must be remembered, cannot be taken in the
night as in the day-time.
                                      FOX.
   All the players are armed with knotted handkerchiefs; the one chosen
 " Fox " has a den marked out, in which he is unassailable.
   When prepared for action, he hops out of this on one leg, with his hand
 kerchief ready to strike ; the other players immediately gather round and
 attack him with their handkerchiefs.
    If he can strike one of these assailants with his own handkerchief, and
 without putting his other foot to the ground, the player thus struck is basted
 by all into the den, and takes fox's place, the original fox going free.

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
   If he cannot succeed in doing this, he endures as long as he can, and then
hops into his den to recruit ; if, however, while outside, he puts both feet to
the ground, he is at once basted back remorselessly into his den, without the
power of reply.
                             BASTE THE BEAR.
   This is a game very similar to the last ; only the Bear, instead of defending
himself, as the monkey, entrusts his defence to a second party.
   A circle about five feet in diameter is marked out on the ground, and a rope
is tied round the waist of the bear, who is chosen by lot, leaving a loose end
about four feet in length. His Keeper holds this in one hand and a knotted
handkerchief in the other. Thus prepared, the bear goes down on his hands
and knees inside the circle, calls " Ready !" and the game begins.
   The other players baste him as in " Sling the Monkey," under the same
penalties if struck by the keeper. The bear may aid his keeper in any way,
so that some portion of himself remains inside the circle, and he preserves his
position on all fours ; he may even hold any of the players he can contrive to
catch. Each bear is allowed to choose his own keeper.
   In some places the bears stipulate for an extra coat or similar protection
from their assailants, but that is an effeminacy to which no encouragement
should be given. There is no occasion, however, for the handkerchiefs to be
knotted to an abnormal degree of hardness; a little regulation in this matter
would not be unreasonable.

 12                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                       TIG.
   This is the simplest of all games. Out of a number of players one goes
" Tig," and tries to catch and touch any of the others indifferently: the player
so touched becomes tig in his turn until he touches some one else. The
player touched cannot touch back until he has first chased another player.
   This is a capital impromptu game for cold weather: the running soon warms
up even the most chilly. It must, however, to be played with success, be
played within tolerably narrow boundaries, or the game will become too
scattered, and in consequence desultory.
                                  CROSS TIG.
   This is a mere modification of the preceding. Tig calls out the name of
the player he intends to chase, and sets off after him ; the other players then
run across between tig and the fugitive. Each time a player crosses between
the two, tig must leave the original chase and follow the player who has
crossed, and so on, perhaps chasing in turn every individual player before he
can effect a capture.
   The same remark as to space holds good here as in the preceding.
                            TIG TOUCH-WOOD.
   Another modification. A series of posts or trees is selected ; as long as
the player is touching one of these authorized posts, tig cannot touch him :
his only chance is to catch him while flitting from one post to another. Two
players are not allowed to touch the same post : if tig can catch two so situated
he may touch the last comer, who thus becomes tig.
   The life of this game depends upon the pluck and spirit of the runners, for
tig can do nothing until they expose themselves by running. A constant in
terchange of posts should be kept up, or the game flags and loses its interest.
It may be played either like " Puss in the Corner," with only one station for
each runner, so that running can only be effected by exchanging posts, which
is perhaps the preferable game ; or with a number of posts in excess of the
number engaged. This is, however, a mere matter of detail, to be settled by
agreement before commencing.
                                   KNIGHTS.
   Two sturdy boys take each a smaller boy on their backs and engage in a
mock tournament, themselves acting as horses, while the youngsters grapple
and strive to unseat each other.
   The real brunt of the fighting falls on the horses, upon whose strength and
dexterity, much more than upon that of their respective " Knights," depends
the ultimate issue of the combat. The horses may shove and jostle one
another, but must not kick, trip, or use their hands or elbows.
   The victor is he who gains most falls in three rounds. The game should
only be played upon turf, for safety's sake ; for sometimes, when horse and
man go down together, the fall might prove a nasty one on hard ground, and
at any time the rider is liable to be brought off backwards with a jerk, under
which circumstances he will be thankful to measure his length on the soft
turf, instead of lumpy gravel or unyielding pavement.

                           OUTDOOR GAMES.                                       '3
                              COCK-FIGHTING.
   Two players are made to sit on the ground, draw their legs up, and clasp
their hands together over their shins. A stout stick is then passed through
under their knees, and over their arms at the bend of the elbows, as in the cut,
and there they sit trussed like a couple of fowls.
   Thus prepared, the two combatants are placed face to face, their toes
touching, and are left to fight it out. This they do by striving to knock each
other down, each to overbalance the other without losing his own equilibrium.
   Two falls out of three decide the game : if both fall it is no " round," and
does not count.
   As the player may not unclasp his hands even when down, he is quite help
less, and must be assisted by his friends.
   This game had a wonderful run of popularity once at one of our naval
ports. A foreign man-of-war had put in to refit after a severe gale ; her officers
of course received the hospitality of the local authorities, and one evening
after mess, skylarking being in vogue, cock-fighting was introduced. This so
took the fancy of the foreigners, that next day, when some of their hosts of
the preceding evening went to call upon them, they found them earnestly
engaged, several pairs of them, in this their new pastime, and were called
upon with pride to see what proficiency they had attained in a short time.
   For the rest of their stay the game still maintained its popularity amongst
them, and no doubt they carried it with them to their own home.
   One authority declares that the last thing seen of her when far out to sea,
was the captain cock-fighting with the first lieutenant on the quarter-deck, and
the parson with the doctor ; but he has always been famous for telling " a good
story," and perhaps this, like most others of its class, owes something to extra
embellishment.

 M                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
                       FRENCH AND ENGLISH.
   A number of players divide into two parties, each under the command of
a leader. A line is marked out on the ground, and the two parties, laying
hold of either end of a stout rope, try to drag each the other across the line.
   Simple as the game may appear, the party which is physically most power
ful does not necessarily have it all its own way ; a smart captain will often
make up by superior finesse for any deficiency of his side in strength and
weight.
   The two captains stand facing each other at the line, and measure wits as
well as strength.
   One very common but very excellent ruse, especially with a side somewhat
over-weighted by its opponents, is to put a heavy drag on the rope, not
attempting to pull up the opponents—in extreme cases even allowing them to
gain ground inch by inch—then suddenly, when, flushed with success, they
are unprepared, to let the rope go by the run : if this be done neatly, down
they must all go on their backs in a struggling, helpless mass. The instant
 they are down the successful party must clap on and run away with them,
which they will now easily do, clean over the line.
   The success of this manceuvre depends chiefly upon the captain's seizing
the right moment for its execution ; but the whole of his side must obey
instantly when the signal is given, or the attempt will prove futile : one hand
on the rope after the others have let go is sufficient to ruin the whole affair;
 nothing but instantaneous and simultaneous action has a chance of success.
   There are many other " dodges," but this is certainly the most sure and
most effectual, and may be taken as a sample of the rest.

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                      IS
                                  LEAP-FROG.
    Leap-frog may be played by any number of players, and at a moment's
notice, for it requires no preparation.
    One player offers to give the first " back," and stands with his back to the
rest, his head bowed down and his shoulders elevated ; he then stoops more
or less according to the height of the back required, and the " back " is ready.
    One of the other players now takes a short run, " overs " him, helping him
 self over with his hands, as the street boys do over a post, and running on a
 few yards, stops, and offers his own back in turn. The next then " overs "
both, and, going on, offers his back, and so on until they have all gone over;
 the giver of the first back then has his turn over the lot ; then all begin again
as before; and thus they go on alternately " overing" and "offering backs"
until the game is concluded.
   A player who fails to make a clean "over" is out, and stands aside until
the end of the game, he who lasts out longest being the winner.
   The leaper must be careful to avoid pressing too heavily upon the shoulders
of the player giving the " back," and the latter must most scrupulously avoid
any shrinking or shirking at the moment the leap is attempted : the sudden
failure of the expected support is nearly certain to bring the leaper heavily
and helplessly to the ground, to the imminent peril of his arms and shoulders.
Broken bones, or sprained and dislocated joints, are a sad termination to a
game of play.
   The mode of standing for offering the back varies in some places. In and
near London the plan is to stand sideways, whereas in the country the back
is usually turned to the jumper. The latter plan is in our estimation by far
the better of the two, as all danger of knocking the head with the knee is
avoided.

  i6                         OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                 SPANISH FLY.
   A variation upon the last ; a kind of combination, in fact, of leap-frog and
follow my leader.
   A player is chosen by lot for leader, and another for " first back." The
leader " overs " in all sorts of eccentric fashions, and the rest are bound to
imitate him, even to the minutest particular, under penalty, in case of failure,
of relieving the " first back" until relieved in turn by some one else.
   A leader with a ready invention may hit upon innumerable variations in the
method of "overing;" such as, for instance, putting a cap on the back, and
" overing " without knocking it off, or even making a pile of two or three, and
"overing" without touching; taking the one cap off, and leaving his own
behind—a very neat trick ; throwing his cap up before " overing," and catch
ing it after, before it touches the ground ; and so on almost to infinity.
                              FLY THE GARTER.
    Another variation. A line, or, as it is technically termed, a " garter," is
 marked out on the ground : the " first back," chosen by lot as before, stands
 a foot from the "garter," and sets a "back;" the rest "over" him in succes
 sion, springing from inside the "garter." He then advances one foot more,
 and they "over" him again as before; then another foot, and if now all
 succeed in "overing" him, he takes a close-footed leap forward as far as he
 can, and sets a fresh " back " where he alights. If they still succeed in " over
  ing" him, the game begins again, and he starts from the "garter" afresh. If,
  however, at any time one fails Xo " over " him, they change places, and the
 game begins anew.

                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
                         KING OF THE CASTLE.
    A good game to get warm with when there is no time for any more set
amusement. One player stands upon a mound or piece of rising ground,
crying, " I am king of the castle," and the others try to pull him down and
supplant him. Any agreement may be entered into previously as to what use
of the hands, &c, shall be allowed. The game works better when nothing
but pure pushing is allowed —no holding or dragging.
   The writer once saw a lot of lambs play this game in splendid style, using
a large stone about a yard in diameter as their castle. There must have been
about forty of them, and they played the game just like a parcel of boys, show
ing a wonderful individuality of character amongst them— some very plucky
and not to be denied, some making a great parade of charging, but doing next
to nothing, and others merely prancing and frisking about, and making no
attempt to get on the stone at all.
   The wag of the party was a rather slightly built but wiry black lamb : he
was here, there, and everywhere, all at once : at one moment gallantly storm
ing the castle ; at another scouring madly off, with a lot after him in their
usually gregarious fashion ; then coming back equally suddenly, with a rush
and a spring clean on to the stone, driving his head into the ribs of the un
fortunate king, and sending him flying over and over. After this, perhaps he
would execute a war-dance on the stone in triumph, but it was equally likely
that he would jump down again for another scamper, or would suddenly stand
still in a meditative manner, and regard the prospect with an air of the most
profound abstraction from all sublunary considerations. This game went on
for weeks : the lambs never seemed to tire of it, and the black lamb kept up
his spirits to the last. He went the way of most black lambs at last ; but he
enjoyed life to the end, and what more could he desire?

iS                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
                               LAWN TENNIS.
   This game derives its title from the fact that it requires no court, and can
be played on any lawn at a small cost for fittings. These consist of two poles,
a net, and a few rackets and balls. The ground is set out as follows, the dimen
sions being those used at Lord's. These dimensions may be varied according
to the size of the ground, providing that a due proportion be preserved.
   First, the two posts are set up, 24 ft apart, and the net so hung that it is
5 ft. from the ground where it touches the poles, and 4 ft. in the middle. The
form of the court is shown in the accompanying illustration.
   The rules of the game are briefly as follows :
   The players take their stand on opposite sides of this net The player who
" serves "—i.e., gives the first stroke—stands in one of the courts, with one
foot beyond the base-line. He then strikes the ball over the net, so that it
falls in the diagonal court, and within the server's line. After it has touched
the ground, the opponent tries to strike it over the net again. Should he fail,
or send the ball beyond the base-line, the first player, or " hand-in," scores
one point. Should he succeed, and " hand-in " fail to return it properly, the
other player becomes "hand-in." It will be seen, therefore, that only the
"hand-in" can score, and that, in case of his failure, he and "hand-out"
change places.
   It is not allowed to " volley" a ball—i.e., to strike it before it has touched
the ground. The stroke is lost if a ball touch any part of a player or his
clothes, or if it be struck more than once. Fifteen points constitute the game.
   This is the outline of the game. The full rules drawn up by the Marylebone
Club may be easily obtained.
   There is a somewhat similar game called Badminton, in which the place
of the ball is taken by a shuttlecock, which must be returned over the net
before it touch the ground.
                                     FIVES.
   Fives may be played, in a rough way, almost anywhere : the only absolute
requirements are a tolerably smooth and lofty wall, fronted by a reasonably
smooth and level piece of ground. With these and an india-rubber or tennis
ball a game may be got up at almost a moment's notice.

                               OUTDOOR GAMES.                                      if.
     The wall and ground require some little preparation, which need not, how
  ever, take more than a few minutes. A line must be drawn horizontally along
  the wall with chalk or other suitable substance, at about thirty inches from
  the ground ; and three lines on the ground, two extending parallel from the
  wall, about fifteen feet apart, to a distance of some eighteen or twenty feet ; and
  one parallel with the wall and about six feet from it. The line on the wall is
  called simply " the line," the two long ones on the ground " the boundaries,"
  and the cross line " the scratch." The ball when in play must be made to
  strike the wall above the line, and must fall to the ground inside the boundaries.
     The number of players may be two or four. As there is no material difference
 between the game with two and that with four players, the description of the
 one will do for the other ; for simplicity's, sake, therefore, the game with two
 players will be described.
    The theory of the game is as follows : One player strikes the ball with his
 hand up against the wall above the line, making it fall beyond the scratch,
 and the other is then bound to meet it, and before it touches the ground a
 second time, to return it again to the wall for the first player to meet it in like
 manner, and so on alternately, only that after the ball is " served " it is not
 requisite that it should fall outside the scratch. The players toss up for first
 lead off, and the winner serves or delivers the ball as above described ; if he
 himself is first to fail in properly returning the ball to the wall, he is out, and
 player No. 2 becomes server ; but if the second player so fails, the server counts
 one towards his1 game, and serves the ball afresh for a new bout. The game is
 mostly eleven or fifteen, the former number being perhaps the more common.
     The real art of the game, as in the next game, " Rackets," after the knack
 of striking the ball fairly with the hand is once mastered, lies in the serving.
 The server, as will be perceived, has every advantage : in the first place, if he
 fails, he only loses his turn, while if his opponent fail, he loses one to his score,
 which is no slight advantage, especially near the end of the game. In the next
 place, the server takes his own time in delivering the ball, and is left perfectly
 cool and collected to make it as difficult as possible to his opponent to play
 it, while the latter must take it as it comes, and very often be only too glad if
 he can get it duly back to the wall, without any consideration of the chance
 it may offer to the former ; so that the server may often have a series of easy
 balls to play, while he is enabled to return them in such a manner that his
 opponent must strain every nerve to keep the ball up. - This cannot but tell
 in his favour, and in this way a first-rate server will very often get the better
 of a much more active and brilliant, though less crafty, player.
    When four play, they play two against two, and the game proceeds exactly
as above, it only being necessary that the ball should be played by one of
either side alternately. Usually they divide the ground between them, one of
either side standing near the wall and the other well back.
    It will be seen that the game is very simple in theory, encumbered by few
rules, and therefore very easily learnt ; it is, nevertheless, a game of the first
class, and one that can be very strongly recommended to all who are fond of
athletic exercises. It brings into play every muscle of the body, and from its
constant variety never palls or becomes monotonous.
    We would advise the beginner, unless his hands are blessed with palms of
a peculiarly homy texture, to wear at first a pair of stout leather gloves until
his hands have become accus.tomed to the work, or they will get so beaten and
bruised as to be a source of much discomfort for many days after; a very
                                                                    2—2

20                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
short perseverance in tolerably constant practice will soon give the hands the
required measure of hardness and insensibility.
   Another piece of advice, too, he will find valuable,—not to play too long or
too hard the first few days. If he is in good general training he may, of course,
venture further than would be otherwise desirable ; but even then he will find
so many muscles brought into active use that never did much hard service
before, that even he must not be surprised at developing no inconsiderable
amount of general stiffness the next day ; and as for the unfortunate who,
not being in the habit of taking much violent exercise, should go in without
preparation for a hard bout of fives, words can hardly convey an idea of the
extremity of soreness and stiffness to which every muscle of his body will be
reduced. A little moderation, however, at first, will entirely obviate all chance
of stiffness, and practice will soon inure the hitherto unaccustomed muscles
to almost any amount of work to which they may be put.
   Regular fives-courts are very general now wherever there is sufficient popu
lation to make them pay, but they differ from the ground above described
only in a greater elaboration of fittings and detail, and so require no particular
notice.
   It may be, perhaps, well to add a few words upon points in the game not
considered above. If the ball when served strike the wall below the line, or
in rebounding falls without the boundaries, it is " no ball," and the opponent
need not take it, and it must be served again.
   If one player in playing at the ball is obstructed by the other, and the ball
is let fall, there is no score, and the ball is called a "let ball," and served
afresh. If the ball in the course of play falls without the boundary, the striker
pays the same penalty as if he had missed it. In some places the server
delivers the ball under the same conditions, but the rule given above is the
more general. In any case an agreement should be come to beforehand in the
matter.
   A bat is sometimes used instead of the hand, and the game is then called
" Bat-fives," but the hand game is the more common.
                                   RACKETS
   This is a game very similar to the above ; indeed,it is in all its leading features,
its rules and general theory, almost identical. The only variations arise from
the use of a racket instead of the hand, which necessitates an increase in the
size of the court in which the game is played, and some slight modifications
of the rules. Rackets may be played in the open air, like fives, an enlarged
fives-court answering the purpose very fairly; but the game is generally
played in a specially constructed court, which is indeed absolutely necessary
for the development of the full beauties of the game.
   The ball used in rackets is smaller and harder than that used in fives ; it
barely exceeds an inch in diameter, and is as hard as the nature of the materials
will allow, the two qualities specially required of it being that it shall be per
fectly spherical and shall possess extreme elasticity.
   The bat, or racket, must be familiar to most of our young readers ; those,
however, who are unacquainted with its shape and construction will find it
accurately figured in the accompanying illustration. The cross network is
composed of strong gut, and the total length of the bat is about thirty inches.
   The wall against which the ball is struck is marked out as in fives, with
the addition of another line about ten feet from the ground, above which the

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                     21
ball must strike when served. The floor is marked out into five divisions, as
in the accompanying diagram, which will be fully explained below. There is
usually a kind of gallery at the back for spectators and the marker. The walls
should be covered with a smooth hard plaster, and the floor should be of some
firm concrete and perfectly level, and both floor and walls should be painted
black, as a background for the white ball, which even at the best it is often
hard enough to follow.
   The players may be either two or four. When two play, having tossed for
the lead off, the server stands in the small compartment marked B, while his
opponent takes his stand in the large one marked D. In serving, the ball must
be made to strike the wall at A, above the upper line mentioned above, and
must fall within the compartment D.
   If the player in D succeed in hitting the ball at the first hop, and driving it
                                                                » 1
                                       e
                                       n

22                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
fairly back to the wall, striking above the lower line, the game goes on, each
striking it alternately until one fails, the ball now being only required to strike
the wall above the lower line, and being quite unrestricted as to the place where
 t takes the ground. If the server fail, he loses his turn, and his opponent
takes his place ; if the second hand fail, the server counts one to his game,
which is reckoned in all things just as in fives. The serving takes place
alternately from B and c—the second hand standing at D for B, and E for c.
    The ball may strike the side and end walls either before or after striking
the playing wall at A ; but the roof and the gallery, if there be one, are con
sidered out of bounds, and count to the striker for a miss. A good player
makes great use of the walls, and will utterly confound and*bewilder the novice
by driving the ball into corners, where it either flies about in the most incom
prehensible manner or falls most disappointingly dead to the ground. Thus
 it will be seen that in rackets more even than in fives a player's real strength
lies chiefly in the power of serving a series of difficult or actually impossible
balls.
    There are many other " dodges " which a good player practises, which time
would fail us to enumerate, and which, indeed, hardly come within the scope
of these short notices, which are not intended as exhaustive treatises on the
various games for the use of experts, but as an introduction to their theory
and practice for the use of learners and unformed players.
    The young reader will find it will take all his time to become expert even at
the simple straightforward game, and will certainly only retard his progress
if he attempts the refinements of the game before he has mastered its first
principles.
    One trick of the racket may, however, be mentioned as not very difficult to
acquire and yet extremely valuable in play. By a quick action of the wrist as
the ball takes the racket, drawing the network across the ball, a very consider
able spin or bias may be imparted to it, which will cause it not only to fly off
the walls at unexpected angles, but to prove so erratic in its rebound from the
ground as to put all calculation at defiance and baffle the most expert player.
     The first thing a beginner has to learn in handling a racket is to stand far
enough away from the ball ; it is the almost invariable fault of a novice to get
 too near for fair striking. The second, perhaps, is to keep cool and not be in
 too great a hurry to strike. This is perhaps a too common fault with most
 players ; they fly about and dash frantically at almost every other ball; whereas
 a really fine player, as a rule, takes the ball as late as possible, and hardly ever
 seems to be in a hurry, generally taking the whole affair with the most pro
voking calmness and deliberation. To this point of perfection, however, it
 is only given to the few to attain—we point it out as the real standard of
 excellence.
     Some attention to dress is necessary : light flannel jersey and trousers, and
 canvas shoes, is the regulation dress. Ordinary cricketing habiliments will do
 for the first, and any pair of close-fitting light shoes or slippers will do for the
 second ; but the regular shoes are very inexpensive, and need not be a cause
  of alarm at home. Ordinary boots and shoes with thick soles and heels are
  simply inadmissible ; first, because they would cut the paving of the court to
 pieces ; and secondly, because they are sure to bring their wearer to grief
  sooner or later, by slipping up and letting him down after a fashion to which a
  heavy fall on the ice is mere child's play, and to the imminent danger of
  breaking half the bones in his body.

                             OUTDOOR GAMES.                                   -3
   The racket is very liable to warp, and so to play untruly : it should always
be kept, if possible, under a weight. When a racket has warped so much as
to become troublesome, it can always be restored by being pressed in a frame
made for the purpose ; but a little care will render this unnecessary for a long
time.
                             HOCKEY OR BANDY.
   This is perhaps, next to football, the best of our open-air winter games, and
is strongly recommended to our young readers, as a very efficient substitute
for that nobler sport. The spirit of the game is pretty much the same as that
of football, the object being to strike a ball through a goal marked by two
uprights, the principal difference being that the instrument of propulsion is a
stick instead of the foot, and that the ball is smaller and of a different make.
   The game may be played by a very few, but at least six or eight are necessary
to give it any real interest. From ten to a dozen on a side can play with advan
tage if the space be not too confined ; but a game with only six or eight on a
side gives more room for individual skill, and is therefore preferable. Under
all circumstances a crowded game is to be avoided, for the game then ceases
to be a contest of skill, and degenerates into a mere chance medley, in which
all refinement of play is rendered impossible by the sheer press of numbers,
and brute strength and reckless hard pounding bear down all opposition.
Another objection may be mentioned—of more weight, perhaps, with parents
than with boys themselves, but which the latter might well take into some
consideration—that is, the extremely dangerous nature of the game thus played.

24                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
In the midst of a grand scrimmage, where a score or so of players are plying
their hockeys vigorously in the confined space of a few square yards, it can
not but be that some blows more or less awkward must be inflicted upon the
heads and faces of those engaged. Broken limbs may be set, and their owner
be little the worse, and as for injured shins, of them a schoolboy recks not at
all ; but the head and face are by far too critical portions of the frame to be
rashly imperilled. With only six or eight on a side accidents of this kind
are almost unknown, and all that a player has to guard against is an occa
sional rap over the shins ; and even for that he will only be indebted to his
own clumsiness.
   The game is played with a solid india-rubber ball from two to two and a half
inches in diameter ; and the players, each with a hooked stick or " hockey,"
take opposite sides, and try to drive the ball through each other's goals.
The goals, which should be marked each by two poles about ten feet apart and
eight feet high, with a cord joining their tops, may be placed at from eighty
to a hundred yards apart, and boundaries should be marked at the sides by
flags or posts as in football, leaving a space between of about forty yards.
To put the matter more exactly, the ground for a game with a dozen on a side
should be about a hundred yards long by forty broad, while for numbers less
than this it should be proportionately contracted.
   There is much variety of opinion as to the best form of hockey-stick, nearly
every player of any pretensions having his own fancy ; but all kinds of hockey
may be classed under two heads—those with a small hook and those with a
large one, the difference between them being much the same as that between a
rapier and a cavalry broadsword. As may be supposed, the better players
mostly prefer the lighter and more wieldy though less powerful weapon, just
as a first-rate fencer would prefer a light straight sword to a cutlass.
    In choosing a hockey, the young player should be careful not to overweight
himself: all the real work of the game is done by pure wrist-work; the hockey,
therefore, must not be of a greater weight than he can easily manage. The
heavier and long-hooked hockeys are generally employed to make up by mere
weight and size for the deficiency in address of their owners—the long hook
makes it almost impossible to miss the ball, and the great weight is of itself
sufficient to drive the ball, however clumsily it may be handled. Of two-
handed hockeys, the less said the better : they are only serviceable in crowded
games, and there they are so dangerous that their use ought to be prohibited.
 Certainly in a close scrimmage, a big two-handed hockey, wielded by compe
tent arms, will hew its way through the fray in a most marvellous fashion, by
mere weight of metal driving the lesser and slighter sticks before it like very
reeds ; but when Greek meets Greek, when two-handed hockeys are opposed
to two-handed hockeys, then comes the tug of war indeed, very exciting, but
 apt, indeed almost certain, to entail a considerable number of casualties both
 to the sticks and to their owners.
    With a good player the hockey is scarcely ever lifted above the shoulder,
 the ball being driven along by a succession of taps, and is guided in and out
between the opposing ranks of hockeys by the mere action of the wrist ; and
 it is only occasionally, even where it is necessary to drive the ball, that the
 stroke is made with the full sweep of the arm. With this style of play it is
 evident that no risk is incurred of receiving or inflicting serious injury.
    But with really heavy sticks wrist-play is impossible: they can only be
wielded to any purpose with the full sweep of the arm, and thus introduce an

                               OUTDOOR GAMES.                                   25
 clement of danger which would not otherwise exist. In a game with from six
 to a dozen on a side, and light one-handed hockeys, which is the really scien
 tific game, the danger may be set down as fitly but if there be twenty or
 thirty on a side, with two-handed hockeys, the chance of untoward accidents
 becomes a matter of very serious consideration.
                ¦"':.-: ..-.
    For these and other reasons which he will soon discover for himself, the
young player will do well to adopt the lighter and short-hooked hockey, as
 figured, rather than any other.
    The hockey should be of some tough wood, ash perhaps for preference, and
should be well seasoned before use ; its length should be a little more than is
necessary to reach the ground with comfort when grasped by its upper ex
tremity ; that is to say, when in play there should be a couple of inches or so
left above the grasp.
   The rules of the game are few and simple ; those for play are as follows :
    1. The choice of goals shall be decided by tossing, and the side winning
       the toss shall start the ball from a spot ten yards in front of their goal.
    2. The ball may only be played with the hockey ; it shall, however, be lawful
       to stop the ball with the body or legs, but not with the hands.
   3. A goal is gained when the ball is played through between the posts and
       under the cord by the opposing party, or in any way passed through by
       the side owning the goal.
   4. No player may strike the ball backhanded ; in every case the player
       must play facing the opponent's goal.
   5. A player is not permitted to loiter near the adversary's goal, but may be
       required to retire, while not playing at the ball, to a distance of at least
       twenty-five yards.
   These rules, if honestly carried out, will be found amply sufficient for all
the purposes of the game. There are some local varieties, but in the main
the game is much the same all over England. The rule against the use of the
hands is in some places not enforced, and the method of starting varies much.
With regard to the former, we can only assure our young readers, from much
experience, that it is on the whole a mistake ; and for the latter, so long as the
ball gets a fair start, it is of no material importance what is the precise method
employed.
   In some places attempts are occasionally made to make it illegal to run the
ball along in the manner commonly called "sniggling"—a term that every
schoolboy will understand—fortunately mostly without success. It is in this
"sniggling" that the whole science of the game lies, and the attempt to suppress
it is generally nothing more than the unreasoning and unreasonable protest
of the herd of " duffers " against the one or two skilled players, with whom
they feel themselves unable to cope in skill and address, and so try to reduce
them down to their own dead level of mere undisciplined muscularity.

    26                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
       The game of hockey has fallen much out of repute of late years, partly
    through the immense advance in popularity of cricket, and football, and
    other athletics ; but chiefly, it it is to be feared, from the introduction into the
    game of a too savage and reckless style of play, by which so many serious
    accidents have been brought about, that the authorities have become shy of
    encouraging a game in which teeth and eyes run no small danger of being
    knocked out, and face-wounds leaving permanently disfiguring scars are not
    unfrequent. It is, however, such a thoroughly good game, and, under the
    conditions above indicated, so perfectly free of all danger, that it ought to
    occupy, as we said above, a place next only to football ; and we shall consider
    the space here allotted to it well bestowed, if it induce only one or two of our
    larger schools to take it up in earnest, and place it on the list of recognized
    games. We see no reason why hockey matches should not take the same
    place in winter that cricket does in summer. Football rests under the dis
    advantage of having no generally recognized code of rules, and is, indeed,
    such a radically different game in various localities, that inter-school matches
    are few and far between. Different schools, moreover, are not so wedded to
    their own systems as in football. But hockey, wherever it is played, is almost
     identically the same, the divergence of practice in the various centres of the
    game being so slight as to be quite unimportant, and therefore inter-school
     hockey matches could be arranged and carried out almost as easily as in cricket.
     It is a comforting reflection to an enthusiast in hockey, that it is not an impos
     sibility, perhaps not an improbability, that this game may, before the end of the
     next decade, assert its proper position amongst our school games. It is by
     far too good a game to be suffered to pass into the limbo of forgotten sports ;
     a destiny that seems in store, if the experience of the last five and twenty-
     years be any guide to the future, for many of our national games ; and indi
     cations are not wanting that, unless hockey gains a fresh lease of popularity,
     this is indeed the end that awaits it, and that at no late period : which may
     the Fates avert !
                                         ROUNDERS.
        This is a very interesting game, not difficult to learn, yet offering ample
     opening for almost any amount of personal skill and address. Its requirements
     are not numerous, a ball being the only one absolutely indispensable, so that
                                            it is a capital game to get up at short no
                     n                      tice, when time and circumstances make the
                  ,STRTKEI?_ ^              more set games, such as cricket or football,
                                            out of the question.
          S                                     The ground may be conveniently prepared
                                            as follows: The home is marked out by four
                                            sticks or stones, or by a line scratched on
                                            the ground, and the five bases are marked,
                                             at a distance of about fifteen yards apart,
                                             each by a stick or stone. The players,
                                             having now divided into parties, toss up for
                                             innings, the winning side takes possession
                                             of the home, while the rest go out into the
                                             field. The captain of the outing side, hav
                                             ing disposed his men in the field according
                                             to their several abilities and the require-
L ^

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                      27
ments of the game, takes the ball, and places himself as feeder, in readiness
to throw the ball to, or " feed," the successive strikers of the inning side. All
being thus arranged, the game commences by one of the inning side coming
to the front of the home, in readiness to strike the ball as it is "served" to him
by the feeder. Sometimes the ball is struck with the hand only, but this can
be recommended only when nothing better is immediately available. The
more common practice is to use a short bat, similar to that used in trap-ball,
and sometimes a cricket stump is employed. Of all these the cricket stump
is perhaps the best : the use of the bat, since it makes it almost impossible to
miss the ball, deprives the game of much of its interest ; yet the stump, unless
all the players be proficient, is open to the opposite objection of making the
game too difficult. The kind of bat that best suits the requirements of the
game is something between the two — a round stick like a constable's staff,
from eighteen to twenty inches in length, and from two to two and a half
inches thick, thinned down at one end into a handle. This is technically
named a " dogstick."
   Armed with this, the several members of the inning side present themselves
in succession in the front of the home to receive the ball from the feeder.
Each»striker is allowed to pass by as many balls as he likes without striking,
until he gets one that suits him ; if in striking he miss it, or tip it behind
the home (/'. e., behind the front line), or if it be caught by one of the field
before touching the ground, he is out, and stands on one side ; if, however,
he succeeds in hitting it safely away, he throws down the bat and runs for
the base nearest to him on his right, and thence, if he has time before
the ball is thrown up, to the next, and so on, striving, if possible, to get com
pletely round and home again before the ball is fielded and returned. If
he succeed in doing this—in getting a rounder—his side scores one towards
the honours of the game, the side scoring most rounders in an innings being
considered the victors. If, however, while running between the bases he is
struck by the ball, he is out, and stands on one side as before.
   When all the inning side but two are thus out, they may call for " rounders."
The better player of the two then takes the bat, and is allowed three chances
at the ball for the "rounder;" that is, he is allowed to strike three times at
the ball instead of only once, and may make his own choice as to which he
will run for. Having once run, he must accept all the chances of the game as
before. The "rounder" is not allowed unless the run is made clear. If the
ball be sent up and put in the home, or if the runner be hit by the ball at any
part of his passage round—the bases afford him no protection—then the
inning side is out, and the outing side take their place, and the game proceeds
as before. If, however, the "rounder" be achieved, the whole of the inning
side are in again, and have a fresh lease of the bat, and so on until their
opponents can finally dispose of them.
   With accurate and hard hitting on the inning side, and active fielding on
the outing, this is a very exciting and interesting game. The striker has little
to do but to hit the ball forcibly away in that direction where the field is most
open ; it is in the fielding that the real art of the game lies : a strong party
out in the field will leave their opponents but a short lease of the bat, and
" rounders " will be scarce indeed.
   A fieldman, besides looking out for a catch off the bat, must be always on
the alert to back up when the feeder or another fieldman is having a shy at
the runner ; this will not only save many " rounders," but will in many cases

28                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
be the occasion of getting out a runner who would have otherwise escaped :
the thrower, too, will throw with all the more accuracy and precision that he
is not nervous about the consequences of missing. As in cricket, the ball
when thrown up should be returned hard and sharp to the feeder, without
any hesitation or dallying.
   The runner is not allowed to leave a base and return, except he leave it
before the ball is out of the feeder's hand. If so, he must return to it, subject
to the chance of being hit by the ball, and so being put out ; and in running
from base to base he is not allowed to deviate—that is, of course, within
reasonable limits—from the straight line between the bases. His clothes are
considered part of his person, and therefore if the ball strike them, even if it
be a loose part of his jacket, he is out. This is often a matter of dispute where
the rule, which is the only possible one, is not clearly understood beforehand.
Of course, no fieldman may in any way, or under any pretence, obstruct a
runner in passing from base to base.
   As the ball has to be thrown at the players, it must not be hard and heavy
like a cricket ball, nor, as it has to be driven by the bat, must it be too soft
and light ; those white leather balls, about an inch and a half in diameter,
which are sold in the shops under the name of tennis balls, are about the best
for the purposes of this game. There should not be too many on a side, or
the game becomes tedious : from six to nine or ten on a side will be found
most suitable.
                                  TRAP-BALL.
   This is a game that used to be very popular in some parts of the country,
but, like so many others of our old national games, it has fallen latterly into
disuse, and is very seldom seen now, even amongst boys. It is, however, by
no means a bad game, as it gives quite opening enough for skill to make it
interesting and worth playing. The players divide into sides—two can play,
but sides of four or five each make a better and more lively game : one side
handles the bat, while the other goes out into the field.
   The apparatus required are a ball such as described above in " Rounders,"
a short bat, like a young cricket bat, and a trap in the shape of a shoe, having
a tongue or trigger hung on a pivot, with one end shaped like a spoon to hold
the ball. (See cut.)
   The inning side handle the bat in succession, and try to score as many for
their side as they can before they are put out, an event which the outing side
endeavour to bring about as soon as possible.
   The game is played thus : The striker, bat in hand, stands in readiness by
the trap, with the ball in it, and touching the lever end of the trigger with his
bat, causes the ball to fly up in the air : this he hits hard away into the field.
If he miss his stroke, or if he strike the ball outside certain boundaries
marked out on either side, or if one of the fielders catch the ball before it
touches the ground, he is out, and the next player takes his place.
   If none of these happen, the fieldman who stops the ball bowls it towards
the trap, which must be brought round at right angles, so as to give a fair shot.
If he succeed in hitting it, or in bringing the ball to rest within one bat's
length of it, the striker is out. If, however, he fails in doing this, the striker
measures the distance with his eye, and calls a number of bats' lengths : if
upon measurement this number proves to be within the actual distance, he

                           OUTDOOR GAMES.                                       29
 scores it towards his gam° but if it exceed it he is out, and makes room for
 the next
   When all the players of one side are thus out, the sides change places, and
 when each has played out its innings, the respective scores are added up, as
 in cricket, and the highest score wins the game.
    In some parts of the country, Essex and Suffolk for example, a cudgel or
bludgeon is used instead of the bat, but the game is essentially the same in
all other respects as that described above.
   In some parts of England the place of the trap is taken by a piece of wood
shaped like the trigger of the trap, and placed in a little hole beaten in the
ground by the bat. The piece of wood is called the " splent ;" and much skill
is needed in shaping the hole properly, so that the ball may rise fairly.
                           KNURR AND SPELL.
   This game, otherwise known as Northern Spell, is only to be seen in the
northern counties, and is hardly known even by name in the southern parts of
the island. It is a very simple game, and does not offer many difficulties to
the learner, who, if he have a good eye and a ready hand, may easily and
quickly acquire even considerable proficiency in it. It is wanting, however,
in the interest of personal antagonism ; the whole gist of it lies in driving a
ball in a given number of strokes over as many yards of ground as possible.
As each man tries his hand in turn, quite independently of his opponent, and
takes his own time, being as leisurely as he sees fit, it becomes too cold-blooded
an affair to excite much enthusiasm even in the players themselves. In the
north, however, it has a certain popularity.
   Any number may join in the game, but it is essentially a contest between
individual players. The requisites for the game are a bat, a trap, and a ball.
The ball, about one and a half inches in diameter, is made cither of wood or
of white porcelain, the latter being, perhaps, preferable. The trap is the same

3o                           OUTDOOR G^MES.
as that used in " Trap-ball ; " but a piece of wood this shape is often employed:
          SUBSTITUTE FOR TRAP.
and answers the purpose admirably. The bat consists of a piece of wood
like a half-pint bottle split longitudinally, firmly attached to a long handle of
stout cane ; this handle varies in length from four to five feet, according to
the height of the player.
   The player, holding this bat by the extremity of the handle in both hands,
touches the trigger, and whirling the bat round his head, catches the ball in
the centre of his bat, if possible, and drives it far afield. The spot where the
ball pitches is marked down, and its distance from the trap measured—in a
regular match by a long cord knotted off into yards, but in ordinary games
in any rough-and-ready way that happens to be most convenient. H is opponent
then tries his hand, and so on alternately, until the agreed number of strokes
have been made ; the number of yards each has covered are then added up,
and he who shows the highest total is declared the winner.
   A good player will drive the ball to a most astounding distance, more by
knack, however, than by brute force. This knack is, to a certain extent, not
difficult to acquire by practice and personal instruction, nor is considerable
proficiency beyond the reach of even ordinary capacities ; it is, however, quite
indescribable on paper, and therefore the learner must, if instruction be un
attainable, e'en set to work and acquire it for himself.
   One piece of advice, though, may not be misplaced; that is, to hit high:
when a stone or ball is to be hurled to any distance, it is wonderful how few
give the missile sufficient elevation. The elevation that gives the best results
is an angle of 450 with the plane of the horizon, and this angle may be roughly
ascertained thus : Stretch out the arm at right angles to the body, then lift it
straight above the head, now let it drop to a position exactly midway between
these two positions, and you have the angle required. Hit your ball up at
this angle—never mind its looking like sky-scraping—and you will get as
much out of each hit, even to the last foot, as is possible.
                                P'TCH STONE.
   This is a very good game to play along a country road or across a common,
where other objects of interest are not plentiful, and when it is not a matter
of importance to get over the ground very rapidly. It is a game only for two,
and is played as follows :
   Each player arms himself with a roundish smooth pebble: one of them leads
off by throwing his pebble forward some ten yards or so, and the other tries
to hit it with his own ; if he succeed, he cousts one towards the game—which
is mostly eleven, but may be any number previously agreed upon—and the
first player has to lead off again ; if, however, he miss, the first player picks
up his stone, and standing where it rested, takes aim at the stone of No. 2,

                             OUTDOOR GAMES.                                    31
and so on alternately. Accuracy of aim is almost the only point in which
special skill can be displayed.
    In pitching his stone, the player must take care to do so with sufficient
force to carry it, in case of missing, well beyond the one he is aiming at, or
he will give too good a chance to his opponent. There is a game very similar
to this played with marbles, which is very popular still in some parts of the
country.
                                 DUCK STONE.
    A very lively game for any number of players from four or five to a dozen.
 Each player procures a smooth, somewhat flattened pebble, and a large stone
 about ten inches or so in diameter, with a flat top, is set up to serve as
 " mammy." A " home " is marked out about ten yards or so from the
 M mammy," and from this the players " pitch for Duck," that is to say, they
 try to pitch their pebbles as near to the " mammy " as possible : the one who
 makes the worst shot goes " duck." He puts his pebble upon the " mammy,"
 and the rest of the party in succession stand at the home, and endeavour to
 knock the " duck-stone " off the " mammy."
     So far there is not much life in the game, but the player, having pitched his
 pebble, has to get it back again for his next shot : the instant he touches his
 stone he lays himself open to be touched by the duck, in which case he has
 to take duck's place ; duck, however, has this power of touching the other
 players only as long as the " mammy " is crowned—that is, as long as his
 pebble rests on it—so that the displacement of this is the signal for a general
 scurry homewards, and duck must be very quick in replacing the stone, to
 get even a chance of touching one of the players.
     When the players are well matched this is a very lively game, and all sorts
  of arts are employed on both sides, on the one side to effect a safe retreat,
  and on the other to cut it off. As a general rule the duck should stand near
 the " mammy," ready to replace his stone in a moment ; he will also find it a
  good plan to devote his attention, not, of course, too openly and exclusively,
  to those who have pitched some way beyond the " mammy :" he will be nearly
  certain, sooner or later, to cut one of them off on his way home. If the play
  is at all good, he must not reckon on too much spare time in catching a
  fugitive, or perhaps—and this is not at all uncommon—just at the critical
  moment, as his hand is stretched out to effect the " touch," away will fly his
  stone, and he will have to return ignominiously to replace it. If the place in
  which the game is played be of any extent, it is well to confine it within
  arbitrary limits, or it loses all its life: if a player may run to any distance
  laterally, it is almost hopeless for the duck to touch him before the " mammy"
  is discrowned. The best way is to mark out boundaries at the sides and ends,
  about ten yards distance each way from the " mammy," making it, in fact,
  the centre of a square, twenty yards each way ; this will be found to afford
   ample room, but will not be too wide to give the duck a fair chance. If a

32                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
runner, in trying to elude the duck, overpasses either of these boundaries,
except into home, he is considered to have been touched, even though, at the
moment of doing so, the " mammy " be discrowned, and must change places
with duck accordingly.
                                   NINE HOLES.
   Strictly, this game should be played by nine players, and nine only, but the
actual number is not material to the spirit of the game, and the number of
holes may be modified at will, to suit the number of players. To play it,
nine holes, about six inches wide and three deep, are dug near a wall, and a
line is drawn opposite these at a distance of five or six yards. Each of the
players takes one hole, and one of them, standing at the line, pitches a ball,
which should be similar to the one described in rounders, into one of these
holes. The player to whom the hole belongs snatches the ball out and throws
it at one of the others, who have meanwhile scattered in all directions. If he
hit him, the player just struck becomes "pitcher;" if he miss him he loses
one, and 'himself becomes " pitcher." When a player has thus missed three
times, or technically has " lost throe lives," he is considered " dead," and
stands out until the conclusion of the game. The winner is he who holds
out to the last. Caps are sometimes used instead of holes, and serve the
purpose equally well, though perhaps they would be better on the heads of
their respective owners.
                                   HOP-SCOTCH.
   This is very good practice for balancing the body and acquiring steadiness
                    on the legs. Chalk or otherwise mark out on the ground a
  f^vJg\            figure like the accompanying diagram, on a scale of about
                    four feet to the inch.
 H&r\                  Not more than two or three should play at one figure, or
                    there will be too long a time between the turns. The players
   jt    a          "pink" for first turn, that is, they pitch the stone or piece of
          to
                    tile with which they are going to play at the cat's face at the
    9               rounded extremity, sometimes also called and drawn as " the
                    pudding." He who gets nearest leads off.
                       Standing at the square end, he throws his tile into compart
  ^<                ment i, hops in and kicks the tile out—still hopping—to the
                    starting-point. He next throws the tile into No. 2, hops into
    3      4        1, thence to 2, and kicks the tile out as before. He next
    1      2        goes on to 3, and so on until he reaches 8, which is called the
                    "resting-bed;" having reached this he may rest himself by
                    putting his feet into 6 and 7, resuming his hopping position,
 however, before he goes on with the game, in which he proceeds as before.
 Until he reaches the " cat's face " or " pudding," he may have as many kicks
 as he likes in kicking the tile out, but when he reaches that he must kick it
 through all the other divisions at one single kick, the successful achievement
 of which crowns the game.
    If the tile be pitched into a wrong number, or rest on one of the lines, either
 in pitching or kicking, or it be kicked over the side lines, the player loses his
 innings ; if he put down both feet while in the figure, except at the resting-
 bed, or set his foot, in hopping, on either of the lines, he suffers the same
 penalty. Some players who are particular, and cultivate the refinements of

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                      33
the game, are in the habit of using a circular disk of lead, instead of the
usual irregular, and therefore uncertain, piece of tile.
                 BATTLEDORE AND SHUTTLECOCK.
   This game must be so thoroughly familiar to all our readers, however young,
that there can be little need for prolonged comment. It may be played by one
person or several, but the single-handed game is apt to become very tedious
and uninteresting, however ingenious the player may be in varying his style
of play. To get any real amusement out of the game at least two should play.
   The whole art of the game consists in keeping the shuttlecock in the air as
long as possible. As a stimulus to extra exertion it is well to set a number as the
standard of attainment, counting one for each flight from the battledores, and
try to keep up the " cock " until you have reached it. Two good players will
not find five hundred too many for them, but at first even twenty will be found
a long figure. The more players there are the more difficult does it become
to keep the cock up.
   If the game be played with any spirit, it will be found to afford very good
exercise, and will prove very good training for other sports of a more advanced
character, such as rackets and fives and the like.
   The best kind of battledores are those called " drum," with parchment heads.
The shuttlecock should be rather long and the feathers not too wide-spread,
otherwise it is apt to be slow of flight, and to require very hard hitting to
drive it at all.
   The Chinese are great adepts with the shuttlecock, only with them the cock
is driven by the upturned sole of the shoe, instead of with a battledore as with
us. The players stand in a ring, and each as the cock comes to him spins
smartly round, catches it on the sole of his shoe, and so passes it on to his
neighbour.
                                    TIP-CAT.
   This is played with a cylindrical piece of wood, about five inches long,
sharpened at both ends, as in figure, and a bdton or stick. A small ring is
marked out on the ground, and at a distance of about twelve feet from it is
drawn a line called the " offing."
   Two players toss up for innings, the winner takes the stick and stations
himself by the ring, while his opponent stands at the scratch or offing, and
tries to pitch the "cat" into the circle. If he succeed, the first player is out
and takes his place at the scratch, and becomes " pitcher," while the pitcher
in his turn takes the bdton. If, however, he is not successful in his cast, that
                                                                       3

 34                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
 is, if the whole of the cat does not rest within the ring, the first player pro
 ceeds as follows: He stands by the cat, and tipping one end of it smartly
 with his bdton, causes it to fly up in the air, and then hitting it while in mid-air,
 drives it as far as possible. If the cat, or any part of it, rest on or over the
 ring, he is allowed only one turn at the cat, but if it be altogether outside, he
 is allowed three. Having struck the cat as far as he can, he measures with
 his eye its distance from the circle, and calls a certain number of sticks. If
 on measuring the distance it prove to be less than so many sticks' lengths, he
 is out, but if more he scores the number called to his game, and the cat is
 pitched to him again as before.
    In some places the measurement is made by close-footed jumps, but this is
 not so certain as the other method by sticks, and it possesses the further dis
 advantage, too, of leaving a great opening for sharp practice if either party is
 so disposed.
    If the striker in hitting at the cat while in the air miss it altogether, or if
the cat be caught by his opponent, he is out, and loses his innings. After
each player has had two innings, or any other number previously agreed
upon, the scores are added up, and the larger wins.
    There are several other ways of playing tip-cat in vogue in various parts
of the country. One way is for the striker to stand in the midst of a large
ring some ten yards in diameter, and tipping the cat from thence, strikes it as
before. He is liable to the same penalties as before, with this in addition,
that the cat must be hit over the ring, or it counts as a miss and he is out.
If he strike the cat fairly beyond the ring, he counts the game as before ; the
distance being reckoned from the centre of the circle, not the circumference,
as before.
   A third method requires at least eight or ten players : these divide into two
sides, and four or five bases, according to the number on a side, having been
marked in a circle, one party takes the field, while the other, each armed with
a bdton, station themselves at the several bases. One of the outing side now,
standing at a scratch marked opposite one of these bases, and about three
yards from it, " serves " the cat to the player at the nearest base, who strikes at
it, subject to the same conditions as in rounders, which game, by the way, this
method very much resembles. Directly the cat is struck or even tipped, the
whole " in " side run from base to base, keeping their right shoulders inward,
and continue to run as long as they consider it safe to do so. Every base
they thus make counts one to their score. The striker is out, and with him
the whole side, if he miss the cat, if he tip it behind him into the circle, if it
be caught by one of the fieldmen, or if while a player is running the cat be
thrown between the base he has left and the one he is making for.

                           OUTDOOR GAMES.                                     35
  Tip-cat should always be played with caution, and never where there are
many people about. It is impossible to keep the cat under perfect control as
one can a ball : at any moment it may fly into the face of a passer-by, and
inflict an unsightly wound, or even blind him—such things have been ; for a
sharply-struck cat, as it comes spinning and whirling through the air, makes
a most formidable missile, especially when it takes one unawares. Therefore
we would reiterate our exhortation to caution and circumspection.
                               AUNT SALLY.
   This game when it was first introduced had a tremendous run of popularity ;
even in the very highest ranks of society there was a perfect rage for the new
game. For a season Aunt Sally was the reigning queen of society, the goddess
of fashion, at whose shrine it behoved all persons who aspired to position in
society to come and bow themselves down. If report says true, Cabinet
Ministers and even great foreign potentates did not disdain at one time to
number themselves amongst the votaries of this popular pastime. But the
glory of its early days has departed ; Aunt Sally's little day as a fashionable
pastime is over ; the game has dropped out of fashion almost as quickly as it
came in, and with nearly as little reason, for it certainly has its good points,
and is a game from which a good deal of fun may be extracted.
   In providing the necessary appurtenances there is no occa
sion to go to any considerable expense. Take a round block
of wood about eighteen inches long and eight or nine in dia
meter, and rough-hew it somewhat into the shape annexed.
If there be any carving talent easily accessible, the head and
features may be got up with any amount of elaboration con
sistent with solidity and strength : all really fine work is
simply thrown away, and is, indeed, out of place; if not,
flatten and smooth over one side for a face, and give the
whole two or three coats of black paint, allowing one to dry
thoroughly before the next is laid on. If beauty unadorned
will serve your turn, the features may be marked out with
a mere dab or two of white paint, and as far as adornment is concerned
Aunt Sally is complete. A little extra adornment, however, certainly adds to
the spirit of the game; a little extra time and trouble, therefore, spent on
getting the old lady up to better advantage, will not be thrown away ; and with
very little pains, backed by a little ingenuity and invention, you may turn her
out " beautiful for ever."
   Procure some canvas or stout calico, make this up, or get it made up, into
something of a cap shape, the more fanciful the better, and nail it securely
on to the head with brass-headed nails, covering all but the face. A frill, which
will be found a great addition to the good lady's attractions, may be made by
looping up a strip of the same, or better still, of some coloured stuff, between
the nails. The features should be marked ,out in white paint with a judicious
shading of red, and a liberal allowance of the latter for the lips, which should
be very full and wide apart, showing a rather defective set of teeth of Brob-
dingnagian proportions.
   Make three gimlet-holes at least two inches deep, one in the centre of tht.
nose and one in each ear, and with an augur make a hole at least two and a
half inches in diameter and four or five deep up the neck, to receive the head

36                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
of the stake on which she is to stand ; then with a petticoat of strong but
bright-coloured material tied round her neck, perch the head on the stake,
which should stand about five feet out of the ground, and Aunt Sally " stands
confessed in all her charms."
   You will further require a good supply of tobacco-pipes, and ten or a dozen
stout cudgels, from twenty inches to two feet in length. The pipes are placed
 in the gimlet-holes in the nose and ears of Aunt Sally, and the cudgels are
employed to throw at them, and knock them out and break them. The
players stand at a mark about ten paces from the figure, and the game is
 counted by the number of pipes broken in a given number of throws ; the
 ear pipes counting one each and the nose two. If possible, it is desirable to
have some loose sacking or other material stretched at the back of Aunt
 Sally, to stop the sticks, otherwise the labour of fetching them is something
 considerable, and considerably detracts from the enjoyment of the game.
                             KNOCK-'EM-DOWNS.
    This is a game very similar to the last, or rather the last is a modification
 of this. A number of holes, generally three, about six inches in diameter,
 and set in a triangle, are dug in a loose sandy soil, and in each is set up a
 slender stick about five feet high, on the top of which is set some article of
 no great value, such as a snuff-box, tobacco-box, a cocoa-nut, &c, and the
 game consists in knocking off these articles with sticks similar to those used
 in Aunt Sally. It is no use striking the stick that supports the snuff-box or
 other article—it will only fall away and let the snuff-box itself fall perpendicu

                        GAMES IN THE SNOW.                                        37
larly into the hole, in which case the hit does not
count, and the stick has to be replaced. The only-
possible way of knocking the things off so as to
fall clear of the holes is by striking them them
selves full and fair with the throwing stick, the
knack of doing which is by no means easy of
acquirement.
   Knock-'em-downs is always in great request at
fairs and races, where it is chiefly in the hands of
the gipsies, who allow so many sticks a penny,
taking good care that the value of the articles set
up on the sticks shall not be too great to leave
them a margin of profit on each transaction. Where
the soil is not suitable, light baskets of sand are
employed, in which the sticks are placed.
                         GAMES IN THE SNOW.
                                  SNOWBALLS.
   The best way to play snowballs is to form sides, draw a couple of lines
across the play-ground ten yards apart, marking out the neutral ground, into
which no combatant may enter, prepare as many snowballs as you like, and
then fight it out with fair throwing.
   This is a much better plan than mere desultory throwing, which after a
time nearly always degenerates into rubbing snow into each other's faces and
necks, and so to bullying and quarrelling.
                                SNOW CASTLE.
   Additional zest may be given to snowballing by constructing a castle or fort
of snow, and the players dividing into attacking and defending parties. The
walls must be made very solid, and considerably thicker at the base than the
top ; if the fort is of any height, five or six feet will not be too thick for the
base of the wall.
   In constructing this fort, the first thing is to select the site ; the commanding
engineer—it is always well to put the whole management, in this and similar
cases, under the undivided control of one individual, who shall be responsible
for the results — must look about him not only for the most suitable place,
strategically, for his fort, but for the place where his materials will be most
ready to hand. If possible, he should choose an angle of the play-ground wall,
as this narrows the front upon which he can be attacked, and at the same time
diminishes the amount of material required, which latter is a very important
item in the account, for no one who has not tried has the least idea of the
enormous mass of snow required to build even the most unpretending snow
castle. Having selected his ground, and got together his party of labourers,
armed with spades and other requisites —a wheelbarrow or two will be found
very useful—the engineer must set some to clear the ground ready for his
foundation, while others employ themselves in rolling up vast snowballs in
different parts of the play-ground.

33                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
   As soon as one of these snowballs attains to a diameter of about a yard it
must be brought up to the place prepared for it, and there squared off with
spades into a tolerably accurate cube ; another is then placed alongside it, and
then another, until the whole line of wall is complete ; the interstices are then
filled up with loose snow well rammed down. This being thoroughly com
pacted, a fresh line is made a foot or more inside the first, and the vacancy
filled with loose snow trodden in. In this way a good solid foundation is
obtained and about two feet of wall raised. By proceeding in the same way
the wall may be raised to any requisite height. If the snow is deficient in
binding power, or indeed under any circumstances, a few sticks planted along
at intervals will prove of great service in binding the several layers of the wall
together.
   The walls being thus raised to the desired height, which should be at least
five feet, but better six, all is done so far as defence is concerned ; but the
defenders not only require to be protected from the fire of the enemy, but
must be enabled to reply effectively to it. For this purpose a good solid ledge
or platform must be constructed inside, of sufficient height to allow the be
sieged the full use of their arms in throwing—that is, when standing on it the
outer wall should be about breast-high.
   Of course the means of ingress and egress must not be forgotten. A narrow
doorway should be cut, with the sill about four feet from the ground ; and this
during the siege must be barricaded in any rough-and-ready way that may
prove most effective.
   Ever)thing being thus solidly constructed—by the way, a bucket or two of
water thrown over the whole, just before leaving it for the night, will have a
wonderful effect in compacting it all together— the players divide into two

                         GAMES IN THE SNOW.                                     39
 parties under separate leaders, the smaller party to defend, the larger to attack
 the stronghold, and forthwith commence their preparations, which, especially
 on the part of the besieged, should be rather extensive.
    The besieged gather together into the fort a great mass of snow as raw
 material, and pile up many score of snowballs as service ammunition, while
 the besiegers are equally busy outside piling up heaps of snow and snowballs,
 many and frequent, in a great circle round the walls.
   At last the signal is given : the defenders retreat into the fort and barricade
 the entrance, the flag is mounted on the walls under a royal salute of all arms,
 three cheers, and hard to work they go, hammer and tongs.
   The captain of the besieged will, if he is wise, remind his troops that with
 them ammunition is limited, whereas their opponents have an inexhaustible
 supply to fall back upon, and that nothing but a sortie, always a most danger
 ous expedient, can give them the means of replenishing their stock when once
 exhausted, and consequently that they must economize in every way, and make
 every shot tell.
   The besiegers, on the other hand, will follow exactly the opposite tactics,
and, being under no apprehension of failing ammunition, will ply their oppo
 nents to the full extent of their powers, leaving them no rest and no relief
 from the storm of missiles.
   If the attacking party be large, numbering say forty or fifty, the captain
should work them like skirmishers, one party firing while the others are load
ing. A boy of any ability will find plenty of room, as captain, to exercise his
abilities in devising plans for offence or defence.
   A good heavy vertical fire will often be found very effective. A party, armed
with huge snowballs six inches or so in diameter, advance in open order under
cover of a well-sustained fire, and pitch them in,a volley or in rapid succession
well up into the air, so as to fall almost perpendicularly within the fortifica
tion. These shells are dreadfully annoying : one or two are of no use, but
half a dozen or so at a time coming tumbling in, compel the unfortunates
within to give up everything else and bestow almost their whole time and
attention to watching and avoiding them. Woe betide the unfortunate who,
trusting to the -vails and dreaming not of shell practice, shall be stooping
down working up snowballs, if one of them comes—thump !—on the nape of
his neck : go down he must ; and what with the explosion of the shell, the
consequent thorough saturation of his head and shoulders with snow, and the
sudden blow, he may be considered fairly hors de combat for some time — at
least, his snowball manufactory will be not a little interrupted.
   Many more artifices and inventions might be mentioned, but enough has
been said to put a boy of ordinary intelligence in the way of making the best
use of his opportunities in this line.
   One thing we must protest against—that is the cruel practice of compelling
the little boys to make the snowballs while the big ones throw them. Snow
balling is very pretty work for those who get the exercise; but the utter
misery of standing still, working up with bare hands the bitter cold snow, with
all the blood freezing in one's veins, and no hope of warming it—that indeed
none but those who have experienced it as little boys can understand. Little
boys ought to be made to serve their seniors ; it is good for them that they
should ; but the seniors ought also to have kind consideration for the little
fellows over whom they hold a rule so despotic, and in a large measure so
irresponsible.

4o                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                SNOW GIANT.
   This is an amusement very inferior to the above ; almost the whole fun lies
in the construction of the giant. Once made, there is very little to be done
with him but to shy at him and knock him to pieces again, a process that
has always a certain attraction, but can hardly compare with the invigorating
dash of the attack on a snow fort. The perfect passiveness and helplessness
of the giant takes away more than half the pleasure of attacking him ; the
snow fort would be nothing without its defenders.
   The first process in this, as in all large constructions in snow, is to roll up
large snowballs ; two large ones are wanted for the body, and one of lesser
dimensions for the head. The site, if the giant be intended to be at all per
manent, should be on rising ground, not in a hollow, or it will be in a pool of
water when the thaw comes, and will disappear twice as rapidly as it other
wise would. Having selected a suitable site, one of the great snowballs must
be rolled thither, and firmly set in its place by mounding up and ramming the
snow all round it, and the top flattened off to receive No. 2. Now comes the
difficulty how to lift No. 2 into its place. A hand-barrow, shutter, or hurdle
are the best things, but if none of these be available, a very effectual substitute
may be extemporized out of a few stout sticks lashed crosswise. Snowball
No. 2 must, of course, be flattened at one side to fit No. 1, and the cohesion
of the two will be greatly promoted by sprinkling a little water over the
surfaces before bringing them into contact.
   No. 2 thoroughly and rightly settled into its place, No. 3 must be set up in
like manner, and the block now stands ready for the sculptor. The elaboration
of detail must, of course, depend upon the genius of the carver; but the
nature of the material will entirely baffle any attempt at boldness of execution,
and the best that can be done is a massive indication of the features and
limbs—a style of sculpture, in fact, closely resembling the gigantic Egyptian
figures in the Crystal Palace.
   The most satisfactory tool to work with is a pointed mason's trowel : with
this the whole of the carving, however elaborate, may be done. If a trowel
be not obtainable, a very good substitute may be made with a piece of thin
board. Cut it into the' shape required, leaving a good strong handle, sharpen
off the edges, and there is as good a tool as any one could desire for the work
By the way, it is quite useless to attempt to stick limbs or features on—they
must all be cut out of the solid mass.
   Your snow giant complete, the more eccentric the accessories with which
you can provide him the better, such as a shocking bad hat, a long pipe, a
besom for a sceptre, or, best of all, a good big dilapidated umbrella ; and
having got him you may do what you like with him ; but decidedly the very
worst use you can put him to is to knock him to pieces.
                        COASTING OR SLEDGING.
   This is a grand sport, and may be played on almost any hill-side after a
good fall of snow. In England it has as yet attained to no higher rank than
one more among our many boys' games ; but abroad, where the winter is both
more prolonged and more severe than with us, this game is, under various
names, one of the most popular recreations for all classes and all ages.

                         GAMES IN THE SNOW.                                     4i
   Coasting is simply sledging without horses. The sledges are taken to the
top of a hill, and allowed to slide down, the force of gravitation doing the
work that horses are required to do on the level.
   For all the purposes of the game the sledges may be of the most simple
description : a plain piece of board, so it be large enough to accommodate its
rider, will serve its turn at a pinch, if nothing better be procurable. With us in
England it is seldom worth while in any given winter to provide an elaborate
sledge, and this, perhaps, has militated against the more extended introduction
of the game amongst us, but a very serviceable one may be made for a few
pence from the lid of an old packing-case.
   Get the blacksmith to make you a couple of good strong angle-irons, with
an angle of about 45°, and the limbs about four and eight inches in length
respectively, with a suitable allowance of screw-holes. Screw the longer limbs
of these firmly to one end of your board, about four inches from either side,
leaving the shorter limbs projecting in front. To these projecting limbs screw a
piece of two-inch board—elm is perhaps the best—in length equal to the width
of your sledge, and in breadth about five inches ; the lower and inner edge,
where it meets the floor of the sledge, must be bevelled off to fit it accurately,
or at least fairly so ; and the outer edge, which will now project some way
below the level of the floor, must be rounded off in a gradual curve ; and the
sledge is complete, ready for service. The object of this raised footboard is
to lift the sledge over obstacles into which, if not thus defended, it would cut
its way, and so be brought up standing.
   If the expense can be undertaken, it is well to defend the forefoot of the
sledge where it begins to curve up with a piece of thin iron securely fastened
along, and bent to the requisite curve ; or in default of this, a few pieces of
hoop-iron, nailed lengthwise at short distances, will add much to the life of

42                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
the construction : in extreme cases they might be carried the whole length of
the floor, an expedient which would not only materially increase the strength
and endurance of the sledge, but also considerably improve its speed. A
sledge very similar to the one above described is much used by the boys at
Marlborough in Wiltshire.
   No definite code of rules or instructions can be laid down for the game. A
party of boys, each provided with a sledge, with a good hill-side and plenty of
snow, will soon work out plenty of amusement in sliding down.
   The most ordinary way is to go down sitting, feet first, the feet resting on
the footboard, the steering being effected by means of a stout stick; and
the novice at the sport should acquire some experience in this way before he
attempts any of the higher flights.
   The more experienced players not only race their sledges one against
another, but also contend who shall eclipse the other in devising eccentric
methods of making the course —head foremost, on the back, kneeling, and the
like. Some of the bolder and more adventurous spirits will now and then
attempt some such feat as making the course standing, or even go so far as
to try to make it on their heads ; but in either case the result is pretty sure to
be the same : after a few yards the sledge gathers velocity, and shoots hope
lessly from under the would-be acrobat.
    Sometimes the sledges are made large enough to accommodate two or more,
but perhaps most fun is to be got out of the single ones, though for racing pur
poses the long sledges beat the short ones hollow.
    If there be plenty of snow, very little danger is to be apprehended from falls
and similar mischances. In case of an upset, the chief source of danger lies
 in the too rapid succession of sledges, unless under experienced guidance : the
mere upset is scarcely likely to be anything but a cause of laughter even to
the victim himself; but another sledge coming thundering down upon him
while he lies sprawling in the track might chance to prove exceedingly dis
 agreeable. There is, however, little chance of this with the exercise of even
 ordinary care, and under any circumstances the casualties of a whole week's
 coasting are scarcely likely to approach, either in number or severity, the
average of an ordinary football match.
    A hill-side with a good number of coasters in full swing is a very animated
 sight: the rapid succession of sledges with their excited occupants dashing
 down the hill, and the long line of " returns " toiling up with their sledges
 behind them, together form a picture which for interest might compare with
 even our most popular pastimes.
                                      HOOPS.
    Racing.—A great deal may be done with Hoops : the mere trundling of a
 hoop is good fun in itself, but a great deal more fun and amusement may be
 got out of a hoop than that. A well-contested hoop race is very exciting.
 The hoop, when driven at full speed, requires a good deal of management,
 and the race does not always fall to the swiftest runner. The hoops in a race
  should be nearly the same size ; a large hoop has an immense advantage over
 a smaller one, so if there be any material difference, the smaller hoops should
 have so many yards' start according to their comparative size.
     Tournament.—The tournament is managed by driving two or more hoops

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                     43
against each other at full speed, the hoop that does not fall being the conqueror.
\Vhen there are a dozen or more hoops engaged, the tournament gets very
exciting, the hoops go flying off in all directions, their masters after them like
dismounted cavaliers after their horses.
   TURNPIKES.—A very good game; as is also the following, when hoops are
less plentiful than players. Supposing ten players with only five or six hoops :
lots are drawn for the hoops, and those who fail to get them become Toll-
keepers. A large circle, thirty or forty yards across, is marked out as the road,
and at equal distances on this each toll-keeper places a couple of big stones
three or four inches apart, according to previous agreement ; this is his toll-
gate or turnpike, and the Trundlers are bound to drive the hoop through every
turnpike on the road. If the hoop shirk a turnpike, or touch the stone on
either side in its passage through, the trundler changes places with the toll-
keeper, who takes his turn with the hoop. It is surprising how much skill is
required to keep a hoop up in this way for any length of time.
   Posting.—Suppose the same conditions as in the above ; stations are
marked out on the course by stones set at regular distances. At each of these
stations a player stands armed with a stick and ready for action. The hoops
are now started, and the game proceeds thus : when the trundler arrives at the
first station or posting-house, he gives the hoop a slight additional impetus,
and hands it over to the player stationed there, meanwhile taking his place in
readiness for the next hoop ; the next trundler does the same, the players con
stantly interchanging the hoops, so that each player has his fair share of the
game. The hoops must never be allowed to fall, the player who commits this
fault being required to stand out one whole round. The stations should be
some distance apart, or the hoops will circulate too rapidly.

44                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
   Steeplechase.—This is great fun. A course is marked off across country,
trees or any other landmarks serving for the boundaries ; a fair start is maae,
and the player who reaches the goal first with his hoop is declared winner.
The race must be won by fair trundling, no carrying being allowed, unless over
hedges and the like. A large and heavy hoop is the best for this game.
   Feats with Hoops, &c—There are many other ways of getting amuse
ment out of hoops. Some boys will drive their hoops at full speed, and
suddenly pass through it from side to side as it runs, without checking its
course ; this requires a large hoop, and is a really difficult feat, requiring
much dexterity, quickness, and decision. A small hoop may be driven through
a large one in similar manner. In some parts of England, where smooth hill
sides are available, it is a favourite pastime to start large and strong hoops
down the slope, racing one against the other. After the first start the hoop
soon acquires such an impetus that it clears the ground like a race-horse, rush
ing and bounding down the slope like a veritable live thing, and leaves its
master toiling a long way behind. The sight of the hoops in their impetuous
course is exciting enough, but still more so is the headlong rush of the anxious
owners, careering at full speed, each intent only upon his own hoop. A few
hoop chases like this make all other games seem singularly flat and void of
excitement.
   Much more could be said on the subject of hoops, but further details must
be left to the inventive ingenuity of the young reader himself.
                                     KITES.
   Not very many years ago the young artist in Kites seldom ventured beyond
a very few simple forms, indeed, was mostly confined to one as the only one
recognized as de rigueur; but now-a-days he has a greatly enlarged choice,
and may find in the toy-shops an endless variety of forms more or less eccentric
in their design from which to select. Or if he be of an inventive turn of mind,
and cannot otherwise please himself, he may construct a kite on a pattern of
his own.
   The old theory used to be that a very slight deviation from accurate pro
portions in a kite must certainly prove fatal to its powers of flight ; but of
late years, amongst other results of opening our communications with China,
we have discovered that so long as eertain rules of symmetry are observed,
that is, so long as one side fairly balances the other, there is almost no con
ceivable shape that may not be made to mount up as a kite into the sky.
   Here in Europe kite-flying is only an amusement for the young, but in China
it is the popular recreation of all ages ; not below the dignity even of grey
hairs. On a suitable evening in some parts of China the whole sky will be
populated with kites of strange and wondrous aspect—mandarins, men and
women, singly and in pairs, wild beasts, birds, serpents, dragons, fish, in endless
variety and profusion. To the Chinaman bent on constructing a kite, nothing
animate or inanimate comes amiss ; let the shape be as eccentric as you please,
he will not only make a kite of it, but will make one that will fly.
   At the end of this notice the young kite constructor will find a few designs
for kites, which may serve at least as hints for his guidance.
   How to MAKE A Kite. — To make a kite of the ordinary pattern, the
following requisites must be prepared : a long straight lath, a cane, and a
plentiful supply of string, paper, and paste. The lath is for the upright (as b,

                             OUTDOOR GAMES.                                     45
 d, in Fig. I.) The cane, which should be about three-fourths the length of the
  lath, must be securely fastened by its exact middle to the upper end of the
  lath, as at e, and brought down to a bow by the cord at c. This cord should
  be passed with a double turn round the upright aX/ to
  keep it from slipping, and care must be taken to balance
  the two sides of the kite most accurately; a very slight
  preponderance of weight on one side over the other
  will make the kite lop-sided, and will greatly interfere
  with its flight.
     Now carry a string, as in the figure, from e to c, thence
 to g, to a, and back to e, fastening it securely at each
 point Your skeleton is now complete.
     Next for the paper: paste sheets of paper together
 until you have one large enough to cover the whole
 framework, with a margin of at least two inches to lap
 over. Lay your skeleton upon this, cut away the super
 fluous paper all round, and then lap the margin over
 the edges, and paste it firmly down. Having firmly
 secured this, cut some slips of paper about three inches
 wide, and paste them along and over the cross string so
 as to secure them firmly to the main sheet, and treat the
 upright in the same manner, though, of course, with a wider strip. The body
 of your kite is now complete.
    For the wings or tassels take two strips of paper, of a length and width
 proportioned to the size of the tassel required, snip these across like a comb,
 roll them up, and bind the uncut ends tightly with string. The tassel for thy
 end of the tail may be constructed in a similar manner.
    The ordinary method of constructing the tail is by fastening slips of paper
at six inches' or so interval along a piece of string. These pieces of paper,
though intended for ornament, hardly fulfil their office, but remind one rather
of curl-papers than of anything else, and are continually becoming inextricably
entangled with each other. A good long piece of string with a tassel at the
end answers all the purposes, and is far more graceful. If this be thought
insufficient, a little coloured tissue paper rolled up fine, and twined spirally
along the string of the tail, will set it off wonderfully. The tail should be from
fifteen to twenty times the length of the kite.
    In selecting the string for the kite, the two main points to take into consi
deration are lightness and strength. If the string be too heavy, the kite will
not be able to soar very high, on account of the dead weight of the string ; if
it be too light, the pull of the kite and its own weight together will be too
much for it, it will assuredly give way, and the kite will most probably be lost,
and will certainly be damaged.
    The string, by the way, is not fastened directly to the framework of the kite,
but to a piece of string technically termed the belly-band, which is a piece of
string fastened to the upright by both ends, and hanging down in a loop about
a foot or eighteen inches in depth.
    The points of attachment of this belly-band should be one a little below
the middle of the upright, and the other about two-thirds up of the remaining
length. Or, to be more precise, in a four-foot kite the lower point would be
about twenty inches from the bottom, and the other about ten inches from the
top. The string is firmly attached to the belly-band: as the exact point of

46                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
affixture can only be ascertained by experiment, it depends entirely upon the
balance of the kite.
   Another and very useful sort of kite (see Figs. 2 and 3) may be made with
calico set upon a frame, all of whose pieces work upon a single pivot. By
this arrangement the whole kite may be folded together and put into a case
like an umbrella.
                     fig. ».                          Fig 3.
   The calico is only fastened permanently to the two long pieces, and simply
tied to the cross-piece ; this being released, the three laths may be worked
round on the pivot until they are in a straight line, and the calico wrapped
round them. The great advantage of this construction is, that not only arc
they more easy of carriage, but they are much less liable to injury'.
   Sometimes they are made with only two pieces, an upright and a cross-
piece, but the principle is the same.
   If expense be no consideration, oiled silk, or that thin gutta percha which
is now used as its substitute, may be employed with advantage, and will be
found, on account of their superior lightness, infinitely preferable to paper or
calico.
   For decorations the young artist must follow his own fancy, only he must
                                        remember that, as the effect is to be
                                        produced from a distance, only the
                                        most staring and brilliant colours can
                                        be employed, and that fine and finished
                                        details will be of no use whatever.
                                           One of the prettiest kites now in use
                                        is that which represents a hawk with
                                        outspread wings. If this kite be»pro-
                                        perly made, it sweeps backwards and
                                        forwards with a movement exactly like
                                        that of the bird whose name it bears.
                                        If the tail be made of fine but strong
                                        string, and the weight at its end be cut
                                        in the shape of a small bird, the kite
                                        enacts in a marvellously faithful man
                                        ner the manceuvres of a falcon attack
                                       ing its prey.
                                           Flying the Kite. — To start the
                                        kite in the first instance it is mostly
                                        necessary to have some aid ; two per
                                        sons are required, one to hold the kite

                           OUTDOOR GAMES.                                       47
up and help it off, while the other, holding the string, runs a little way against
the wind to increase its pressure upon the kite, and thus help it to get its tail
fairly off the ground, after which, if there be sufficient breeze—without which
it is of course useless to attempt flying it at all—the kite will do very well by
itself.
   The kite, once up in the air, may be allowed to soar upwards as far as the
string or its own capabilities will permit: if the string be unlimited, the height
to which the kite can ascend will only be measured by its power of supporting
the requisite length of string.
   Sometimes when great altitude is aimed at, when one kite has taken all the
string it can well carry, the lower end of the string is attached to another kite,
which then takes up a fresh length, and enables its precursor to mount
higher.
   This method of procedure is only worth practising with really large kites,
and in managing these some little care is requisite (a six-foot kite, for instance,
pulls like a cart-horse), and serious accidents have been known to happen
through the string getting entangled, and the owner of the kite being, as it were,
run away with by his unmanageable plaything.
   Where the kite is very large, it is advisable to give the string a turn or two
round a post or tree ; this will enable its owner to control it at will.
   A piece of paper with a hole in it, slipped on to the lower end of the string,
will soon by the force of the wind be carried right up to the kite itself, how
ever high up it may be. This is called sending letters, or messengers.
            KAPOLEOH.

48                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                       SLING.
   The Sling was much used as a weapon in ancient warfare, and was held in
such esteem, that it long kept its place even with the bow: as time passed on,
though, it fell into gradual disuse, and long before the bow gave way to fire
arms, the sling had come to be regarded as little more than a toy.
   It must not be supposed that it was failure in accuracy that brought the
sling into disfavour as a military weapon ; it is not worth any one's while now
adays to devote the necessary time and labour to acquire proficiency in its
use ; though, even at the present time, there would be no difficulty in finding
many boys who would be by no means desirable antagonists at fifty yards or
so. But in past times, when a man's life and living depended on his skill in
slinging, when as a child he had to earn his meals before eating them, then
the full capabilities of the sling were brought out, and even the bow hardly
overmatched it in absolute accuracy.
   Its real defects as a military weapon were the want of penetrative power in
the missile, especially against armour, but especially the inconvenient extent
of space each slinger required to work in, and the impossibility of discharging
the missiles from anywhere but the front rank. It was the bow's superiority in
these respects, rather than its greater accuracy, that drove the sling out of the
field.
   The simplest form of sling is an oval piece of leather, with a slit in the middle
and a stout string fastened at either end ; one of these strings is looped, the
other plain. In using the sling, a smooth stone is put into the leather, the
slit in which retains it in its place ; the slinger inserts his middle finger in the
loop of the one string, grasping it at the same time firmly in his hand, and
holding the other string firmly and yet so that he can easily let it slip, whirls
the whole swiftly round his head two or three times, and then at the right
moment lets fly the loose string ; the pocket of the sling immediately flies
open, and the stone is discharged with extraordinary velocity.
   The explanation of the great velocity is this : The human arm cannot be
made to move through the air at more than a certain velocity; its power,
therefore, of imparting velocity to stones or other missiles is strictly limited.
Beyond a certain ratio of speed, increase of muscular power has not the least
effect upon the individual's power of projecting missiles to a distance, it only
enables him to cast a greater weight ; but though the arm is thus limited as to
the rate at which it can be made to move through the air, it is possible to add
considerably to its capabilities by mechanical means. Many of our most
ordinary tools and implements, for instance, such as long-handled hammers
and the like, are mere contrivances to gain extra velocity. Many ways have
been invented to effect this with respect to missiles, of which the most striking
are perhaps the sling and the throwing-stick of the Australian blacks, by means

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                      49
of which they are enabled to project their spears with extraordinary force and
velocity.
    The sling in effect lengthens the arm of the person using it, without in
creasing to any perceptible extent the weight to be moved. The hand in
throwing passes through the arc of a circle whose centre is the shoulder of the
thrower, and the stone in the sling does the same ; but the arc through which
the stone passes is larger than that through which the hand passes in exact
proportion with the length of the sling. As, therefore, the sling and hand work
in perfect unison, it is evident that the stone in the sling passes over a larger
space in a given time than when in the hand, which is only another way of
saying that it passes over the same space in less time, or, in scientific language,
has greater velocity.
    If a more solid and reliable sling be required, it should be made entirely of
leather, thongs and all, every detail being carefully finished off and adjusted to
the missile it is intended to use. The missile, too, should, if anything like accu
racy is aimed at, be most carefully constructed. Nothing great can be done
with stones, they are too uncertain in weight and shape ; clay balls, made as
much as possible of equal weight and size, and baked in the ashes, are very
serviceable; but the very best things of all are good-sized leaden bullets: they
travel farther and faster, and are more reliable, than any other procurable
missile ; they have only one drawback—their expense. The slinger might keep
a stock of both—clay for ordinary occasions, lead for special service ; but he
should avoid variety of ammunition as much as possible if he means to attain
to any great skill.
    Armed with a good sling and store of ammunition, a boy may, if his tastes
lie that way, do considerably more execution as a sportsman than many a
more favoured comrade with his envied pistol, and may, after a successful
day's sport, comfort himself that, if the pistol has made more flash and smoke
and waked up more echoes, the sling has given him more sport and decidedly
more exercise.
    Slinging, to be learnt, must, like everything else, be diligently practised ;
proficiency will come much more rapidly than the novice on first handling the
sling would expect.
                                    JAVELIN.
   The ordinary game of Javelin is simplyacontestof skill in hurling the weapons
at a target, and for this purpose the javelins should be rods of ash or fir, about
six feet long, by \\ inches in diameter, and one end must be armed with a
good strong iron spike about two inches in length. The target may be knocked
up out of any pieces of soft wood that are readily obtainable—the lid of a
packing case docs admirably. The circles may be chalked or painted, and
the rings numbered from the outermost ring inwards.
    To throw the javelin: balance it in the hollow of the right hand a little
 behind the ear, the thumb lying along the fingers, firmly pressing down
 upon the shaft ; the left leg must be advanced, and the body poised upon the
 right. Now hurl the javelin at the mark with a quick motion of the arm,
 throwing the body at the same time well forward on to the left leg.
    At first the effect produced will appear by no means commensurate with
 the force expended; but let not that be any discouragement: practice and
 experience will Soon give command over the weapon, and every day's practice
 will lessen the waste of force

5o                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
   Much greater steadiness of flight will be imparted to the javelin, and there
fore much greater accuracy obtained, by bringing the fingers sharply down
wards on the shaft at the moment it leaves the hand, and so inducing a rotating
motion similar to that imparted to an arrow or a rifle-bullet.
   When some progress has been made at the target and fair proficiency
attained, blunt javelins, padded at the end, may be procured, and two or three
players may practise throwing them at one another, studying, besides the art
of throwing them, that of avoiding them, or even catching them in mid-air
and returning them " sharp " to the thrower.
   When first commencing this practice, the thrower should call to the person
aimed af to prepare him for the cast, or the players may chance to give each
other some awkward knocks ; after a time this forewarning will not be so
necessary.
   When the players have acquired sufficient skill to throw quickly and with
effect, and are able to take reasonable care of themselves in avoiding the
missiles aimed at them, they may proceed to make a regular game of it, by
attacking and defending a fort ; a hedge with one or two gaps, and with a good
sloping bank, makes a capital fort.
   They will find this capital fun, only they must be careful that the javelins
are properly padded : with all the padding they can have they will yet give
hard knocks enough to satisfy the most enthusiastic ; without it they would
be positively dangerous.
   Hazel rods, or the long straight stems of the dog rose, make capital javelins
for this purpose ; they should not be over-thick or heavy, and may range from
five to six feet in length : each player should" have about a dozen, eight or nine
in use, and three or four as a reserve in the rear.
   The players having divided into two parties, each with its captain, toss for
choice of position, and then settle down to work. The game is played just
like " Snow Fort," but is decidedly a manlier pastime.
   Both parties should, besides their lighter javelins, be armed with shorter
and stouter sticks, one for each player, like the "pilum " of the Roman
soldiers : these are for close quarters. The defenders will find these very use
ful when some plucky assailant cannot be deterred by the gentle persuasion
of a shower of javelins, but still presses onward up the breach : a well admi
nistered shove from a "fli/itm," so to call it for want of a better name, will
quickly bring him to reason, and send him back whence he came.
   Of course the game must be played with good humour and fair considera
tion for each other. A bad-tempered player should never be admitted, he is
sure to spoil all the fun. It is impossible to avoid hitting hard now and
then, and therefore, if a player cannot take a hard hit occasionally in good
part, he had better not play—for his own sake as well as that of his school
fellows he is better out of the game.
   A bundle of javelins, when the art of throwing them with tolerable accuracy
has been acquired, makes a very good companion in a country walk ; plenty
of objects will be found to exercise them upon, and the practice will be very
useful for the next attack on the fort.
                                  BOOMERANG.
   This is an Australian weapon, and, like the sling, is in its origin a weapon
of war and the chase. At first sight it is an unpromising-looking weapon
enough, being merely a curved piece of flat wood of no very great size or weight,

                           OUTDOOR GAMES.                                            5i
and about as insignificant-looking an object as could well be supposed. But in
the hands of the blacks this simple piece of flat wood can be made to perform
the most marvellous feats : it rushes through the air like " a thing of life ; " at will
he can make it skim the ground like a swallow, or soar into the air like a hawk ;
to strike a distant enemy, or to return in a wide graceful curve till it drops
harmlessly against his own feet.
   Against this strange weapon no trunk of tree or huge mass of rock affords
shelter: the boomerang rushing through the air, past and beyond the concealed
enemy, comes whirling back again with but little abated force, and smites him
from the rear: with spear and boomerang the native Australian must indeed be
a dangerous foe, and one not to be despised even by the white man, with his
still more deadly rifle and revolver.
   The young English boy must not expect to be able to make anything more
than a plaything out of this interesting weapon, he can neither afford the time
nor get the teaching necessary for a thorough mastery of it. To the native
Australian the skilful use of the boomerang forms a great part of the business
of his life, and is indeed one of the conditions on which he lives ; but to
the white man it can only be one out of many aids to relaxation, and he there
fore can no more hope to acquire any great command over this extraordinary
missile, perhaps the most difficult to wield successfully that the ingenuity of
man has ever produced, than he can hope to rival the Japanese jugglers in
their wondrous performances with tops and paper butterflies.
   Any of our young readers who may hereafter become possessed of a boome
rang, and be fired with the ardour of acquiring the art of throwing it, must
be very careful at first in experimenting upon it, for he will find it will have a
tendency to fly off from its course in the most unforeseen manner, and to make
                                                                   4— 2

52                           OUTDOOR GAMES. »
its way into all sorts of unexpected places, generally being exceedingly perverse
in going exactly where it is least wanted to go. A large open field to practise
in, with not more than one or two companions, will be found the best for
safety.
   Little or no instruction can be given verbally in the use of the boomerang:
the young learner must discover for himself the various tricks of the wrist
and hand, simply by dint of a severe course of experiment.
   In the act or throwing, the boomerang is grasped firmly by the end, which
is slightly smoothed off for the hand, and as it leaves the hand is made to
gyrate or revolve on its centre by a quick turn of the wrist ; it is thrown, of
course, edgeways, with the concave side foremost and the flat side downwards.
                                 PEA-SHOOTER.
   The Pea-shooter has long been a favourite with English boys, and is indeed
a weapon replete with endless amusement. The boy is not to be envied who,
with a pea-shooter and a good pocket-full of peas, cannot find himself recrea
tion for hours.
   It is t6 be feared that the pea-shooter is chiefly prized amongst a large
section of the rising generation for the increased opportunities it affords of
mischief, and especially of annoying other people; but there is no earthly
reason why they should do so, other than the love of mischief implanted in
the human breast—a relic, it is to be feared, of the old monkey nature still
strong in many of us—and the tempting facility the pea-shooter offers for
effecting it undiscovered. There are numberless ways of getting fun out of
pea-shooters, which are too well known to need description here ; the best of
these is " the battle of the pea-shooters," in which the players divide into two
parties, and fight with their pea-shooters much in the same way as in the game
with " Snowballs " described before.
   The most effective way to use the pea-shooter in these battles is to keep
up a steady fire of single peas, searching out the weak spots in the enemies'
defence with unrelenting perseverance.
   Against a fire like this the furious discharge of volleys of peas is of but little
avail : it is a case of breech-loading revolver or rifle against the blunderbuss.
   In this way the player, having his mouth full of peas, is able to keep up an
unintermittent fire of missiles, each one of which, in skilful hands, does its
appointed work. He can keep his pea-shooter to his mouth ready for instant
action for long spaces of time together, and if he be dexterous, can, by seizing
the opportunity as it offers, refill his mouth without abandoning his offensive
attitude.
   The player, on the other hand, who works on the volley system, has to re
load after every discharge, leaving himself for that space of time defenceless
before his opponent ; and, moreover, he wastes more than three-fourths of his
peas, for at the most liberal computation he can hardly hope that more than
three or four out of a mouth-full will take effect ; he therefore, it will be seen,
fights at a decided disadvantage, and can only hope to maintain his ground
by adopting the same tactics as his opponents.
   Of course there are cases when a sharp volley will be very effective ; if,
for instance, a player who has worked up near enough to give every pea its full
effect, exposes the whole or a large portion of his face, rattle a heavy volley
into him on the spot by all means, without hesitation. If that does not drive

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                     53
him back to a more respectful distance, he must be exceptionally tough-
skinned or remarkably plucky.
    The same exhortation to good humour holds good in this game as in snow
balling.
                                  CATAPULT.
    The Catapult, though comparatively a modern invention, has attained
wonderful popularity, and few indeed must there be of the young readers who
have not possessed, or at least used, one of these simple but effective weapons,
which for accuracy, handiness, and general capabilities may be fairly said to
rank only next to firearms. Indeed, against small fry such as rats, the smaller
birds, and even squirrels—that is to say, for the general requirements of a boy
—they may be made, in skilful hands, even more effective ; for, while scarcely
less deadly, they are inconspicuous and quite noiseless, and so quite make up
for any deficiency in certainty of execution by giving the young sportsman
more and better chances than he would get if his game were alarmed at the
sound or even the sight of a gun.
    Another advantage they possess, too, over firearms, which should not be
overlooked : they are not dangerous to their possessors, and need not be so to
other people. In London, indeed, and most large towns, their use is forbidden
in the streets, but so are hoops and many other toys which are perfectly harm
less in their place ; in the country they are, of their kind, as safe as anything
a boy can have.
    Catapults are now to be procured cheap at any toy-shop, but they may be
 made at home quite as efficiently with very little trouble. Get a forked stick,
 the shape of the letter Y, about six or seven inches in length, the prongs
 about three inches apart. To the extremity of each of these prongs lash
 securely a strip of India-rubber band or spring about six inches in iength,
 and attach the loose ends of these springs to an oval piece of soft leather,
 1 \ inches long by an inch in width, whipping them carefully and strongly for
 a distance of nearly an inch ; this oval forms a kind of pocket in which to
 place the missile.
    The most useful ammunition is No. 1 shot; clay marbles do very well, and
 even gravel-stones at a pinch may be made to do good service ; but the first-
 named arc preferable in every way, for range, accuracy, penetration, and

54                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
portability ; they can be fired in volleys, too, when occasion requires, which
the others cannot, on account of their size.
    With a tolerably powerful catapult, such a one, for instance, as described
above, no game a boy is likely to be entitled to shoot will be safe from his
attack; even such large birds as the wood pigeon, the missel thrush, and the
like, may be brought down by a well-directed volley of heavy shot.
    Not many months before this was penned, within the writer's own know
ledge, a little boy, just ten years old, fetched down a sparrow-hawk out of a
tree adjoining a farmyard : he had been watching him sailing about for some
time, and at last, when he settled in the tree, crept up under the shelter of a
wall and gave him a heavy dose of shot, one of which pierced the hawk's
brain, and fetched him headlong to the ground, as may be imagined, to the
inexpressible delight of the young sportsman, a delight shared no doubt by
the affrighted "feathered natives of the farm."
    Since such are the powers of the weapon, it will become its possessor to be
careful in the usage of it. This is a caution we have had to repeat several
times before ; but accidents do happen with unpleasant frequency from care
lessness, and therefore the necessity for caution can scarcely be too strenuously
insisted on.
                                CLEFT STICK.
    Get a stick of tough wood, ash for choice, about thirty inches in length and
three-quarters of an inch in thickness, tapering, perhaps, a little towards one
end ; with a sharp knife split the smaller end down longitudinally to a depth
of about four inches, taking care to do so exactly in the middle. Now whip
it round strongly with waxed string, beginning about i\ inches from the end
and working downwards.
    Now take a smooth flat pebble, force it well into the cleft or slit, take hold
of the stick by the butt-end, and throw. The stone will fly out as if from a
sling; indeed the cleft stick is nothing more than a sling, only that it is rigid
instead of flexible. At first beware how you throw; take care nobody is
within hitting distance, for until the right knack is acquired, the stone is wont
to fly about in a very independent manner, and it may not improbably find a
very unexpected and unwelcome billet. It would be well to avoid the neighbour
 hood of much glass for a similar reason.
    The stone is made to leave the stick at the right moment by a kind of jerk,
which will soon come of itself to a boy of any natural aptitude, but which
cannot well be described on paper.
    In places where clay is tolerably abundant, a very similar effect may be
 produced by kneading lumps of clay round the top of a pliant stick, and
 throwing them as above described. These clay lumps, when they strike against
 anything, a tree or a post, flatten out and adhere to it with great tenacity.
    Sometimes boys will get up a battle of clay lumps ; but they should always
 keep at a good distance from each other, forty or fifty yards at the least. Even
 at that distance a blow from a clay lump in the face will often leave a deep red
 mark as a memento of its visit, and not even the clothes will afford perfect
 immunity from their visitations.
     The clay should be affixed to the stick some inches from the end ; the exact
 distance varies with the nature and humidity of the clay, the weight of the
 lump, and the shape and surface of the stick ; a very few trials will give a very
  fair approximation to the right distance, for which no absolute rule can be
 given.

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                   55
                                 CROSS-BOW.
   A Cross-bow is in effect nothing more nor less than an ordinary bow set
crosswise in a butt in shape like an ordinary gun-stock.
   The object of its first invention as a weapon of war was to obtain greater
accuracy and in some sort greater propelling power with less muscular exertion.
Some of the old cross-bows made of steel were very powerful, but they required
a lever or winch to set them, and were, take them in all, so unwieldy that they
never superseded the old long-bow, which, in English hands especially, on
many a hard-fought field proved its complete superiority to all rivals. The
mishaps of the Genoese cross-bowmen at Cressy will at once occur to the
young reader's mind.
   The Chinese even to this day make a partial use of the cross-bow in warfare.
They have even invented a kind of repeater, one that once charged will shoot
                            ^
off several arrows in succession, the archer having not even to re-set the bow
each time, and only needing to work a lever backwards and forwards.
   The modern cross-bow, used as a plaything, has been very much driven
out of favour by the invention of the catapult, which for rat or bird-shooting,
and other aggressive purposes, is infinitely preferable on many accounts, as
being more handy, more easily concealed about the person, and infinitely more
deadly as a weapon.
   A great deal of amusement, however, may be got out of a cross-bow by
shooting at a butt or target. In default of more properly constructed missiles,
pieces of tobacco-pipe form excellent bolts, and will give a very good account
of a piece of paper at a dozen paces or so.
                  THROWING THE CRICKET BALL.
   As this is an accomplishment of extreme value in the cricket-field, as well
as in competitive games, the young reader is very strongly recommended to
take it up with extra zeal. In throwing the ball the body has almost as much
to do as the arm : a backward flexion of the body and sudden recoil simul
taneously with the act of delivering the ball will produce a wonderful accele
rating effect upon the flight of the ball. The most common fault into which
throwers fall is that they do not give the ball enough elevation. In actual
cricket a ball should be thrown at as low an elevation as the distance to be
traversed will permit ; but when, as in the case we are discussing, distance

56                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
only is the object aimed at, the ball should be delivered at an angle of 450,
which is the angle at which a missile must be delivered to attain its extremest
range. To find this angle, stretch your arm straight out from the shoulder,
next raise it straight above the head, then let it fall till it is half-way between
the two positions: that will be the required angle. It will appear preposter-
ously'high at first, but it is the true angle for the purpose, and experience will
soon prove the fact satisfactorily.
                        THROWING THE HAMMER.
   This is a feat only to be attempted by well-grown lads. The hammer may
be an ordinary sledge hammer, but there is a shape manufactured expressly
for the purpose : a shell or hollow shot affixed to the extremity of a long
handle.
   The weight is entirely optional, and should be carefully apportioned to the
powers of the throwers.
   The method of delivering the hammer looks at first sight somewhat eccen
tric : the thrower, instead of standing still, and delivering from the fulcrum
of a firm footing, or taking a step or two forward to gain additional impetus,
starts from some little distance behind " the scratch," waltzes slowly round
and round, swinging the hammer at the same time in a great circle at the full
extent of his arms, and with constantly increasing velocity, and finally delivers
it at " the scratch " just as it has attained its greatest momentum.
    The rationale of this is, that the real projectile force is derived rather from
the impetus already acquired by the missile in its circular swing at the time
of delivery, than by any sudden impulse then imparted to it.
    Although at first sight this feat would seem to be a mere matter of brute
strength, in effect it is really more dependent upon skill and dexterity than
many that arc apparently more scientific; catcris paribus, skill will beat brute
force out of the field.
    The beginner will at first find no inconsiderable difficulty in governing the
direction of the hammer's flight ; but this, although of vital importance, is the
least difficulty to be overcome.
    The real secret of successful throwing lies in the happy timing of foot and
 hand, so that the body is brought round to the scratch exactly at the most
 favourable moment, and in the most favourable position to give full effect to
 the already acquired impetus of the missile, and this can only be done with
 any certainty by first undergoing a long course of patient practice, starting
 always from precisely the same distance behind the scratch, taking precisely
 the same number of steps, and revolving precisely the same number of times,
 until the whole action of delivery becomes purely mechanical.
    But even here the beginner must not flatter himself that he has come to
 the end of his troubles : he has now to learn to let go his hold of the hammer
 just at the critical moment; and this is by no means so easy a task as he
 might think; one second, or the hundredth part of a second, too soon or too
 late, will make a difference in the distance covered by the thrower, a difference
 perhaps of feet, when the contest is turning upon inches.
     In throwing the hammer, the same rule must be borne in mind to which
  we have called attention in throwing the cricket ball, namely, that for all
  missiles a trajectory at an angle of 45° is that which gives the highest results
  when distance only is aimed at.

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                    57
                             DUCK AND DRAKE.
   This is a very simple method of whiling away the time when nothing better
is to the fore. A small sheet of water and plenty of smooth, flat stones, oyster-
shells, or bits of crockery are the only requirements.
   The stones are thrown so as to skim like a swallow along the surface of the
water, touching and flying off again in a series of "ricochets" at constantly
shorter intervals, until they finally sink exhausted in the water.
   To the three first dips or "ricochets" the thrower cries out, "Dick, duck,
drake!" hence the name of the sport; and a proud time it is for the beginner
when he first succeeds in reaching the third.
   A little practice will soon enable the thrower to make the stone dip seven
or eight or even more times.
   When two or more are together, it is usual for them to match themselves
against each other as to who shall score the highest number of dips in a given
number of throws.
                                     QUOITS.
   Quoits are iron rings, flat on one side and rounded on the other, with a sharp
outer edge : their average weight is four or five pounds per pair. The game
is played by pitching them from a distance at a short peg, technically termed
the " Hob." Two of these pegs or hobs are set in the ground at a distance
of from eighteen to twenty yards apart, the distance being entirely at the
option of the players. Each player is armed with two quoits, and these they
throw from hob to hob, trying, if possible, to pitch them actually over the hob,
 so as to " ring ¦ it. The game is counted in the same way as in bowls, the
 usual number to play for being eleven.

58                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
   The mode of holding the quoit is shown in the accompanying illustration.
The flat side is held downwards, the forefinger is placed in a small notch,
which is to be found in all quoits, and the thumb and other fingers are shown
as seen in the engraving. By means of the forefinger a spinning movement
is given to the quoit, so as to enable it to fall with its edge downwards. If
properly thrown, the quoit ought to pass through the air without showing the
slightest vibration, and when it falls it ought to stick in the ground at an angle
of 450, with its flat side towards the thrower. No correct play can be made
until the art of holding and throwing steadily has been mastered.
   The best hob is made from gutta percha, as an iron hob cuts the edges of
                             the quoits to pieces if they strike it ; and as a good
                             player will be sure to strike the hob several times in
                             a game, this damage must be prevented. There is
                             no pleasure in playing with a ragged-edged quoit,
                             as it tears the hand, and cannot be depended upon
                             for setting fairly in the ground. When the hob is
                             fixed, a hole should be made and the hob pressed
                              into it until it is an inch at least below the surface.
                             A white feather is then stuck into a little hole in the
      HOB AND QUOIT.
                             head of the hob, and the players throw at the feather.
                              Of course a store of feathers should be kept.
   The ground should be carefully cleared of stones, and at each end a round
hole, some six feet in diameter, and six inches deep, should be dug, and the
space filled with clay. In the middle of the clay is the place for the hob.
This clay " End " should be always kept damp, and in dry weather it should
be watered and occasionally re-laid.
   The quoit is best aimed by holding it so as to look at the hob through it,
and it should be thrown, not from the elbow, but with
a swing of the arm from the shoulder. The art of
throwing it correctly cannot be adequately imparted
on paper ; it is not, however, difficult to learn from
personal instruction. If thcv quoit be not thrown
quite steadily, that is, if it be" a " wabbler," it is apt
to roll away from the pitch, instead of sticking into
the ground, or, worse still, to turn with the flat side
up, in which latter case it is considered dead, and
cannot be counted for the game.
   When only two are playing, the quoits are thrown
from either hob alternately, the players following
their quoits, and throwing them backwards and for
wards; but when four play it is customary for a pair
of opponents to stand at each hob, and so make the
same set of quoits do for both.
   This is a very interesting game for two or four—
more cannot conveniently play at it ; it has, too, one
great recommendation, that the actual result of the
game can never be known until the last quoit has
been cast : whatever the previous position of the game, a " ringer " may
change the whole aspect of affairs. As in bowls, each quoit that is " in "
counts one to the game, and a " ringer " counts two, and of course cuts out
all other quoits whatsoever.

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                       59
                                   SKITTLES.
    This is a game, unfortunately, not of very good repute, not from any intrinsic
defects of its own, but because the cheapness of its fittings, added to its natural
attractions, has made a skittle alley the constant adjunct to almost every low
public house or common beer-shop ; and thus the game itself has become, in
the minds of the unthinking many, to be associated with scenes of low
gambling and dissipation.
    The game itself, however, is by no means responsible for these abuses ; it is
a capital exercise for the muscles, requires no mean skill, and is altogether a
first-rate amusement for a small party of not more than four or six.
    The game is played with four egg-shaped pins or skittles, which are set up
at the corners of a square platform, and which it is the player's endeavour to
knock down with a heavy bowl or cheese-shaped ball in as few throws as
 possible. The accompanying illustration will show at a glance the nature of
 the " alley " and the method of play. The ball, it must be remembered, is
 pitched upon the pins, not bowled at them.
    There are several ways of counting the game in vogue in various parts of
 the country. The simplest is that of counting by " pins " in a given number
 of throws— three, six, or nine—he who knocks down most being the winner.
 Sometimes the game is counted by points—three throws each hand are allowed.
 If all the pins be knocked down first throw, it counts a " treble " or three
 points ; if in two throws, a " double " or two points ; if in three, a " single " or
 one point. If a pin be left standing after the third throw it counts nothing.
 At the end of three hands the points are compared, the highest being winner.
     At the first glance at the pins it would appear impossible to fetch them all
 down at one throw, even with the most extraordinary good fortune ; but it may
 be done, and that time after time, if the ball be only rightly pitched ; and this
  is the way to do it: pitch the ball high, with a kind of swing round, so as to

6o                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
drop it almost perpendicularly upon the right side of the nearest pin : if this
be done rightly it will send the pin flying against the one to its left, of course
flooring them both, and will itself spring off to that on the right, strike against
that on the inside, floor it, and rebound upon No. 4, thus clearing the lot.
This is, of course, the most brilliant play, but as it is rather hazardous— a miss
of the first pin being almost invariably a total miss—it should only be tried
on emergency.
   The safest way, and the most effective, too, in the long run, is to play for
the double, and pick off the pins by pairs. In this way you are not obliged
to take the pin so "fine," and, in consequence, are less liable to make a complete
miss, being pretty sure of one of the pins ; and thus, in case of failure with
one pair, you will still have a throw to save your " single."
                                 DUTCH PINS.
   This game is played somewhat in the same manner as skittles, but is, in our
 estimation, inferior to that despised though capital game. Nine wooden pins
are set upright on a frame, the central pin being called the king and having a
 crown on its head. A very large and heavy ball is thrown at the pins from a
 short distance, and the thrower counts one for each pin, and two for the king.
 The ball is remarkable for having two holes: in one of these the thumb is
 placed, and in the other the forefinger.
                                   NINEPINS.
   This game is very similar to skittles, but it differs in several details. The
 pins are nine, as the game implies, instead of four, and the ball is bowled
 instead of being thrown. The method of counting is much the same—by the
 number of pins knocked down.

                              OUTDOOR GAMES.                                     61
   There is not any particular difficulty in knocking down several of the pins
at first, the great art lies in selecting the pins ; that is, in knocking them down
in such order, that each shot leaves the remaining pins standing in the way
most suitable for the next. Success in the game depends a great deal, too,
upon the "bias" imparted to the ball: as in bowls, a judicious use of "bias"
will often get the player out of a difficulty which he could overcome in no other
way.
   Apropos of ninepins there is a good story told of the Americans. The
game had become a prolific source of gambling in some of the States, so a
restrictive law was passed forbidding the game altogether. The players were
in despair, till at last an inventive genius hit upon the brilliant idea of adding
another pin, and so playing ten pins, which of course did not come within the
law. The tenth pin did not materially alter the game, for as they had no use
for it, but only wanted its name, it was left to repose snugly on a neighbouring
shelf.
                              AMERICAN BOWLS.
   This is a good game, but it requires rather an elaborate court. Each court
is a long narrow alley, the centre of it floored with oak planking. As this
floor must be very smooth and very level, the planks are only six inches wide,
and there are generally twenty-four of them. Pins are set up at one end, and
the balls are bowled at them from the other. The scoring is by trebles,
doubles, and singles, as at skittles. (See page 59.) Along the right hand of
the alley runs a wooden trough, slightly sloping from the top to the bottom.
As fast as the balls are bowled, a boy picks them up and puts them in the
trough, so that they roll gently back again to the hand of the bowler. The
balls are of different weights, but the players will find that the skittles will fall
in proportion to the size of the ball, so that he should use the largest ball that
he can manage properly

62                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                     BOWLS.
   This is a game that once enjoyed extreme popularity in England amongst
the upper and middle classes—it never seems to have taken much hold of the
lower. We have constant allusions to it in the works of our standard authors,
and most of them, from Shakspeare downwards, draw freely upon its vocabu
lary of technical terms to illustrate an argument or point a pithy saying. And
more than one proverb has drawn its inspiration from the chances and vicis
situdes of this game.
   Of late years, especially since the introduction of croquet, bowls has some
what lost ground in public estimation ; but even now it can boast no small
popularity, and few of our towns, or even of our larger villages, are without
their one or more bowling-greens.
   The game may be played upon any lawn or smooth piece of turf, but to
bring out all its beauties and perfections a properly appointed green is requisite.
 This need not, however, be absolutely level : a trifling inequality of surface
here and there rather enhances than decreases the interest of the game.
   The bowls from which the game takes its name are balls of lignum-vita? or
other hard wood, varying in weight and size according to the capacity or fancy
of the player. In commencing the game, a smaller ball called the " Jack "—
in size and shape like a cricket ball—is thrown forward by one of the party,
and the players, divided into two sides, deliver their bowls, one of either side,
alternately in succession. The object of each party is to get as many of their
own bowls as close to the Jack as possible, and to keep their opponents'. away.
   The game is wonderfully simple in principle, so much so that the veriest
tyro can grasp its whole theory at the first onset ; yet in reality it offers an
opening for skill andfinesse to which there is no practical limit, and to this, we
may be assured, is mainly owing its long-continued popularity. Space would
fail us to give anything like a complete code of instructions to our young
readers ; a short review of the leading principles of play must suffice.
   The player, in delivering his ball, has, as a general principle of invariable
application, two things to consider : first, the direction in which his ball is to
travel ; and secondly, the strength required to send it the exact distance and
no farther. If he be first player this is literally all he has to think of: he has
but to place his ball, if he can so contrive it, close up to the Jack, covering it
from the attacks of any succeeding balls ; this done he has done all that can
be done— it is for his successors to get out of the difficulty in which he has left
them. He must remember, by the way, that if he wishes his bowl to run
straight he must deliver it exactly upright ; the least inclination or bias to one
side or the other will make it describe a curve more or less rapid according
to its greater or less deviation from the upright. In the thorough command of
the bowls in this matter of bias centres almost the whole science of the game.
   Supposing the first player to have "laid up" his bowl as above described,
what is the next player to do ? Three courses will be open to him, in the
selection of which circumstances only can guide him. He may try to lay his
bowl alongside the Jack, gently shouldaring the adversary away ; he may, by
striking the adversary's bowl hard with his own, drive it upon the Jack, and by
the communicated force send the latter flying far away from both ; or he may,
by a skilful use of the bias, steal his own bowl gently round his adversary's,
and carry the Jack quietly away in company. This latter is the neatest, and,

                             OUTDOOR GAMES.                                  63
if successful, by far the most paying method. It is, however, undoubtedly the
most difficult and most uncertain, and should only be attempted by a practised
player. It makes little difference practically in this latter case whether the
bowl or the Jack be struck, in either event bowl No. 1 is cut out, which is the
principal object in view, and bowl No. 2 takes its place, which is the next.
    The end of the game, or rather the end of the round, is the critical time,
when all the bowls but one or two have been delivered. Supposing only one
bowl remains to be delivered, and the Jack is in the midst of a crowd of
friends and foes, the opponents having the advantage, the question " What to
do?" becomes a very serious one. The following hints may serve as a general
guide, but they must not be followed too abjectly; there may always be
modifying circumstances which it would be impossible to take into account
beforehand, but which must certainly be considered at the moment.
    If your friends have a number of bowls round the Jack, and the enemy
have only one, but that one the nearest to it, your play would be, not to lay
up closer to the Jack than this opposition bowl, and so cut it out, but to
play hard at it and drive it away, and so leave your friends masters of the
situation. Of course, if you can't get at the bowl safely, you must be content
with simply cutting it out.
    If your opponents have a crowd of balls round the Jack, so that you can
 do nothing with certainty, let drive hard in amongst them and effect as great
 a " scatteration " as possible. You thus certainly injure your enemies, which
 is the next best thing to helping your friends, and you may by good fortune
 achieve that too into the bargain. Only be careful that in the endeavour to
 bowl very hard indeed you do not lose the control of your ball, and so miss
 your aim altogether.
    If the enemies' bowls be crowded as above, but leave you a fair shot at the
 Jack, don't be carried away by the ambition of cutting them out, the odds
 are too heavy in case of failure; but rather play hard at the Jack, and
 drive it clean away from everybody, on the dog-in-the-manger principle that
 if you can't get any benefit from it vourself, no one else shall.

64                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
   If, however, yam friends have one or two bowls "in," that is, nearer the
Jack than any others, and the enemy have a group round only just not
" in," you will do well, if you are not a proficient, to be content to leave the
matter alone, since you may scarcely better the position of affairs, and are
not at all unlikely to do harm. Of course it would be better play to get your
own bowl " in " as well ; but the old proverb holds good here, if nowhere else,
that a " bird in the hand is worth two in the bush."
   When the round has been played, that is, when all the bowls—which, by
the way, are numbered in pairs for distinction—have been delivered, the
players proceed to count for the game. This is done as follows : the side to
which the bowl nearest to the Jack belongs count one for that, and the same
for every other bowl they have which is nearer than any of the opponents'.
If, therefore, the second nearest bowl is an enemy's, the side only counts one;
if the third, only two, and so on. It is necessary, however, that a bowl should
be within a given distance, previously agreed upon, of the Jack, or it does
not count. This distance varies with the size of the ground ; on an ordinary
green a yard will be found a very fair distance. Sometimes a " tie " takes
place ; that is, the two nearest bowls are at exactly the same distance from
the Jack : in this case neither side counts anything, the round being simply
lost.
   The numbers agreed upon for " game " varies with the number of players,
thirteen, fifteen, and twenty-one being the more common.
                              LAWN BILLIARDS.
   This game is a favourite one in many places, and is useful in one respect,
namely, that it can be played in a comparatively limited space. Indeed, a
large lawn is unsuitable to the game, and if the ground be of too great dimen
sions, it will be better to enclose a circular space, as seen in the illustration.
   The materials for the game are simple. In the first place there are eight
or ten balls of different colours, a stick or cue by which to propel them, and
a revolving ring through which they are to be passed. We will describe these
articles in rotation.
                                                 jgg ..I'liiiiii.Mifj .11,1   -—.
   The balls are generally a foot in circumference, and ought to be made of
some hard and heavy wood. An ordinary set of croquet balls will answer the
purpose perfectly well.
   The ring is usually made of iron, though brass is perhaps better, and, as
may be seen in the diagram, has a shank or neck. When it is to be used, a
large wooden peg is driven into the ground, with the top a little below the
surface, and into it a hole is bored, large enough to receive the shank of the
ring, and to let it revolve freely.
   The cue is made of two parts, namely, a wooden handle and a metal tip of
rather a peculiar shape. The reader will see, by reference to the illustration,
that this tip is also ring-shaped, and that it is fixed at an angle with the

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                       65
handle. This formation enables the ball to be played better than if the cue
and tip were in a line. Sometimes each player has a cue, but as a general
rule one cue only is required, and is handed round to the players in succession.
   The objects of the game are very simple, and the rules scarcely less so.
Each player endeavours to pass his ball through the ring, and every time he
can do so he scores one point. If his ball runs through the ring after striking
another ball, he adds two to his score. The ball must not be pushed through
the ring with the cue touching it, neither may it be thrown through. After
making a successful stroke, the player does not go on with the game, as in
croquet, but makes way for the next player.
   In this game there is more play than at first appears to be the case. If,
for example, a player finds the hoop turned edgewise to him, he can either
place his own ball so as to obstruct the next stroke of the enemy, or, by
dexterous play at the ring, can turn it edgewise to the enemy next in succession.
Sometimes he will strike a ball belonging to his own party so as to put it into
position, or will strike away the ball of an enemy who seems likely to make
a successful stroke.
   A really good player will often contrive to pass the ring even though it be
almost edgewise to him. If the ring be turned in the least to one side or the
other, he will play at it with a peculiar push of his cue, and strike it a little on
one side. If this be properly done, and with moderate force, the ring spins
round, and catches the ball in its progress. The effect of this sudden shock
is, that the ball vibrates backwards and forwards for a moment, and finally
settles on the opposite side of the hoop.
   Half the amusement of this game consists In having a ring only jus» large
enough to let the balls pass through, and so neatly poised as to revolve with
a touch. The best plan for securing this latter point is to have a metal socket

66                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
(et into the wooden peg. If so, care must be taken that the socket be brass
if the ring be iron, and vice versd. Both shank and socket should be kept
well oiled.
                                      GOLF.
   Golf (pronounced goff) is chiefly a Scotch game, but it is played in many
parts of England where there is a suitable piece of common land in the neigh
bourhood. Blackheath Common is especially frequented by golfers, and there
the game may be seen by the curious almost any day, but especially on Satur
day afternoons.
    It is played with a ball about ij inches in diameter, now-a-days made of
gutta percha, but formerly of leather stuffed with feathers, and painted white.
This ball is driven along the ground or through the air by clubs of various
shapes and constructions, to be severally employed according to the nature of
the ground. Each player has his own ball and his own set of clubs, which
latter are carried by an attendant, technically termed a " caddie."
                                                          BEES
    The game is played as follows : A series of small holes, four inches in
diameter, are cut in the turf at a distance of from one to four hundred yards
apart, according to the capabilities of the ground, on the circumference of a
great circle, and the rival players, starting from beside the first hole, work
round the circle, each endeavouring to. " make his holes " in a less number of
strokes than his antagonist, and they count for game thus :
    Supposing A and B to be playing, A makes his first hole in five strokes, B in
six ; A counts one to his game. The next hole B wins ; they are now one and
one. The next two perhaps they achieve in the same number of strokes.
These count to neither, or what comes to the same thing, they arc li halved."'
 If A then manages thus to make more holes than B, he is declared winner by
 so many holes.
    Space would fail to enter fully into the minutiae of the game ; a few hints
 as to the correct way of standing and hitting, with some general remarks, are
 all that can be compassed here.
    First, to hold and use the club. , Grasp the handle with both hands firmly
 but not too tight, lift it slowly over the right shoulder (see left hand figure in
 cut), and bring it down smartly but steadily on the ball, letting the lower
 surface of the butt-end just skim the ground. The action should be more of
 a steady sweep than a blow, and the club must be allowed to follow on in its
 swing after the ball, and not be brought up abruptly after the stroke.
     Accuracy and clean hitting are far more effective than hard hitting, and

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                      67
      ^ ^ .,               ,^\» 'w
should be specially studied : if the ball be only taken properly, a comparatively
slight muscular exertion will send it an amazing distance.
   But it is not only a true and correct style of hitting that will serve the
purpose of the striker ; it is indispensable that he should also stand correctly.
A very slight error in this important item will entirely vitiate all the results of
even the most scientific manipulation of the club.
   The feet should be set firmly on the ground, about eighteen inches apart,
the toe of the left foot opposite the ball, and at a distance exactly proportioned
to the length of the handle of the club employed. If the striker be too near,
the ball is liable to be taken by the heel of the club—technically "heeled"—
and will have a tendency to the right of the direct line. If too far from it,
the club is apt to take the ball with its " toe," or extremity, thus " drawing " or
" hooking" it to the left of the true line.
   But this correct driving of the ball is, after all, only the very A B C of the
game ; the real triumph of skill is in accurate and judicious " putting " (pro
nounced as in cutting). When the ball has been driven up to within a few
yards of a hole, the novice would suppose that the most important part of his
work was over, whereas, on the contrary, the real struggle for the hole is only
just going to begin.
   So many circumstances have to be taken into consideration in making a
" put " (pronounced as in cut),—the nature and " lie " of the ground ; the
strength required to traverse the exact distance and no farther; the position
of one's own ball, and very often the position of the adversary's, which may
chance to be between it and the hole ; and last, though very often not least,
the general condition of the game, by which must be decided whether to
play boldly or cautiously. With all these against him, it will not be sur
                                                                   5— 2

68                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
prising that as a general thing " putting " is the last thing in which a player
acquires real proficiency. The right hand figure in the cut is making a " put."
   For much of our information in this interesting game we are indebted to
the kindness of Messrs. Chambers, to whose excellent little handbook on Golf
and Curling we would refer those who desire further information than our
limited space enables us to afford.
                                   BASE BALL.
   This game, which has attained an immense popularity in the United States
of America, is nothing more nor less than a kind of glorified " Rounders." It
is rounders, in fact, improved and reduced to a system ; the two games bearing
much the same relation to each other that the cricket of to-day does to the
cricket of a hundred years back.
   The following rules for the game are taken from those adopted and published
by the National Association of Base Ball Players of New York, dated the
9th December, 1863.
    1. The ball must weigh not less than 5 J- ounces, and not more than 5 f ; and
        must measure not less than 9 j, and not more than 9f inches in circum
        ference. It must be composed of India-rubber and yarn covered with
        leather.
    2. The bat must be round, and must not exceed 2 j inches in diameter at
        the thickest part ; the length is left to the discretion of the striker.
    3. The bases, four in number, must be securely fastened at the corners of
        a square whose side is thirty yards. They must be so constructed as
        to be plainly visible to the umpire, and must cover respectively a space
        equal to one square foot. The first, second, and third bases shall be
        canvas bags, painted white and stuffed with sand or sawdust ; the home
        base to be marked by a circular iron plate coloured white. A similar
        mark shall also be used for the pitcher's post.
    4. The base from which the ball is struck shall be called the home base ;
        the first base is that on the right hand of the striker ; the second, that
        opposite to him ; and the third, that on his left. Chalk lines must be
        drawn from the home base to the first and third bases respectively, so
        as to be plainly visible to the umpire.
     5. The pitcher's position shall be marked by two lines, four yards in length,
        drawn at right angles to a line from home to second base, having their
        centres upon that line at two fixed iron plates, placed at points fifteen
        and sixteen yards respectively from the home base. The pitcher must
        stand within these lines, and must deliver the ball as nearly as possible
         over the centre of the home base, and suitably for the striker.
    6. Should the pitcher fail repeatedly to deliver fair balls to the striker, for
         the apparent purpose of delaying the game, or from any other cause,
         the umpire, after warning him, shall call "One ball;" and if the
        pitcher persists in such action, " Two " and " Three balls ;" when three
        balls shall have thus been called, the striker shall be entitled to the first
         base, and each occupant of a base at the time shall be entitled to the
         next, without the liability to being put out.
     7. The ball must be pitched, not jerked or thrown, to the bat, and a "balk"
         must be called if he make pretence or offer to throw the ball without
         doing so; or he be not inside his ground, or either foot be off the
         ground at the moment of deliver)-.

                               OUTDOOR GAMES.                                       69
    8. A balk entitles every holder of a base to make the next, with the same
         impunity as before.
    9. If a ball from a stroke of the bat take the ground, touch the person of a
        player or any other object, between home and the first or third base,
         the umpire must call " Foul."
   10. A player making the home base shall be entitled to score one run.
  11. If three balls are struck at and missed, and the last one is not caught
        either flying or at the first bound, it shall be considered fair, and the
        striker must attempt to make his run.
  1 2. The striker is out if a foul ball be caught either flying or at the first
        bound ; or if three balls be struck at and missed and the ball be caught
        as before ; or if the ball be similarly caught from a fair stroke of the
        bat ; or if a fair ball, after being struck, be held by a player on first base
        before the striker touches that base.
  13. Any player running the bases is out if at any time he be touched by the
        ball while in play in the hands of an adversary, unless some part of his
        person be on the base.
  J4- No ace or base can be made on a foul ball : such ball shall be considered
        " dead " and out of play until it shall be settled in the hands of the
        pitcher. In such case players running bases must return to those they
        started from, and in so returning may be put out in the same manner
        as the striker in making his first base.
  15. No ace or base can be made when a fair ball has been caught before
        touching the ground. In such cases players running bases must return
        as above, subject to a similar risk of being put out. But after the ball
        has been so caught, players may start to run their bases at their discre
        tion, subject to the ordinary risks of being put out.
 16. The strikers must stand on a line drawn through the centre of the home
        base, their feet on either side of it, and parallel with the line occupied
        by the pitcher. Players must strike in regular rotation; the order
        agreed upon at the beginning being continued throughout the match,
        from innings to innings. The next man to the last man out in one
        innings being the first striker in the succeeding.
 17. Players must make their bases in the order of striking, and when a fair
       ball is struck and not caught, as in Rule 15, players holding bases to
       which another player must of necessity run must vacate them and make
       for the next, subject to being put out as in Rule 1 3.
 1 8. Players running bases must touch them, and so far as possible keep upon
       the direct line between them. Should any player run more than three
       feet out of this line to avoid the ball in the hands of an adversary, he
       shall be declared out.
 19. Any player who shall intentionally obstruct an adversary in catching or
       fielding a ball shall be declared out.
20. If a player in making his base be obstructed by an adversary, he shall
       be entitled to that base, and cannot be put out.
21. If a fieldsman stops the ball with his bat or cap, or takes it from the
       hand of any one not engaged in the game, no player can be put out
       until the ball shall first have been settled in the hands of the pitcher.
22. If two hands are already out, no player running home at the time a ball
       is struck can make an ace if the striker is put out.
13. The game shall consist of nine innings to each side.

7o                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
    24. In playing matches, nine players on a side shall constitute a full field.
    25. Should a striker stand at the bat without striking at good balls repeatedly
          pitched to him, the umpire, after warning him, shall call " One strike,"
          and, if he persists in such action, " Two " and " Three strikes." When
          three strikes are called, he shall be subject to the same rule as if he had
          struck at three fair balls.
    The Ground.—For the purposes of this game it is necessary, if really fine
play be contemplated, to have a sheet of turf smooth as a cricket-field. There
is, of course, no necessity for the ultra-smoothness of the " between wickets,"
but the out-fielding ought to be at least as good in one as in the other. For
men the field should be about two hundred yards long by a hundred and fifty
yards broad ; but for boys a field of considerably less dimensions will serve all
reasonable requirements.
    In laying out the ground, which had better be done permanently, it is well
to start with the home base, which should be marked out about twenty yards
from one end of the field ; measure from this along the field one hundred and
twenty-seven feet four inches for your second base. Now, for the first and
third attach a cord sixty yards long, with a knot in the middle, to the rings of
the home and second base, stretch this as far as it will go to the right for the
first base, which will be marked by the knot, and to the left for the third.
 Mark also a point fifteen yards from the home in the direction of the second
 base for the pitcher's post.
    The bases should be marked by letting a short stout post into the ground,
just leaving the top flush with the surface, and a stout iron ring must be screwed
into each as a point of attachment for the canvas cushions described in Rule 3.
     The striker is left to follow his own fancy as to the length of his bat, and, so
 long as it is of wood, is not tied down by any regulation. Ash is, perhaps, the
most generally serviceable, but willow will be, perhaps, preferred by those who
 like a light bat.
     There is no rule as to the manner of handling of the bat, this also being
 left to the individual fancy of the player.
     The Game.—The rules for striking and running are precisely the same as
 in " Rounders." Each player counts one to the score every time he completes
 the circuit of the bases, and two if he makes an ace or rounder, that is, gets
 all round and home off one strike.
     The Field.— The nine fieldsmen are placed as follows, their names indi
 cating their positions : the Catcher or Back-stop, a few yards behind the striker,
 to catch or stop the ball ; the Pitcher, at the pitching-post, to serve the ball ;
 the Short-stop, about ten yards behind the pitcher, as a near field and general
  utility man inside the bases ; three Base-tenders, one for each base, whose duty
  it is, when a runner is making for a base, to stand with one foot on the cushion
  in readiness to catch the ball. The other three, called respectively Right-field,
  Centre-field, and Left-field, stand well out in the positions their names indicate.
     The same qualities are required in a fieldsman for this game as in "Cricket:"
  great activity and alertness, a safe pair of hands for a catch, extreme dexterity
  in meeting and stopping a ball, and above all, without which the rest will be
  of little avail, perfect accuracy in returning it to the pitcher or base-tender as
  occasion may require.
      Further, an umpire and scorer are required, the former of whom must be
  thoroughly up in the rules of the game, and should see that they are rigidly
  enforced.

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                      7i
    This will be found a very good game where suitable ground is procurable,
 and might *ith great advantage be cultivated at the slack time between cricket
 and football : especially is it suitable for those occasional hot days in spring,
 *hich so sorely tempt the cricketer to disregard all prudential considerations
 as to the yet tender turf, and break the spell of winter too early. For such
 days, this game seems exactly suited : let us hope that, it may have at least a
 fair trial.
                                    CURLING.
   This game is in all its leading features nothing more than a game of bowls
on the ice, only that, to suit the altered circumstances, instead of balls rolled
over the turf of a " green," large flat stones are employed, which are caused to
slide along the surface of a sheet of ice.
                                        =£=
                                     ThBRink.
   As a first preliminary, a figure is marked out on the ice, as in the accom
panying diagram. This is called the " Rink," and may vary in length according
to circumstances from thirty-two to forty-two yards. The circles at either end
are called " Broughs," and the central mark in each the " Tee."

  72                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
    The object of the game is to get as many stones of one side as possible
 nearer to the tee than those of the other, only those inside the brough to
 count : exactly as in bowls, the endeavour is to lie up to the " Jack."
    The stones employed are cheese-shaped, with flat top and bottom, with a
 handle on the upper side for the player to grasp them by. They must noc
 weigh less than thirty pounds nor more than fifty pounds, and their greatest
 circumference must not be more than thirty-six inches.
    Each player is armed with a broom or besom, with which he is allowed to
 sweep away any accumulation of snow that might retard his friend's stone,
 but he must not sweep snow in its way—that is, he may remove obstructions,
 but must not cause them. The opposite party are allowed to sweep before
 an adversary's stone after it has passed the tee, to help it as far away cs
 possible from it.
    If a stone docs not pass the " Hog score " (see diagram) it is considerxl
 dead for that round, and is taken off.
    This game is so like bowls in all its main features, and in fact in its while
 theory and practice—the lying up to the tee, the knocking out of the adversiry
 and substitution of one's own stone, all the manoeuvring for a place, and the Ike
 — that the instructions given above for the one may well serve without iteration
 for the other ; and for further particulars we must refer the inquirer, as before
in golf, to Messrs. Chambers's handbook.
                        DOG-STICK AND SPLENT.
    In the North of England a game is played which is a sort of combination
of trap-ball, knurr and spell, and rounders.
   A tongue-shaped piece of wood is made, as seen in the illustration, having
one end tapering, and the other rounded and slightly hollowed so as to hold
the ball. Instead of a bat, a rounded piece of wood, called a dog-stick, is em
ployed. The origin of the name is rather dubious, as the stick certainly could
not be used for beating dogs, a blow of it being sufficient to kill any ordinary
dog. Players are very fastidious about the weight and balance of the dog-
stick, and each has his own stick. The ball is made of boxwood, loaded
with shot to make it heavier, and covered with a coating of stout leather.
   There are so many rules for this game that we can do little more than
mention that the principle lies in two points, namely, striking the ball beyond
a certain distance, and calculating the number of stick-lengths from the splent
when thrown up.
   The out-players divide themselves into two bodies, one set spreading them
selves over the field, and the rest forming in close line in front of the striker,
and just behind the boundary-line beyond which a ball must be struck. They
may stop the ball in any way, and usually do so with their hats or caps, in the
crown of which a handkerchief is placed, so as to deaden the force of the

                              OUTDOOR GAMES.                                       73
  ball. The player is out if he twice successively misses the ball, or fails to
  strike it beyond the boundary-line ; if it be caught by the enemy ; if he cuts
  it behind the trap ; or if, when the ball is thrown up, he indicates more than
  the proper number of stick-lengths from the trap.
     When he has succeeded in striking a ball beyond the boundary, one of the
  out players throws it towards the splent. The striker may, if he can, strike
  the ball with his dog-stick before it touches the ground, and either stop it or
  knock it away from the splent. When it stops, he measures with his eye the
  number of stick-lengths between the ball and the trap, and calls out the
  number. The distance is measured by the umpire, and if the guess be within
  the mark, the number called is added to the score ; if it be over the mark, the
  striker is out. Thus, if the ball be three and a half lengths from the splent,
 and the striker call four, he is out ; if he call three, he adds three to his score.
  In any case he may not add more than five to the score, so that when the ball
 is palpably beyond five lengths from the splent the umpire calls " Five," and
 that number is added to the striker's score without measurement.
     Owing to the hardness, weight, and velocity of the ball, this is rather a
 dangerous game for beginners, who ought to play as out-fielders for a long
 time before they venture to rank among the home players.
                                  LES GRACES.
    This game derives its title from the graceful attitudes into which it throws
 the body if properly played. Unfortunately, when badly played, it is about
 as ungraceful a proceeding as can be imagined.
    The materials of the game are very simple,
 namely, a couple of slender sticks for each
player, and two or more hoops of different sizes
The players stand at some distance from each
other, and the object of the game is to throw the
hoops backwards and forwards, catching and
throwing them by means of the sticks.
    The proper mode of throwing the hoop is as
follows : Hang it on the sticks, and then cross
them, so as to prevent it from falling off. Hold
the sticks, with their points downwards, on the
left side of the body, the left hand grasping one
stick firmly, while the right hand holds the other
loosely between the finger and thumb. Now
raise the arms, point the left-hand stick in the
direction which the hoop is meant to take, and
with the right-hand stick throw the hoop, gliding,
at the same time, the right-hand stick over the
other.
   These movements should be performed as one,
without any pause between them; and if they are
properly done, the hoop revolves rapidly, so as to Keep it steady as it flies
through the air. Unless this be done, it wabbles, or even turns over and over,
in either of which cases the player to whom it is thrown can scarcely have a
chance of catching it.
   The hoop should be thrown tolerably high, and ought to be sent with such

74                             OUTDOOR GAMES.
accuracy, that if it were not stopped, it would fall on the head of the second
player.
   Catching the hoop ought to be done with both sticks slightly crossed, un
less it be flung much to the right or left, when, of course, a single stick must
be employed. Sometimes an unskilful player flings the hoop so that it pre
sents its edge to the catcher. Even in this case an expert player will catch
it by giving the lower edge a little tap with one stick, the effect of which will
be to make the hoop fall over the stick.
   Let me here warn the beginner against one mode of throwing the hoop,
than which nothing can be more awkward. We have often seen players cross
the sticks horizontally in front of their noses, stick out their elbows level with
their ears, and throw the hoop by flinging both arms apart. Now, in this
mode of throwing there is neither ease, grace, nor certainty. A properly
thrown hoop ought to look quite steady as it passes through the air, and to be
thrown so accurately that there is no difficulty in catching it.
   With every good set of Les Graces implements there ought to be two hoops
of a foot in diameter, and two of seven inches. The test of good play is to
exchange the hoops, throwing them so that the small hoop passes through
the large one. This feat looks rather formidable, but all good players can
perform it, and the writer has done it repeatedly whenever he could find a
steady partner whom he could trust. When the hoops are thus crossed, the
larger hoop should be thrown first, so that aim may be taken with the
smaller one.
                                  LA CROSSE.
                        (The National Game of Canada.)
   No apology is needed for introducing La Crosse to the sport-loving British
public The devotion of our kinsfolk, the Canadians, to this charming game
is introduction enough for it ; while no one can doubt that we have room for
another good game.
   It is to be observed that the rules of the game, as settled by the La Crosse
Association, are now published for thefirst time. While still incomplete they
appeared in some of the sporting newspapers, but in a form differing greatly
from that finally adopted. One or more sets of Canadian rules have been sold
in this country, but they have been unanimously abandoned by the clubs in
favour of the Association rules here given. It cannot be doubted that these
rules are greatly superior to the Canadian (at least for use in this country), and
that they are the best which English experience has yet been able to devise.
   It seems strange that England should sit at the feet of the foreigner for
instruction in manly sports. The ancient home of cricket, football, and a host
of minor games—the natural abode of all sport—she is accustomed to teach
rather than to learn. Has not le sport become a French phrase, in the utter
absence of a native word for such a purely English notion ? And can any
good thing come out of foreign parts ? In matters of sport is not the world
divided into two parties ? — the one Greeks, the other barbarians ; we being
the Greeks, and all other nations whatsoever the barbarians.
   Yet, doubters notwithstanding, there seems a good prospect of a beautiful
foreign game becoming thoroughly at home among us. Like other importa
tions, La Crosse, the illustrious stranger, has more grace and elegance about
it than similar articles of home manufacture. There is nothing very graceful
in football, thoroughly English game though it be. A " maul," with half a

                                   LA CROSSE.                                  75
dozen Britons kicking each other's shins, is perhaps amusing as a" spectacle,
and is certainly evidence of national pluck and good temper, but a foreigner
may be excused for holding it in some contempt. Then again, too many of
our games are dangerous. Certainly we have no maudlin horror of a spice of
clanger, for we remember that those who led the six hundred over Russian
guns at Balaclava had learnt the trick from five-barred gates at home. We
even think that square-leg to a hard hitter is no bad training for coolness
at the " cannon's mouth." But while many bold spirits will always love the
rough games for their roughness, many will welcome a safe game, second to
none in excitement, as a boon of no small value. Plenty of men— especially
under certain conditions of shins and knee-caps—curse the " Rugby rules" they
are obliged to play.
   La Crosse, beside being safe and yet exciting to the players, is beautiful
and interesting to lookers-on, as we think all will admit who saw it played by
the Indians at the Crystal Palace. This alone is high recommendation ; but
its chief merit lies not so much in the quantity as in the quality of the exercise
involved. It gives as much running as cricket or football, if not a great deal
more, and requires a quicker eye than any other field game besides cricket ;
but its spe"cialih? is that the running must be of the best. To succeed, a man
must run steadily and in good form, since the ball is only allowed to be carried
while resting on the crosse, a state of things it has a natural antipathy to.
Just as the Austrian officers prove their graceful dancing by waltzing round
the room holding a glass of wine, so may a man prove his graceful running
by carrying on the slippery foundation of a crosse an India-rubber ball, and
evading on uneven ground the attack of numerous and active foes.
   We claim for La Crosse, then, that it is a pastime containing more hidden

 76                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
 drill than almost any other. A cricketer may satisfy the requirements of his
 village club in respect to batting, bowling, catching, fielding, throwing, without
 much improvement in his bearing. At foetball shambling legs may give a
 vigorous kick, and arms may grip tight from shoulders almost as round as the
 ball itself. Wc lack a game which shall enforce good bearing on us incident
 ally. La Crosse docs this. We defy a lad to play it well (and no one will
 find it difficult^ without acquiring true grace in running, and, more or less, in
 every other action of his body. No better plan can be devised for making a
 man run well than giving him something to carry which he is liable to spill.
    Let our reader try for himself, making only due allowance for the imperfec
 tions we always find at first in tools we don't quite understand.
    Origin and Nature of the Game.—Though free from most national
 prejudices, we can quite forgive an Englishman who turns up his nose at the
 name, to begin with. What, one may ask, can a field game be good for with
 a French name ? The objection is a natural one, but is easily disposed of:
 the game is Canadian, and originated apparently in pre-historic times amongst
 the noble aborigines of that country. The .name was given by the French,
 its first European possessors, on account of the curved stick resembling ;i
 crossc or bishop's crozicr. The name is not a very happy one, as it suggests
 cross in English. The French for that is croix, quite another thing. When
 more at home in England, it is too likely to be called the " cross." This is a
 matter of small moment, perhaps, but it is always well to keep up the proper
 derivation of words. To call a wooden hook a " cross " (as we already pro
 nounce it) is absurd ; to drop one s, and call it a " crose " would be far better,
 as suggesting the original meaning at once. The reform may be carried out
 some day, but at present we shall keep to the established spelling. (The
 French use the verb crosser, as " to bat, to strike aside with a bat," probably
 in the same way as we might speak of hindering or "crossing" a thing, or
 crossing its path with a bat.)
   As to the nationality of our new game, even British conceit may be satisfied.
 Surely we can condescend to learn athletics from the North American Indians,
who may well teach us " a thing or two in running." When the redskins first
began to play La Crosse we have no information, but it is stated to have been
first seen by Europeans when Charlevoix, one of the French pioneers in
Canada, ascended the St. Lawrence. That was in the tribe of the Algonquins,
who inhabited the country about Quebec and Montreal. Rather more than
a century ago, a chief named Pontiac, hoping to surprise the English garrison
in the fort at Detroit, collected parties of Dclawares, Ottawas, and Shawanecs
in the neighbourhood. Knowing the skill of the supposed friendly Indians in
playing La Crosse, the officers were in the habit of inviting them to play close
to the fort. Pontiac directed that on one occasion a larger number than usual
were to join in play, and that the ball, as though accidentally, was to be struck
into the fort. A few Indians were to follow and search for the ball ; this was
to be repeated again and again, sometimes a number entering, sometimes only
a few. When suspicion was lulled the ball was to be struck over again ; the
Indians were to follow in large numbers, and to attack the garrison with
concealed weapons. The stratagem was put into execution and nearly suc
ceeded, but the garrison discovering the nature of the visit before the Indians
had penetrated to the strongest part of the fortifications, turned upon them
and drove them back with great slaughter.
   It was not until the last few years that the colonists generally began to take

                                  LA CROSSE.                                    77
up La Crosse. The first clubs were formed at Montreal, taking the game from an
Iroquois tribe; since then it has spread rapidly through the " New Dominion,"
and now claims the title of the national game of Canada. To those who know
the Canadians this will sound high praise. It must be a rare game indeed to
satisfy that hardy race.
   La Crosse was introduced into England in August, 1 867, by Captain Johnson,
a Canadian, who brought over a troupe of eighteen Indians, chiefly Iroquois,
but including representatives, it was stated, of the Onondagas, Cayugas,
Senecas, Oncidas, Mohawks, and Algonquins. Of course they were not all
of pure Indian blood. They first made a tour in the United States, and then
came over here. The "Field" of August 3rd contains the following :
   "Captain Johnson brought over eighteen Iroquois Indians in the Peruvian
last week, for the purpose of introducing the national game of Canada into
England. The Iroquois tribe inhabit Lower Canada, near Montreal,and several
of Captain Johnson's company were the same that performed the game before
the Prince of Wales when in Canada in 1 860. On Tuesday last a private
performance took place at Beaufort House, Walham Green, under the patron
age of Lord Ranelagh, at which members of the Press and a few friends only
were present. The Indians looked very smart, dressed in their blue and red
drawers, the chiefs of each side being distinguished by feathers in their caps
and other ornaments." After this public performances were held at the same
place, and then for some time at the Crystal Palace. Canadian authorities
all agree in praising the game as one affording great pleasure to the lookers-
on ; of course this is hardly felt yet in England, as not many players have
attained to really good play. One Canadian book speaks of " the strange
wildness and beauty of the game, and these terms we do not think misapplied.
   The various attempts made to define the game in few words have not been
happy. " A combination of football and hockey," is perhaps better than " a
sort of hockey ;" but it has this drawback, that no greater offence against the
rules can be committed than to introduce either hockey or football into the
game. Striking the ball hockey fashion is strictly forbidden ; so is kicking,
throwing, or even catching it. Football played with racket bats would be
nearer the mark.
   Be this as it may, La Crosse is a ball game, played by preference with an
India-rubber ball. Two goals are erected, as in football, and the object is to
drive the ball through them by means of the crosse alone. Stations are
assigned to the players in different parts of the field, but there is this remark
able difference, that no "off side" rule exists ; indeed one player is always kept
close in to the enemy's goal. Owing to this plan the game is very sociable, as
the men usually find themselves placed in pairs (foemen, of course) about the
field, and can chat away in comfort. As far as practicable the hands and feet
are forbidden from touching the ball. " Running in" (called " dodging" by the
Canadians) is the principal feature of the game, the ball being carried on the
crosse. The crosse is a hooked stick partly filled in (tight) with a netting,
something in the manner of a racket bat. Running with the ball, as has been
 said before, is soon learnt, but evading hostile attacks gives scope for life-long
 study : if hard pressed the runner throws the ball (with the crosse) to a friend,
probably in advance of him; and there is no off side rule to prevent the friend
 from at once continuing the running. The ball should be stopped by the
 crosse. Experienced players learn to catch with it, and are equal to a catch
 of thirty or forty yards or more. Throwing the ball requires great judgment

  78                        OUTDOOR GAMES
 and great skill ; quickness of thought to decide the right direction, and skill
 to send it straight. Turning round and throwing back over the head is the
 usual way. The rules about going out of bounds, &c, &c, are of the plainest
 kind, and contrast favourably with even the simplest code of football rules.
    In July, 1867, the National La Crosse Association of Canada was formed,
 "to improve, foster, and perpetuate the game of La Crosse as the national
 game of our dominion." Its rules (with a copy of which we have been favoured
 through the courtesy of its secretary, Mr. W. George Beers, of Montreal) are
 very full, and admirably drawn up. The rules of the game differ slightly from
 those adopted in England. The difference will be explained further on when
 we come to discuss the English rules. The Canadian rules arc much more
 minute than ours, and seek to provide laws for all sorts of matters which we
 in England prefer to leave to honourable understanding amongst the players.
 The close directions given for the guidance of umpires, and the care taken to
 insure fair play, show that La Crosse is really a national game, exciting great
 and general interest. The colonists have not been schooled in the continual
 playing of games where written laws are unknown, so they pile, up safeguards
 as if the combatants were going to law instead of playing a match ; but though
 too minute for us, their laws are well framed. It may some day be necessary
 to follow their example, but while the game is young the good feeling of the
 players can be depended on.
   The Canadians, according to letters received, are looking forward to inter
 national matches with the old country. We dare not try such an experiment
this year, but in 1869 surely some of our clubs will be proficient enough to
give a worthy reception to the travellers from the New Dominion.
   When first played in England, the rules of the Montreal La Crosse Club
 (adopted prior to those mentioned above) were followed by the various clubs;
 Dut not finding them quite satisfactory or quite adapted to English ways, the
leading clubs agreed to form a La Crosse Association, the laws of which should
 be binding upon all clubs. The same thing has been done in football with
very fair success, considering that various local ways of playing that game
have existed for ages. In La Crosse there are no local rules to excite opposi
tion, and all the clubs are desirous of starting with similar rules. The task of
the Association is thus made easy, and the wisdom of forming it proved.
   Some of the earlier supporters of La Crosse believed that they had found
a game for " all the year round." We scarcely go so far as this ; it is a very
fatiguing game for hot weather, while all our admiration for it would not induce
us to set up a rival to cricket ; winter and spring are its seasons. It is not' as
a rival but as an auxiliary to cricket that we would recommend it, and if we
are not mistaken it is amongst cricketers that it will find its chief supporters.
Above all winter games it is a game of SKILL, and that is what cricketers have
hitherto sighed for in the winter
   The rules of the La Crosse Association are here described :
   The Rules of the Game. —The rules of the game, as settled by the Asso
ciation for the acceptance of all the associate clubs (they were confirmed on
the 1 2th February, 1868), are as follows.
     1. The Crosse. —The crosse may be of any length, but the woven net
        work must not be bagged, nor of a greater width than one foot.
    2. The Ball. —The ball shall be of solid India-rubber, not more than nine
        or less than eight inches in circumference.
    3. The Goals.— The goals shall be upright posts seven feet apart, with

                                 LA CROSSE.                                   79
        a tape or bar across them six feet from the ground ; when practicable
        they shall be placed at not more than two hundred and fifty nor less
        than one hundred and fifty yards apart, and the ground shall not be
        more than one hundred nor less than sixty yards wide.
    4. Commencing the Game.—The game shall be started by the ball being
        placed on the ground opposite the centre flag, between two players on
        opposite sides, who shall "tussle" for the ball with their crosses. This
        is called "facing."
     5. Ball out of Bounds.—When the ball goes out of bounds it shall be
        thrown in by the player who first touches it with his crosse. When it
        goes behind goal without passing through goal, it shall be thrown out
        by one of the players behind whose goal it has passed.
     6 & 7. Touching the Ball with the Hand.—The ball must not be
        caught, thrown, or picked up with the hand, except in the case provided
        for by Rule 7 ; but a ball coming in the air may be blocked or patted
        away with the hand to protect the face or body ; otherwise it must not
        be touched.
     7. Should the ball lodge in any place inaccessible to the crosse, it may be
        taken out by the hand and immediately placed on the crosse.
     8. Striking and Kicking the Ball.—The ball shall not be hit while
        on the ground, or kicked.
     9. Spiked Soles.—No player shall wear spiked soles.
   10. Obtaining a Goal.—A goal is obtained when the ball is caused to
        pass between the goal-posts and under the bar or tape, in any manner
        whatever by one of the defending side, or in any manner not forbidden
        by these rules by one of the attacking side.
   1 1. Holding and Pushing.—Players shall not hold each other, nor grasp
        an opponent's crosse; neither shall they deliberately trip, strike, or
        push each other.
   11. Throwing the Crosse.—No player shall throw his crosse.
   13. Changing Goals.—After each game the players shall change goals,
        unless otherwise agreed.
   14. Deciding a Match.—A match shall be decided by a majority of goals
        won during the time specified for play.
   15. Number constituting a Full Side.— Twelve players shall constitute
        a full side.
   16. Change of Players.—No change of players shall be made after a
        match has commenced without the consent of both parties.
   17. Alteration of Rules. — No change shall be made in the foregoing
        rules except at a general meeting of the La Crosse Association. Should
        any alteration be deemed necessary, notice of it must be sent to the
        secretary in writing three weeks prior to the general meeting ; and the
        terms of the proposed alterations shall be advertised in such sporting
        papers as the committee may direct two weeks prior to the general
        meeting.
   The Crosse.—"The crosse maybe of any length, but the woven network
must not be bagged, nor of a greater width than one foot." The usual length
is from four to five feet, but most players like it short rather than long, and
reduce the length to about four feet by cutting off part of the handle. The
Indians use larger crosses than have been adopted in England, though they
probably did not exceed the breadth of network here given. The best speci

8o                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
men which has come under our notice had been reduced by the owner to less
than four feet in length, the network was nine inches in width, and the weight
of the whole scarcely exceeded three-quarters of a pound. Though probably
too short, this crosse seemed to us otherwise perfect.
   There is little or no advantage in a large crosse. It is more cumbrous to
handle, and more likely to get broken. For catching the ball the small and
handy crosse is just as good, success depending most upon a careful eye. If
the eye is not careful it is well it should be trained. With a small span the
netting is not so likely to bag.
   Plate I. represents the crosse above alluded to. It was obtained from Mr.
Roberts, a Canadian, who was appointed by Captain Johnson his agent in
                PLATH l                 England, and who has been at great
                                        trouble to introduce the game amongst
                                        us. Roberts has correctly appreciated
                                        the English taste for refinement and
                                        finish in all the appurtenances of sport,
                                        and comprehending that we wish to make
                                        the game skilful rather than easy, has
                                        improved considerably on the original
                                        instrument. He has lately appointed J.
                                        Lillywhite, of 10 Seymour Street, Euston
                                        Square, his sub-agent, in order, we pre
                                        sume, to reach the larger circle of his
                                        world-wide cricketing connection. The
                                        price hitherto asked—eight shillings and
                                        sixpence—is unreasonable, and must be
                                        reduced, or the trade will fall into local
                                        hands. In Canada a crosse of the best
                                        make costs under a dollar, so that from
                                        four to five or six shillings ought to be
                                        the limit in England.
                                          The stick may be either ash or hickory,
                                        but hickory is the lightest, strongest, and
                                        best. There are some variations in the
                                        shape to which it is bent, but we prefer
that shown in Plate I. Sometimes the handle is curved back, as at Fig. 2
in Plate I. This gives a more symmetrical appearance, perhaps, but is
really no advantage in carrying the ball, which rests against the stick at A,
and not in the centre of the net. The handle part is round or oval; beyond the
pin b, it takes the shape shown in section at C, one side being tapered to allow
of holes being made near the edge for fastening netting. The stick then gets
gradually thinner, until at the top of the crosse, where the curve is sharpest,
it takes the section shown at d. At the tip it thickens again ; about an inch
from the tip a hole is made through (in the plane of the crosse, not through
from top to bottom). A string is put through this, and both ends are made
fast round the pin, B : this gives two strings near together to form the edge of
the net, and serves to hold the stick in shape. Three other strings (four in
Canada) are then stretched from the pin to the top of the crosse, and dia
gonal network is fastened to these and to holes down the stick at the side. A
badly woven net will be dear at any price, as it will certainly " bag," and
render the crosse unfit for play.

                                  LA CROSSE.                                  81
   The Canadian rule places no limit to the width of the crosse, though it
forbids a baggy net by the simple test of its remaining " flat when the ball is
not on it." It then says : " A leading or outside string above the level of the
others may be used. It may rest on the top of the stick, but must not have
anything under to increase its height."
   Now, as this leading string is allowed in Canada, and is not forbidden by
the English rules, we presume it must be considered admissible. It is, how
ever, in our opinion, most objectionable, and we understand that the best
authorities (though La Crosse is young yet to talk about " authorities ") are o*
the same opinion. It gives a clumsy player an advantage, by preventing the
ball from rolling off his crosse when he inclines it the wrong way. But the
ball has no business on that side of the crosse ; its proper place is against the
stick, which gives ample protection -already. A " balustrade " on the other
side is quite out of place, and we condemn it at once. Fortunately, it will be
of little or no use to good players, and will prove only a snare to the bad ones
who adopt it, leading them into careless ways of carrying the ball.
   The stick should not be more than an inch thick at the handle, and rather
less than an inch wide in the curved part ; the handle may be covered with
string, or otherwise roughened, to give better hold.
   The crosse is always carried so that the wood forms the right hand edge of
the net, as in Plate I. The best are made with a slight sheer, as a shipbuilder
would say, so that they do not lie quite flat on the ground, the ends being
rather higher than the middle ; this helps to keep the ball on, and shows at
once when the crosse is upside down.
   The best material for the net is strong gut, in pieces of good length, so as
to have as few knots as possible. Moose-skin is also liked in Canada, and
various kinds of string have been tried. But there can be no doubt that the
best gut is the proper stuff, and is alone likely to be used in England. At l:
is a wooden peg round which the strings are fastened ; this is better than
drawing them through a large hole, as is sometimes done. From B to the
top of the crosse is about two feet five inches.
   The Ball and the Goals complete the simple apparatus of the game.
The dimensions of the ball were fixed without reference to the Canadian rule,
after trial of different sizes. It may therefore be assumed that a circumference
of between eight and nine inches (which is also adopted in Canada) is the
best. By a "solid India-rubber" ball is meant one which will not collapse;
India-rubber with a wood core, and plain India-rubber with a small hollow in
the centres, have both their supporters. For our own part we advocate the
wood-cored ball, too much springiness being undesirable. The ordinary
hockey ball sold by Lillywhite and other makers at eighteenpence, or say
cwelve or fourteen shillings a dozen, is just the thing. The ball will last a
long time, and may practically be left out of the calculation of expenses.
   We prefer a light crosse, and not too light a ball. With a very light ball the
temptation to hockey is increased ; with a relatively heavy one it becomes
difficult, and not worth the certainty of detection, a light blow at a heavy ball
 being useless.
   The goals are marked by simple poles, flags, and tapes or bars, just as in
football and other games. A fifth pole is planted at the centre of the ground;
the Canadians draw a line six feet in front of each goal, " within which no
opponent shall stand unless the ball is actually near or nearing the flags/'
Our Association, wisely we think, leaves this point to the good feeling of the
                                                                     G

82                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
players, who are of course expected to leave the goal-keeper full room to act,
unless actually engaged in attacking the goal. It is hardly a case for a rule,
the necessary exceptions being so large and vague as to make its observance
little more than a matter of taste.
   The Ground and the Players.— It would seem that in Canada tin-
game was once played over very long distances and rough ground ; but the
" pale faces " bringing less wind and more science to bear upon it, the distance
was gradually contracted. One Canadian book recommends that half a mile
be not exceeded, but we have heard of two miles between the goals. We
think that game must have "blown" even the Indians. Boundless prairies
being scarce in England (especially in suburban districts), a limit has been
fixed at two hundred and fifty yards, which we think quite sufficient ; one
hundred and fifty is made the minimum. The breadth of the ground must
not be less than sixty or more than one hundred yards. Of course a club
may use a smaller ground, but matches must be played according to the rule
given when practicable. The Indians thought nothing of a few trees or a
small forest on the ground, with gullies and holes ad lib. Englishmen will
try for the best and smoothest ground they can get ; but the game can be
played anywhere, which is one among its many advantages. The boundaries
of the ground must be marked in the usual manner.
                                  The distribution of the players is a matter on
            late .            which doctors disagree. All rules appoint a Goal-
             P" l             keeper. A few yards in front they place Point, and
             Ox               farther on Cover-point. Close to the middle flag is
               x              the centre or Facing-man belonging to each side.
                              The man stationed next to the enemy's goal is called
                              Home; he should not stand directly before the hos-
   x                          tile goal-keeper, but to one side. The other players,
 O            0v        O     disposed pretty well at the discretion of the captain,
                              are called Fielders. One forward player is usually-
                              put in advance of the centre flag, close to the enemy's
                              cover-point. Each side has a man standing behind
         n Olf* o             eacn ^cing-man, or behind its own facing-man only,
                              to take the ball from him if he succeeds in getting
                               it away from his opponent. Plate 1 1, shows a plan
                               much liked by the Richmond La Crosse Club.*
     v        OX          v       Although some of the names have been borrowed
  O                     O      from cricket (before the game was brought to Eng
                               land), yet the arrangement of the players has nothing
                               in common with that game. Cricketers object to
                               the piracy strongly, and would substitute " first out 7>
                 X             :lnd "second out" for "point" and "cover-point."
             Jv,f"             As, however, the names have a firm hold in Canada,
                               and are certainly convenient as well as pithy, we
 shall retain them in speaking of the different stations.
     In placing his men the captain will derive valuable hints from any experience
 he may possess of the same duty at football.
     The players are supposed to keep pretty well to their stations, especially
                 * The marks O and X representing players of the respective sides.

                                   LA CROSSE.                                      83
goal-keeper and point. Nothing spoils the game more than every one joining
 in a free fight over the ball. Of course a man who has got the ball may run
with it as far as he can, but it is quite sufficient to have two or three " checking"'
or opposing him ; if more come they merely prevent each other from using
the crosse effectively, and most likely leave open the way to their own goal.
Beginners hunt the ball in a pack, and will never learn better if not kept in
strict order by their captains. We call particular attention to this practice:
it renders the game ridiculous as a spectacle, stops all play properly so called,
gives rise to disputes and unfair practices, and turns the game into a poor
kind of hockey ; it is, in short, one of the greatest drawbacks the game has
to encounter.
   The facing^men commence the game by standing as in Plate III. At an
agreed signal they " tussle " for the ball, trying cither to press away the op
posing crosse and drive the ball straight on, or to disengage it and roll it back
between their legs to the men of their own side standing behind them. The
fear of breaking the crosses prevents too much roughness. It is prettier and
more creditable to get the ball by finesse than to drive it on by brute force.
(See Rule 4.)
   Twelve players, by Rule 15, constitute a full side, but of course fewer can
play. The English rule as to changing players—only with the consent of
both parties— is simpler than the Canadian, which includes matters we prefer
leaving to " public opinion." In Canada no one can play in a match who has
not belonged to his club for thirty days, which shows that the spirit of the
Voltigeurs, Oscillators, and other famous rowing " clubs," is not unknown in
Canada. At present we may consider ourselves safe from combinations of
famous La Crosse players into quasi clubs, for the purpose of carrying off
prizes (!)
    Goal-keeper's duties are obvious: he must not quit the goal. Point must
on no account leave his post, which ought not to be more than twenty yards
in front of goal-keeper. He should be the best checker on his side (" checker "
is the Canadian name for any one essaying to stop a player " running in " with
the ball). Point's particular function is to let no one get past him with the
ball, but to oblige it to be thrown from a safe distance at the goal. If the
runner were allowed to get close to the goal, and then threw the ball, goal

84                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
keeper would have little chance of stopping it. Point is the outwork who
obliges the foe to uncover his batteries at a certain minimum distance from
the citadel. When the foe " throws in," it is for his " home " to get the ball
and complete the work, and for goal-keeper to show cause to the contrary.
Cover-point may be dispensed with, but not point. Goals are changed after
each game (Rule 13) unless otherwise agreed. Rule 10 defines a game as won
'" when the ball is caused to pass between the goal-posts and under the bar or
tape, in any manner whatever by one of the defending side, or in any manner
not forbidden by these rules by one of the attacking side." In other words,
the goal counts if got accidentally by the defenders, but only if obtained fairly
by the attacking party. The question of umpires, on which the Canadian
rules enlarge so freely, is best left to be settled by agreement. Umpires are
scarcely required in "such a game, unless the match is considered a very im
portant one. If the ball bounds through the goal off the person of a player it
counts all the same, provided it was not unfairly propelled in the first instance.
   The arrangement which appoints goal-keeper, point, and the hostile "home"
as the three men always close to goal, is a good one, and should be adhered
to. If a captain chose to put two " home men," his opponents would be
obliged to have two goal-keepers, and the anticipated gain would be lost. As
irregular posting, therefore, cannot pay, it should never be tried, for any system
of massing the men together is certain to spoil the game. No two of a side
should be close together except goal-keeper and point.
   The Canadian rules direct that spectators must not stand within twenty feet
of the goals. The rule is a good one, and ought to be enforced in England,
when possible, as part of the " unwritten law." It is, however, best left so,
being scarcely a fit subject for formal enactment.
   The Canadians decide their matches by three games out of five ; we, by
Rule 14, decide it "by a majority of goals won during the time specified for
play." This is simpler and better in every way. A five-game match might
be interminable.
   When the ball goes out of bounds at the sides it is to be thrown in (by the
crosse of course) by the first player who touches it with his crosse. Having
touched it, he may get it on his crosse at leisure, and is not to be " checked "
or baulked while throwing it. He should throw it straight in from the spot
where it passes the boundary. When the ball goes behind either goal-line it
must be thrown in, straight, by any player of the side behind whose goal it
has passed, who is also to be allowed a fair throw. The best man to throw
out is usually the goal-keeper. The ball, for obvious reasons, should be thrown
out to one side of goal. (Rule 5.)
   Stopping the Ball.— Unfair Play.—The main distinction between La
Crosse and all other ball games is that in the former the ball is manipulated
by an instrument, and not directly by the hand. The same is the case in
tennis and rackets, and to some degree in cricket. But in these games the
instrument is used only for striking, while in La Crosse striking, carrying,
and catching are equally performed by it, the direct use of the hand being
essentially foreign, and even hostile, to the game. In drawing up rules it is
not easy to meet all the cases which may arise, but this is the spirit of the
game as played in England. The Canadian rules allow the goal-keeper " to
stop the ball in any way." This rule has been rejected by our Association,
and we think very properly. In the first place, there is no rule to forbid the
ball being stopped by the feet or body, and it is even permitted to stop it by

                                  LA CROSSE.                                   85
the hand to protect the body or face. It seems to us that stopping by the
hand is really a matter of little importance, for in nine cases out of ten, if the
hand can be stretched out, the crosse can be stretched out to much greater
advantage. Nevertheless, if stopping by hand were allowed, it would soon
lead to catching and throwing by hand, both of which are strictly and rightly
forbidden. For this reason, then, the ball must not be touched by the hand
while in the air, except to protect the person, and this exception must be
jealously watched (Rule 7). We see no advantage in arming the goal-keeper
with an exceptional power, which after all is of little value, and which can
only lead to dispute. The feeling of the La Crosse conference was unanimous
on this point, as indeed it was on nearly all the alterations made in the rules.
    The ball may be stopped with the foot when coming along the ground. To
make a rule to the contrary would be to invite endless dispute, though foot-
play is almost as obnoxious to the game as hand-play. However, in almost
every case the crosse, in the hands of a practised player, will be a better stop
than either the hand or foot. Thus the evil will defeat itself, and no great
harm be done. Kicking the ball is quite a different matter. Rule 8, forbid
ding it, must be strictly enforced, or the game loses its character entirely. If
 men are allowed to get careless about kicking, they will be rushing into
 "scrimmages" for the sake of a sly kick. If prevented from kicking they
will find that scrimmages do not pay. A mob of men packed too tight to use
 their crosses, and not allowed to kick, will find themselves wasting a good deal
 of energy, and will soon see the wisdom of scattering. A goal obtained by
 kicking does not count, though at other times a purely accidental kick —
 which cannot always be avoided—must be excused. Rule 8 also provides
 that the ball shall not be hit while on the ground. This by no means forbids
 its being struck at by the crosse while in the air or on the bound. It would
 be useless to authorize the ball being stopped by the crosse, and then to forbid
 its being struck under the same circumstances, as the difference consists
merely in the amount of forward movement given to the crosse—a matter
 which no rule can touch. An unsuccessful stop or catch may be a stroke
without being intended for it. Striking the ball in the air does not come
under the head of hockey, as it will probably take effect by the network, which
is not capable of giving a very hard stroke. But striking the ball on the
ground is simply hockey, and is forbidden. While on the ground it cannot
be struck by the net, so that any offer to strike is an attempt to use the stick
part of the crosse as in hockey. Pushing or spooning the ball in the attempt
to lift it is lawful, but not striking. Swiping is the word used in Canada: it
means a deliberate swing of the crosse round upon the ball. It is considered
dangerous to the other players, and destructive to the crosse, and at any rate
is wholly unlawful. Swiping at a ball in the air is probably included in the
condemnation. It should not be done, though our rules do not exactly forbid
it, and could not without leading to disputes.
    The one case in which the ball may be touched while on the ground is met
by Rule 7.—" Should the ball lodge in any place inaccessible to the crosse, it
may be taken out by the hand and immediately placed on the crosse." This
is a very important rule, and deserves attentive consideration ; though it may
be observed that most grounds likely to be chosen for matches are too level
for it to happen often.
    The rule should always be rigidly construed : make it a point of honour to
 avoid using the hand whenever possible, and keep a very sharp look out on

86                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
breakers of the rule. No one is likely to use the hand on even ground, because,
even if hard pressed, he can pick up the ball quicker with the crosse than
with the hand. It is only on rather difficult ground where men will try to
save time by unfairly revoking this rule.
   The ball when picked up must be placed on the crosse immediately; it must
not be kept an instant in the hand. The Canadian rule is that the ball, when
ever taken up by the hand, must " be faced for with the nearest opponent/'
Our Association rejected this in the interests of simplicity, and not because
there was no good in it. Who, for instance, is to decide who is the nearest
opponent? In favour of the English view it may be said that if a man gets the
ball on his crosse and runs off with it before his pursuers come up, he is fairly
entitled to the advantage ; while, if they come up, they have a good chance
of knocking the ball off his crosse, or even of getting it first. When once he
has the ball in his hand, he must be allowed to place it on the crosse without
hindrance ; and his hand may not be held. Though the Canadian rule seems
fair, it may be remarked that under it a man loses all the advantage of being
first after the ball, if only it happen to go into a hole, and that men might be
tempted to throw the ball purposely into such places, for the sake of the
breathing-time which a solemn " facing " will afterwards allow them. The
English rule may want revision some day, but at present we think the Asso
ciation has decided for the best.
   Of course, if the ball goes out of bounds " in an inaccessible spot," it becomes
the prize of the first man who touches it with the hand, and who is at liberty
to place it on his crosse by hand. But if accessible, it must be touched (and
afterwards taken up) by the crosse.
   The rule about spiked soles is sufficiently plain and desirable. Mocassins,
which can be obtained of the Mr. Roberts before mentioned, are better than
shoes or boots, provided you are sure of your ground, and are not afraid of
stepping on a sharp stone.
   Rule 1 1 must be strictly enforced, as embodying one of the essentials of the
game, which, though it requires both nerve and endurance, boasts of being a
gentle game. " Players shall not hold each other, nor grasp an opponent's
crosse ; neither shall they deliberately trip, strike, or push each other." Trip
ping and striking we need not enlarge upon, but pushing and roughness
generally cannot be looked after too sharply. Holding an opponent is bad
enough, but holding his crosse is worse. You are at liberty to strike it or
knock it up or aside with your own crosse, but never with the hand or foot.
   At the same time never throw the crosse: this rule (12) may seem laughable
to some, but it was found soon after the game was introduced into England,
that men took to throwing their crosses at the ball on an opponent's crosse
when not near enough to touch it fairly. The manoeuvre was only too successful.
Though obviously unfair, there was no rule against it, so the Association has
made one.
   Picking up and Catching theBall—The ball should be picked up by the
crosse as you pick up a racket ball. Go at it hotly, and you are sure to fail
Violence saves no time, be you ever so hard pressed. If running fast, and on
rather uneven grass, you may get the ball up by simply pushing the top of the
crosse (d, in Plate I.) under it, with a sharp, lifting motion, tipping up the
crosse to prevent the ball falling off again. If the ground is very smooth,
there is, however, a chance that the ball will merely be struck forward, and
not picked up at all. It certainly will be so if a tuft of grass or any other

                                 LA CROSSE.                                    87
obstacle in front prevent the edge of the crosse from getting fairly under the
balL It need scarcely be said that a good edge to the top of the crosse is
indispensable. You never, unless under very unusual circumstances, roll the
ball on to the crosse by any other part than the top. For the few inches
forming the top or head, therefore, the stick is brought to the lozenge section
shown in Plate I., and this is the only right form.
    The more usual and safe way of picking up the ball is a little troublesome
to learn, and obliges a partial stoppage if it has to be picked up on the run.
Stretch out the crosse on approaching the ball, and catch the latter by the
inside of the top part of the stick—hooking the ball, in fact. Draw it sharply
towards you, and while the ball is still in motion bring back the crosse and
push it underneath. As the crosse is presented to the ball while it is still
rolling towards you, it would probably roll on of itself, but you should help
it by pushing the crosse as directed. There will be little danger of striking
it away from you, even if the edge of the crosse is presented not quite on the
ground. In offering the crosse, the body should lean forward, so as to get the
handle near the ground. This diminishes the incline the ball has to ascend,
and assists in getting it over the stick. Directly the ball is on, tip up the
crosse, and cant it slightly over to the right, so that the ball may rest against
the stick near, but not too close to, the top.
    When the ball is flung towards you, and runs along the ground, you can
 usually pick it up by holding the crosse to it at an angle, with the top on the
ground: the ball will run up the incline. When coming hard, it may run up
and 'jump into the face or over the head, if the crosse is not inclined suffi
ciently. If coming very fast, it can only be stopped and picked up afterwards.
 I f coming on the bound gently, it should be received on the crosse (inclined,
 of course) ; if hard, block it with the crosse inclined forwards, so as to throw
 the ball straight down on the ground : catch on the rebound.
    As to catching the ball when coming in the air, there is not very much to
be said, except that it requires much the same qualities as catching a ball in
the hand. Receive the ball on the net, and of course drop or draw back the
crosse slightly at the moment of contact. A practised hand will catch the
ball with more facility than can well be imagined, even when it comes straight
breast-high, or even overhead. When coming straight at you above the waist
hold the crosse perpendicular to stop it. As the ball commences falling,
follow it with the crosse. A rapid twist of the wrist will revolve the crosse
from above to beneath the ball, which will thus be caught.
    Catching is entirely a matter of practice, joined with natural aptitude.
    Running with the Ball.— Called "dodging" by the Canadians. To
throw the ball well, to catch it on the crosse, and even to pick it up, require
more dexterity than most exercises. But the chief interest of the game lies
in running with the ball ; to do this properly needs high qualities, among
which coolness stands pre-eminent. It seems so easy to drop the ball from
the crosse, and so difficult to avoid the blows of the same far-reaching weapon,
that one doubts at first how a good " run in " can ever be accomplished. Yet
it is done continually by good players, and it may even be said that, man for
man, the attack is stronger than the defence.
    Plate IV. shows the position in running with the ball. The crosse is inclined
more and more in proportion to the speed, the ball being kept in its place by
the pressure of the air in front. The crosse is canted to the right, that the
ball may rest against the stick, which, as already stated, forms the right edge

88                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
of the crosse. That, at least, is the way most players prefer to carry it, though
in Canada it seems to be turned either way. The matter is immaterial, of
course. With the light crosses used here one hand is sufficient. (Perhaps
there will be a one-handed versus two-handed controversy some day, as there
is now in croquet.) Steadiness and watchfulness are required to keep the ball
on the crosse, and slipshod running will soon bring it to grief. However, it
is easier than it first appears.
    When intercepted by an opponent, and unable to get past without fencing
(discretion is much the best part of valour when running in), prevent your
crosse being struck, if possible. It may sometimes be saved by transferring
it to the left hand, or even behind you, but you risk dropping the ball in this.
 If pressed hard, throw up the ball over the enemy's head, and darting quickly
on before he has time to turn, catch it in its descent. This is a pretty piece
of play, and is often done with success. It needs strength of wrist A slight
jerk of the crossefrom the wrist throws the ball over the head of the " checker.''
                                      Plate IV.
Another way is to throw it in the same manner to your right, darting off im
mediately to catch it. The chances are you get the start, the enemy not being
previously prepared, as you are, for the movement. Still a good " checker "
will not be soon got rid of, and it may become necessary to throw the ball
either at the goal, if near enough, or to another of one's own side. A " checker"
may be kept at bay by turning the back to him, which makes it difficult for
 him to reach your crosse, and at the same time puts you in the best position
 for throwing if necessary. In reaching past your side to strike your crosse,
 he gives you an opportunity to turn to the other side and run on.
    A vigorous, charging sort of run does not pay at all, at least with good
 players. Quickness and suppleness are the chief things to attend to. Mind
 while engaged in front you are not also attacked from behind. When there
 are two to one it generally becomes expedient to get rid of the ball at once.
 When near enough to the goal, throw to your " home man " without trying to
 get too close.
    It is well to wear gloves, to save the knuckles from blows of hostile crosses.
    The art of " checking " is of course analogous to " dodging." Given an active

                                LA CROSSE.                                     89
man, with a crosse in his hand, and a ball to be knocked off another man's
crosse, and we think he may be pretty well left to self-instruction.
   It is assumed that a runner will seldom get beyond " point " without having
to throw. Goal-keeper's chief duty is therefore stopping balls thrown, though
sometimes he must engage in " checking." If it comes to this, the goal is in
no small danger.
   It need scarcely be said that in field play both " dodging " and " checking " is
the soul of the game. Both branches must be studied before a player can
become perfect in either.
   A good plan is to strike the " dodger's " crosse down with the edge of your
own ; but so as not to hit the ball, which will forthwith jump into the air and
give you a good chance of catching it.
   Throwing the Ball.—Throwing the ball over the head of an opponent
by a jerk of the wrist has already been mentioned in the chapter on running.
The same movement may be employed in throwing the ball short distances,
but it can hardly be reckoned amongst the " methods " of throwing. We do
not intend to divide the chapter into thirteen sections, devoted to as many
styles, as the Canadian book before mentioned does, for we confess we cannot
find so many ; but there are two or three which require separate description.
   The Indians trusted more to throwing and striking the ball to long distances
than to running with it. The " white" practice lays more stress upon running,
and enjoins that the ball shall only be thrown when its possessor for the time
can run no farther, owing to the opposition he encounters.
   When " checked " hopelessly by an enemy, the runner should throw the ball
to a friend farther advanced or more free to advance
than himself. The commonest plan is to turn the back
to the checker, or rather to the person you desire to
throw to, and then throw straight overhead. The finish
of the movement is shown in Plate V. It is surprising
how straight a throw can be made in this manner, and
how well distance can be calculated by a rapid glance
over the shoulder before throwing. The ball can be
sent to a long distance if required. Turn quickly round,
slanting the crosse sideways as you do so to prevent the
ball flying off; put the left hand to the handle above
the right, which slide down to the end ; then raise the
crosse over your head with a quick motion, partly from
the shoulder, but chiefly from the elbow ; stop it sud
denly before the hands touch the face, and the ball will
fly off with great velocity. It is easy, with a little prac
tice, to give either a low and swift throw or a high and
slow one; the latter being the easiest for a friend to
catch, and the former the hardest for an enemy to stop.
A man checking you is baulked by having your back
turned on him, which makes it hard for him to reach
your crosse. While he is trying at it, you throw in this
way right over him. This overhead throw may be re
garded as the standard throw, and as the most generally
uscfuL
   A very good method for a short, vicious throw at goal, is to bring the crosse
to the shoulder and throw out straight in front. It requires practice, as the

9o                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
ball may be easily dropped. Keeping the crosse level, you bring it round
towards your right side, but pointing straight out from the body. At the same
time raise the arm and the crosse ; swing the latter round, using the hand as
a pivot, until the net is over the shoulder, and level enough for the ball to
remain on. In coming round the fingers instinctively change their hold on
the handle, and the wrist gets bent back. With a sudden spring from the
elbow and wrist you swing the crosse upwards and forwards, and drive the
ball both hard and sure. The difficulty lies in bringing the crosse round to
the shoulder without dropping the ball. Besides this throwfrom the shoulder,
there is what we may call
    The underhand throw (to borrow another name from cricket). In this you
face the mark you throw at, and jerk the ball up off the crosse straight before
 you. It requires no change of position, and therefore can be done quickly ;
 but it is the weakest throw of all. It is, however, accurate, for you have the
 advantage of a good view. You cannot throw this way with a low trajectory
 (to use a term well understood by volunteers), and therefore the ball is easy to
 stop. You must hold the crosse short with one hand, and try to get the ball
 on the middle of the net. It is not a bad throw to end a run in close to goal.
 By turning the left side a little to the mark you gain power. Except in throwing
 from the shoulder, the more you face away from the mark the stronger you
 will throw.
     There are various ways of throwing past the side (the left). You turn your
 back to the mark, but with the left side more or less to it. Raise the right
 side of the crosse to prevent the ball coming off, and then swing round. In
 most of these ways you keep the crosse as close in as possible, and jerk the
 ball off just clear of the left side or shoulder. (It is jerked back over the
 right shoulder sometimes.) But there is one way in which the crosse is kept
 out at right angles to the body the whole time of throwing. This is a good
 throw, but a difficult one. It is performed with a short swing and a half jerk.
 Of course the left is the natural side to throw past in all these cases, but it is
 good to practise with the right as a means of baulking an opponent by an
 unexpected throw. A good swinging side throw along the ground is often
 effective.
     There are several fantastic methods of throwing recommended, such as—
  face the goal and throw overhead from behind your back ; or throw past your
  left side from behind. The latter throw is confusing to an adversary, but only
  an experienced hand can risk dropping the ball in the attempt to bring it round
  behind. Throwing between your legs is one elegant method, especially recom
  mended if your enemy also happens to be standing in the same position.
      Tipping the ball is often done when the player is too hard pressed to be
  able to take it up. It consists in just getting the ball on to the stick, and
  tipping it forward before it has time to roll off again. It may be described
  as a gentle evasion of the rules against hockey. Goal-keeper often " tips " the
  ball to one side as it comes towards him.
     There is a way of throwing exactly analogous to throwing by hand. The
  crosse is raised and drawn back to the right. At the moment of throwing it
  is turned almost edgeways, but the rapid motion prevents the ball from falling.
  The arm is moved as in throwing by hand, but the left shoulder must be
  brought round. This is a quick, useful throw for short distances.
      It must not be supposed that it is as difficult to play La Crosse as it is to
  describe it clearly. Throwing, for instance, is a simple art enough, difficult

                                 CROQUET.                                    9i
as our description of it may seem. La Crosse is, in fact, a very easy game ;
any one can join in it without previous training, and there are no troublesome
rules to be remembered. On the other hand, expertness with the crosse is the
result of practice only. Yet while the player may go on improving for years
by long practice, he will find that he may become a moderately good player
by very little indeed. That is just what a field game ought to be, simple
enough for boys, clever enough for men.
   It should be remarked that catching, stopping, and sometimes throwing,
may very well be practised in private gardens, before venturing out to exhibit
in public.
                               CROQUE T.
  This is a game of very modern invention, and yet, in a few years, it has
forced its way into such extraordinary popularity, that there is not a parish in
the kingdom where the game is not known—scarcely a lawn, suitable or un
suitable, where the hoops may not be seen : scarcely a house of any preten
sions above those of the labourer's cottage, in whose entrance hall or passage
the long white deal box, which tells of mallets and balls within, is not a pro
minent object
   Many boys—and, perhaps, not a few even of our own readers—despise, or
affect to despise, the game, as not manly enough, and wanting in interest
   The former of these charges may be brought with precisely the same force

92                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
and upon precisely the same grounds against billiards ; but no one ever dreams
of calling that an unmanly game. As for the latter, if they find the game un
interesting, the fault lies either with themselves or with those they play with,
or perhaps also with the kind of game they play.
   If they make their first acquaintance with Croquet in an eight-ball game of
the old type, with a company of flirts, triflers, and gossipers, we are not sur
prised at their being "bored" and disgusted ; but it is not the fault of the
game, but of the company.
   The present writer, many years ago, when the game was young, once played
(to his sorrow) in a sixleen-ball game. The game lasted a whole afternoon,
and he had but three turns ! Of course, it was left hopelessly unfinished. It
was a long time before even the sight of the game became again endurable to
him.
   Since the game first made its way into general popularity, many important
modifications have been introduced not only into the method of play, but even
into the construction and material of its instruments. Many of these alterations
and improvements were suggested in our original article, now (1875) some
six years ago. Though we are not vain enough to think that our suggestions
were to any very appreciable degree the cause, it is yet gratifying that they
should have been adopted.
   The following code of rules is called the " Field " Code. Although it is not
the only code, it has been adopted here as being in the writer's opinion, and
in that of the friends he has consulted, perhaps the most satisfactory, taking
all in all, of all extant codes. Indeed, there is but one other, the " All Eng
land" code, which holds any position at all besides it.
              Recommendations of the "Field" Committee.
   A full-sized croquet ground should measure 40 yards by 30 yards. Its
boundaries should be accurately defined.
   The Hoops should be of half-inch round iron, and should not be more than
6 inches in width, inside measurement The crown of the hoop should be at
least 1 2 inches clear of the ground. A hoop with the crown at right angles
to the legs is to be preferred.
   The Pegs should be of uniform diameter of not less than I \ inch, and should
stand at least 18 inches above the ground.
   The Balls should be of boxwood, and should not weigh less than 14 ounces
each.
   The Four-Ball Game is recommended for adoption in preference to any
other.
   When odds are given, the Bisque is recommended. A bisque is an extra
stroke which may be taken at any time during the game in continuation of
the turn. A player receiving a bisque cannot roquet a ball twice in the same
turn without making an intermediate point. In other respects, a bisque con
fers all the advantages of an extra turn. A player receiving two or more
bisques cannot take more than one in the same turn. Passing the boundary,
or making a foul stroke, does not prevent the player taking a bisque.
   The following Settings are recommended :
   No. 1. Eight-Hoop Setting.— Distances on a full-sized ground : Pegs 3
yards from boundary ; first and corresponding hoop 5 yards from pegs ;
centre hoops midway between first and sixth hoops, and 5 yards from each

                       CROQUET.                         93
              -»»—*¦-
      "fc;                                  -;;;:*
-                        •£'6$
         ~-i€                               3*=
                                   .-A
                          =VKto
                        ._5£
    4r                                       Z^L
              *c?|."
                               -3»   »¦—I
                                          S.
      _m:                                     t
  si
                                                  i
          •       .-,;—4— < <SBg-4-.x         —-
  ¦ ¦                                                 I
       ^_l+                <_^s?               j.....
    '                      £3i> ¦,             4—V

94                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
other ; corner hoops 6 yards from end of ground, and 5 yards from side.
Starting spot 2 feet in front of first hoop, and opposite its centre.
   No. 2. Seven-Hoop Setting. — Distances on a full-sized ground : Pegs in
centre line of ground 8 yards from nearest boundary. Hoops up centre line
of ground 6 yards from peg, and 6 yards apart ; corner hoops 7 yards from
centre, and in a line with pegs. Starting spot \\ yard from first hoop in centre
line of ground.
   No. 3. Six-Hoop Setting.— Distances on a full-sized ground as in No. 2,
except the middle-line hoops, 8 yards apart. Starting spot I foot from left-
hand corner hoop, and opposite its centre.
   It is essential to match play that bystanders should abstain from walking
over the grounds, speaking to the players or the umpires, making remarks
upon them aloud, or in any way distracting their attention.
                                   Definitions.
   A Point is made when a hoop is run, or a peg is hit, in order.
   The striker's hoop or peg in order is the one he has next to make. The
 order is shown by dotted lines in the diagrams of settings.
   A Roquet is made when the striker's ball is caused by a blow of the mallet to
hit another which it has not before hit in the same turn since making a point.
   The striker's ball is said to be in play until it roquets another. Having
 made roquet, it is in hand until croquet is taken. Croquet is taken by
 placing the striker's ball in contact with the one roqueted, the striker then
 hitting his own ball with the mallet. The non-striker's ball, when moved by
 a croquet, is called the croqueted ball.
   A Rover is a ball that has made all its points in order except the winning
 Peg.
                          THE LAWS OF CROQUET.
     1. Mallets.—There should be no restriction as to the number, weight, size,
          shape, or material of the mallets ; nor as to the attitude or position
          of the striker ; nor as to the part of the mallet held, provided the ball
          be not struck with the handle, nor the mace stroke used.
     2. Size of Balls.—The balls used in match play shall be 3$ inches in
          diameter.
     3. Choice of Lead and of Balls.— It shall be decided by lot which side
          shall have choice of lead and of balls. In a succession of games the
          choice of lead shall be alternate, the sides keeping the same balls.
     4. Commencement of Game. — In commencing, each ball shall be placed
          on the starting spot (see Settings.) The striker's ball, when so placed
          and struck, is at once in play, and can roquet another, or be roqueted,
          whether it has made the first hoop or not.
     5. Stroke, when taken.—A stroke is considered to be taken if a ball be
          moved in the act of striking ; but should a player, in taking aim, move
          his ball accidentally, it must be replaced to the satisfaction of the
          adversary, and the stroke be then taken. If a ball be moved in taking
          aim, and then struck without being replaced, the stroke is foul (see
           Law 25.)
     6. Hoop, when run. —A ball has run its hoop when, having passed through

                                CROQUET.                                   95
      from the playing side and ceased to roll, it cannot be touched by a
       straight-edge placed against the wires on the side from which it was
       played.
 7.  Ball driven partly through Hoop.—A ball driven partly through its
       hoop from the non-playing side, cannot run the hoop at its next stroke,
       if it can be touched by a straight-edge placed against the wires on the
       non-playing side.
 8.  Points counted to Non-Striker's Ball.—A ball driven through its hoop,
       or against the turning peg, by any stroke not foul, whether of its own
       or of the adverse side, counts the point so made.
 9.  Points madefor Adversary's Ball.— If a point be made for an adver
       sary's ball, the striker must inform his adversary of it. Should the
       striker neglect to do so, and the adversary make the point again, he
       may continue his turn as though he had played for his right point.
10.  The Turn.—A player, when his turn comes round, may roquet each
       ball once, and may do this again after each point made. The player
       continues his turn so long as he makes a point or a roquet.
1 1. Croquet imperative after Roquet.—A player who roquets a ball must
       take croquet, and in so doing must move both balls (see Law 25.) In
       taking croquet, the striker is not allowed to place his foot on the
       balL
12.  Ball in hand after Roquet.—No point or roquet can be made by a ball
       which is in hand. If a ball in hand displace any other balls, they
       must remain where they are driven. Any point made in consequence
       of such displacement counts, notwithstanding that the ball displacing
       them is in hand.
13.  Balls Roqueted simultaneously.—When a player roquets two balls
       simultaneously, he may choose from which of them he will take
       croquet ; and a second roquet will be required before he can take
       croquet from the other ball.
14.  Ballsfound Touching.— If at the commencement of a turn the striker's
       ball be found touching another, roquet is deemed to be made, and
       croquet must be taken at once.
15.  Roquet and Hoop made by same Stroke.—Should a ball, in making its
       hoop, roquet another that lies beyond the hoop, and then pass through,
       the hoop counts as well as the roquet A ball is deemed to be beyond
       the hoop if it lies so that it cannot be touched by a straight-edge
       placed against the wires on the playing side. Should any part of the
       ball that is roqueted be lying on the playing side of the hoop, the
       roquet counts, but not the hoop.
16.  Pegging out.—If a rover (except when in hand) be caused to hit the
       winning peg by any stroke of the same side, not foul, the rover is out
       of the game, and must be removed from the ground. A rover may
       similarly be pegged out by an adverse rover.
17.  Rover pegged out by Roquet. —A player who pegs out a rover by a roquet
       loses the remainder of his turn.
18.  Balls sent off the Ground.—A ball sent off the ground must at once be
       replaced 3 feet within the boundary, measured from the spot where it
       went off, and at right angles to the margin. If this spot be already
       occupied, the ball last sent off is to be placed anywhere in contact
        with the other, at the option of the player sending off the ball.

96                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
   19. Ball sent off near Corner.— A ball sent off within 3 feet of a corner is to
         be replaced 3 feet from both boundaries.
  20. Ball touching Boundary. — If the boundary be marked by a line on the
        turf, a ball touching the line is deemed to have been off the ground.
         If the boundary be raised, a ball touching the boundary is similarly
        deemed to have been off the ground.
  21. Ball sent offand returning toGround. —If a ball be sent off the ground,
        and return to it, the ball must be similarly replaced, measuring from
        the point of first contact with the boundary.
  22. Ball sent within 3 feet of Boundary.—A ball sent within 3 feet of the
        boundary, but not off the ground, is to be replaced as though it had
        been sent off—except in the case of the striker's ball, when the striker
        has the option of bringing his ball in, or of playing from where it lies.
  23. Boundary interfering with Stroke. —If it be found that the height of
        the boundary interferes with the stroke, the striker, with the sanction
        of the umpire, may bring in the balls a longer distance than 3 feet, so
        as to allow a free swing of the mallet. Balls so brought in must be
        moved in the line of aim.
  24. Dead Boundary.—If, in taking croquet, the striker send his own ball.
        or the ball croqueted, off the ground, he loses the remainder of his
        turn ; but if by the same stroke he make a roquet, his ball, being in
        hand, may pass the boundary without penalty. Should either ball
        while rolling after a croquet be touched or diverted from its course by
        an opponent, the striker has the option given him by Law 26, and is
        not liable to lose his turn should the ball which has been touched or
        diverted pass the boundary.
  25. Foul Strokes.— If a player make a foul stroke, he loses the remainder
        of his turn, and any point or roquet made by such stroke does not
        count. Balls moved by a foul stroke are to remain where they lie, or
        be replaced, at the option of the adversary. If the foul be made when
        taking croquet, and the adversary elect to have the balls replaced,
        they must be replaced in contact as they stood when the croquet was
        taken. The following are foul strokes :
          (a) To strike with the mallet another ball instead of or beside one's
               own in making the stroke.
          (6) To spoon, i.e., to push a ball without an audible knock.
          (c) To strike a ball twice in the same stroke.
          (d) To touch, stop, or divert the course of a ball when in play and
               rolling, whether this be done by the striker or his partner.
          (e) To allow a ball to touch the mallet in rebounding from a peg or
               wire.
          (/) To move a ball which lies close to a peg or wire by striking the
               peg or wire.
          (g) To press a ball round a peg or wire (crushing stroke).
          (h) To play a stroke after roquet without taking croquet
          (*) To fail to move both balls in taking croquet.
          (k) To croquet a ball which the striker is not entitled to croquet.
  26. Balls touched by Adversary.— Should a ball when rolling, except it be
        in hand, be touched, stopped, or diverted from its course by an adver
        sary, the striker may elect whether he will take the stroke again, or
        whether the ball shall remain where it stopped, or be placed where, in
        the judgment of the umpire, it would have rolled to.

                                 CROQUET.                                     97
  27. Balls stopped or diverted by Umpire. — Should a ball be stopped or
         diverted from its course by an umpire, he is to place it where he con
        siders it would have rolled to.
 28. Playing out of Turn, or with the Wrong Ball.— If a player play out of
        turn, or with the wrong ball, the remainder of the turn is lost, and any
        point or roquet made after the mistake. The balls remain where they
        lie when the penalty is claimed, or are replaced as they were before
        the last stroke was made, at the option of the adversary. But if the
        adverse side play without claiming the penalty, the turn holds good,
        and any point or points made after the mistake are scored to the ball
        by which they have been made— that is, the ball is deemed to be for
        the point next in order to the last point made in the turn —except
        when the adversary's ball has been played with, in which case the
        points are scored to the ball which ought to have been played with.
         If more than one ball be played with during the turn, all points made
        during the turn, whether before or after the mistake, are scored to the
        ball last played with. Whether the penalty be claimed or not, the
        adversary may follow with either ball of his own side.
 29. Playingfor Wrong Point. — If a player make a wrong point it does not
        count, and, therefore — unless he have, by the same stroke, taken
        croquet, or made a roquet—all subsequent strokes are in error, the
        remainder of the turn is lost, and any point or roquet made after the
        mistake. The balls remain where they lie when the penalty is claimed,
        or are replaced as they were before the last stroke was made, at the
        option of the adversary. But if the player make another point, or the
        adverse side play, before the penalty is claimed, the turn holds good ;
       and the player who made the mistake is deemed to be for the point
       next in order to that which he last made.
30. Information as to Score. —Every player is entitled to be informed which
       is the next point of any ball.
31. State of Game, if disputed.—When clips are used, their position, in case
       of dispute, shall be conclusive as to the position of the balls in the
       game.
32. Wires knocked out of Ground. —Should a player, in trying to run his
       hoop, knock a wire of that hoop out of the ground with his ball, the
       hoop does not count. The ball must be replaced, and the stroke
       taken again ; but if by the same stroke a roquet be made, the striker
       may elect whether he will claim the roquet or have the balls replaced.
33. Pegs or Hoops not Upright. —Any player may set upright a peg or hoop,
       except the one next in order ; and that must not be altered except
       by the umpire.
34. Ball lying in a Hole or on Bad Ground. —A ball lying in a hole or on
       bad ground may be moved with the sanction of the umpire. The ball
       must be put back—i.e., away from the object aimed at—and so as not
       to alter the line of aim.
35. Umpires. —An umpire shall not give his opinion, or notice any error
       that may be made, unless appealed to by one of the players. The
       decision of an umpire, when appealed to, shall be final. The duties of
       an umpire are—
         {a) To decide matters in dispute during the game, if appealed to.
         (b) To keep the score, and, if asked by a player, to disclose the state
              of it.

98                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
           (c) To move the clips, or to see that they are properly moved.
           (ti) To replace balls sent off the ground, or to see that they are pro
                 perly replaced.
           (e) To adjust the hoops or pegs not upright, or to see that they are
                 properly adjusted.
   36. Absence of Umpire. —When there is no umpire present, permission to
          move a ball, or to set up a peg or hoop, or other indulgence for which
          an umpire would be appealed to, must be asked of the other side.
    3^. Appeal to Referee.—Should an umpire be unable to decide any point at
          issue, he may appeal to the referee, whose decision shall be final ; but
          no player may appeal to the referee from the decision of an umpire.
                            Observations on Rules.
   Rule 1.— In the early days of the game there was much difference of
opinion, and often much jealousy, about the mallets. On many grounds a
player was not allowed to use any mallet but those provided by the ground.
There was naturally much resistance to this amongst real players, and at
last common sense prevailed, so that now-a-days hardly any one who can
lay any claim to be a player would think of being unprovided with a private
mallet. At billiards men use their own cues, at cricket their own bats, in
rowing their own sculls, and soon in all other games: what possible objection
can there be to the same custom in the case of croquet ?
    The real cause of the opposition was that the "duffers" perceived too plainly
that the " players " scored so very much better with their own well-made and
well-balanced weapons, than with the ordinary indifferent mallets usually
provided, that they had no chance at all against them.
    There was another grand stand made in the case of allowing a multiplicity
of mallets ; but here effectual appeal was made to the precedent of golf,
where a whole army of " clubs " is used by each player, and of billiards, where
long cues and short cues are used according to the exigencies of the situation ;
and the point has been finally conceded.
    The prohibitory clause at the end is directed against the ingenuity of certain
 individuals, " more ingenious than ingenuous," who invented strange methods
 of playing. One player had the handle end of his mallet "topped" like a
 billiard cue, and for critical fine strokes went down on his knees and played
 his ball as on a billiard table, much to the astonishment of friends and foes.
 Another lay flat on his face, "lined" his ball carefully, then, placing the mallet
 on the ground, the centre of the head almost touching the ball, pushed it
 sharply forward, making, in fact, the " mace stroke "at billiards. These and
 other eccentricities of inventive genius necessitated some restriction of the
 latitude allowed to players within at least reasonable limits.
     For ourselves, we recommend each player to provide himself with at least
 two mallets. One with a short handle and short head, something like the
 old original pattern ; this only for occasional use, and to be kept neat and
 natty, only because a good workman likes always to have his tools clean and
 bright, as well as keen and fit for use. The other, with which he will have to
 do most of his work, should be as carefully chosen and as carefully adjusted
  to his height and strength as ought a cricket bat.
     Its head should be of lignum vita;, for choice, if not, of the best Turkey box,
  and the handle of good sound ash. The head should be not less than 9 in.
  in length ; the diameter should be about 3 in. ; this may be increased or

                                     CROQUET.                                     99
   diminished — the latter but very slightly— to suit the player. A very slight re
   duction in diameter (one-tenth of an inch) even makes a wonderful difference
   in the weight of the mallet. Both faces should be flat, and with the edges
   gently rounded off. The present writer has a mallet made under his own
 •direction, of which the head is 14 inches long, 3$ inches in diameter— the
  same diameter, in fact, as the match balls ; but this is exceptionally large.
  The practice it makes, however, is something very remarkable, nor is it in
  reality so difficult to wield as it at first sight appears.
      The handle should be at least 3 feet in length, strong and slightly oval, with
  the long axis in the same direction as the head. If the mallet be made at
  home, great care must be taken in insuring accuracy in this point : a very
  slight divergence will make the mallet very uncertain in its work. To insure
  a more certain grasp it is well to bind that part of the handle where the hands
  come with string: coloured string is pretty, and not less workmanlike.
     A belter plan still is to get a saddler to cover it with leather, the soft side
  outside, sewn close on and the seam well beaten down. This affords a per
  fect hold, and yet will not chafe the softest hand nor soil the most delicate
 glove. The present writer adopted this plan some years ago most successfully
  with his cricket bats, and now these leather-covered handles are becoming
 quite common amongst cricketers.
     In the early days of small mallets there was much difference of opinion both
 as to the method of holding the mallet and also as to the manner of standing;
 but now that large mallets are almost universal amongst players, there can
 be but little diversity of opinion as to the essentials in either.
     The new mallets must be held in both hands, so that there can be no
 division into hostile camps of one-handed and two-handed players, as of yore;
 nor, considering the weight to be supported, is it easy to hold them in the
 namby-pamby way adopted by most ladies and some men, with the forefinger
 pointed down the handle.
     By some this is supposed to be an aid to the rightful direction of the stroke,
 than which there can be no more mistaken notion. The writer had often
 puzzled himself to discover the real reason for this female idiosyncracy, having
 observed that ladies hold their parasols and nearly everything else after the
 same feeble fashion—feeble because it detracts most seriously from the grasp
ing power of the hand. At last one day, having an unpresentable right hand,
he found it necessary to play in a glove— of course a light kid : he at once
discovered that he must eilher sacrifice his glove and split it up in various
places, or adopt the projecting-index-finger method above mentioned : a well-
fitting kid glove does not allow for the swelling muscles of the closed hand.
    As for Position, the most scientifically correct and therefore the most satis
factory is as follows : The player should place himself in front of his ball,
facing at right angles to its intended course, his feet slightly apart, his toes
close up to the line of the ball, but leaving a clear course, and the body
slightly bent over it. The mallet should be held with straight arms, firmly
but not stiffly, so that mallet and arms form a kind of pendulum swinging
freely from the shoulders ; the mallet-head must point exactly along the line
of the ball ; and here is the use of a long head, every inch of length making
it more easy to judge of and secure this vitally important condition.
    Having settled these preliminaries, which with very little practice become
quite mechanical, the mallet should be raised smoothly and quietly away from
the ball to the height and distance requisite for the due " strength " of the
stroke, and then allowed to fall back upon the ball, the stroke depending
                                                                   7—2

                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
entirely upon the momentum of the mallet, and in nowise upon any muscular
exertion of the striker, other than that required to raise it at first
    In this leaving the mallet to do its own work lies the true secret of sustained
accurate play. A player may make a succession of brilliant strokes, and even
keep it up for a whole afternoon or a series of afternoons, without adopting
this method. A good eye and a steady hand may make up for a faulty style,
but sooner or later the Nemesis must come : the eye is not always true nor the
muscles steady ; failure brings a sense of uncertainty, and the confidence
begotten of success, which is the mainstay of your unscientific players, is no
longer there to sharpen the eye and nerve the hand, and the brilliant player
collapses at once and for ever.
   So may it be seen at cricket : a young player flashes out upon the world,
makes wonderful scores against the best bowling, or takes nearly all the
wickets in a succession of big matches. " Here is the coming man," says the
world. But the old stagers shake their heads. " He has a good eye and a
strong wrist, but he has no style—he won't do ;" or " His bowling is really
very fine, but the batsman will soon find him out and play him like the rest ;
he is over-bowling himself too, and won't last." A season or two more and
the young Titan has dwindled into a dwarf ; the big matches know him no
more, and only the curious in such matters notice his name occasionally in
small local contests. Exceptional gifts may atone for many shortcomings,
but they cannot long supply the place of those results of continued intelligent
practice which go by the names of " Form " and " Style."
   It will be seen that the children in the illustration at the head of this article
do not follow the instructions given above. We have allowed it to remain in
its place, however, because, besides being a really pretty picture, it very well
illustrates the state of the game six or seven years ago, when the first edition
of this work was published, and so not only serves as a memorial of the past,
but also as a landmark to show what has been the progress of the game even
in that short space of time.
   Rule 4. —In many places it is even still the custom to make a ball " out of
play" until it has run its first hoop, or even in extreme cases to allow a player
any number of " tries " until this fearful initial difficulty has been surmounted.
This absurd concession to feeble players is now happily a thing of the past
upon all lawns of any pretensions.
   Rule 1 1. —The requirement in this rule, that both balls must be moved in
taking croquet, is difficult of application where there is no umpire, and an
umpire is, of course, an unattainable luxury in all ordinary games ; we have
always, therefore, under such circumstances, advocated its abrogation. Even
in matches we do not see that anything is gained by the rule : it can make but
little difference to the game whether the second ball is made to move half an
inch or not. It would be far more satisfactory to allow the striker the option
of making it move or not at his discretion, so long as, at the moment of striking,
actual contact exists between the two balls. This latter point is of importance,
as definitely fixing the locality of the striker's ball.
   If the rule be kept in force where there is no umpire, it must always prove
a fertile source of dispute and misunderstanding, and is a terrible weapon in
the hands of an unscrupulous player, or even in the hands of that far larger
class of players, such as one finds in every kind of game, and, indeed, in every
department of affairs, who are absolutely incapable of seeing things that mili
tate against themselves, while they are microscopically and imaginatively
acute in descrying the errors of their opponents. It is most essential in ail

                                     CROQUET.                                    101
games to cultivate simplicity of laws, and to avoid as far as possible all refine
ments of definition. Better lose some slight advantage in the game, than
open the door to possible sharp practice. The fact is, this rule is a relic of
praj-scientific days : it exists because it exists. Had there been no such rule
when the rules were revised and codified, no modern practical player would
have thought of inventing such a rule, and it evidently owes its retention still
in the new code to the conservatism of some one or more of the revisers. We
hope the next revision will make short work of it.
   Rule 1 2.—On many grounds a " rover " is considered " out " if he touch the
peg after roquet, and while his ball therefore is in hand ; but this is manifestly
unfair, and this rule distinctly sets the matter at rest
   Rule 14.—This is an admirable escape from what has often proved to be a
difficult position.
   Rule 15.—This rule may require a little explanation, but with a diagram it
is quite simple. In case (a), the striker's ball is supposed to strike another
                        ball beyond the hoop, but so placed as to obstruct the full
                        passage of his own, and then to pass satisfactorily through,
                        as in diagram. It will be evident that if O be exactly
                        opposite the centre of the hoop, and
                        S be driven in the direction S O,
                        contact must be made with O before
                        itself has passed the hoop. If S can
                        contrive so to displace O as to secure
room for its own free passage, it scores both the hoop
and the roquet ; if not, it scores the roquet only. If the
balls be as in diagram (b), with O projecting ever so little
on this side of the hoop, then the roquet only can be counted, even though
the balls be driven through.
   Rules 16 & 17. —These rules about pegging out have been by authority pro
visionally placed in abeyance. For ourselves, we think it would add much to
the game if all pegging out by opponents were abolished. The whole subject
is beset by many difficulties, and hardly any conclusion can be arrived at
which will not be open to objection on some count or other. But on this
particular point we feel we have a very strong case.
   Rule 18.— This rule supposes the existence of what is technically called the
" dead boundary "—a comparative innovation in the game, but most useful.
Before this regulation was introduced a player was subject, upon lawns of any
extent, to be condemned to a series of hard wild drives up from long distances,
simply to get his ball back into the game, without the slightest possibility of
" placing " it. A powerful arm and some luck in getting hold of the balls at
critical moments was, under these circumstances, an overmatch for the most
finished skill, less fortunate in these particulars. We have seen a good player
utterly overwhelmed in this way by a muscular and triumphant opponent,
whose crashing blows, like what are called "gallery strokes" in cricket, judged
only by their results, were hailed with joy by his friends, and looked upon with
respectful awe by his enemies. As well might one require a player at billiards,
whose ball has been knocked off the table, to play it back somehow or other
with his cue, as require a croquet player to play back a ball that has been
knocked to an indefinite distance off the ground.
   Rule 25. —The reason for insisting upon the replacement of the balls in case
of a foul stroke is not at once apparent. The object is to prevent a player delibe
rately making a foul stroke when, as does sometimes happen, he finds he can

                             OUTDOOR GAMES.
in that way do either more good to his own side, or, what comes to the same
thing, more harm to his adversaries. It seems strange to have to legislate in
this manner for a mere game ; but, unfortunately, there are people, the very
souls of honour in other things, who, even when nothing but the barren glory
of victory is at stake, will avail themselves of every little flaw in the laws, and
stoop to unheard-of meannessess to bring themselves or their friends but one
step nearer the winning-post— and this without a blush, or even the sense of
shame. The writer played once in a very well-matched set, where the winning
game of the rubber was pulled off in this way : It was a four-handed game :
his side won the first game, and were well on in the second. At a critical
moment he was about to " peg out " the opposition rover, as was always the
custom in those days when opportunity occurred. The hostess, whose ball
was thus in peril, protested against it as a mean advantage ; and finally, after
a little discussion, the stroke was abandoned, although the whole play had
been laid out for this for some turns back. By good play and some luck, the
opponents ran out. The next, and winning game, the writer having made his
ball a rover, and his friend being well up, placed it with sublime confidence
 near the peg. His astonishment was great to see the hostess roquet his ball,
 and then placidly —despite all remonstrances from friend as well as foe—pro
 ceed to peg it out ! She remarked that rules were rules, and that no agree
 ment had been made to abolish " pegging out " ! The writer said nothing, but
 thought a great deal. He hopes her conscience pinches her now and again
 for this lapse into meanness, but is forced to confess that in all probability to
 this day, if she have not forgotten it, she imagines herself to have been per
 fectly in the right, and is rather proud than otherwise of her cleverness. This
 anecdote of personal experience is a good example of the difficulties and un
 pleasantness that may arise from any uncertainty in the rules.
    The various definitions of foul strokes are sufficiently plain, and their object
 sufficiently evident, not to need any detailed observations. We have already
 noticed above, the rules as to croqueting a ball The rest of the rules require
 no special notice.
                  Observations on Recommendations, &c.
    The Ground. —The size of ground recommended by the Committee is that
 which has been found most suited to the game ; but this is not an imperative
 necessity, and must depend upon the exigencies of each case. Croquet, and
 good croquet too, can be played on a much smaller lawn, just as very satis
 factory billiards can be played on a table of less than full size. We should
 not, however, recommend the adoption of much larger dimensions, however
 extensive the facilities may be.
    The first and most important requisite of the game is a firm, close, and
 level turf. On a good lawn very fair practice may be made even with a de
 cidedly inferior set of implements ; but on a thoroughly bad one. however good
 the other accessories, the game, as a game of skill, is simply impossible.
    We do not mean to say that a lawn should be immaculate —absolutely per
 fect in every requirement. Much skill may be shown in taking advantage of
 the various inequalities and peculiarities of the ground ; but we do say—the
 better the lawn, the more scientific the play. Moreover, on an uneven lawn,
 those who are accustomed to the ground have an unfair advantage over those
 who play on it for the first time or only occasionally.
    There are numberless refinements of play which require the accurate

                                  CROQUET.                                    103
placing of one or both balls almost to an inch, which are simply impossible
upon any but a true sheet of turf.
   When there are any considerable inequalities in the turf, a slow stroke is
hardly to be attempted ; just at the critical moment the bali may come upon
one of these lumps or other irregularities, and wander off indefinitely —pro
bably coming finally to rest precisely in the very spot where the striker least
wishes it to be. And as it is the gentle, and not the slashing strokes, the
careful " timing " of the ball, and not mere hard hitting, that tests the skill of
the player, it is exceedingly annoying to any one who really cares about the
game to find his skill thus neutralized, and more than neutralized, and himself
driven to adopt a style of play which he detests. A gradual slope does not
so much matter,—that can be calculated on and provided for ; it is the small
abrupt irregularities that prove the ruin of all accurate play, but fortunately
this is the fault that is most easily remedied.
   Almost any sheet of turf may be turned into a croquet lawn, and entirely
by home labour, too, if only a little industry and perseverance be displayed.
Of course, where money is no object, the thing may be better and more
thoroughly'done by hired labour ; but this will not give half the pleasure, and
may not, after all, if any talent be displayed by the amateurs, be so very far
superior as to make it worth the additional expense.
   The work, to be carried to a thoroughly successful issue, should properly
be commenced not later than the middle of October ; but, if the season prove
favourable, it will not be of much consequence if the work be begun later, so
that it be well out of hand by the end of January.
   If there be already a satisfactory covering of turf, with a good subsoil, there
will be little to do but to remove inequalities, for which the general recipe will
be continuous work with a heavy roller, as soon as the ground is fairly sodden
by the winter rains; while for special bumps and depressions, which continue
to resist any other treatment, the following is a simple and certain remedy :
   Make two incisions in the turf with a spade, about four inches in depth,
cutting each other at right angles, so that the point of section is just about the
centre of the obnoxious irregularity ; now raise the turf at the four angles thus
presented, and subtract or add, as the case may be, sufficient soil to reduce
the inequality to the surrounding level. In each case some little allowance
must be made for the further crushing powers of the roller.
   As regards the turf itself, no pains must be spared to eradicate all weeds,
moss, plantain- roots, coarse grass, &c ; and, if necessary, faulty pieces must
be cut out and replaced by sound turfs.
   A few pounds of good grass-seed will prove of great service in providing a
fine close turf, and a good heavy top-dressing of road-scrapings will also well
repay the trouble taken to lay it on.
   If the turf be not good to commence with, and the subsoil poor and gravelly,
the best thing to do, and, indeed, the only satisfactory course, is to take up
the whole sheet of turf, carefully level the subsoil, with spade and pickaxe if
necessary, lay down a superstratum of good sound mould, and then relay the
turf over that, rejecting, of course, such sods as are not well up to the mark,
and replacing them by new ones.
   If sufficiency of new turfs be not available, lay down as much of the centre
of the ground as you can, and trust to a good supply of seed for the borders.
Then roll, and otherwise treat it as above described.
  We, of course, take it for granted that the utmost care is taken to keep up
a constant and efficient supply of water.

104                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
   Arrangement of the Ground.—This is not a matter of such vital importance
to rhe game as might at first sight be supposed, almost all the ordinary systems
affording a very good opening for an interesting contest.
    Nevertheless, the arrangement of the hoops undoubtedly does make a
material difference to the lasting interest of the game ; and many a closely-
contested war of words has raged over this question.
   The settings we have given above are considered to afford more " sport "
than any others ; but there is ample room for the display of any amount of
ingenuity in working out and experimenting upon new settings.
    On first-class lawns, of course, any possible arrangement is just as practic
able as another, and were these the only places to be legislated for, uniformity
of practice would be much to be desired ; but it is one of the great recom
mendations of croquet that it can be played almost anywheres, Granted a
piece of tolerably smooth turf, if it be only a few yards square, and croquet is
at once a possibility.
    One of the most agreeable lawns we ever played on was of quite insignifi
cant proportions, and had, besides, a large pear-tree in the middle ; and once
we played on a nearly circular lawn, with a flower-bed in the middle. Of
course the ordinary arrangement of the hoops was quite impracticable in
both cases ; but the game was not spoilt, scarcely even marred, for all that.
    The pear-tree whose presence we so greatly lamented on the first-mentioned
ground, at the commencement of our practice on it, proved afterwards, when
we became more proficient in aim and general skill, almost a compensation
for a more extended field of operation ; for, without it, it would have been
 impossible to place a ball almost anywhere on the ground in even tolerable
safety from any other, while, as it was, many a ball lying under its friendly-
 shelter was as safe, nay, safer, from the assaults of a foe not two yards off as
 if it had been two hundred.
    Where any one setting has been adopted, it is a great saving of time and
 labour to prepare a piece of string or tape with knots or other marks upon it
 for the various hoops. This stretched from peg to peg will give all the hoops
 in that line, and other pieces fastened on at right angles will give the position
 of the side hoops with mathematical nicety. If the string or tape (the latter
 is preferable) be tolerably stout, and reasonable care be taken in winding and
 unwinding it, there need be no fear of its becoming entangled.
    Boundaries.— If possible there should be a raised bank, 8 inches or so in
 height, all round the lawn : this is the most satisfactory boundary. The next
 best thing is a line of wire netting of about the same height ; but this is very
 apt to upset short-sighted or inattentive people, or catch in ladies' dresses. A
 very simple method of marking is to peg close to the ground a whitened cord
 or piece of stout string. This makes a perfect landmark, and is not liable to
 the same objections as the wire netting. Its only drawback is that it is of no use
 in arresting the course of the ball, otherwise it serves its purpose admirably.
     Hoops.—The thickness of iron employed for the hoops may seem a very
 unimportant matter of detail, but practically it becomes one cf no slight con
 sequence. The thickness given, half-inch iron, should be the minimum. If
  the thickness of the wire is appreciably less than this, the hoops are apt to get
  twisted and bent, and are more difficult to drive satisfactorily into a hard
  ground, and are thus always falling away from the needful rigid perpendicular ;
  they are, moreover, .less easily distinguishable.
     The flat-topped hoops are now becoming almost universal.
     The Balls.—The recommendation given as to weight should be very care

                                    CROQUET.                       .           105
fully attended to ; it is a matter of very serious importance. Light balls are
much more erratic and are much more sensible to slight inequalities of ground
than are heavy ones. Here, again, it is only a minimum that is given.
   Where real play is intended, it is as well to keep always a perfect set of
balls, unbruised and unchipped for serious gamejs, and a second set of partly-
used balls for rougher work or for wet weather.
   The wet is very injurious to the balls, and a good set should be exposed to
it as little as possible. They should be kept constantly in a dry but not too
hot place, and a slight application of a greasy cloth every now and then be
fore they are put away (of course, after they have been thoroughly dried, which
should be done by vigorous rubbing with a piece of house-flannel), will prove
a great preservative.
   All promiscuous knocking and banging-about of the balls— a very common
weakness amongst young people — should be sternly discouraged. A ball
seldom gets chipped or bruised in actual play, unless perhaps by a very un
skilful player. The player should be required to carry the balls carefully from
 place to place, especially when they are being taken to or from the lawn.
   Four-Ball Game.—This is the only game worth playing, and it should
be played if possible by only two players. Thus each is responsible entirely
for the success or ill success of his own side; there is no jealousy about help
ing or declining to help one's partner, and there can be no disputing as to the
proper direction of the game. Each player is his own captain and side in
one He can conceive and follow out a line of play simply on the ground of
«ts merits, and without being weighted by the necessity for considering the
weaknesses or idiosyncracies of his partner.
   There is the same difference between the two-handed game at croquet and
the four-handed, as there is at billiards. No billiard-player thinks of joining
in a four-handed game if he can possibly get a two-handed.
   The six-handed game, even with a picked set of players, is sure to become
more or less tedious and a weariness to the flesh ; while the eight-handed
game is simply an abomination.
   Theory of the Game. —We have hitherto taken for granted a certain
amount of previous knowledge of the game on the part of our readers ; but
perhaps a short notice of its theory may be not absolutely misplaced.
   The game is played by opposite parties, of two or more on a side, each player
armed with a mallet, having his own ball, which it is his business to drive with
his mallet through the several hoops in order, striking the turning-peg on the
way, and so home to the starting-peg, contact with which puts his ball out.
   The side that gets all its balls out first wins.
   This is the mere outline of the game, the framework, as it were, on which
the game is constructed : in point of fact, making the hoops comes to be a
matter of very inferior interest in a close game It is only when both sides
have made all their hoops, and are fighting for the winning-peg, to get out,
that all the capacities of the game are revealed.
   In a case like this, with good and well-matched players, the interest becomes
absorbing; the game sways backwards and forwards—now one party has it
all its own way, now the other ; and it is only when the last ball of a side has
actually struck the peg, that victory can be confidently reckoned upon by one
party, or despaired of by the other. There is, perhaps, no other game played
in which the maxim, that it is never lost till it is won, is more constantly exem
plified as it is in croquet, or in which a player may with more advantage take
for his motto, Nil desperandum.

  106                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
     Science OF the Game.—The science of the game may most conveniently
 be considered under two heads, Mechanical and Intellectual. Under the for
mer will naturally fall all that pertains to manual dexterity ; while the latter
will include those higher qualities which are, as it were, the very salt of the
game, and which are to the mere physical science what a general is to his army,
or the brain to the body.
    The former, as the very basis upon which the latte- has to work, the material
 it has to manipulate, naturally comes under discussion first.
     Mechanical.— We have already given above, in our observations on the
rules, full instructions in the method of handling the mallet, and, as long as
the striker has only his own ball to deal with, this is all that he requires: the
ball must run in a straight line from the head of the mallet ; and if the blow
has been properly delivered, and there be no obstacle in the way, the path of
the ball is a matter of the simplest calculation. A straight eye and a firm
hand will place even the most uninitiated player on a par with the most
practised performer, as far as hitting the ball goes.
    The Croquet. — Having mastered the art of driving his own ball in a
straight line in any requisite direction, so as to strike another ball or to pass
through a hoop, and the more difficult art of " placing" it—that is, of so judging
the strength of his stroke as to make the ball roll exactly as far, and no far
ther, than he desires— the player must study and master the art and practice
of thus directing and placing two balls—that is, he must make himself a pro
ficient in the " croquet."
    In the earlier days of Croquet there was much to be said and learnt upon
the right method and judicious employment of "tight croquet"—a feature in
the game now happily abolished. The stroke was made as follows : The
striker placed the two balls together as in " croquet " proper, put his foot upon
his own ball, and then delivered the stroke. If this was done properly— and
it was hardly possible for a player who had had any practice to fail, except
from extreme carelessness — the object-ball was driven off at a velocity pro
portioned to the vigour of the stroke, and in a direction in accordance with
the relative positions of the two balls, as we have explained further on, while
the striker's ball remained firm under his foot.
    It has been found that all the advantages of this old " tight croquet " may
be obtained by skill in the use of the mallet unaided by the foot ; and there
fore for this and other reasons, not necessary now to specify, its use has been
abolished.
    To drive your own ball where you will in a straight line is a matter of com
parative facility, and some skill in "judging strength "is not difficult of attain
ment, nor by any means uncommon ; to treat in like manner the object-ball,
while your own is held firm with your foot, is not only not more difficult, but
positively much more easy, and far less liable to failure ; but to be able to
place both balls at will exactly where most wanted —either following each
other, or each going off at a different angle, and having to traverse a different
distance—this, indeed, is a very triumph of skill and dexterity, and entitles a
player to a place amongst the very first, so far as mere mechanical proficiency
is concerned.
    It is in the croquet that are to be found all the scientific possibilities of the
game ; and, therefore, the player who desires to excel cannot take too much
trouble in making himself as far as possible master of this fascinating branch
of its practice.
    In order to do this with any success, he must possess or acquire a thorough

                                   CROQUET.                                     107
knowledge, theoretical or practical, or both, of the natural laws which govern
the motions of the balls when brought into contact with one another.
   We need not go into any abstruse scientific details ; they are not necessary
for the due attainment of our ob ect, which is to take a practical rather than
theoretical view of the subject : a reference to one simple rule of mechanics
will answer every purpose.
    If one ball be driven by another ball coming in contact with it, the former
will fly off from the latter in the direction of the straight line joining their
centres. This rule holds good also when the two balls are in contact at rest,
and one is struck as in " the croquet."
    Attention to this rule will make the direction of the croqueted ball a matter of
mathematical certainty. Get this line correctly.and it matters not how you strike
your own ball : the croqueted ball must lake the right direction. The central
figure in the illustration illustrates this
rule : in whatever direction the mallet
— represented by the arrows — falls on
the dark or croqueting ball, the light or
croqueted ball must inevitably fly off in
the direction of e.
    There is not much difficulty in plac
ing either the croqueted or the croquet
ing ball singly ; but when both have to
be " placed," or still more when both
have to be taken through a series of
hoops together, then the player will in
deed be required to put forth his utmost
skill ; to do all he knows.
    The movements of the croqueting
ball depend entirely upon the hand
ling of the mallet. For instance, in
the left-hand bottom figure, if it be
required to place the croqueting ball at
a, a very different stroke is required
to that which would place it at c. The
object-ball, of course, will in either
case fly off to b. A simple formula will,
perhaps, prove more serviceable here
than pages of instruction. Bear this, therefore, in mind : " SHORT SHARP
STROKES PRODUCE GREAT ANGLES; LONG SWEEPING STROKES, FINE
ANGLES." The former drive the croqueted ball, and hardly stir the other ; the
latter drive the croqueting ball, and, unless the angle be fine, scarcely move the
croqueted.
    In making the sweeping or driving stroke, the mallet must be grasped with
rigid hand and wrist as firmly as possible, and quite low down, and must be
made to follow well after the ball. Great firmness and decision are required
 to make this very useful stroke effectively.
    The short sharp strokes must be delivered with a loose wrist, the mallet not
being held too tight, but rather allowed to play in the hand. Care must be
taken, too, to arrest the mallet's motion at the very instant of delivery : if it
 be allowed to follow the ball in the least, it will not only modify the angle, but
 will impart to the ball more or less of its own forward impetus. To avoid this,
 the mallet should be brought up sharp with a kind of jerk—a knack not very

                             OUTDOOR GAMES.
difficult of acquirement. A thorough command of this method of making the
croquet is exceedingly valuable, and, indeed, to a first-rate player, is simply
indispensable : in every game he is sure to find abundant opportunity of
making it serviceable.
   It is exceedingly difficult to make these short sharp strokes with any cer
tainty with the heavy mallets, and it requires an exertion of muscular power
not possible to everybody. The momentum of a large mallet is so great that
nothing but a very strong arm and wrist can arrest its course with sufficient
suddenness. To deliver the stroke properly the mallet must be arrested at
the moment of contact with the ball ; the slightest " follow on " is fatal to the
stroke.
   Now, it is not everybody who is gifted with a sufficiently muscular develop
ment for this purpose, and even to those who are, the strain on the wrist is so
severe and so sudden, that very serious injury to the tendons is by no means
an unlikely occurrence. The present writer, while attempting this stroke with
a very large mallet, received an injury to the tendons of his wrist and arm
which lasted him for several years. He had made the stroke scores of times
before, and always f&und it hard of achievement, but had never looked upon
it as likely to be a source of any danger. It is not so much the sudden jerk
that is the source of the possible mischief; it is the liability of the mallet to
turn in the hand at the moment of arrestation, thus causing a jerk and twist
at the same moment—a very unpromising combination.
   It is better, therefore, when this stroke occurs in the game, to lay aside the
large mallet, and to make use of the small one recommended above This
being actually lighter than the balls, will have a tendency of itself to fly back
when the stroke is delivered, and will therefore require little of that sudden
jerk-back which is so trying to the wrist, and what it does require is rendered
comparatively a matter of unimportance by its immeasurably inferior mo
mentum.
   With the small mallet a skilful player can drive the croqueted ball to the
very extremity of the ground, and yet not move his own ball from the spot.
This can, of course, only be done where there is no attempt at a splitting
stroke ; but even in this latter case it is perfectly wonderful what may be done
with the two balls : the croqueted ball may be sent far away in one direction,
and the striker's ball be made to roll, screwing along in a slow aggravating
manner, up to another ball or towards a hoop, only a foot or so off.
   Thus it may be seen that a thorough command of the small mallet is quite
as important an element in the game, though more rarely called into play, as
that of the large one.
   Science Intellectual.— It would be impossible, in the short space of a
few pages, to enter into a very elaborate disquisition on the practical working
of the game, or go into and describe all the moves upon the balls. A few
general hints and illustrations will be all we can attempt
   Hints to young Flayers.—At the beginning of the game, and before making
each stroke, look well around you and see what is the exact position of affairs ;
then, having made up your mind what to do, make your stroke deliberately
and carefully.
   Above all things avoid hurry, especially when in the midst of a good break.
Nothing is so likely to bring your break to an untimely end.
   Watch the game carefully throughout, studying especially each player's
style, both friend and foe. You will thus not only measure the capability of
the other players - a knowledge sometimes of the utmost importance at critical

                                  CROQUET.                                   109
moments in the game—but you will be very likely to pick up a hint or two
which may hereafter prove most serviceable.
   You must remember that it is a matter of the utmost importance to your
game to know not only how far you may dare to trifle with your enemies, but
also how much it is safe to leave to your friend. A correct judgment upon
this head at a critical point in the game will often win a match otherwise
irretrievably lost.
   Do not play a selfish game ; that is, do not be in too great a hurry to make
your own hoops. You may often do more service to your side by going back,
or lying by to help your friend, than by running your pwn ball through half a
dozen hoops. Remember, you cannot win the game off your own ball.
   Do not hesitate either, where you can do real injury (o your opponents, to
abandon your own game, in order to go down and break up theirs.
   Look with an especially jealous eye upon any assembly of their balls in
friendly contiguity : rush down, at all hazards, and break it up. Such a
gathering always portends mischief.
   Never try a difficult stroke, however brilliant, when circumstances do not
imperatively demand it. It is the safe game that wins. For instance, in trying
for a hoop from a difficult point, unless you are pretty certain of making it,
it is better to place your ball and wait for your next turn, than run the risk of
overrunning your hoop, and so having to come back. Better the certainty of
making the hoop in two turns, than the chance of having to take three. Of
 course this is on the supposition that none of the enemy's balls are lurking
 about near.
   Lastly, take every opportunity of practising the various strokes, especially
the more simple ones. If the brilliant strokes make the beauty of the game,
it is the ordinary every-day strokes that do the work. Just as at billiards, it is
not the man who makes the biilliant strokes that necessarily wins the game,
but he who can go on time after time making the simple straightforward
strokes with unfailing machine-like regularity. Of course the command of
the exceptional strokes is of enormous advantage to a player, as it will con
stantly enable him to extricate himself from a difficulty and get the balls
together when they are apparently hopelessly apart and scoring seems an
impossibility.
   The theory of croquet is just the same, and there is certainly in croquet,
just the same as in billiards, something peculiarly aggravating to the oppo
nents in the sight of a player calmly making his points in unfailing succession,
laying his ball after each stroke within an inch or so of where it is wanted,
and so steadily progressing in his game without apparently making or having
to attempt a single stroke that is above the ordinary humdrum average.
   But herein lies the skill of the player: he has no difficult strokes to play,
 because he takes care to avoid having them; he so places the balls after each
 stroke that the succeeding one shall be as much a certainty as the one he is
just playing. The uninitiated opponents, or onlookers, make great outcry
 about his luck, the older hands admire his play.
   Therefore to the young player we say, Study to play a steady-going careful
game, never getting excited, never throwing away a chance, and with but one
end in view—the final post.
    For this purpose there is nothing like taking a couple of balls by yourself,
 placing them in any position you will, say one just " placed " lor a hoop,
 and the other on the other side, in any position you may consider the most
 advantageous, and then trying how many points you can make in a single

 no                         OUTDOOR GAMES.
 '¦break." This is splendid practice, and if persevered in will quickly pro
 duce the most satisfactory results upon the accuracy and value ot your play.
 Half an hour two or three times a week, if no more can be spared, will be
found amply sufficient for the purpose.
   Nor need the young player think that this will be a dull amusement. As
soon as he gets into the spirit of the thing, so far from finding it dull, he will
find it so fascinating that he will find it difficult to leave off, he will be always
wanting to have one more try at the task he has set himself, or, having
achieved it, will be wanting to do a little better still.
   A very short experience of this practice will convince the player of the
truth of our observations. The opportunity for a fine tour deforce only occurs
now and again, but the ordinary routine strokes are in requisition at every
turn.
   It must be well understood we do not wish to seem to undervalue in any
way the higher flights of skill; we only wish to impress upon our young
readers the necessity of laying first a solid foundation of steady accurate
play in the easier strokes before attempting to excel in the more difficult ones.
   More breaks are lost by careless play in comparatively simple strokes than
by failure in the more difficult ones. The player naturally takes more pains
with the latter, and therefore is less liable to come short of his aim. Every
STROKE SHOULD BE PLAYED AS IF THE WHOLE GAME DEPENDED UPON IT.
   When the young player feels himself getting reasonably strong in this
steady accurate playing of simple strokes, then he may try his wings a little
and aspire to higher flights of skill and dexterity.
   Especially let him study the art of making long shots: on a fairly good
ground a wonderful degree of accuracy at very long distances may be acquired,
and 20 yards distance, and even more, may be made a matter of as much
certainty as 4 or 5 yards to ordinary players.
   Nothing gives a player so much confidence in himself, or is so fatally
demoralizing to the opposition, as this certainty of aim at long distances.
The player himself feels quite calm under all successes of his opponents: the
end of all breaks must come sooner or later, and then it will be very hard if
there be not a hoop or at least one ball out of three within his reach, and,
therefore, a break of some kind within his power ; while the opponents can
not but be nervously anxious about leaving an opening for him anywhere.
   A dead shot at 20 yards must always be dangerous at 30 or even 40, and
thus there can be no absolute safety anywhere upon the ground, except under
the protection of a hoop or a stick; and it is far from easy to make a succes
sion of points leaving the balls after each stroke " wired," or otherwise pro
tected from the opponent's ball.
   Indeed, it could never be attempted; something must be risked, and where
the stroke is easy, something ought to be risked, in order to make a point ,
but the consciousness that your opponent is lying in wait for you, and that
failure in any detail means letting him in, perhaps to a fatally long break,
does not add to the steadiness of a player's nerves, and a httle unsteadiness
or over-anxiousness often produces the very result that' is dreaded.
   There is one more point of play which we are loth to pass over, and for
which, therefore, we must endeavour to find room. Sometimes it is desirable,
in roqueting a ball, to drive it not in a straight line, but at some slight angle to
one side or the other of it : this may be effected in the manner indicated in
the right-hand bottom figure of the illustration on page 107.
   This is a very neat stroke, very effective at times, and sure to " bring down

                                  CROQ UET.                                  111
the house." It is, however, rather hazardous, as the cha.ices of missing are
greatly enhanced, and only to be attempted from a comparatively short dis
tance, and not then unless at very close quarters on a thoroughly good lawn.
   As a final piece of advice, and one by no means unnecessaiy in many cases,
keep youk temper. It is difficult enough at times, one knows, especially
when fate seems all against you and in favour of your opponents ; when their
good things all come off, but in the most fluky manner ; when a badly-aimed
ball glances from a hoop, and effects the roquet it would otherwise have
missed ; or the roquet is effected by the merest shave, and so on ; while as
for your balls, " Misfortune seems to mark them for its own," and nothing
comes off, but everything fails as it were by the " skin of the teeth."
   If, in addition to this, your opponent, whom you know to be your inferior
in play, assumes an air of calm superiority, accepts all his flukes as due to
his superior play, and you see that the onlookers are taking him at his own
valuation — then, indeed, you must be of a very sweet disposition, of a very
phlegmatic temperament, or have extraordinary control over your feelings, if
"your angry passions do not rise" a little under the infliction.
   Nevertheless, to lose your temper is the worst thing you can do : it is sure,
in the first place, to amuse your opponent and the spectators ; it will certainly
make you play worse than you otherwise would, and thus lose more points
still in your game , and besides all this, it will make you very uncomfortable.
For all that, we have no doubt that when such circumstances do arise, all
these forewarnings will prove of little avail against the provocation of the
moment.
   There is one more maxim which we wish to impress upon our readers :
 Keep your own balls together, and your adversary's apart. In
this lies the secret of all successful management of a game. However hard
it may seem at the time to give up a strong position with one ball, in order
to go back and help its laggard brother, or to stop a combination of the enemy,
u must be done, and done systematically too, at all hazards. One ball by
itself is a very lame and impotent affair : two together become a host.
   If at the end of a break you find nothing immediately to your hand for you
to do, as must constantly happen as soon as your ball has made all or most
of its hoops, and with but one turn left, lie up to your second ball, unless, of
course, it be close to an enemy, when such play would be simply suicidal.
You thus place your enemy in this position : Either he must go on with his
game, and risk letting you in with your two balls together,— a thing no player
would think of, unless he had a series of absolutely certain strokes before him,
which would make it worth his while to brave the after risk,— or you compel
him to leave his game, and come and separate your balls. In either case you
retard his game, which is the same thing as advancing your own. We have
seen many a game lost and won by attention or neglect of this simple rule.
    Failing space bids us now take leave of this interesting game, which we will
again venture to press upon the notice of our young readers as well worthy
 their attention. If they will only bring to it—as every English boy should to
all he undertakes—determination and perseverance, with lots of energy and
good temper, they will find no reason to repent of following our recommenda
 tion, but will rather thank us for introducing them to a new and lasting
 pleasure ; and so we wish them all good speed

1 12                       OUTDOOR GAMES.
                               FOOTBALL.
   Though ranking second to cricket only among our outdoor games, football
yet labours under one immense disadvantage in being unprovided with a code
of rules of universal acceptance.
   Some steps have been taken with a view to supplying this want, but at
present with only partial success. Both the Cambridge and the London
Amalgamation codes are steps in the right direction, and have achieved some
success; but a still further revision in the direction of unity of principle and
simplicity of action is in each case still urgently required, before either can
hope for more than mere local acceptation.
   The code of rules given below, which it will be seen on comparison takes
pretty much the same line as the two above mentioned, is the result of many
years' paring and revision under the crucial test of constant hard play; a
privilege being added here, or curtailed there, as occasion required.
   In its present form it has stood unaltered through five or six seasons, and
on occasion of matches has been accepted without reservation by more than
one club, as at once simple in theory and thoroughly practical in action.
   A very few hours' play will be amply sufficient to give an insight into the
practical working of these rules, and, once mastered, their extreme simplicity
renders their due observance so perfectly easy and natural as to require


OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                  FOOTBALL.                                    113
scarcely an effort of recollection even from the most inexperienced and un
intelligent.
   Whereas in most other codes a thorough working familiarity with all the
minutia of the laws and bye-laws is only to be obtained by prolonged and
sustained hard practice, yet a thorough mastery of the rules in this code will
enable a player to pick up with the utmost facility any other form of the
game.
  A further claim, too, may be set up on its behalf, namely, that all unneces
sarily dangerous and rough play has been carefully and rigidly excluded : this
may, perhaps, be more of a recommendation in the eyes of parents and grown
men generally than of boys ; but it is, perhaps, none the less valid for all that.
  THEORY of the Game.— Football, like cricket, requires two opposing
sides. It is played with a hollow ball, some eight or ten inches in diameter,
of India rubber (in former times a bladder) blown full of air, and protected
by a leather case.
   The goals are placed at opposite ends of the field, each side defending its
own, and trying to drive the ball through its opponents'.
   It is a game only suitable for cold weather, as cricket is for hot, for the
exertion is not only very severe while it lasts, but the intervals of rest in a
well-contested game are few and far between.
                                      Rules.
   1. The length of the ground shall be not more than 150 yards, and the
        breadth 55 yards. The ground shall be marked out by posts, two at
        each end, parallel with the goal-posts, and 55 yards apart ; and by one
        at each side of the ground, half-way between the side-posts.
   2. The goal shall consist of two uprights 1 5 feet apart, with a cross-bar 8
        feet from the ground.
   3. The choice of goal and kick-off shall be determined by tossing.
   4. In a match, when half the time agreed upon has elapsed, the sides shall
        change goals the next time the ball is out of play. In ordinary games
        the change shall be made after every goal.
   5. The heads of sides shall have the sole management of the game.
   6. The ball shall be put in play as follows :
        {a) At the commencement of the game, and after every goal, by a place-
           kick 25 yards in advance of the goal, by either side alternately, each
           party being arrayed on its own ground.
        {b) If the ball have been played behind the goal-line (1) by the oppo
           site party, the side owning the goal shall have a place-kick from be
           hind the goal-line at their discretion; (2) by the side owning the goal,
           whether by kicking or guiding, the opposite party shall have a place-
           kick from a spot 25 yards in front of the goal, at their discretion.
        {c) If the ball have been played across the side-lines, the player first
           touching it with the hand shall have a place-kick from the point at
           which the ball crossed the line.
   7. In all the above cases the side starting the ball shall be out ofplay until
        one of the opposite side has played it.
   8. When a player has played the ball, any one of the same side who is
        nearer the opponents' goal-line on their ground is out ofplay, and may
        not touch the ball himself, or obstruct any other player, until the ball
                                                                      8

114                       OUTDOOR GAMES.
      be first played by one of the opposite side, or he have crossed into his
      own ground.
    No player shall carry the ball, hold it, throw it, pass it to another with
      his hands, or lift it from the ground with his hands, on any pretence
      whatever.
    All charging is fair; but holding, pushing with the elbows or hands,
      tripping up, and hacking are forbidden.
                                        ii. No player may wear iron plates,
                                              projecting nails, or gutta percha
T                         T                   on his boots or shoes.
                                        12. A goal is gained when the ball is
                                              kicked from the front between
                                              the uprights and beneath the
                                              cross-bar, or in any way passed
                                              through from the front, by the
                                              side owning the goal
                                        13. In case of any distinct and wilful
                                              violation of these rules of play by
                                              one of either side, the opposite
                                              side may claim a fresh kick-off.
                                               DEFINITION OF TERMS.
                                         A place-kick is a kick at the ball
                                            while at rest on the ground. The
                                            kicker may claim a free space of
                                            3 yards in front of the ball
                                         Ground.— Each side claims as its
                                            own that portion of the ground
                                            which lies between its goal and the
                                Q           centre.
                                          Charging is bringing the body into
                                            collision with that of an opponent.
                                            The arms, and especially the el
                                            bows, must be kept well to the
                                            sides, not to violate Rule 10.
                                         Hacking is kicking an adversary in
                                            tentionally.
                                          Tripping is throwing an adversary
                                            by placing the foot, leg, or any part
                                            of the body in the way of an ad
                                            versary's legs, and thus causing
                                            him to fall or stumble.
                                             Observations on Rules.
                                         Rule 1.—The accompanying diagram
                                       will explain, better than any words, the
                                       arrangement of the ground required by
                                       this rule.
                                          More flags at the side may be used
                                       with advantage: the rule only states
                                       the number absolutely indispensable.

                                  FOOTBALL.                                    115
G G, the goals ; P P P P, side-posts ; C P, side-posts marking centre of field.
All outside the side-posts on either side, and within the lines of the goals
(supposing the goal-lines to be prolonged indefinitely), is called " touch."
   The length of the ground may be varied to suit the number of players ; but
the breadth will be better maintained as above : it is sufficiently wide not to
cramp and overcrowd the players, and yet not so wide as to offer too great an
opening for that utterly futile side-play which is the great temptation of inferior
players who will not see, and inexperienced players who have not yet learned,
that to run round is not the quickest way to the opponents' goal. A chance
may occur, it is true, once or twice in a match ; but it is only a good player
and a quick runner who can at once see and take advantage of the opening.
 Meanwhile side-play in general, since it has no effect upon the result of the
game, is mere waste of time and strength ; the narrower, therefore, the limits
within which it can be restrained, the better.
   Five yards or so will not make much difference where some modification is
required ; but in general the 55 yards prescribed in the rule had better be
maintained.
   Rule 4.—The first part of this rule is framed to avoid the possibility of one
 side in a match gaining an unfair advantage over the other by some accident
 of the ground or wind, a very slight slope or breeze in favour of one party
 being quite sufficient, if the sides are otherwise at all evenly balanced, to
 give it an overwhelming preponderance over its opponents.
   By the expedient of changing goals at half-time, each side has an equal
 share of such advantages or disadvantages as the peculiarities of the ground
 may afford.
   The same or a similar rule is not enforced for ordinary games, because,
 being uncertain in their duration, it is impossible to fix a definite time for the
 change to take place.
   Rule 5.—The heads of sides will of course be careful to gather the opinions
 of their followers, and to act in accordance with them. The rule only pro
vides a legal channel through which all communications and arrangements
may be made between the contending parties. All agreements entered into
by the respective heads of sides, within the limits of the rules, are binding
upon each.
   Rule 6 {a).—This way of starting the ball has been adopted out of several,
after long practice, as offering the least advantage to either side. If the
length of the ground be materially curtailed or extended, the distance from
the goal at which'the ball is kicked off must be altered in proportion—i.e.,
one-sixth of the distance between goals. The ball may be kicked off each
time by any player the head of the side may select.
   {b) These regulations are framed to render it the interest of all sides to keep
the ball in play.
   {c) is framed to check, on the part of the defending party, a somewhat
dastardly but constantly-employed practice — (if commenced by one side,
necessarily followed in self-defence by the other)-—of kicking the ball, in cases-
of emergency, wilfully behind their own goal, to put it out of play.
   This rule does not apply to cases where the ball flies off the person ol a
player endeavouring to stop it, and need not be enforced with too great strict
ness, being a rule that, once admitted, no honest player would dream of
breaking.
   Rule 7 is framed to meet the case of two or more players of a side having a
                                                                  8—2

n6                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
little sharp practice all to themselves, by zigzagging the ball from hand to
hand, or rather from foot to foot, backwards and forwards across the side
lines; an idea that may appear more ingenious than ingenuous, and very
unlikely to occur in actual practice. It did nevertheless occur in a regular
match, and being of necessity taken up on all hands, proved so destructive to
all play that it was then and there inhibited by general consent ; and Rule 7
was forthwith made to render its introduction impossible for the future.
    Rule 8 is framed to prevent a player from playing cunning—"sneaking" is
the technical phrase—and so, by loitering on any or no pretence about the
opponents' goal, without trouble or exertion on his own part, seize a chance
opportunity of the ball coming near to kick it into goal.
    The mere meanness of such a proceeding is quite sufficient argument against
it, even were it not evident that its general adoption by both sides alike would
entirely rob it of its chance of success, if it did not put an effectual stop to all
play whatsoever.
    Rule 9. —This does not prohibit a player catching the ball, or taking it on
its rebound from the ground : he must only not retain it in his hands, but
must put it in play again on the ground. A slight delivery of the ball forward,
as much as is necessary to give it an impulse in the direction the player means
to take it, does not come under the definition of ' throwing."
    The main object of the rule is to reduce the opportunities for rough play.
    It is obvious that the more privileges are conceded to the offence, the more
extensive must be the powers of obstruction granted to the defence.
    If a player be allowed to carry the ball, he for the time being identifies him
self with the ball ; and as all means are and must be lawful to stop it, so all
 means are and must be lawful to stop him, for stopping him is stopping the
 ball. Hence "hacking," "tripping," "mauling," &c, the prolific sources of
 broken bones, twisted joints, and other attractive features of the " carrying
 game."
    Rule 10. —Charging is retained, partly because, with the restrictions as to
 elbows, &c, here enforced, it is really not the source of any particular danger,
 partly because its retention is simply a matter of necessity. It could not be
 required of the defending party to get out of the way of the attacking party,
 nor of the attacking party to turn aside whensoever the defending party chose
 to put itself in the way; and if the one party may fairly obstruct and the other
 fairly force its way, who is to judge or to define the precise amount of force
 to be lawfully employed ? The only resource, therefore, is to allow it under
 due restriction.
     How TO Kick.—This may appear a very superfluous piece of information :
 "Anybody can kick!" Anybody can kick, in the sense that they can give a
 blow with the foot; but it is no more true in football that anybody can kick
 than it would be true to say that in boxing anybody can hit with the fist. It
 takes long training and practice to strike out as a prize-fighter does, and in
 the same way it takes long practice to kick like a good football-player.
     There are two points to be acquired in learning to kick: one is to make the
  ball go far, and the other to make it go straight. These are not, however,
  two distinct acquirements; accuracy is the first and primary ingredient of
  hard kicking, and practice for one will be equally practice for the other.
     The young player must first learn the correct attitude and action for kick
  ing. This he may do, and with advantage, even without a ball. Let him
  make a line on the ground, marking on it the place for the ball ; then toeing

                                  FOOTBALL.                                    117
 the line with his left foot some eight inches to the left of this mark, pose him
 self as follows :
   The whole body held erect, and inclined forward over the left foot, the
 chest projected, the arms hanging quietly but easily from the shoulder, the
left leg straightened out and supporting the whole weight of the body, the
right leg also straight, but drawn up so as to hang just free of the ground.
(Fig. 1.)
    In delivering the kick, the right leg is swung well back (the knee being bent
as little as may be), and then brought forward with full force, the toe being
raised as high as possible, and the whole foot and ankle held rigid. The leg
must be made to swing freely from the hip. (Fig. 2.)
   Now to kick the ball. Of course, wherever the ball is struck, it will fly from
the foot in some direction or other; but, to ensure distance and accuracy, it
is necessary for the toe to meet it in one spot, and in one spot only. The
accompanying diagram will best point out this spot, and Fig. 3 may be found
a useful help to understanding the description of attitude given above. Care
must be taken to kick the ball accurately in the centre, or it will inevitably fly
off to one side or the other.
   One final direction. The eyes must always be fixed on the ball, under what
ever circumstances it is played at. Accurate and effective kicking can only
be by sight ; therefore at the moment of delivering the kick the eyes must be
on the ball.
   The diagram only represents the most effective spot in which to kick the
ball for distance: if it be desired to make it run along the ground, it must be

n8                           OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                       Fig. 3.
kicked higher ; if to fly more perpendicularly in the air, the foot must take it
lower.
   To give the ball due impetus, the player generally takes a short run : it need
not be long— 10 yards at the utmost; but in every case where he kicks the
ball from the ground, whether it be at rest, or he meet, follow, or cross it, he
must use the same form in delivering the kick.
   He should specially endeavour to kick equally freely with either leg. The
best way to do this is to practise mainly with the weaker leg ; the other will
take care of itself.
   Besides the Place-kick, and the various kicks that take the ball from the
ground, there are others that take the ball in the air. These are the Half-
volley, Drop-kick, and Punt.
   In the two former the ball is met by the toe just at its rebound from the
ground; in the one case from an ordinary kick, and in the other as it is
dropped from the hands of the player. The punt is made by meeting the ball
let fall from the hands with the instep : it is occasionally a serviceable varia
tion; but the drop-kick, when practicable, is more effective, and certainly
more brilliant.
   The ball is occasionally met with the foot before the pitch; but, except
when the ball is coming with but little force, and time is precious, this method
is not to be recommended.
   The knack of kicking the ball with the side of the foot, at an angle to the
line in which the player is running, is pot difficult of acquirement, and is in
valuable in actual play, as also is that of " rushing the ball," i.e., of patting it
along with the feet while at speed, so as to keep it constantly within reach.
To do this well, with unabated speed, and yet without offering a chance to the
adversary, is the ne plus ultra of fine play.
   Places of Players.— In Diagram C are shown the names and positions
of the field, as set for a match sixteen on a side. As both sides will be placed
alike, only one-half the field is given.
   Hand-play. —A few words upon hand-play. The use of the hands, though
as far as possible to be avoided, is yet allowable, and even to be recommended
where no other method of stopping the ball is available. For instance, the
ball may be struck with the hand in mid-air, or even caught, so that it be
immediately put again into play. The ball may not be lifted from the ground;
it is not, however, unlawful to receive it into the hands at the rebound.
Finally, the ball may be stopped with the hand while on the ground, and may

                                       FOOTBALL.                                                  119
at any time be struck with it ; but this privilege should only be sparingly ex
ercised, not only for the sake of the game in general, but because where the
foot can be employed with effect, it will be found far more efficient, and is,
moreover, more player-like.
                                           Diagram C.
                P                  Opponents           Ground.
                                                                                    r
                                              Goal
                          FIELD SET FOR MATCH SIXTEEN ON A SIDE.
      C. CapUin ; c. Charger j rj, I J., right and left 'orward ; rn.f., Mid-field; Jl., Flanker)
                               *.»., Halfbackj g.k , Goal-keeper.

 120                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                 CRICKET.
   Cricket is the king of all outdoor sports—the game which beyond all others
it behoves English boys to learn and master.
   At once the most scientific and the most permanently interesting of all open-
air pastimes ; while providing healthy, but not too exhausting, exercise for the
body, it stimulates and excites the mind to action not less wholesome and
agreeable.
   Nor do its claims to the proud position asserted for it amongst our English
sports and pastimes rest here. It requires from its followers, and, indeed, culti
vates and confirms in them, habits of patient, unflagging attention to the work
immediately before them ; for of what worth is a would-be cricketer who cannot
concentrate his whole thought and energy on the game ; who should venture
to think, " I was not looking," sufficient excuse for a catch missed or a run
lost ? Habits of ready obedience and self-negation ; for who shall call himself
" cricketer " who respects not the laws of the game, and regards not the august
decisions of their exponents, who cares not to submit to the wholesome dis
cipline of his captain, or who, steeped in self-conceit and burning with the
lust of personal distinction, cares rather to play for his own hand, to see his
own name blazoned forth prominently in the score-sheet, than to consult the

                                    CRICKET.                                    121
advantage of his side, or to further its ultimate success ? Habits of presence
of mind and unhesitating readiness of action in emergency; for is not the
whole game but one long series of sudden emergencies, demanding instant
and unhesitating treatment?— and a score of other virtues and moral qualities
on which it were tedious to enlarge.
   The game of cricket is of some antiquity amongst us. Like most of our
public institutions, it has risen from small beginnings, little by little, a rule
added here, a licence curtailed there, to its present compact and approximately
perfect form.
   Of the early history of the game we have very little record. A game called
" creag," played with a bat and ball, and common amongst the Saxons, even
before the Norman conquest, is supposed by the best authorities to be the
germ from which, in the course of many generations, our present game of
cricket has been developed.
   It is certain that the game was played, and that commonly, more than two
centuries ago ; but in its present form, which differs materially from its earlier
constitution, it has not yet existed a hundred years.
   Before the year 1781, the wickets, which now form, as it were, the very cen
tral point of the game, had no practical existence ; the bat was in shape like
a hockey-stick or golf-club; and there were many other points of divergence
from present practice, such that in effect they must have rendered the cricket
of 1769 an almost totally different game from that of the present day.
   As, however, our present purpose is rather with the game of our time than with
that of 1 769—rather with actual practice than with past history—we will forbear
any further reference to those dark ages, when wickets as wickets were not,
 and when bats were bludgeons, and address ourselves to the task immediately
 before us.
    It is scarcely possible, and, indeed, it is almost an insult, to suppose that
 any English boy, who is old enough to read this, can be ignorant of the general
 character and theory of cricket. Nevertheless, for the benefit of such be
 nighted beings, if any such there be, a few lines may be not unreasonably
 devoted to a due and concise exposition of the leading features and objects of
 the game.
    There are two methods of playing cricket, viz., single and double wicket,
 differing from each other in many important points, yet in elementary consti
 tution and in most leading points of practice essentially the same. A short
 glance, therefore, at first principles may well serve for both.
   To play cricket, two opposing parties strive in turn to score as many " runs "
 as possible from the bowling of their opponents, who, of course, strain all
 their energies to reduce this score to the smallest practicable dimensions.
    The " outing side," through its bowler, strives to knock down the wickets
 with the ball, delivered from a given point and under certain restrictions;
 while the other or " inning side," through its batsman, defends them with the
 bat, and, if possible, strikes the ball away to such a distance that, before it
 can be returned, he may be able to run from wicket to wicket one or more
 times, and each time this distance is accomplished, one is added to the score
 of his party.
    If he fail to protect his wicket, or if the ball be caught by the opposite party
 after he has hit it and before it touches the ground, or if in any other way
 specified in the rules he be " put out," he has to retire, and another of his
 party takes his place, until they are all in turn thus disposed of. The outing

122                            OUTDOOR GAMES.
side then takes their place at the wickets and becomes the inning side, while
they become the outing side.
   When this change has been effected twice in due rotation, each side being
allowed two turns or " innings " at the wickets, the runs that each has made
are added up, and that side which has scored the most wins the day.
   Amongst its other recommendations, cricket possesses an advantage over
football and most other outdoor games in the universal identity of its rules.
There is one central club, the Marylebone, better known to cricketers as the
M.C.C., to which, by common consent, the whole body of cricketers looks
for the rules and regulations of the game.
   As it is imperatively necessary to know the rules of a game, at least in out
line, before beginning to play it, the rules of the M.C.C., as authorized and
published in 1866, are here given; and the young reader who burns with the
hope of one day attaining a cricketer's fame is strongly advised to study closely
and carefully not only the rules themselves, but also the explanatory notes
appended to them.
                               The Laws of Cricket,
           With the litat alteration-, reused by the Marylebone Cricket Club, 1866.
   1. THE Ball must weigh not less than 5^ oz., nor more than 5J oz. It
        must measure not less than 9J inches in circumference. At the begin
        ning of each innings either party may call for a new ball.
   2. The Bat must not exceed \\ inches in the widest part ; it must not be
        more than 38 inches in length.
   3. THE Stumps must be three in number, 27 inches out of the ground ;
        the bails 8 inches in length ; the stumps of equal and sufficient thick
        ness to prevent the ball from passing through.
   4. The Bowling-crease must be in a line with the stumps, 6 feet 8
        inches in length, the stumps in the centre, with a return-crease at each
        end towards the bowler at right angles.
   5. The Popping-CREASE must be 4 feet from the wicket, and parallel to it ;
        unlimited in length, but not shorter than the bowling-crease.
   6. The Wickets must be pitched opposite to each other by the umpires,
        at the distance of 22 yards.
   7. It shall not be lawful for either party, during a match, without the con
        sent of the other, to alter the ground by rolling, watering, covering,
        mowing, or beating, except at the commencement of each innings,
        when the ground may be swept and rolled at the request of either party,
        such request to be made to one of the umpires within one minute after
        the conclusion of the former innings. This rule is not meant to prevent
        the striker from beating the ground with his bat near to the spot where
        he stands during the innings ; nor to prevent the bowler filling up holes
        with sawdust, &c, when the ground is wet.
   8. After rain the wickets may be changed with the consent of both parties.
   9. The Bowler shall deliver the ball with one foot on the ground behind
        the bowling-crease (see p. 126) and within the return-crease, and shall
        bowl four balls before he change wickets, which he shall be permitted
        to do only once in the same innings.
    10. The ball must be bowled. If thrown or jerked, the umpire shall call
        " No ball."

                                CRICKET.                                     123
11. He may require the striker at the wicket from which he is bowling to
    stand on that side of it which he may direct.
12. If the bowler shall toss the ball over the striker's head, or bowl it so
    wide that in the opinion of the umpire it shall not be fairly within the
    reach of the batsman, he shall adjudge one run to the party receiving
    the innings, either with or without an appeal, which shall be put down
    to the score of " wide balls." Such ball shall not be reckoned as one
    of the four balls ; but if the batsman shall by any means bring himself
    within reach of the ball, the run shall not be adjudged.
13. If the bowler deliver a " no ball " or a " wide ball," the striker shall be
     allowed as many runs as he can get, and he shall not be put out, except
     by running out. In the event of no run being obtained by any other
     means, then one run shall be added to the score of no balls or wide
     balls, as the case may be. All runs obtained for wide balls to be scored
     to wide balls. The names of the bowlers who bowl wide balls and no
     balls in future to be placed on the score, to show the parties by whom
     either score is made. If the ball shall first touch any part of the striker's
     dress or person, except his hands, the umpire shall call, " leg-bye."
14. At the beginning of each innings the umpire shall call, " Play !" From
     that time to the end of each innings no trial ball shall be allowed to
     any bowler.
15. The striker is out if either of the bails be bowled off, or if a stump
     be bowled out of the ground ;
16. Or if the ball, from the stroke of the bat or hand, but not the wrist, be
     held before it touch the ground, although it be hugged to the body of
     the catcher ;
17. Or if, in striking, or any other time while the ball shall be in play, both
     his feet shall be over the popping-crease and his wicket put down,
     except his bat be grounded within it;
18. Or if, in striking at the ball, he hit down his wicket;
19. Or if, under pretence of running or otherwise, either of the strikers pre
     vent a ball from being caught, the striker of the ball is out.
20. Or if the ball be struck, and he wilfully strike it again ;
21. Or if, in running, the wicket be struck down by a throw, or by the hand
     or arm (with ball in hand), before his bat (in hand) or some part of
     his person be grounded over the popping-crease. But, if both the bails
     be off, ar stump must be struck out of the ground ;
22. Or if any part of the striker's dress knock down the wicket ;
23. Or if the striker touch or take up the ball while in play, unless at the
     request of the opposite party ;
24. Or if with any part of his person he stop the ball, which, in the opinion
     of the umpire at the bowler's wicket, shall have been pitched in a
     straight line from it to the striker's wicket, and would have hit it ;
25. If the players have crossed each other, he that runs for the wicket
     which is put down is out.
26. A ball being caught, no run shall be reckoned.
27. A striker being out, that run which he and his partner were attempting
     shall not be reckoned.
28. If a lost ball be called, the striker shall be allowed six runs; but if
     more than six shall have been called, then the striker shall have all
     that have been run.

124                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
  29. After the ball shall have been finally settled in the wicket-keeper's or
        bowler's hands, it shall be considered dead ; but when the bowler is
        about to deliver the ball, if the striker at his wicket go outside the pop-
        ping-crease before such actual delivery, the said bowler may put him
        out, unless (with reference to Law 21) his bat in hand, or some part of
        his person, be within the popping-crease.
   30. The striker shall not retire from his wicket, and return to it to complete
        his innings, after another has been in, without the consent of the
        opposite party.
   31. No substitute shall in any case be allowed to stand out or run between
        wickets for another person without the consent of the opposite party ;
        and in case any person shall be allowed to run for another, the striker
        shall be out if either he or his substitute be off the ground, in manner
        mentioned in Laws 17 and 21, while the ball is in play.
   32. In all cases where a substitute shall be allowed, the consent of the
        opposite party shall also be obtained as to the person to act as substi
        tute, and the place in the field which he shall take.
   33. If any fieldsman stop the ball with his hat, the ball shall be considered
        dead, and the opposite party shall add five runs to their score ; if any
        be run, they shall have five in all.
   34. The ball having been hit, the striker may guard his wicket with his bat,
        or with any part of his body except his hands, that Law 23 may not be
        disobeyed.
   35. The wicket-keeper shall not take the ball for the purpose of stumping
        until it have passed the wicket ; he shall not move until the ball be out
        of the bowler's hand ; he shall not by any noise incommode the striker;
        and if any part of his person be over or before the wicket, although the
        ball hit it, the striker shall not be out.
    36. The umpires are the sole judges of fair or unfair play, and all disputes
        shall be determined by them, each at his own wicket ; but in case of a
        catch which the umpire at the wicket bowled from cannot see suffi
        ciently to decide upon it, he may apply to the other umpire, whose de
         cision shall be conclusive.
    37. The umpires in all matches shall pitch fair wickets, and the parties shall
         toss up for choice of innings. The umpires shall change wickets after
         each party has had one innings.
    38. They shall allow two minutes for each striker to come in, and ten
         minutes between each innings, when the umpire shall call " play." The
         party refusing to play shall lose the match.
    39. They are not to order a striker out, unless appealed to by the adver
         saries;
  , 40. But if one of the bowler's feet be not on the ground behind the bowl
         ing-crease and within the return-crease when he shall deliver the ball,
         the umpire at his wicket, unasked, must call " no ball."
    41. If either of the strikers run a short run, the umpire must call "one
         short."
    42. No umpire shall be allowed to bet.
    43. No umpire is to be changed during a match, unless with the consent of
         both parties, except in case of violation of Law 42 ; then either party
         may dismiss the transgressor.
    44. After the delivery of four balls the umpire must call " over," but not

                                   CRICKET.                                   125
       until the ball shall be finally settled in wicket-keeper's hands ; the ball
       shall then be considered dead. Nevertheless, if an idea be enteitained
       that either of the strikers is out, a question may be put previously to,
       but not after, the delivery of the next ball.
 45. The umpire must take especial care to call " no ball " instantly upon
       delivery, and " wide ball " as soon as it shall pass the striker.
 46. The players who go in second shal follow their innings if they have
       obtained 80 runs less than their antagonists, except in all matches
       limited to only one day's play, when the number of runs shall be limited
       to 60 instead of 80.
 47. When one of the strikers shall have been put out, the use of the bat
       shall not be allowed to any person until the next striker shall come in.
                       The Laws of Single Wicket.
  1. When there shall be less than five players on a side, bounds shall be
       placed 22 yards each in a line from the off and leg stump.
  2. The ball must be hit before the bounds, to entitle the striker to run, which
       run cannot be obtained unless he touch the bowling-stump or crease
       in a line with his bat, or some part of his person, or go beyond them,
       returning to the popping-creasc, as at double w;cket, according to
       Law 21.
  3. When the striker shall hit the ball, one of his feet must be on the ground
       and behind the popping-creasc ; otherwise the umpire shall call " no
       hit."
  4. When there shall be less than five players on a side, neither byes nor
       overthrows shall be allowed ; nor shall the striker be caught out behind
        the wicket, nor stumped out.
  5. The fieldsman must return the ball so that it shall cross the play, between
        the wicket and the bowling-stump, or between the bowling-stump and
        the bounds ; the striker may run till the ball be so returned.
  6. After the striker shall have made one run, if he start again, he must touch
        the bowling-stump and turn before the ball cross the play, to entitle him
        to another.
  7. The striker shall be entitled to three runs for lost ball, and the same
        number for ball stopped with hat, with reference to Laws 28 and 23 of
        double wicket.
  8. When there shall be more than four players on a side, there shall be no
        bounds. All hits, byes, and overthrows shall then be allowed.
  9. The bowler is subject to the same laws as at double wicket.
 10. Not more than one minute shall be allowed between each ball.
                            Observations on Rules,
                                 double wicket.
   Rules 3, 4, and 5.—The accompanying diagram will explain, better than
many words, the arran'gement and method of marking the various creases,
which are usually marked out on the turf with a mixture of chalk or whiting
and water.
   It is well to practise always with the creases duly marked, and in strict
observance of all rules connected with them, as the mind thus forms a habit of
unconscious conformity to them, and the player is not embarrassed, as too

126                                OUTDOOR GAMES.
many are when they come to play in an actual match, by the necessity of
keeping a watch over his feet as well as over the ball. Many a good bat, espe
cially amongst boys, allows himself to be cramped in his play in this very
unsatisfactory manner.
                             B                       sO 0s •t ——              c
                     r.c\                                                        |r.e
                                  */*                  8. Ul        3 ft
                  jp                                                                 c
                                                     Unlimited,
  s s s, the Stumps (the three together forming the Wcitt) ; b c, the Bowling-crease ; .c the Return-
                                       crease , p c, the Fopping-crcise.
     The purposes of the several creases are as follows :
     The Bowling-crease marks the nearest spot to the striker from which the
 bowler may deliver the ball.
     The Return-crease prevents the bowler from delivering the ball at an un
 reasonable distance laterally from the wicket ; and the two together mark out
 within sufficiently exact limits the precise spot from which the striker may
 expect the ball.
     The PopPINg-CREASE, while giving the striker ample space to work in,
 puts a check upon any attempt to get unduly forward to meet the ball ; it
 forms, too, a distinct and convenient mark by which to judge of a man's being
 on his ground, and of his having run the requisite distance between wickets.
 It is unlimited, to avoid the confusion between strikers and fieldsmen, which
 must inevitably be of constant recurrence were the strikers required to run
 directly from wicket to wicket.
     Rule 1 3.—" All runs obtained from wide balls to be scored to wide balls."
 This does not include hits, as, by the latter part of Rule 12, " if the batsman
 bring himself within reach of the ball, the wide does not count." Hits, there
 fore, made off wide balls score to the striker.
     Rule 17.—The popping-crease itself, it must be remembered, does not form
 part of the ground ; the bat or part of the body must, therefore, be inside it ;
 on it is not sufficient to meet the requirements of the rule ; if the bat or some
 portion of the body be not on the ground inside the crease when the wickets
  are put down, the player is out.
     Rule 20.—The striker may block or knock the ball away from his wicket

                                         CRICKET.                                             127
after he has played it, if that be necessary to keep it from the stumps. The
rule only forbids striking it a second time with intent to make runs.
                                       SINGLE WICKET.
   The accompanying diagram shows the ground marked out for single wicket
with less than five players on a side.
                                                               if
                                                                I
                                                                I
                                                                1
                                                                I
                                                                I*
                                     1                       "! J
                                     *                        ! 1
                                                              • 1
                                               girds.
                                  *¥—.
                                                                i
                                                              I V
    t, the Bowling-Hump, Crease, &c ; w, the Wickets, with Popping-crease, as in double wiclet ;
                                        b b, the Boundaries.
    Rule 2.—"Hit before the bounds" means that the ball, after leaving the
bat, must first touch the ground in front of the line marked by the two bounds,
which line, by the way, is, like the popping-crease, supposed to extend illimit
ably either way.
    Single wicket is chiefly valuable in dearth of sufficient players to form an
adequate field at double wicket. It is so inferior in interest to double wicket,
that. it is hardly ever played, unless when the latter is impracticable.
   A good game at single wicket, though, where only a few players have met
for practice, is far better, and infinitely more improving, than any amount of
the desultory knocking about which is usual on such occasions. For a player
deficient in driving and forward hitting of all kinds the practice it affords is
invaluable, and to such a good course of single wicket is strongly recom
mended.
    Implements.—A few words upon the choice of bats, balls, gloves, &c
Too much pains cannot be taken by a cricketer in thus providing his outfit.
 None but experienced hands can estimate the vital importance of attention to
 all such details:—that the bat is the right weight and size, and properly ba
 lanced ; that the gloves, shoes, pads, &c, are perfect in their fit and appoint
 ments ; in fine, that the player stands at the wicket or in the field fully equipped
 for the fray, yet in nowise impeded or hindered by ill-fitting garments, clumsy
 shoes, or cumbersome pads.
    First, then, for the bat. This is limited in Rule 2 both as to length and
 width ; but the thickness and weight are left to the fancy and capacity of the

 128                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                                               Wh
player. In a general way, a tall man can use a heavier bat than a short one.
About 2 lb. is a fair weight for a player of middle height and ordinary muscular
development.
    Although it is a great mistake to play with too heavy a bat—for nothing so
cramps the style, and so entirely does away with that beautiful wrist-play
which is the iw plus ultra of good batting, as attempting to play with a bat
of a weight above one's powers ; yet extreme lightness is still more to be de
precated : it is useless for hard hitting, and can therefore do little in the way of
run-getting against a good field ; " shooters," too, will be apt to force their way
past its impotent defence.
    The points most to be looked for in a bat are these: — First, weight suited
to the player. The young player should play with a heavier bat every year,
until he attains to his full stature. Don't let him think it " manly " to play with
a full-sized bat before he is thoroughly up to the weight and size : it is much
more manly to make a good score.
    Secondly, good thickness of wood at the drive and lower end of the bat.
i.e., at the last six inches or so.
    Thirdly, balance. Badly balanced bats give a sensation as of a weight
attached to them when they are wielded, while a well-balanced one plays
easily in the hand. Experience alone can teach the right feel of a bat.

                                   CRICKET.                                    129
    The outward appearance of a bat must not always be taken as a certain in
dication of its inherent merits: varnish and careful getting up may hide many
a defect. There are many fancies, too, in favour of different grains: a good
knot or two near the lower end is generally a good sign ; but, alter all, nothing
but actual trial of each several " bit of willow " can decide its real merits or
defects.
    Last, but not least, the handle is a very important consideration. Cane
handles, pure and simple, or in composition with ash or other materials, are
the best : some prefer oval handles, some round. The handle should, at least,
be as thick as the player can well grasp : a thick handle greatly adds to the
driving power of the bat ; it is also naturally stronger, and therefore more
lasting. A good youth's bat costs about eight shillings.
    It should be remembered that a good bat, like good wine, improves with
keeping.
    In purchasing balls, wickets, and other needful " plant," it will be found
better economy to pay a little more in the beginning, and thus get a good
article. With reasonable care, such first-class goods will last out whole
generations of the more cheaply got-up articles, and prove more satisfactory
throughout into the bargain.
    In choosing wickets, attention must be paid to two points: first, that each
stump be perfectly straight ; and, secondly, that it be free from flaws or knots.
The least weakness is sure to be found out sooner or later.
    Great attention should be paid to the bails, that they are exactly of the
right size, especially that they are not too long. The least projection beyond
the groove in the stump may make all the difference between " out " and " not
 out,"—between, perhaps, winning a match and losing it.
    Stumps and bails, with ordinary care, ought to last a very long time. The
 chief thing to guard against is their lying about in the wet, or being put away
 damp : moisture is very apt to warp them?
    So that the gloves and pads./?/, the player may be left pretty much to his own
 discretion in selecting a pattern. Vulcanized India rubber is the best for gloves.
    Spiked or nailed shoes are a necessity. The player may please himself in
 the vexed question of spikes v. nails. Many players keep two pairs of shoes
 —with spikes for wet and slippery ground, with nails for dry ground.
     It is hardly worth while for a boy in the rapid-growing stage to set up a
 regularly built pair of cricketing-shoes : an admirable substitute may be
 found, though, in the ordinary canvas shoes, as used for rackets, &c, price
 half a crown ; a few nails will make them answer all the purposes of the more
 legitimate article.
     Parents and guardians may be informed that a proper costume of flannel
 and shoes is actually better economy than condemning a boy to play in his
 ordinary clothes ; and for this reason—flannels are made to suit the exigences
 of the game, loose where they should be loose, and vice versd, without regard
 to the exigences of fashion ; they are cheaper, and are nevertheless more
 lasting, than ordinary cloth clothes ; they never get shabby, will wash when
  dirty, and will carry a darn or patch without detriment to their dignity ; they
  are not injured by perspiration or wet ; and, above all, they are great pre
  servatives against colds and other ailments.
     Shoes may put in much the same claim. Cricket is marvellously destruc
  tive of the ordinary walking-boot; is it not then better to substitute a cheaper
  and more durable article ?
                                                                      9

 i3o                         OUTDOOR GAMES.
 If spikes be chosen, they should be arranged thus : (^-T~~"         ®a] not, as is
 more usual, thus : f^*t        ®~^"\ A very short ^ -- -"experience
will show the " rea- ¦       '>>^2—' son why." In choosing spikes, care should
 be taken to obtain good length and small diameter ; a squat, clumsy spike is
an awful nuisance. If nails be the choice, they should not be put much nearer
than at intervals of an inch, otherwise they will be liable to clog.
   Preliminary Observations.—Before entering upon the science of the
game, I would especially impress upon the minds of my young readers the
desirability of doing things in the right way.
   If they play cricket, let that cricket be their very best ; any little extra
trouble at first will be more than repaid by the results. It is not given to every
man to be a first-rate cricketer ; but most men might play far better than they
do, and many men, who now hardly deserve the name of players, might, with
very little expenditure of trouble in their younger days, have been now men of
mark in the cricketing world.
   Be it remembered, then, that there is a right way to perform each function
ot cricket, and a wrong way, or perhaps I should rather have said, innumer
able wrong ways.
   Now, this right way will hardly come of itself: cricket, by the light of
Nature only, would be a prodigy indeed. The beginner must, therefore, first
ascertain what this right way is, and thenceforth strive continually to practise
and perfect himself in it, whether it be in batting, bowling, or fielding, until
habit has become a second nature.
   And not only must the learner cultivate good habits, he must diligently
eschew all bad ones ; for bad habits are wonderfully easy of acquirement, but,
once acquired, can hardly ever be completely shaken off.
   It is all very well to say, " I know the right way, and that is enough,"' and
then, from sheer laziness or indifference, go the wrong; but when it comes to
the point of practical experience, it will be found that the bad habit will have
an uncomfortable knack of coming into play at critical moments, just when
it is least desired.
   For cricket, it should be remembered, is a series of surprises. Give a man
time to think, and he can decide between the right way and the wrong; but
time to think is just the very thing a man does not get at cricket : instant,
unhesitating action is his only chance.
   If he has habituated himself to one only method of action, he must, he can,
only act in accordance with it ; but if there be several conflicting habits, who
shall say which shall be the one that comes first to hand in an emergency?
   Let the voung cricketer then—and the old one, too, for the matter of that
— make this his rule and study, to make every ball he bowls, he bats, or
he fields, one link more in the chain of good habits, one step farther on the
road to success.
                             Science of the Game.
                      batting— bowling—fielding, etc.
   Batting.—Like boxing, fencing, &c, batting is quite as much an affair of
the legs and of the body generally as of the hands and arms—at first sight,
the parts almost solely concerned.
   The beginner, therefore, must not think that, when he has learnt to hold his

                                    CRICKET.                                   131
 bat correctly, and to wield it with tolerable facility, he has mastered the
 main principles of the art ; he has, indeed, scarcely even acquired the most
 rudimentary knowledge of them.
    Every kind of ball—it may almost be said every ball—demands for its
 proper treatment a distinctly specific attitude of the whole body, by which,
 and which only, the bat can be brought to bear with the fullest attainable
 effect, or, indeed, with any effect worth speaking of at all ; and this attitude,
 to avail the batsman anything, must be assumed with unhesitating promptness
 and decision the instant a correct judgment of the ball can be formed, which
should be almost as soon as it has left the bowler's hand. A really fine player
" forms," as the phrase goes, at the very instant the ball is delivered.
    Demosthenes, being asked the three chief essentials of good oratory, re
 plied, " Firstly, action ; secondly, action ; and, thirdly, action." And so of
 batting : the first, second, and third essentials for a good " bat " are attitude,
attitude, attitude ; or, in more hackneyed and familiar phrase, " Attitude is
 everything."
    It would be impossible, if, indeed, it were necessary, to describe and figure
in the short space of a few pages, every conceivable attitude that can be as
 sumed by the batsman ; but the young beginner will find the succeeding cuts
and accompanying explanations and instructions more than sufficient for all
his wants.
   A slight expenditure of time and trouble in mastering their leading principles
 and details, and a little well-directed zeal and perseverance in reducing them
to practice—care being always taken not to form bad or conflicting habits—
will, in a wonderfully short time, enable even a mere boy to acquire a style
and precision to which very many players only attain after years of hard
practice, and to which, sooth to say, the large majority never attain at all.
   Let the young batsman only beware of two things—of falling in with the too
common custom of mere desultory batting and bowling, than which nothing
is more prolific in the formation of bad habits, fatal to all correct play; and,
secondly, of aspiring to play with a bat of a weight and size in excess of his
powers—an ambition only to be gratified at the expense of acquiring and con
firming a heavy, ungainly, and, therefore, incorrect and inefficient style.
   How to Hold the Bat.— Grasp the handle firmly from behind, near the
shoulder, with the right hand, bringing the fingers well round in front, the
thumb meeting them from the other side, and passing beyond but on the lower
side of the forefinger, and firmly pressed against it ; then, placing the lower
end of the blade on the ground, with the face towards the bowler, and the
handle inclined a little forward, bring the left hand down to thefroni of the
handle, and grasp it above the right hand, the knuckles to the front, and the
thumb pointed downwards. The handle of the bat must lie along the inside
of the left wrist, and only slightly out of the line of the fore-arm (see Fig.
1). This attitude of the hands appears at first to the unaccustomed novice
cramped and ungraceful ; but a little practice will render it not only perfectly
easy, but, if he so please, perfectly graceful too.
   But this is not the only way in which, in wielding the bat, the hands grasp
the handle ; if so, the bat would have little play, and its only possible move
ments would be those of a pendulum. By shifting the left hand round from
the front to the rear of the handle, still retaining the grasp of the right, a
wonderful addition of power is obtained over the bat : instead of the arms
and bat forming one long rigid line, rotating only at the shoulder, there will
                                                                 9—2

132                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
now be added motion of the elbow and perfectly unlimited capacity of action
at the wrist.
  This shifting the hand from front to rear of the handle and back again, to
be done smoothly and with perfect facility, will require some trouble and
attention before it is mastered ; but, as it is the very sine quA non of scientific
and, therefore, of effective batting, it will well repay the trouble expended
upon it.
   The beginner will find it a useful plan to exercise himself in these and the
following practices and positions at odd times, when he has a few minutes to
spare, with a bat only ; or a stick will do. A very fair mastery of the bat may
be obtained without ever playing a ball, as a man may acquire some proficiency
as a marksman without firing a shot.
   The next point to which the learner must direct his attention is POSITION.
In standing at the wickets, he must first ascertain—from the umpire at the
bowler's wicket, if any umpire there be—the exact spot on the popping-crease
at which his bat, when held upright, conceals the middle stump of his wicket
from a person standing where the bowler will deliver his ball : this spot is
called the " guard."
   Having found this "guard" (by the way, he should carefully mark it by
scratching the crease in some way, as most convenient), he must take up his
position as follows. Holding the bat as in Fig. I, he must ground the lower
end of it at guard ; the right foot must be planted just inside, and parallel
with, the popping-crease ; the toe about two or three inches from, and slightly
in advance of, the bat ; the left foot must be advanced slightly, its toe pointing
in the direction of the bowler, both feet planted firmly on the ground, the

                                      CRICKET.                                   *33
weight resting chiefly on the right, both knees straightened up, the body as
upright as the position of the bat will allow, the left elbow well up, the left
 shoulder turned towards the bowler, the head erect and looking over the left
 shoulder watching for the ball. This is called the first position (see Fig. 2),
 and ensures an upright bat—the great desideratum of safe play—and gives
 the striker a command over any awkward twistings or shootings of the ball
 unattainable by any other means. It does not, however, put him into a posi
 tion to strike with any effect : some change has to be made. As the ball is
 delivered, the striker throws back the point of his bat to the bails, shifting his
 left hand from front to rear of the handle as above described, using the right
 wrist as a pivot : in this position the striker is ready for anything. Should
 the ball rise or twist, there the bat is waiting for it ; should it give an opening
 for a hit, the hit will be made with all
the more force and effect ; or should it
 shoot along the ground—most deadly
 of possibilities—the bat's own weight
 will almost alone bring it back to the
 safe position of " guard." This position
 is called " make ready " (see Fig. 3).
 As it is the bowler's first object to knock
 down the wickets, so it must be the
 batsman's first object to keep them up:
 the integrity of his wickets is the prime
 necessity of the striker's existence ; de
fence, therefore, before defiance, must
 be the learner's motto.
    Many balls, if they do not possess
 any further element of danger than their
 straightness, may be safely met and
 played in the form of Fig. 3; but a good
 bowler will take care to pitch the ball
 in such a manner as to make this de
 fence, if not impracticable, at least ex
 tremely hazardous. A ball that pitches
 from a yard and a half to two yards                           Fig. 3.
from the bat, according to the speed of
the bowling, is called a "length ball," because it pitches just the right length
to be most puzzling to the batsman ; and it can only be met with reasonable
safety in one of two ways—either by playing forward and stopping it at the
pitch, or by playing back, and thus gaining time to judge its flight after it takes
the ground.
    It should be remembered that the only puzzling part of a ball's flight is after
it takes the ground, not only because, having less distance to travel, it gives
the striker less time to judge it, but because any bias or spin imparted
to it by the bowler can only take effect when it comes into contact with the
ground.
   By forward play, the batsman is enabled to smother the ball before this bias
has time to produce much effect ; and by back play he gains time to prepare
for, and meet, any unexpected eccentricity in its line of flight.
   Forward play is only of service when the pitch is so near that the batsman
can, by reaching forward, get so well over it as to render it next to impossible

134                         OUTDOOR GAMES.
                   Fir,. 4.                                    Fig. J.
for the ball, however much it may twist or shoot, to evade the bat ; if he can
not safely reckon upon this, he had better have recourse to back play.
    Every ball may be met by back play, and now-a-days it is the more favoured
method ; but, none the less, forward play, where it is applicable, is not only
the safest, but the most effective play.
    By reaching forward, it will often be possible to make a good hit off a ball
that it might otherwise be difficult to keep from the wickets ; whereas, in play
ing back, it is hardly possible to do more than pat the ball away for one run.
    Forward Play (see Fig. 4) is managed thus : The striker being in the
attitude of " make ready," keeping his right foot, of course, on the ground
inside the popping-crease, strides out with his left, and, leaning well forward,
thrusts his bat in front of him in the path of the ball.
    In doing this the bat must be kept rigidly in line with the middle stump,
the handle inclined neither to the right or the left, or it may leave an unguarded
spot for the ball to get past ; the handle must, however, be inclined well for
ward towards the bowler, that, in case the ball should rise a little too quickly,
 it may be beaten back again to the ground, lest flying off the bat it fall a prey
 to some ready fieldsman.
    In this attitude both hands will be behind the bat, and both, more especially
the right, should hold it in a firm grip ; the left shoulder must be thrust for
 ward, and the left elbow be well. up.
    The learner should practise this and, indeed, all the other positions by him
 self, without a bowler, until he can assume them mechanically, and so be free
 to concentrate all his thoughts upon the bowling.
     Back Play (see Fig. 5) is, as its name implies, the opposite in every way
 of the preceding. The left foot stands fast ; the right is thrown back almost

                                     CRICKET.                                    135
up to the wicket ; the upper part of the body leans over the right knee ; and
the bat hangs suspended perpendicularly from the wrists, its shoulder level
 with the bails, the hands grasping the handle as in Fig. 1. Thus posed, the
 batsman waits for the ball : if it shoot, he can be down on it ; if it rise, he
meets it by a slight movemant of his wrist at the moment of contact (the
 bat, by the way, in this and all other cases, must never be allowed to hang
a dead weight in the hands), plays the ball down if it be perfectly straight, or
away into the field if it be not.
   The young player must learn to make these changes of position with un
wavering smoothness and certainty. The least unsteadiness of hand or foot
will almost inevitably prove fatal.
   He must, above all things, keep constantly before his mind the golden rule,
that the only safety to his wicket lies in rigidly straight play, that is, in meet
ing the ball with a bat always, as far as inclination to one side or another is
concerned, accurately perpendicular.
   Hitting.—The next thing for the beginner, after learning the method of
handling his bat, and the most advantageous method of standing and pre
paring for the ball, is to learn how to hit. This is not so simple a matter as
might be supposed. Anybody, it is true, can, the first time he handles a bat,
strike the ball with it with more or less force, according to his muscular
strength and natural aptitude ; but this is not hitting in the cricketer's sense
of the word.
   In the first place, a hit, to be " clean," requires that the ball should leave the
bat at a distance of from five to eight inches from its point ; and the bat itself
must by no means be made to swing round in a huge circle like a sack or a
one-armed windmill, but must be wielded with a short, vigorous, combined
action of the wrists, arms, and shoulders.
   In hitting, there are four leading principles to be always kept in mind : hit
hard, hit late, hit low, and hit by sight, not by guess. Every hit should be
made with all the force you can bring to bear upon it, since every yard that
the ball is driven adds to the chances of a run, and every run lost or gained is
so much gain or loss to the fortunes of the innings side.
   The young batsman should especially cultivate the knack of dropping down
heavily upon " shooters," i.e., balls that, after they pitch, run or shoot along the
ground, instead of rising. Most players are content merely to "block" such
balls, that is, to bring the bat down to meet them, with only sufficient force
to stop them or drive them back a short distance, content with merely
rendering them innocuous. But, with a quick hand, a good eye, and a little
practice, the young player may learn to do better than this ; he may learn not
only to play these, the most deadly of all balls, with confident security, but
even to drive them away with such force as to make runs from them.
   To do this, he must follow the ball carefully with his eye every inch of the
way from the bowler's hand to his bat, and, waiting till it is just on the point
of passing him, bring his bat forcibly to meet it, giving a kind of push or
shove forward at the moment of impact. It is astonishing how far a ball,
blocked in this manner, can be driven by a skilful player.
   Hitting should be always as late as possible, that is, the ball should in most
cases be allowed to be level with the body at the moment the bat meets it,
because in that way alone the full force of the stroke is expended in propelling
the ball ; whereas, if the hit be made a little earlier, as is mostly the case with
ordinary players, or too late, much of the strength is wasted in the air.

136                            OUTDOOR GAMES.                                                    '/
   Hitting should be low, that is, the ball should be rather sent skimming
along the ground than soaring in the air, partly, as may be well understood,
for safety, that the striker may not be caught out, and, partly, because in that
way, on good ground, the same expenditure of force drives the ball farther
than by " sky-hitting."
   Sky-hitting is more attractive to the novice, and far more applauded by the
uninitiated outsiders, than low ground hitting ; but the latter is the safer and
the more effective, and therefore indisputably the correct method. A dashing,
slashing sky-hitter may occasionally, with good fortune, make a good score ;
but the low hitter is the safe man, and, catcris paribus, will in the long run
make better scores.
   And, above all things, hitting should be by sight, not by guess. Too many
players, some even among the very best, habitually hit, not at the spot where
                                              Diagram C.
                                                c.K.                   ;
                                                  \    N
                                                         \ Off side.           /
        H
»—                    --M-     w
        Z.TL.— ~
                        '"                  Oil side.
                                                                  s.j.;
                                                                                          i.l-.v
WW, Wickets; b, Bowler; s, Slip; Sn„ Snick; c. Cut; Ch„ Cover-hit; H.d , Harrow-drive; I.}.
    Long-off; F.d.f Forward-drive ; L. n., Long-on ; M.iv., Mid-wicket ; S.I., Square-leg; £/., Long-
    drive; D. Draw.
  N.B.—The dotted lines only indicate the general direction of each hit.
they see the ball is, but where they think it will be. It is true that, if their cal
culation be correct, they are thus enabled, by being beforehand with the ball,
to hit well away many that would be otherwise highly difficult to get away at all.
   A good eye and good judgment may enable a man to pursue this course
with considerable impunity, or, indeed, with some success for a time ; but it
does not pay in the long run : he is sure, in the end, to have his share of " luck,"
in the shape of " shooters," and against them he is powerless, for he can only
hit on the chance of the ball rising.
   The ball, too, will constantly, after it pitches, change its direction, or un
expectedly rise higher than ordinary. Fortunate, in these cases, must the
guess-hitter be who docs not " put up a catch " for the expectant fieldsmen.
   Every ball, according to its greater or less accuracy to the distance of the

                                    CRICKET.                                    137
point where it first pitches from the batsman, and to the manner in which it
comes in from the pitch—whether, that is, it rise, twist, or shoot—requires a
totally distinct method of treatment, a different action of the bat, and a diffe
rent attitude of the body.
    As it would be impossible, as I said above, to figure and describe here in
detail every hit upon the ball, the leading and representative hits only have
been delineated and described, while the less marked variations have received
only a passing, but perhaps amply sufficient, notice.
    Hits.—The accompanying Diagram C will show, without need of further
explanation, all the hits that are on the ball.
    The hit is said to be made on or offa.% the ball is driven into the field on the
left or right side of the batsman as he faces the bowler.
    Slip. — Properly speaking, slip is not a hit at all, inasmuch as the ball
acquires no additional impulse from the bat ; it is only from fast bowling that
it can in any way be of much effect in obtaining runs. In order to make it,
the batsman has only, in case of a rising ball, to let a ball passing a little wide
of the off stump {i.e., the stump farthest from the batsman, the others
being called " middle " and " leg " (glance from his bat, and, if it have any
speed, it will do the rest for itself. He must, however, be very careful, in
doing this to a rising ball, to slant the
handle of his bat well over the ball, so
as to play it on to the ground before it
reaches the ready fingers of " short-slip,"
who else may bring his innings to an
untimely close.
    If the ball be along the ground, the
bat should be brought down hard upon
it, and more of a hit attempted. This
will, in all probability, drive it between
"slip proper" and "cut," where the field
is generally somewhat unguarded.
    If a low or ground ball be some six
inches or so wide of the wicket, a modi
fication of the " slip " may be advan
tageously employed. The striker must
wait until the ball is well up, and then,
stepping back with his right foot, and
facing in the direction of " cut," bring
the bat down upon it with a sharp, quick
action of the wrists ; the ball will fly off
in the same direction as the preceding.
If well timed and skilfully executed,
this hit is most effective. Its technical
name, somewhat expressive, but far
from graceful, is " snicking."
    Cut.—The cut proper (Fig. 6) is not                      tak *•
employed so freely now, in these days
of round-arm bowling, as it used to be in the olden days of underhand, not
because the requisite skill is wanting, but because the present style of bowl
ing does not favour its use ; none the less, it is a useful variation to know and
to practise, for there are some balls, especially if the bowling be in any de

 138                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
gree loose, which can be effectively hit or, in cricket parlance, " made use of"
in no other way.
   The cut is only suited to a ball somewhat to the off, and should, except by
a skilled player, be only attempted with one that is distinctly at least three or
four inches wide of the off stump ; a ball much nearer to the wicket can be
much more safely, and mostly quite as effectively, played with an upright
bat.
   The cut proper is made by dropping back the right foot towards the wicket,
throwing the bat back over the right shoulder, and then lashing at the ball
just as it is passing the wicket. Some players, in delivering the cut, employ
a quick motion of the wrist: this hit is very neat in appearance, and possesses
this advantage over the former, that it can be made more quickly, and there
fore allows more time to judge the ball and to guard against accidents ; it has
not, however, the driving power of the cut proper, and is, therefore, less effec
tive. The cut proper can only be made from a rising ball.
   The other variety of the cut is, on the whole, preferable to the above. It
is suited to any off ball that " gets up " at all from the ground ; it is much
safer, as it always offers a straight bat — the great desideratum of all true
defence—to any twisting or other dangerous peculiarity of the ball, and at
the same time, especially with a tall player, it is little less effective in propelling
power. It has this further recommendation, too, by no means to be despised,
that it gives the batsman a greater power both of playing down the ball and
of "placing" it.
   Cover-hit.—This hit is useful with an over-pitched off ball. Let the young
player play hard forward at the pitch, in the attitude of Fig. 3, stepping, of
course, slightly across the line of wickets with his left leg, and the hit will re
sult of itself. To avoid accidents in the way of catches, the handle of the
bat should be brought well over the ball.
   To give full efficiency to this and all similar hits, the bat must be grasped
tightly in the hand, and the ball not only struck, but pushed vigorously forward
by a combined action of the right arm and shoulder, after the manner of a
shoulder-hit in boxing.
   Harrow Drive, Off-hit, Forward Drive, On-hit.—A ball is said to
be driven when it is sent back from the bat in, or nearly in, the direction
in which it came; all the above, therefore, come under the category of "drives."
They are all the result of the same form of play, and derive their distinct
names solely from the direction in which the ball is propelled.
   An over-pitched ball somewhat nearer in line of the off stump than for
cover-hit, would go for harrow drive ; one on, or almost on, the off stump, for
off-hit ; one quite straight, for forward drive ; and one a little to leg (i.e., either
in a line with or a little wide of the leg-stump), for on-hit.
   If the ball be only a little over-pitched, the hit may be made as in cover-hit ;
but if pitched well up, so that the point at which it takes and leaves the ground
is well within the batsman's reach, he has two choices before him—either, with
the full swing of his bat, to pick it up at the " half-volley," that is, just as it
rises from the ground—the most effective method of hitting a ball—and lift
it well over the heads of all the outlying fieldsmen —a magnificent and telling
hit, if successful ; or, by stepping a little forward with his left foot, bring his
left shoulder well over it, and drive it all along the ground.
   The latter of these two. though less showy, is in general quite as effective,
and assuredly infinitely safer. They are both valuable in their degree, though

                                      CRICKET.                                   139
to the young beginner the drive along the ground is more particularly com
mended for practical use. The soaring hit may occasionally be dangerous : the
drive along the ground is always safe.
   Some players will even go forward to meet some balls, and, taking them at
half-volley, make over-pitched balls of them. This, however, is only safe on
a perfectly true ground, and hardly even then; for a mistake, it should be
remembered, can hardly fail to be fatal. Perhaps the chief peril of this "going-
in " lies in its extreme fascination. A successful hit is at once so brilliant and
so profitable—for the ball is sent to the least guarded part of the field—that
the temptation is almost irresistible to try the same hit again ; and in cricket,
as in other matters, success has a strong tendency to make men rash. It is
extraordinary how many wickets are lost, even in our great matches, through
this "going-in." It is, however, a useful variation; and, with loose bowling,
piles up the runs at a ruinous rate. Of course, if there be no wicket-keeper,
more liberties may be taken.
   Mid-wicket Hit is either a variety of the on-hit, and is the result of pre
cisely similar play on the part of the batsman, a little extra wideness of the
ball to leg carrying it out into mid-field-on in
stead of long-on ; or it is brought about by the
    Cambridge Poke (Fig. 7)—so called from
its invention and principal cultivation being
assigned to the credit of the Cambridge players.
It is, as will be seen, not a very elegant style
of hitting, but, with those who have acquired a
mastery over it, it is far from ineffective ; but,
on the whole, it is scarcely of such utility as to
make it worth the beginner's time and trouble
spent in learning it—the more so, that almost
any ball which can be met by the Cambridge
poke can be played with equal ease, accuracy,
and success in other and more ordinary forms.
   Square Leg, like many other hits, may be
made in two ways, either by meeting forward,
with a straight bat, a ball a little wide of the
leg-stump, thus causing it to fly off almost at
right angles to its former course, or as in Fig. 8,
by stepping out with the left foot, " swiping "
round at the ball, the bat pointing directly to
the pitch. This latter is a very effective hit,
and, if care be taken to hit rather over than
under the ball, and thus avoid the fatal error
of "skying" it, a reasonably safe one. The same
form of hitting will, if the bowling be fast, and
the ball be hit a little late, result in LONG Leg.
But the surest, safest, most effective, and most brilliant method of hitting leg-
balls, specially suited for those pitched well up, is, with both feet planted firmly
on the ground, the left about a foot or a foot and a half in front of the right,
its toe pointing to the bowler, to swing the body and shoulders round on the
hips, and catch the ball with full sweep of the bat just on the point of pass
ing. To do this with fullest effect, the body should be drawn up to its full
height, and the whole frame well balanced and set firm on both feet. A slight

140                         OUTDOOR GAMES.
rise and fall on the toes just at the moment of striking imparts considerably
additional impetus to the sway of the bat.
   Draw.—Like " slip," this hit depends mainly for its effect upon the speed
of the bowling. A ball on, or scarcely wide of, the leg-stump is met with a
full, straight bat, as in the attitude of back play (Fig. 4). A slight action of
the wrist, impossible to describe, but easy to exemplify practically, just at the
moment of contact, confers much additional life to the ball.
    Draw, of course, will only be employed when the pitch and character of the
ball render it difficult to make use of it otherwise.
    Before we take leave of the subject of hitting, we would again remind the
young player that, to be of any continued good service, all hitting, even of the
most brilliant kind, must be subordinated to a rigid defence. It is of no use
to have the knack of hard hitting, if the first straight ball finds its way to the
wicket, and puts a stop to all hitting whatsoever.
    Many a fine hitter bewails his bad luck in not getting some of that loose
bowling he sees an inferior player knocking about at will, when he should in
truth blame his bad play in not keeping his wicket up, and thus getting the
 chance that has fallen to another. Let a man only keep his wickets up long
enough, he is sure to have a sufficiency of loose balls to afford ample scope
for his hitting capacities.
    The young player must beware of taking a fancy to one particular hit, and
 practising that to the detriment of others. All are equally valuable in their
place, and deficiency in any one point is certain to tell disadvantageously in
the long run. Moreover, a man of one hit soon becomes known ; the field is
 set accordingly, and his speciality completely neutralized; whereas a player
 with a fair average power of hitting all round is always dangerous, for no
 arrangement of the field, however skilful, can by any possibility guard every
 point, and where the field is weak, there will the all-round hitter be careful to
 send the ball.

                                    CRICKET.                                   141
    The learner should endeavour to find out the weak points in his hitting, and
 endeavour to strengthen them by careful practice and imitation of better
 players. His strong points he need not trouble about—they will take care of
 themselves.
„ And, lastly, let me repeat the injunction to hit hard : try to make every run
 a six, and it will surprise you how many threes and fours you will make. A
 hard hitter is always dangerous at a critical moment : in a match, a hard hitter
 will often save the game, purely by the force of his hard hitting. Therefore,
 above everything, when you do hit, hit hard.
                                      Bowling.
    The art of bowling naturally divides itself under two heads, underhand and
 round-arm. The earliest bowling was entirely underhand, and so it continued
 even within the memory of living men. The round-arm at first met with much
 opposition, but gradually forced its way, until, a few years back, underhand
 bowling was almost driven from the field, and, except in county elevens, was
 scarcely to be heard of; but of late years it has come back into favour, and
 asserts almost an equality with the round-arm, until now no eleven is consi
 dered complete without at least its one underhand bowler.
    As every cricketer should be able to bowl as well as bat and field, the
 young beginner should early devote his attention to the subject. His first
 consideration must be of style, whether he will bowl underhand or round-arm.
 In coming to a conclusion on this point, he must take many things into consi
 deration.
    Does round-arm come natural and easy to him ? Will he have time for the
 unremitting, sedulous practice which alone can make him a proficient ? and is
 he likely in after-life to be able to keep it up ? If he cannot answer these
 questions in the affirmative, he will do well to rest satisfied with under
 hand. There is not so much iclat attached to it as to round-arm, especially
 amongst juvenile players. But it is surely better to bowl in a style which, if
 somewhat despised, is yet difficult to play, and get wickets, than not to bowl
 at all, which is the actual position of the large majority of so-called round-
 arm bowlers. They can hurl the ball at the wicket after a fashion which
 they are pleased to call bowling, and may occasionally deliver a good ball,
 and may often too—for bad bowling makes bad batting—find their way to the
 wickets ; but they cannot bowl, and, what is more, they never will.
    No bowling is worthy of the name which is not mainly straight on the
  wicket ; and no bowler deserves the name who does not add to straightness
 accuracy of pitch, and possess the power of varying it at pleasure. Yet what
  proportion of the so-called round-arm bowlers one meets on every cricket-
 ground have mastered even this first preliminary of reasonable straightness?
 while on every village green may any day be seen three or four underhand
 bowlers, mere country clodhoppers, who will deliver ball after ball dead upon
 the middle stump, with a certainty of pitch and a regularity of action that
  would make the fortune of half your amateur round-arm bowlers.
    The case, then, rests thus : If the beginner have not a reasonable prospect
  of attaining fair proficiency in the round-arm, it is better to become an average
  underhand bowler than to form one of the large army of failures in round-
  arm—not to take into consideration the possibility of perhaps attaining to a
  place amongst first-rate underhand bowlers.
    The subject has been thus treated at length to impress upon the young

142                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
reader the importance of making a good choice in the matter of bowling, to
prevent his risking a failure where success might otherwise be possible.
   Wherever practicable, the advice of older and more experienced players
should be asked and acted upon in this choice of style. Where such advice t
is not to be had, the young player must fall back, as we all must, sooner or
later, upon his own judgment ; only, when he has made his election, he must,
if he hopes to excel, confine himself to the practice of that style, and that
                                        alone. Nothing is more certainly fatal to
                                        the attainment of true excellence in this
                                        department than an ambitious attempt to
                                        master two styles at once.
                                           A good style of bowling— and the same
                                        may be said of batting — is only to be at
                                        tained by training the muscles of the body
                                        into one unvarying system of action ; and
                                        this can be effected only by continuous
                                        practice in one form, and one form alone.
                                        The simultaneous practice of two or more
                                        styles can only result in another illustration
                                        of the truth of the old adage, "Jack of all
                                        trades, master of none."
                                           Round-arm. — The bowler must take
                                        the ball, not in the palm of the hand,
                                        but in the fingers only, the thumb being
                                        only employed to retain it in its place. He
                                        must then advance, more or less swiftly,
                                        according to his style, with a pace half-run,
                                        half-walk, and, with a horizontal swing of
                                        the arm straight out from the shoulder,
                                        launch the ball at the opposite wicket, just
                                         as he strides, left foot first, across the bowl
               THE BOWLER
                                         ing-crease.
                                           The ball should not be allowed to leave
 his fingers all at once, but should be made to roll off them, as it were, receiving
just at the last moment of contact a final impulse from their tips. This imparts
 to it a spinning motion, which, when it touches the ground, will make it ny off
 suddenly at an angle, just as does a top from a wall, to the great discomfiture
 of the batsman.
    The bowler should accustom himself always to bowl from exactly the same
 distance behind the wicket (he will find it a useful plan to mark his starting-
 point with a stick or straw), and should always take precisely the same number
 of steps in his advance ; his body should be erect and well balanced, and his
 eye fixed steadily upon the opposite wicket : above all, his movements, how
 ever rapid, should be unhurried, perfectly steady, and under complete controL
    Accuracy of direction is, of course, the first and most important require
 ment in bowling ; but straightness alone will avail little, if attention be not
 also paid to accuracy of pitch.
    A ball coming directly from the bowler's hand to the wickets, technically
 termed " a full pitch " or " toss," is, of all balls, the easiest for the batsman to
 judge and hit away ; and one that takes the ground little more than half-way
 between the wickets (a long hop) is scarcely less simple.

                                   CRICKET.                                    143
   All that the batsman requires is time, and that the bowler must make it his
special care not to give him.
   The most difficult ball for the batsman to hit, and therefore the very best
for the bowler to send him, is one that pitches from four to eight feet in front
of the popping-creasc This distance varies with the pace of the bowling : the
slower the pace, the nearer must the ball be pitched to the crease, and vice
.versd. It varies also with the height and style of the striker : a tall player
with a good forward reach leaves the bowler no option but to pitch shorter.
   Balls pitched within these limits are called length-\v7£&%.
   The learner will find it good practice to mark, with a piece of paper or a
dab of chalk, the exact spot on which his ball ought to pitch to be a good
length, and steadily set himself to acquire the art (for it is to be acquired) of
dropping the ball either upon or close upon this mark with unvarying certainty.
   However simple his style may be in other respects, this accuracy of pitch
and direction will always render him formidable to any batsman.
   In bowling, it must be kept in mind that every batsman has his strong and
weak points : one man, for instance, is a hard leg-hitter, but weak in defending
his off stump, while another can play well forward, and another only back ;
and the bowler must give his whole mind to find out these strong and weak
points, to avoid the one, and persistently attack the other.
   There is one maxim more for the bowler, perhaps the most important of all.
" Always pitch as near to the striker as he will let you." The nearer he allows
the ball to pitch without hitting it away, the less time does he get to judge it
after the pitch. If he allow it to come too near, his play is cramped and
his hitting powers paralysed.
   A really first-class bowler will, to this intent, pitch nearer and nearer to the
batsman, creeping in inch by inch, until he finds out the exact spot beyond
which he dare not go, and, having thus decided it to his satisfaction, will
methodically settle down to work upon it with undeviating pertinacity, until
the fall of the wicket crowns his labours.
   Men have been known, in this manner, to wear away the turf in a bald
patch, by the reiterated pitching of the ball in the same spot.
   The bowler will find it well to study the art of varying the speed and the
curve with which the ball passes through the air, without making any corre
sponding visible change in his action. Nothing is more deceptive, and, there
fore, more fatal to the batsman, than a judicious unexpected variation of pace.
   The great art consists, not in constant changes — for then the batsman is
on the alert—but in allowing him to get used to one particular pace, and then,
with the second of two balls, following each other in rapid succession (it loses
half its effect after a hit), suddenly increase or slacken the pace : the fall of
many a wicket will reward this manoeuvre. Only it must be borne in mind that
the attempt must not be too often repeated, or it will defeat itself. Nor must
the change of pace be too palpable, for the sole object is to catch the batsman
unawares.
   A very slight increase or decrease of velocity is quite sufficient for all pur
poses ; the change, too, is thus less easily detected, and therefore infinitely
more deceptive and destructive, than more extreme variation.
   Underhand.— The above observations, so far as the art of bowling is
concerned, will apply equally well both to underhand and round-arm. It will
not, therefore, be necessary to offer any extended observations upon under
hand as a speciality.

 144                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
   It is in the delivery of the ball only that the distinction between the two
styles lies ; and all the above directions hold good, with the exception that, in
the act of launching the ball, the arm swings perpendicularly from the shoulder
like a pendulum, instead of being swung round horizontally. All the direc
tions as to pitch, &c, apply equally to both.
   The beginner need not think that, in taking up underhand, he must of
necessity sacrifice pace. " Underhand " and " slows" are not necessarily con
vertible terms. There was very fast bowling to be had long before " round-
arm " was even thought of ; and at this present time may be found in all parts
of the country many an underhand bowler whose pace need not shrink from
comparison with that of any but the very Tarrants and Jacksons of the
round-arm school.
   Bias-Bowling.—Bias-bowling, if good, is not only hard to hit, or even to
stop ; it has in addition a great knack of flying off the bat in unexpected
directions, and so giving " chances " to the field, the chief places of danger
being at the wickets and " point ; " it is very difficult, too, to hit effectually
without in some sort "skying "the ball; and as the field (see Diagram C,
p. 136) is mostly in front of the wicket, the ball can scarce escape being
caught.
   The bowler should take special care to make the out-ficlders stand deep;
it is a common fault to stand in too near, and thus not only runs, but many
catches, are lost : and, above all, a bias-bowler must himself be almost ubi
quitous between the wickets to field his own bowling.
   It would be very difficult to describe, in a thoroughly intelligible manner,
the various methods by which bias is imparted to the ball ; but, though diffi
cult to describe, the peculiar turn of the wrist and play of the fingers is
wonderfully easy to exemplify practically, and almost as easy to acquire. The
difficulty lies in combining the bias with accuracy of pitch: any cricketer
could furnish the requisite information, and to such source must I refer the
young aspirant to bowler's fame.
   As long as the ball, in passing from the bowler's hand, deviates neither to
the right nor to the left from the right line, but depends solely for its efficiency
upon its pitch and straightness, a " good bat " will find comparatively small
difficulty—on good ground, that is—in defending his wicket ; but, if it can be
made to fly off from the pitch at an angle more or less decided, its dangerous
qualities will be enormously enhanced.
   Most bowlers in some sort impart this bias or twist to the ball ; but there
are many — and the number is rapidly increasing — who concentrate their
attention almost solely upon this one quality, as, for instance, Old Clark, in
days gone by, and V. E. Walker, E. M. Grace, R. C. Tinley, &c, in our own
times.
    Space would fail me to enter fully into the subject of screw-bowling: a few
short hints must suffice.
    First, as to pace. Medium pace possesses a great advantage over fast, in
the power it gives the bowler of varying the curves with which it passes through
the air, and thus deceiving the batsman by altering the pitch without his per
ceiving it ; for he naturally, at first sight, expects a ball that rises high in the
air to come farther than one of lower flight, and may often be thus led into
fatal error.
    But it is in bias-bowling that the superiority of medium pace chiefly lies.
 Of absolutely slow bowling I do not speak ; for on good ground, and against

                                   CRICKET.                                     145
anything like scientific and hard-hitting batting, it is the most egregious failure
possible, and, indeed, any player with a good eye and a strong arm may do
with it pretty much as he will; therefore, I at least will none of it. In very
fast bowling the ball merely glints on and off the ground so rapidly, that any
spin it may have upon it has hardly time to act, whereas a slower ball not
only gives more time for the ball to " bite " the ground, but, falling more per
pendicularly, actually takes the ground in a more advantageous manner.
   The slower the ball, then, the more effective will be the bias ; but pace and
bias combined are the great desideratum, and each bowler must find out for
himself the point at which he obtains most effect ; only be it remembered
that any very exceptional twist—save, perhaps, now and then as a surprise—
is quite unnecessary, nay, even undesirable—a break of a few inches, six or
seven, being quite sufficient for all ordinary purposes.
   A ball is said to " break in" when it pitches to the leg side and turns in
towards the wicket, and to " break back " when it pitches to the off side and
comes in. The latter is by far the more dangerous bias, and a man who has
such a command of the ball as to make it " break in " or " back " at pleasure
may do pretty well what he likes with the batsman ; only be it remembered
that the most perfect accuracy of pitch is indispensable to success. Loose
bowling is always bad : in fast bowling the very pace may prove its safety ;
but, with medium pace, pitch alone can yield it immunity from punishment.
                                    Fielding.
   The art of fielding, though of no less importance than that of batting and
bowling, and an acquirement of paramount and vital necessity to the would-
be cricketer— without which, indeed, cricketing itself would cease to be—yet
it does not, for its due inculcation, demand or, indeed, admit of the same ex
tended and detailed instruction as has been above bestowed upon these, its
compeers.
   With the single exception of the wicket-keeper, and perhaps in some degree
also of the long-stop, it makes little or no difference to the player, so far as
the theory of the art is concerned, what place he may take in the field. " Out-
fielding," it is true, makes greater demands upon one set of qualities, as speed
and hard throwing, and "in-fielding" upon another; but, in all, the duties
required are the same—to stop the ball, catch it if possible, and return it with
all speed to the wickets ; and, in performing these three functions—whether
the player be far out in the field or close in to the bat—his action and attitude
will be, and must of necessity be, the same.
   A short general summary, therefore, of the various methods of practical
fielding—of catching, stopping, and throwing—and a few concise details as to
the special peculiarities of the several places in the field, will be all that the
young learner will need to set him in the way of at least making a beginning
in this indispensable art.
   Catching.—The ball may be caught either with one hand or two : the
latter is, of course, the easiest and safest way. To catch with both hands," it
is well to wait till the ball is just within reach, and then thrusting out the
hands well forward, with the fingers extended, to receive it into them as into
a bag or net, at the same time allowing the hands to yield, more or less, in
proportion with the speed of the ball.
   The hands should not be extended too soon, or the arms become rigid and
less able to bear the shock of the ball : it is less easy, too, to correct any error
                                                                       10

146                          OUTDOOR GAMES.
that may have been made in judging the flight of the ball. A golden rule in
all catching is to hold the hands in readiness, and dart them out from the
side at the very last moment.
   If the ball come in lower than the chest, the hands should receive it as in a
cup, palms uppermost, little fingers together and slightly overlapping : if it
come above the chest, the hands must be formed in the same manner ; but the
thumbs must now be brought together, instead of the little fingers, and the
fingers must point upwards.
   Great care must be taken never to allow the fingers to point in the direc
tion in which the ball is coming, under penalty of risking highly unpleasant
fractures or dislocations.
    In catching with one hand the same general principles will apply: the ball
should be received well into the palm.
   The beginner should specially study catching, and indeed all points of field
ing, with the weaker hand ; the other is sure to go right.
    Stopping.—A ball stopped in mid-air comes under the category of catches,
for which instructions are given above. In stopping a ball along the ground,
the player must, if possible, get in front of the ball, and, just as it reaches him,
draw his heels together as in the position of " attention," and reach down
suddenly to it—his hands in the first attitude given for catching, the fingers
being pointed to the ground ; the very motion of the ball will help to close
the fingers upon it. The main difficulty here is to time the ball — a difficulty
 only to be overcome by practice.
    The beginner must also learn to pick up the ball, in like manner, in the
 right or left hand as it passes him, to run across the path of a ball at an
 angle, and stoop and pick it up without stopping, to take the ball at half-
 volley, i.e., just at the bound within a few inches of the pitch (a very difficult
 matter), and to throw it in. Many other ways will naturally occur to him in
 practice, which need not be more particularly dwelt upon here.
    One rule of good fielding requires specially to be dwelt upon. When the
 ball is sent towards any fieldsman, he must not wait for it to reach him, but
 must run swiftly forward, scoop up the ball without stop or hesitation, and,
 continuing his run towards the wicket, send it in sharply home. As every
 second lost in the field is so much added to the batsman's chance of a run, so
 every second saved is so much taken from it, and so much pure gain to the
 outing side.
    Throwing.—The out-fielders will, of course, throw in the usual way (it
 need scarcely be described); but the in-fielders should practise a quick, sharp,
 underhand throw.
     In all throwing, there are two objects to attain—one to get the ball in as
 quickly as possible, and the other to send it in in the manner most convenient
 to the wicket-keeper; both these requirements are fulfilled when the ball is
  sent as straight, i.e., with as little curve in the air, as possible to the top of
  the stumps. If the distance be too great to do this with certainty, it should
  be made to pitch some ten or fifteen yards from the wickets, and so come in
  a long hop.
     Accuracy of return to the wickets is one of the first requisites of good field
  ing, and should be cultivated accordingly.
     All "wild" throwing is to be eschewed; but, above all, let the fieldsman
  beware of throwing in to the wicket-keeper's toes, which is, of all bad ways,
  the very worst.

                                    CRICKET.                                    147
   The young player must not think, as it has been too much the fashion of
late to think, that good fielding is of less importance than batting; still less
must he fall into the habit of those half-hearted cricketers, unworthy of the
name, who look upon all fielding as a bore.
   Let him bear this in mind, that " a run saved is a run gained."
   Now, the very best bat is never sure of making even a single run, while
even a moderate field is certain to save a great many ; so that, comparing a
good " field " and a good " bat " together, the " field " will generally in the long
run be found to have been of most service to his side.
   Fielding, moreover, is first-rate practice for batting, so that the young
player need not suppose that all the time he devotes to the one is taken from
the other ; while, on the contrary, practice in batting is of next to no assistance
in fielding.
   L.A the young cricketer's first ambition be good fielding and bowling, and
the batting will follow as a natural consequence.
   In discussing the specialities of various places in the field, the accompany
ing diagrams, D and E, show the field placed for fast and slow bowling re
spectively. More than the usual eleven places are given in each, to allow for
the changes that may be necessitated by peculiarities in the bowling or batting.
   Long-field requires quick running, hard throwing, and certainty in catch
ing balls hit hard and far through the air. To be of any real service, long-
field must be able to " cover a great deal of ground," that is, be ready and
active in his movements, so as to make it impossible for a ball to pass on
either side nearer than 20 or 30 yards, or. to make one falling anywhere within
that distance a certain catch.
   He must stand well out, that the ball may not be hit over his head: no
greater mistake can be made than standing too far in. A good field can stand
a surprising distance out, and yet save the second run : he is not placed to
save the one, and so need not trouble himself about it.
   To stand well out, watch the ball, and be ever on the alert, are the chief
requisites of a good long-field.
   The same remarks apply to all the out-fieldsmen. Cover-point and long leg
will find that the ball, when it takes the ground, has a tendency to curl or
twist at a sudden angle, and in both cases in the direction of the long-stop ;
that is, with cover-point, a ball coming to his right, might break away and
pass to his left, while with long leg a ball coming to the left might pass to
the right. The same holds good of point, third man, the slips, square leg,
and draw.
   In all these places, therefore, the player must be on the look-out for this
 peculiarity, and be prepared to meet it, or the ball will assuredly elude him
like magic, and he will find, to his shame and confusion, that he has "muffed" it.
   Point.—This is one of the most important places in the field; with some
bowling, the most important.
   A good deal of misapprehension exists about the place and duties of point.
 The real fact is, they shift and vary with every change of bowling and every
change of batting.
   With some bowling, point plays close up in front of the bat, with others
almost in the place of short-slip, while fine off-hitting, unless the bowling be
exceptionally true, will drive him right away out into the field.
   Point's distance from the bat must be left to the judgment of each indi
vidual player. Some are quicker at catching, and can, therefore, stand nearer
                                                                  10—2

                                 OUTDOOR GAMES.
                                                                                  • Iti.
                                                           tX.
$ ^                                      B,      ^ ,«A.                           . l.$t.
     TUT                                           W
                °                               ,.
           Ta.Tl/.                           AS.l
                                                                                                     •u
                                                     s.l.
                                              Diagram D.
                                            FAST BOWLING-
          K
                                          pa
                                           vr                         W
                                                                      fill
                                               Diagram E.
                                             SLOW BOWLING-
ww., wickets; n., bat*man; ft., bowler; .w.k.t wicket-keeper; 1st., long-stop; si., slip; l.il., long-
  Mip; f.m.f third mar ; p.. point; c.p., cover-point ; m.J , m.n , mid-wicket, oft and on ; /., long-ticid
 or cover-bowler; If. & l.n., long-held, oft" and on; sj., square leg; *.;./ , short square leg; 1.1-,
  long leg; d., draw or short leg.

                                    CRICKET.                                   149
in than others. A man's sight, too, varies quite sufficiently to make a per
ceptible difference from day to day ; one might almost say, from hour to hour.
   Point cannot make a greater mistake than by standing in nearer than he
can see to catch with certainty. The catches he might by possibility lose by
standing farther out will be more than compensated for by the increased
number of runs he will be enabled to save.
    Point and all the near-fieldsmen must watch the ball all the way to the bat,
and hold themselves in readiness to spring to either side, or up in the air fron:
either foot, without an instant's thought or hesitation, or to dive down and
stop the ball, as it comes spinning and curling off the bat, with both or either
hand indifferently.
   Great alertness, activity, and concentrated attention are indispensable
qualifications of a near-field.
   LONg-STop has a great burden laid upon his shoulders ; for not only has he
to stop and return every ball that passes the wicket-keeper—no slight labour in
itself—but every mistake he makes, with sharp men at the wickets, counts
one or more against his side.
   His vigilance, therefore, must never for one moment tire or slacken : though
all the rest of the field take it easy, he alone and the bowler can know no re
laxation or remission.
   With good ground, true bowling, and fair wicket-keeping, the long-stop's
post need not be a very hard one ; but should there be tailure in any one of
these items, especially the two
former, his place at once becomes
the hardest and most responsible in
the field.
    In any case he must study to field
every ball "clean," that is, to take
it at once into the hands, without
any fumbling or clumsiness. A ball
fumbled is a safe run, if the striker
be only on the alert.
    To be really good at long-stop, a
man should be able to pick up a
ground ball as it passes, with cither
hand, right or left, with the same
ease and certainty as he would with
both.
    Instant return to the wicket-
 keeper should be invariably prac
 tised. Dallying with the ball not
 only wastes time—of which, in most
 matches now-a-days, there is not
too much—but it very often gives a                   THE WICKET-KEEPER.
chance of a run, and it certainly en
courages the striker by a show of slowness in the field.
    Wicket-keeper stands close behind the wicket, in a stooping posture, the
 right foot advanced and close upon the wicket, the hands held in readiness
 for the ball just in rear of the bails, the head brought down till the eyes arc
 within a foot at most of the top of the wickets.
    The ball, as it is taken, should be invariably, and as part of the same action.

1 5o                        OUTDOOR GAMES.
brought to the bails, so that a mere turn of the wrist may take them off
should the striker offer the least chance of a " stump out."
   Every ball that can be taken should be taken, if only for the sake of saving
 the long-stop ; but the wicket-keeper will do well to exercise a little discretion
 with balls that are almost out of reach, since, if he fail to handle them satis
factorily, he may, instead of stopping them, only succeed in deflecting them
from their course, and thus, perhaps, send them out of the reach of the long-
stop too.
   If the long-stop knows beforehand that balls passing outside a certain point
will be left to him, he will find no difficulty in meeting them.
   Great care must be exercised that too great eagerness in taking the ball do
not lead the wicket-keeper into violating the 35th rule.
   When the ball has been hit, or in any other way a run is being attempted,
the wicket-keeper must at once place himself so that the wickets are between
him and the ball. This enables the fieldsman to detect at once the where
abouts of the wickets—a very important point—and also gives the ball, if well
thrown, a chance of hitting the wickets before it reaches his hands.
   This rule of getting behind the wickets, though of the first importance, is
one that is more commonly neglected, to the loss of many a good " run-out,"
than it is observed ; it requires, therefore, to be the more strongly impressed
upon the young learner.
   A few words of parting advice. Whatever place is taken, whether batting,
bowling, or fielding, the player should give his whole mind to the duties and
responsibilities thereof.
   The companion of the striker should remember that the score depends
almost as much upon his promptitude in backing up, as on the hitting powers
of his vis-a-vis.
   In running, the first run should be made with rapidity and decision, the
bat grounded just over the crease, and the body turned and held in readiness
for the next, should the chance occur. The runner should never overrun his
crease, unless in the last extremity ; the bat in is quite sufficient.
   The yard or so thus gained in turning may make all the difference between
a run made or a wicket lost.
   At practice the young player is earnestly exhorted to eschew all loose knock
ing about of the ball : wherever and whenever practicable, sides should be
chosen and a game made.
   The really useful practice for batting, and for bowling too, though in a less
degree, is in actual playing for runs.
   If sides be not to be had, the bat and ball had better be resigned to those
who are less patient of advice, and a good spell taken at long-stopping or
other fielding.
   Loose practice forms loose habits, and it is easier to form a dozen new
good habits than to break through one bad one already formed.
   The game should be always played with full vigour—umpires, creases, &c. ;
in this way, observance of rules becomes second nature.
   The decision of the umpire, however it may go against the grain, should
always be obeyed at once, and without comment; remonstrance, if any be
needed, is the part of the captain of the side.
   Last, though perhaps not least, whatever be the player's fate — run out,
caught, bowled, stumped, even if it be first ball—he should, above all things,
keep his temper. An easy temper is a tower of strength.

                             Mtfitaax 6anws.
WE now turn to games which may be played indoors. Of course, many
         of them may be played, and are played, out of doors ; but as they can
be played under shelter, they are here mentioned, so that in wet weather the
boys who read this work may know how to find amusement.
                        GAMES WITH MARBLES.
   We will begin at the beginning, and describe the marble itself. This toy
is seldom now made of marble, only a few, which are called " alleys," being
made of different coloured alabaster. These are the most valuable, and arc-
always reserved to be used as " taws," i.e., the marble actually used by the
players. In our younger days, a pure white alley with delicate pink streaks
was considered the very best taw that could be procured, and we used to
place an almost superstitious reliance on its powers.
   Next to the alley comes the stone marble, or " stoney," which is made of
some hard stone, and which is generally as round and smooth as an alley,
though not so pretty. Stoneys are often of different colours, though a plain
grey is perhaps the best. They answer very well for taws.
   Next come the common or clay marbles, which are only made of clay rolled
 into a sort of roundness, and then baked. They are usually called "common

 1 52                          INDOOR GAMES.
eys," or " clays," and can be bought at a very cheap rate. There is also a
very large marble, mostly of pottery-ware, nearly as large as a tennis ball, and
painted of different colours. This is called a "bounce," or "troller," and is
of little real value, not being used in the legitimate games, and being too
large to be properly " shot."
    Shooting the Marble.—We lay great stress upon this point, as the proper
mode of holding and shooting the marble seems to be sadly neglected. Boys
have got into a lazy way of throwing or bowling the marble, a practice which
was not allowed " in the days when we were young." We had to " knuckle
down " fairly, and if the hand moved forward, the opponent would not allow
the shot to be a fair one
    In order to hold the marble properly, place the hand as shown in the illus
tration; the tip of the thumb being held under the bent middle finger, while
                       the marble rests upon the tip of the finger and the joint
                       of the thumb. By flinging out the thumb with a sharp
                       movement, the marble can be sent to a considerable dis
                       tance ; and in a short time the young player will be able
                       to aim very truly with it. Some boys have a stupid fashion
                       of holding the marble in the bent joint of the forefinger,
                       but those who do so cannot send it to any distance, or
with a true aim. We used to call such boys " muffs," and to laugh at them
so much, that they soon learned to hold the marble properly.
    In shooting the marble, the hand ought not to move forward in the least,
and if it does so the opponent has a right to make the player take the shot
over again. Moving the hand is called " fubbing," and we always used to en
join " knuckle down, and no fubs." By " knuckling down " is meant placing
the knuckle of the forefinger on the ground, and not lifting it until the marble
has left the hand.
    In our opinion, the king of all games at marbles is Ring-Taw, provided
that it is played fairly and according to rule, as, indeed, all games ought to be
played.
    All that is required in this game is a moderately level surface of tolerable
size, and whether the floor be boards, gravel, stone, or cement, does not matter
 in the least. Any number can play at it, but when there are more than four,
 the game is apt to be rather tedious. Suppose that four players are engaged,
              they proceed in the following^manner : They first draw a circle on
  Othc floor, if possible using chalk for the purpose, because it makes
              no groove and shows out plainly. Each player then puts a marble
              in the ring, arranging them at equal distances from each other.
              Sometimes the player who begins is obliged to put another marble
              in the middle of the ring. A straight line is then drawn on the floor
 at some six or seven feet from the ring; and from this line, which is called the
 " offing," " bar," or " baulk," the players have to start.
     The game begins by knuckling down on the offing-line, and shooting the
 taw at the marbles within the ring. If one of the marbles be knocked out of
 the ring, the player may take it up and shoot again, not returning to the offing,
 but knuckling down at the spot where his taw rests.
     As soon as he fails to strike a marble out of the ring, the next player begins,
 and so on in succession until the ring is cleared.
     This, however, is not the whole of the game. If the taw of any player re
 main within the ring, he is called "dead," and is out of the game. He has,

                          GAMES WITH MARBLES.                                    155
  besides, to put into the ring all the marbles which he has won, and one also
  by way of fine. If, however, the player shoot the last marble out of the ring,
  and his own remain within it, he does not lose, because the fact that the ring
  is empty shows that the game is over. Again, if one player can shoot at and
  hit the taw of another, he "kills" his antagonist, who is obliged to hand over all
  the marbles which he may have won in the game. If a player kill the last
. opponent, he not only takes his marbles, but gets all those that are left in the
  ring.
     There is much more skill in this game than is generally thought. A good
  player will not content himself with merely hitting other marbles, but takes
  care how he hits them. For .example, he will shoot at a marble in the ring,
  and strike it so as to lay his own taw near that of an adversary, whom he can
  kill. Or, if he be tolerably near another taw, he will hit it in such a manner
  as to bring his own taw near the ring. Then, great judgment may be shown
  in placing the taw out of danger, and yet near enough to the ring to give a
  good chance.
     As having the first shot is a great advantage, the players "lag" for it, i.e.,
  they shoot from the offing-line, and try to put their taws in the middle of the
  ring. Whoever is nearest to the centre wins the first shot.
     Another method of playing this game is by having two rings, one of six feet
                              diameter, and another of one foot diameter; the little
                              one inside the large one.
                                 In this game the players are allowed to start from
                              any part of the outside circle. The game is played
                              exactly as the last-mentioned, but with one difference.
                              No one is allowed to kill an adversary until all have
                             .had one shot. The reason of this rule is, that the
                              last player would otherwise have the best chance,
                              because the other players would probably leave their
                              taws so close to the line, that they could be easily hit
                              and killed before they have had a fair chance.
                               . Fortifications. — This is a variety of ring-taw,
                              and is mostly played in France. Instead of a simple
  ring, the ground is marked out as shown in the illus
  tration, and the players try to knock the marbles
  fairly outside the lines.
     Each player may start from either of the outside
  lines, and must make his first shot at the marbles in
  the " fortress," i.e., the oblong figure in the middle.
  As in ring-taw, if his marble remain within the for
  tress, the player is dead, and places in the fortress
  all marbles which he has won. In some places he is
  obliged to leave his own taw within the fortress, and
  to pay the marbles to the player who drives it out of
  the lines. He has also to pay another marble as ransom for his taw.
     Pyramids.—This is a good game for teaching accuracy of shooting.
     A rather large ring is made—say three feet in diameter—and in the middle
  are four marbles, three put closely together, and the fourth on the top, so as
  to form a pyramid.
     One player is called the banker, and puts the four marbles into the ring.
  The other players then shoot at the pyramid in succession from a spot agreed

 1 54                          INDOOR GAMES.
upon by the banker and the players. If they hit it, they receive as many
marbles as they can knock out of the ring ; but if they miss, they forfeit one
to the banker for each shot. When all the marbles are shot out, another
player becomes banker, and -o on until all have had their turn.
    In some places the banker sits on the ground, with his feet widely apart
and the pyramid between them. The other players shoot at the pyramid at
a stipulated distance, and pay the banker a marble for each shot. If they
knock down the pyramid, they get all the four marbles, but do not have the
marble which was paid for the shot. Therefore, a player who wishes to win
at this game ought to be tolerably certain of hitting the pyramid every other
time.
    Die-Marble.—This game is not very unlike the last. Two marbles are
used, one of which is rubbed on a stone until it becomes a perfect cube, like
                a die. The other is only slightly squared, so as to form a sup
                port for the die. One player takes charge of the die, and allows
                the others to shoot at it from a certain distance. He receives
                one marble for each shot. If the die be not overthrown, the
                player loses the paid marble ; but if he can succeed in knocking
                it over, he receives one marble for each spot on the uppermost
                face of the die.
                   It is better to procure an ivory die than to make one out of a
marble. It is very difficult to make a perfect cube, and if one side be a little
smaller than the others, it is nearly sure to come uppermost.
    We do not think very much of this game, because there is too much chance
in it. An indifferent player, who only hits the die once in six shots, may win six
marbles, because it falls with the six or " size "-side uppermost ; and a good
player, who hits it five times out of six shots, may only win five marbles, be
cause the " ace " or one-side of the die happens to come uppermost. Still, as
the game is in use in some places, we have inserted it.
    Bridge-Board. —This is another game which is arranged on the same
principle as the last, but which is a better game, because there is more skill
and less chance. Instead of the pyramid or die-marble, the banker has a
little bridge, such as seen in the illustration. Nine little arches are cut through
 it, each being large enough to allow a marble to pass through easily. The
 arches are all numbered from I to 9, the lowest numbers being always in the
 middle, and the highest outside.
    The players shoot at the bridge from a given distance, paying the banker
 one marble for each shot. If the taw pass through cither of the holes (or
 arches), the player receives from the banker a number of marbles equal to the
 number which is written over the arch. If the taw should not pass through an
 arch the player receives nothing, and if he miss the bridge altogether, he
 pays another marble as a fine.
     In order to win the prize, the taw must pass completely through the arch.
 The method of testing whether the taw has fairly passed, is by taking a knife-
 blade, or a straight piece of wood, and scraping it along the outside of the

                        GAMES WITH MARBLES.                                    155
bridge. If it touch the taw in the least, the player is considered to have
missed, and wins nothing.
   The banker generally wins at this game.
   Picking Plums.—This game is identical with bridge-board in principle,
but can be played without any bridge. The banker draws a line on the ground,
and lays nine marbles, or " plums," on it in a row, the space between them
being just wide enough to allow two marbles to stand side by side. The
players pay the banker three marbles for six shots, and shoot out the " plums "
from a stated distance, keeping all those which they can knock off the line.
   Sometimes there is no banker, and then the players put on the line one or
two marbles each, as the case may be, and then go on shooting until they have
picked all the plums. This is not at all a bad game, as it teaches accurate
shooting, and the players are not afraid of being killed by their opponents.
It used to be a favourite in our early days.
   Three Holes.— This game used to be very popular at one time, and is
not a bad one when the ground is level, and when there are no large stones
or other obstructions.
   The players make three little holes in a row, each hole being about two
inches in diameter and one inch in depth, the distance between them being
three or four feet, or even more, if the players are skilful. A line is drawn
about a yard from the first hole, and answers the purpose of the offing or
baulk-line in ring-taw. The players knuckle down fairly at the baulk-line, and
try to shoot their taws into the first hole. If a player succeed, he may try
for the next hole ; and the player who puts a taw into all three holes wins the
game and takes all the remaining marbles.
   After the players have secured the first hole, they may shoot either at the
next hole or at the taw of an antagonist ; and if they hit him, he is put out of
the game and has to forfeit all marbles which he has won.
   The stakes are managed differently in different parts of England. In some
places each player has to deposit a marble for each hole, and this we think to
be the fairest mode. The marbles are put into another hole called the bank,
and taken out when won. If a player be killed, he forfeits to his successful
opponent all the marbles which he has won ; and if he has not won at all, he
pays one marble as a fine.
   Although a player who has not gained the first hole cannot kill an antago
nist, he is at liberty to shoot at any taw so as to drive it away from a hole near
which its owner has placed it. A good player will therefore take care, not only
to place his own taw in a good position, but will drive away those of his
opponents which have been placed near either of the holes. It sometimes
happens that a boy wins the game by taking all the three holes in succession,
and sometimes by hitting all his adversaries in succession, only taking the first
hole. Generally, however, the game is won by a judicious combination of
taking holes and killing opponents.
   There is, perhaps, no game which is played in so many ways as three holes.
It is in use in almost every school in England, and in almost every school

1 56                          INDOOR GAMES.
there are different ways of playing it. That which is already given is the most
common, but we will mention one or two variations.
    In some places, when a player has gained the first hole, he can make his
opponents place their taws successively in front of the first hole, and then
shoot at them from the offing. If he hit the first taw, its owner is killed, and
the next in order has to put his taw in the same place. If he miss, the next
player goes on from the offing as usual.
   Another variation requires that the winner shall hole his own taw nine times.
In this mode of playing the game, each player puts down two or three marbles,
as the case may be, and then shoots from the offing-line. If he win the first
hole, he may put his thumb into it, and stretch the little finger of the same
hand as far as he can towards the second hole. This is called " taking a span."
If he can thus gain all the three holes, he goes back again, and so on until his
taw has been holed nine times. The player who first succeeds in doing this
wins all the marbles.
    In this variation of the game there is no killing of adversaries, but it is
lawful, after gaining a hole, to shoot at any taw : if it be hit, the shooter goes
on again from the place where his own taw stops. Thus the player gains a
double advantage from hitting an adversary's taw : he drives it away from the
hole, and places his own in a favourable situation.
    Spanners. —This is a very simple game, and is only played by two oppo
nents. The first shoots his marble to the distance of a few yards, and the other
tries to strike it with his own. If he can succeed in doing so, he wins one
marble. But there is another point in the game. If No. I can place his taw*
so close to that of No. 2 that he can span the distance between them with
the fingers and thumb of one hand, he wins the marble just as if he had hit
it. Attempting the span, however, is rather a dangerous plan to follow, as, if it
fail, the antagonist is sure to be able to place his own taw so as to secure a span.
    Sometimes this is played with the large marbles called " bounces," or
"bonses," which are as large as tennis balls, and are bowled instead of being
thrown. We do not, however, recommend the bounces, and think that they
have no right to be considered as marbles at all. They are, in fact, nothing but
small earthenware bowls, and are used in precisely the same manner.
   Lags. —This is another game at marbles which bears some resemblance
                                  to the preceding, chiefly because the span is
                                  introduced.
                                     In this game three or four players take their
                                  stations opposite a wall, and the first player
                                  shoots or throws his taw at the wall, so as to
                                  make it rebound. The next throws his taw in
                                  a similar manner, and if it rest within a span
                                  of the first taw, its owner wins a marble. They
                                  all play in the same manner, always throwing
         /    i    \              the taw from the spot on which it rests, and
       /             \            making it rebound from the wall. If it should
     /                \           happen to hit another taw as it rebounds, the
   c         -B        J*         owner of the struck taw has to pay a marble.
                                  In some places, however, when a taw is struck
its owner is killed—is put out of the game—and has to pay to the owner of
the victorious taw all the marbles which he may have won in that game.
    This pastime is called by various names in different parts of the country.

                       GAMES WITH MARBLES.                                    157
and we have chosen that particular title under which we ourselves used to play
it. We do not think very much of lags, but it has the advantage of teaching
angles, and so of training the eye to observe. Of course the ground m front
of the wall ought to be very smooth.
    CONQUEROr.—We describe this game, because it is played in some places,
but we cannot recommend it, as it calls forth very little skill, and depends upon
the accidental qualities of the marble rather than on the skill of the player.
  . In this game a smooth and rather hard piece of ground is selected, care
being taken that it is free from stones. The first player now lays his taw on
the ground, and the second throws his own at it with all his force. If he
succeed in hitting it and breaking it, the owner of the broken taw pays him
a marble, and the winning taw is called a Conqueror of One, one of the halves
of the broken taw being taken as a proof, and the other half smashed by its
owner in order to prevent it from being used as a trophy.
    Sometimes it happens that the marble which is thrown at the other is broken,
and then great is the rejoicing of the winner.
    Then comes a curious point. Any taw which breaks another is entitled to
add to its own score all those which the vanquished taw had previously broken,
together with the addition of one for the taw itself. Thus, supposing that your
taw, which had conquered thirty, were to break mine, which had also conquered
thirty, yours would take rank as a Conqueror of Sixty-one, i.e., my thirty added
to your thirty, and one for my taw besides. I have also to hand over all the
half-taws which my broken taw had previously won.
    Boys often play this game with different materials, among which the most
popular are chestnuts and cobnuts. A hole is bored through the nut, and a
string is passed through the hole and secured by a knot. A jacket is then
folded up, and placed on a bench or on the ground, and each player succes
sively lays his nut on the jacket, and allows the others to strike it. Perhaps
some of my readers may remember a humorous sketch of sailors just paid off
indulging in this game, but using watofces instead of nuts.
    In the spring and summer conqueror is often played by means of the plan
tain-stalk, each player trying to cut off the head of the other's plantain- with
his own. There is some little amount of knack required in this game, as a
properly- delivered stroke will often conquer a stronger stalk, just as a smart
blow from a stick will sever a stout branch. In this game the chief point is
to bring down the plantain with a smart whip-like stroke, drawing it towards
you as it descends. The thickest stalk is seldom the best, as it is mostly very
green, well nurtured, and soft. Choose a long thin stalk that has grown in a
dry place, and you will find it so tough, that after it has been fairly broken
across, the fibres will not yield, but become twisted into a sort of rope, and
will stand almost any amount of ill-treatment.
    There are other games at marbles, such as tipshares, bounce, teetotum, &c,
but we do not describe them, because we hold them to be utterly unworthy of
attention. The first of these games consists in throwing a handful of marbles
at random into a hole, and seeing whether the number is odd or even. The
second consists in dropping a bounce on a heap of marbles, and keeping all
that are knocked out of a small ring. The third is played by spinning a tee
totum, and by taking as many marbles as accord with the number which
happens to come uppermost. There is not the least skill in any of these so-
called games, which are, indeed, only an introduction to gambling. So wc
advise our readers to have nothing to do with them.

 158                         INDOOR GAMES.
   We conclude with a few words of practical advice.
   We have always held to the opinion that in no game ought marbles to be
projected in any other way than by fair shooting. Shooting is not only the
most correct, but by far the most certain method of projecting a taw. The
skill that is needed does not take long of acquirement, and when once acquired,
it never forsakes its owner. The knuckle of the forefinger resting on the ground
gives a steadiness to the aim which can never be acquired as long as the hand
is allowed to move in the slightest degree ; and it is really beautiful to see a
well-shot taw describing its arc of a circle, and descending plump upon the
marble at which it is aimed.
   When we began to write this treatise on marbles, we had not touched a taw
for some fourteen or fifteen years ; yet, our right hand had not forgotten her
cunning, and after a few minutes' practice, we were able to clear a ring of its
marbles with as much precision as when we were acknowledged one of the
kin^s of the marble-ground.
   Here are a few hints on taw-shooting. Do not aim directly at the marble,
because you are always apt to use a little too much strength, and then the taw
flics over the marble, and misses it altogether. Aim at the ground about a
quarter of an inch in front of the marble, and then you will seldom miss.
Even if you should strike the ground half an inch short, no harm will be done,
the taw being sure to touch the top of the marble as it leaps from the ground ;
and, if you should shoo* a little too low, your taw will alight plump on the
marble, and drive it to a distance. If you can possibly avoid it, do not let
your taw roll towards the marble which you mean to strike, because any im
pediment or obstacle will be sure to turn it aside.
   If you arc too far off to make tolerably sure of hitting the marble, do not
try to do so, but merely place yourself in a position whence you will have a
chance when your turn for shooting comes round. Moreover, if you let your
taw roll, it may be turned aside and directed towards the taw of an adversary,
who will kill you when his turn comes,"and put you out of the game.
   It is worth every boy's while to practise taw-shooting, if only for five or ten
minutes a day. He will soon gain an amount of precision and confidence
which will thoroughly repay him for the trouble which he has taken. It must
be borne in mind, that the reputation of being a certain shot at marbles is
most useful. Your adversaries will be afraid of you. They will not dare to
take any liberties with the game. They will keep themselves at a respectful
distance from your taw for fear of being killed ; and so you may frighten them
away from the ring, and pick out all the marbles at your pleasure.
   One great advantage of the correct style of shooting is, that your own taw
has a kind of spin imparted to it as it leaves the hand, and therefore it does
not " stop dead " on hitting another marble, but is sure to go off at an angle.
Those who " lob " their taws often get killed by remaining irt the ring when
they have struck a marble in the middle.
   As to the size and material of the taw, wc recommend a moderately-sized
alley. If too large, it is easily hit by the adversary ; if too small, it cannot
strike other marbles with sufficient force to drive them fairly out of the ring.
   The surface of a good alley is exactly the very thing that is required for
shooting. It has a sort of velvety feeling, which affords a capital grasp for the
finger and thumb, and it is sufficiently polished to enable it to be shot without
clinging to the finger or thumb. We had one favourite alley—milk-white, with
 pink veins and a pink circular line—and this we valued beyond price.

                           GAMES WITH TOPS.                                  i59
                            GAMES WITH TOPS.
   Tops have always been favourites with boys, and rightly so, because they
require some skill in their management. There are no games of mere chance
with tops, because it is absolutely necessary to make a top spin, and to do that
requires some little skill.
   Tops may be divided roughly into three kinds, namely, those which are spun
by being thrown from the hand, those which are spun by means of a handle
and a string, and those which are spun by means of a whip. Of these games.
the first require the most practice, the second are the easiest, and the third
afford the most exercise. The common peg-
top, the humming-top, and the whip-top are
examples of these three divisions.
   We will take peg-top first, and begin with
   Peg in the Ring.—This is the queen of
all games with tops, just as is ring-taw with
marbles ; but before we describe it, let us tell
the reader how to spin his top.
   He should have a piece of stoutish whip
cord, with a knot at about an inch from one
end, and a large metal button attached to the
other. Hold the top in the left hand, unravel
the end of the whipcord beyond the knot, and
slightly wet it. Then lay the wetted end along
the top just above the peg, and hold it down
with the thumb. Now take the string in the

 160                           INDOOR GAMES.
 right hand and wind it round the top, beginning at the upper half of the peg,
                        and winding gradually upwards. When you have wound
                        up all the string, put the button between the middle and
                        third fingers, place the thumb under the peg and the fore
                        and middle fingers on the top, and take care to keep the
                        string tight, as otherwise it will become unwound, and all
                      ¦ your labour will be lost.
                           Now, if you merely throw it down, one of two results
                        will happen : either the top will roll away on its side, or it
 will spring back, by the elasticity of the string, and hit you on the head. But
it certainly will not spin. If you want to make it spin, you must hold your
hand high—we always used to hold it above the head and at its full stretch
 —and then bring the arm down with a bold swing from the shoulder. You
 will then find that the top flies off the string with a kind of " swishing " sound,
and comes down on its peg with very great force. A little practice will make
 you perfect in spinning the top, and if you know the length of your string, you
 can make it strike the ground exactly where you please merely by measuring
 with your eye the distance from the point where you stand to the spot on which
 you want the top to strike.
    Peg in the Ring is played as follows :
   A circle about five or six feet in diameter is first drawn. This is very simply
managed by tying a loop at the end of the top-string, putting it round the peg
of a top, and getting some one to hold the top firmly on the ground. You then
roll the other end of the string round a sharp piece of stick, and go round the
top with it, keeping the point of the stick on the ground and the string always
at full stretch. In this way a perfect circle is drawn without any trouble. If
you are playing on boards, use a soft pencil instead of the stick. Then draw
a little ring, only a foot in diameter, in the middle of the large ring, and all is
ready.
   The game begins by the first player throwing his top at the ring and allow
ing it to spin. If, when it falls, it remains within the large ring, it is called
" dead," and the owner is obliged to lay it in the little ring, where any orie may
aim at it with his own top. The same penalty is incurred if the top fails to
spin, and the owner may not have his top again until it has been knocked out
of the ring.
   The great object in this game is to split the top belonging to somebody else.
Any top may be " pegged " at as long as it remains within the large ring, no
matter whether it spins or has fallen down. The object of a good player is,
therefore, to try to break his neighbours' tops and to get his own out of danger
as soon as possible.
    In order to perforin the first feat, it is best to have a top made of very hard
and heavy wood, such as box, ebony, or lignum vitas, and to have the peg made
tolerably sharp. If it be too sharp the top will not spin properly. Then, the
peg should be a long one, because a long-pegged top runs about when spinning
and generally gets out of the ring rapidly, besides offering so shifting a mark
that it is not easy to hit. Moreover, when it falls, it rolls so far and so fast
that, even if it should fall in the ring, it is sure to roll out, unless it should
happen to be arrested by other tops.
   Some very skilful players have a way of throwing the top in such a manner
that, if it should miss the top at which it is aimed, it leaps out of the ring at a
single bound, and no one has a chance of hitting it. This feat is performed

                          GAMES WITH TOPS.                                    161
by drawing the arm smartly towards the body just before the top reaches the
ground. It is not very easy to do, but it is so useful that every one ought to
learn it who wishes to excel at this capital game.
   Generally each player has four or five tops, and pegs them into the ring as
fast as he can wind them up, so that as many as six or seven tops may be seen
spinning at once, besides the dead tops that are lying in the small circle.
   In order to guard our top from being split, we hit upon a device, which was
afterwards taken up rather extensively. Generally the upper part is flat, and
is often ornamented with a seal, a wafer, or some such brilliantly coloured
object. Now, if an enemy's top happens to come on the centre of this flat
spot, the top generally flies off in two pieces, and the owner of the conquering
top takes the peg and keeps it as a trophy.
   Having this in mind, we went to a turner's shop and got him to make a top
according to our ideas. It was a trifle larger than the usual size, was made of
lignum vitse, and the upper part, instead of being cut off flat, was formed into
a conical shape ; so that whenever it was struck by another top, the peg of the
enemy glanced off without doing any damage. At first our companions were
inclined to denounce the top as being unfair; but they soon took a wiser course,
and had tops made for themselves on the same principle.
   The rules of this game are very like those of " Conqueror" at marbles, the
winner being entitled to count as many pegs as the vanquished top had already
conquered in addition to its own, and one more for the split top. The pegs
are always kept as trophies, and some lads used to be very proud of their bags
full of pegs.
   Although, when a top is dead, it must be placed in the inner ring, it can
always be ransomed by another. A top of some kind must be placed in the
ring, and it must be a bond fide top ; but there is no necessity for placing in
the ring the particular top that was dead. The usual plan is to have several
cheap tops at hand, and then, when a peg-top is dead, to place one of the
cheap tops in the ring. The criterion of a fair top is that it can be spun, and
the player who puts a cheap top into the ring may be called upon to spin it
before it is accepted.
   The peculiar mode of spinning which has been already mentioned, and
which causes the top to leap out of the ring, is exceedingly useful for another
purpose. If you have been obliged to put a dead top in the ring, you are, of
course, anxious to get it out again before it has been split by one of the enemy.
The best way of doing this is to aim your own top about half an inch beyond
the dead top, using at the same time the "leaping" throw. If this is done
properly, both tops fly out of the ring like magic, and almost in the same line.
   In some places marbles are combined with tops, and whenever a top falls
dead, a marble is placed within the small ring, and becomes the property of
any one who can strike it with his top and drive it out of the large circle. We
do not recommend this mixture, preferring that tops and marbles should be
kept distinct.
   Chip Stone.—This is one of the names for a game with tops, of which some
players seem to be very fond, though we ourselves could never take much
interest in it. A wooden spoon is needed in this game.
   A large circle is made, or two lines are drawn on the ground some five or
six feet apart. Some smooth stones, about as large as horse-beans and much of
the same shape, are then placed in the middle. The first player then spins
his top in the usual manner, slips the bowl of the spoon under it, and lifts it
                                                                   11

l62                          INDOOR GAMES.
off the ground. He then drops it on one of the stones, and tries to drive it
towards the boundary-line.
   He may pick the top up in the spoon and drop it on the stone as often as
he likes while it continues to spin ; so that if a top be properly spun, it may
be dropped six or seven times on the stone, and drive it fairly across the
boundary. When this is done, he keeps the stone as a trophy of success, or,
in some places, he wins a marble from his antagonist. If four or five are
playing, each has to pay a marble to the fortunate player who succeeds in
"chipping" the pebble over the line.
   Some players are wonderfully dexterous in the management of the top, and
can fling it up in the air when they spin it, and catch it on the palm of the
hand instead of letting it come to the ground. In this case they always hold
the top with the peg upwards, and spin it in the "underhand" position, i.e.,
by throwing the top nearly horizontally and jerking the string backwards at
the same time. The Japanese jugglers can do almost anything with a top, and
can make it run along their arms, over the back, and traverse the body almost
as if it were a living creature.
   Whip-top. —We now come to the whip-top. Every boy knows the shape
                                        of this familiar toy ; but it is not every
                                        boy who knows how to use it properly.
                                        In choosing a top, take care that it is not
                                        too high in proportion to its width, as such
                                        a top is apt to overbalance itself; and, if
                                        it be too short, the whip-lash will not cling
                                        to it properly. There used, once upon a
                                        time, to be a whip-top which had the
                                        upper half twice as wide as the lower, but
                                        we have not seen one of these for many
                                        years. The wood of which they are made
                                        should always be tolerably hard, and, in
                                        order to secure a good, rounded, and
                                        smooth point, we always used to arm the
point with one of those hollow-headed brass nails which are so largely used
in furniture.
   The whip is the next point. You can make a whip out of many substances.
Soft buff leather makes a capital whip ; and we often used to employ a very
simple whip made of three or four leather boot-laces lashed to a handle. But
by far the best whip is that which is made of an eel's skin.
   It is easily made, and is unapproachable for efficacy. Get an eel-skin just
stripped off the fish; have a wooden handle about fourteen inches in length,
and slip the smaller end of the handle into the eel-skin, introducing it at the
opening made by cutting off the fish's head. Then lash it very tightly with
string, and your whip is complete. A good eel-skin whip is wonderfully lasting,
and it will survive even leather whips, if it is properly used. It should not be
allowed to get so dry as to be stiff, and, when in condition, the player may do
wonders with his top.
   The player must remember, by the way, that the illustrations which repre
sent boys playing at whip-top are nearly always wrong. They invariably make
out that the boys are holding their whips at arm's length above their heads;
whereas nothing can be more absurd than such an attitude. The real stroke
of the whip comes more from the wrist than the arm ; and, indeed, when a

                           GAMES       WITH TOPS.                            163
 good player is watched, it will be seen that the upper part of the arm, from
 the shoulder to the elbow, scarcely moves at all.
    In playing the game, tuck the whip under the left arm, and take the top
 between the hands, the fingers pointing downwards ; then place the point on
 the ground and give it a smart twirl from right to left, which will make it spin
 for a second or two. As soon as you have made it spin, snatch the whip from
under the arm, and give it a smart lash at the top, drawing the hand towards
you as you strike. If you hit the top fairly, this stroke will make it spin
 strongly, and you can then do what you like.
    Sometimes boys are fond of fighting their tops. They stand about twenty
yards apart, and lash their tops towards each other, so as to make them come
in contact. Of course, each player tries to knock over the top of his adversary
with his own. If, however, he touch the adversary's top with "his own whip,
he is adjudged to have lost.
   Another plan is to race the tops against each other, trying to drive the top
as far as possible with each stroke. Some good players at this game will lilt
the top fairly off the ground at each stroke and send it flving through the
air for several yards.
    During our boyhood we had an enormous whip-top, hooped with iron to
prevent it from splitting. It required at least two players to keep it up, and
four were often employed on it at once. Setting it up was a difficult business ;
but when it was once fairly at its speed, it would go on spinning for a won
 derful time. The principal difficulty lay in timing the strokes so as to allow
the second, third, and fourth players to take their places.
   Humming-tops.—These arc spun on the same principle as the peg-top,
except in the one case the top is thrown,
and in the other is held by a handle until
the string is drawn away from it. Most
of these tops are hollow, and have a hole
at the side, so that as they spin they pro
duce a deep humming sound, from which
they derive their name.
   Several kinds are known, some of
which are intended to spin for a very long
time. The tops with which the Japanese
do such wonders are made on this prin
ciple, and are heavily loaded with some
heavy metal, in order to give them greater
weight. The astounding Japanese top,
which runs over bridges, climbs stairs,
opens doors for itself, and rings bells, is
made almost entirely of metal.
   Many of these tops have the peg passing loosely through the top, so that
there is no need of a handle. When the top is to be spun, the peg is held in
the left hand while the string is drawn sharply with the right. The body of
the top then revolves on the peg until it is placed on the table, when the two
revolve together. By this plan the top may be picked up by the peg, carried
about the room, put down, or even placed upside down, and will still continue
to spin.
   We have a whole series of these tops, the use of wnich was taught us by
the Japanese professor of the art. One of them can be spun without even a
                                                              11—2

1 64                         INDOOR GAMES.
string, a properly applied turn of the wrist sufficing to make it spin for more
than a minute.
   The so-called French Top is in fact a Japanese top. It consists of a case
within which are a number of shallow, hollow, conical tops. Motion is given
to them all by the same pull of the string, and a skilful player can keep them
going for an astonishing time.
                              PUFF AND DART.
   This is a weapon of warfare—and a terrible one, too—reduced to the condi
tion of a toy.
   Strictly, the game consists in blowing a dart out of a tube like an enlarged
pea-shooter at a target similar in arrangement to that used in archery, but of
course much smaller ; but the tube may also be used and do much execution
with clay pellets instead of the darts. For this purpose the tube is much used
by the youth of Paris and other towns of France, and tubes form a regular
article of sale in the toy-shops, where they may be had of all degrees of excel
lence, from the simple roughly got up metal tube to the highly finished pro
duction—a piece of bamboo with a copper tube running through the centre,
and a screw top and ferule to protect it when not in use, exactly like our walk
ing-stick fishing-rods.
    Our own toy-shops now furnish the article, but, as there is less demand for
it, at a somewhat higher price than it may be procured in Paris.
   The natives of Borneo and of the tropical parts of South America use tubes
and darts as weapons of warfare and the chase ; but the tubes are of much
greater length, ranging up to ten or even twelve feet ; and the darts, quite in
significant in sue, derive their whole efficacy from the terrible poison in which

                            PUFF AND DART.                                  i65
 their points are dipped—a poison so deadly that a mere flesh wound is sufficient
 to seal the doom of man or beast.
   Very efficient darts, for all the purposes of the game, may be made as
follows : Get a few penholder sticks, and cut them into lengths of about two
inches; next take some worsted, and bind it firmly to one end of each stick,
leaving a series of loops projecting beyond : the exact quantity for each dart
must be ascertained by experiment. Now for the spike. Take a common
brad, file up the sharp end into a good point, not too fine ; dip the point into
the grease of a candle, and hold it in
the name till it is nearly red hot, and
then plunge it into cold water: this
will harden it. Now file off the pro
jecting piece of metal at the end, and,
having bored a hole somewhat too
small in the end of your stick, force
the blunt end of the nail into it, and                             ——
then bind it round firmly with waxed
thread. A little sealing-wax varnish
over all will both improve its appearance and add to the strength of the bind
ing. Now trim the worsted off carefully with a pair of scissors, and your dart
is complete; afar better one, too, than those oidinarily sold in the shops.
Such a dart from a three-foot tube will go through an almost incredible num
ber of sheets of paper at ten or twelve paces distance, and will, if carefully
made, fly with wonderful accuracy.
   There is, however, a kind of dart you may buy in the shops, which is far
superior to anything likely to be produced by home work. It consists of a
sharp, bayonet-shaped steel spike, almost two inches in length, fitted into the
smaller end of a funnel-shaped piece of gutta-percha (see figure). The gutta
percha, being thin, readily takes the shape of the bore, and the cavity gives
an extraordinary purchase for the action of the wind.

166                          INDOOR GAMES.
   In holding the tube nothing is gained in steadiness by throwing one hand
out along the tube : both hands should be held close together as in the figure,
and the aim should be quick and decided; an attempt at an exceptionally long
and steady aim is certain to result in an exceptionally bad shot—the end of
the tube is sure to " wabble."
   The aim, it must be remembered, is not taken as with a rifle : it is taken
more by a species of intuition than by actual sighting. No reasoning from
analogy with rifle-shooting, therefore, can hold at all good ; we must go rather
to the bow and arrow for an illustration.
   A little caution may not be out of place with regard to the irregular use of
these tubes : the novice will do well to make himself thoroughly acquainted
with the powers and capacities of his weapon before he begins to take liberties
with it, or he may, without the least intending it, inflict some serious injury,
or do some irreparable mischief, before he is quite aware of what he is about.
                            WATCH-SPRING GUN.
   The manufacture of a watch-spring gun out of a bit of old slate-frame, a
quill, and a piece of damaged mainspring, was, in those old days when boys
were boys and toys were toys, and when a piece of old watch-spring was a
valued and envied possession, a source of intense interest and excitement not
only to the eminent artist himself, whose skill in such productions made him
an object of respectful admiration to his less gifted compeers, but also to a
large circle of personal and private friends, who would gather round and watch
with untiring zeal every detail of its construction, from the first rough-hewing
of the stock to the final finishing-touch which turned it into a complete work
of high art.
   But those old days, whether for good or evil, are past ; now-a-days, despite,
or perhaps in consequence of, the immense increase of the resources at their
command, in India rubber, for example, and other materials, boys seem to
have almost forgotten the art of making all sorts of ingenious contrivances
which the last generation produced in endless variety.
   The decadence of those pocket-knife and slate-frame times is owing, per
haps, more than anything to the more liberal scale on which boys are now
supplied with pocket-money than in the days gone by, and to the consequent
rise of a superior kind of toy-shop, where everything that a boy can possibly
desire, or even think of, is to be bought at no very exorbitant price, and of
such superior style and finish to his own less artistic efforts that he feels it
hardly worth his while to waste time and patience upon turning out some little
toy that he can purchase, of an infinitely superior make and construction,
perhaps for a few pence, at the nearest toy-shop.
   Thus it has fared with watch-spring guns amongst the rest. Such a first-
rate article, all in metal, is turned out by the shops at such an extraordinary
cheap rate that but little surprise need be felt at the consequent depression of
the home manufacture.
   If, however, any of our young readers wish to construct a watch-spring gun
for himself, we will here give him a few instructions to assist him in so laudable
an enterprise. For tools and material he will want a pocket-knife, a piece of
slate-frame or similar piece of wood, a brad-awl, a file, a supply of waxed string,
or, better still, thin copper wire, and last, not least, the indispensable piece of
watch-spring. To these may be added, if you wish to be very elaborate, a

                              RING THE BULL.                                     167
quill, or, which is far better, one of those iron tubes used as slate pencil-holders,
to be used as the barrel of the pun ; but this is unimportant.
   With your pocket-knife work the piece of wood for your stock into the
shape you may see in the stock of a regular cross-bow: a watch-spring gun is, in
fact, only a small cross-bow with a butt-end that is like a gun, and a groove
where the barrel would be, taking care to leave sufficient thickness of wood at
the muzzle end to admit the watch-spring, which serves as your bow. To
::void splitting the wood, it is better to make this hole while the stock is yet in
 the rough and before it has been finally thinned down. The watch-spring, duly
filed and inserted in the hole, for the correct position of which you mus.t
again refer to the cross-bow, should be firmly wedged into its place, and then
strongly bound with string or wire, as the case may be, of course taking care
not to pass the string or wire over the groove in which the shot is to move.
   The spring should be inserted with the concave side towards the butt, and
will be immensely strengthened by a second piece of not much more than half
its length inserted the reverse way, and thus pressing it back ; this adds very
much to the quickness of the recoil in the spring, and is stronglv to be
recommended.
   The rest of the construction is exactly the same as in the cross-bow, and
therefore needs no further detailed description. The only difficulty will be
found with the trigger. If a regular trigger prove too difficult, a movable
piece of wood with a flat head will be a very efficient substitute, and will
answer all purposes (but appearances) almost equally well.
   A gun with a six-inch spring, backed by a second, as described above, and
loaded with No. 1 shot, will make very good practice at fifteen or even twenty
yards.
                                RING THE BULL.
   This amusing game requires more care and delicacy of touch than at first
seems to be the case.
   The apparatus of the game is very simple, consisting of a bull's head painted
on a board, with a hook in its nose and another on each horn. In the top of
the board is fixed a horizontal rod, to the end of which is suspended a ring by
a piece of string. The players stand in succession in front of the bull, take
the ring, and try to fling it so that it shall be caught on the hook in the bull's
nose. Each player has nine throws, and he who succeeds the greatest number
of times wins the game.

i68                          INDOOR GAMES.
   It is tolerably easy to throw the ring on the hook, but not easy to throw it
so that it shall stay there, and the " knack " of the game consists in throwing
it with only just sufficient force to reach the ring.
   In another modification of the game the string is lengthened to twelve or
fifteen feet, and has a slip-noose at the end. The other end of the string is
not fastened to the end of the horizontal rod, but held in the left hand, while
with the right the player tries to throw the loop over the two hooks in the
bull's horns. If he can catch them both he scores two, and if he catch only
one of them, he scores one. Each player has six throws
                                 JACK'S ALIVE.
    In this very amusing game little is required except the Jack, i.e., the figure
 of a sailor cast in metal, so as to be very heavy, a number of coloured balls,
 and three drawing-pins.
    Before commencing the game the three drawing-pins are stuck into the floor
 in a line, the Jack being placed on the central pin, which is generally some
 five paces from each of the others. The whole of the space behind the line
 of the three pins is called " Jack's ground." Sometimes the game is played
 on a lawn, and in this case three wooden pegs are substituted for the drawing-
 pins. The following are the rules, as entered at Stationer's Hall, by Messrs.
 Jaqucs and Son :
    Laws and Instructions.—The game of Jack's Alive can be played by-
 eight or a lesser number of players : each player to take a ball of distinctive
 colour, and retain it during the game ; Jack to be placed upon his stand ten or
 twelve yards from the throwing-point.
    These points settled, each player stations nimself at the starting-peg and
 pitches his ball towards Jack. The unlucky player whose ball shall be de
 cided to be the greatest distance from Jack, becomes ''Jack's master." The
 game now begins. Jack's master has the active duty to perform of keeping
 Jack on his stand whilst the other players amuse themselves by continually
  knocking Jack down by pitching their balls (after the manner of quoits) at him

                                CANNONADE.                                   169
from the starting-point. Every time Jack is knocked off his stand, that player
who has so knocked him off scores one.
   When a player has delivered his ball he has then to fetch it back to the
starting-point: in so doing he must pass within either of the pegs defining
Jack's ground.
   If Jack's master capture any player in returning to the starting-point whilst
Jack is alive or on his stand, that player becomes Jack's master. Jack is alive
when on his stand ; but if knocked off he is dead, and, when dead, any player
can return with his ball to the starting-point with safety.
   In returning to the starting-point each player must take up his ball fairly
with his hand or hands : if he once touch it, his ball is alive or in play, and
Jack's master can capture the player.
   The game may be made twenty-five, fifty, or any number up. If a sweep
stake be played for, the player who first scores the number agreed upon as
game claims the stake. If all players should have delivered their balls, so
that no player remains within the starting-point, Jack's master may in that
case—Jack being alive—regain the starting-point if he can, and if he does so
before any other player he ceases to be Jack's master. A new master is de
termined as at first.
   Any player going outside the pegs defining Jack's ground in returning to
the starting-point is guilty of foul play.
   Any attempt 'to remove the balls by kicking, or other means than the one
above expressed, is foul.
   Any player detected at foul play must at once become Jack's master ; and
in all cases of dispute the matter must be instantly decided " fair" or "foul"
by a show of hands of all the players.
   When Jack is replaced upon his stand, the next player, before delivering his
ball, must call out " Play ! "
   Modifications of these rules can be arranged and agreed to, but they should
be clearly understood at the commencement of the game. This exciting pas
time can be played almost anywhere if there be space enough. It requires
no previous tuition, and it invariably provokes laughter and good spirits : the
exercise, though not fatiguing, is sufficient to circulate the blood and produce
good health.
                                 CANNONADE.
   This game depends mostly on chance, but there is still some skill required
in the player.
   The castles being placed in their respective positions, and the balls placed
in the centre of the board—whither they converge on account of the sloping
surface—the teetotum is wound and spun just like a humming-top, and allowed
to fall into the board.
   As soon as it does so, it flies about as if it were alive, dashing from one
part of the board to another, and driving the balls about as if fired from
 cannons. Some of them are sure to strike the castles and knock them down,
and for each fallen castle the player scores one point.
   The great object in the game is to wind up the teetotum properly, and to
give it as much spin as possible, as the destruction of the castles depends
greatly on the length of time during which it spins. Owing to the slope of
the board, the teetotum, as well as the balls, has a tendency to seek the centre,
so that the last lew turns of the teetotum are often as useful as the first.

170                          INDOOR GAMES.
   While it is in full spin the balls and teetotum dash about in the most ludi
crous manner, looking as if every castle must be down in an moment. The
wires, however, protect the castles unless they are struck in front, and the
consequence is, that two or three generally hold out for a considerable time.
Sometimes they are all knocked down except one, which seems to bear a
charmed life in spite of all the balls that are dashing about the board. Gradu
ally the teetotum becomes slower and slower in its movements—it staggers—
recovers itself—staggers again—rolls over—and, just as it gives its last turn,
off flies a single ball, and knocks down the remaining castle.
   There are various modes of playing this exciting game.
   By one method each player takes a castle, and stakes on it as many counters
as he chooses to venture upon it, while one takes the teetotum and is called
the Gunner.
                «S
   When a castle is knocked down the owner waits until the teetotum has
fallen, and then pays to the gunner the number of counters which he staked,
multiplied by the number on the uppermost side of the teetotum. Thus,
if the owner of a fallen castle had originally staked five counters, and the
uppermost figure of the teetotum happened to be 5, the owner of the castle
will have to pay twenty-five counters to the gunner.
   Whenever a castle is left standing the gunner has to pay double its stake to
the owner.
   Should, perchance, the gunner knock down all the castles, he receives double
the stakes from each player ; so that if, as before, the player had staked five,
and the teetotum falls with its number 5 uppermost after knocking down all
the castles, the player will have to pay to the gunner fifty counters instead of
twenty-five.
   Each player becomes gunner in succession.
   By another mode of play, as soon as the teetotum has ceased to spin the
owner of each fallen castle pays to the gunner a number of counters equal to
 the uppermost number of the teetotum, while the gunner has to pay six counters
to the owner of every castle which is left standing.
   The value of counters can be settled among the players. The usual plan is

                      NA VETTE—COCKAMAROO.                                   171
to arrange that all white counters rank as one, all red counters as six, and all
blue counters as twelve. This, however, is left entirely to the discretion of the
players. Should there be fewer players than castles, the best plan is that each
player in succession should take two or more castles.
                                  NAVETTE.
   This game is identical in principle with the bridge-board, figured on p. 157.
Instead of marbles, the players use circular discs of wood, sometimes painted
oj different colours, and sometimes all coloured alike. The colour, however,
natters but little.
   The bridge has arches large enough to allow the discs to pass easily, and
tSe best bridges have the arches leading into boxes, so that there can be no
<ioubt respecting the arch through which the disc has passed. The usual
mode of playing this game is, that each player in turn takes the disc, and tries
to bowl from a stated distance through the numbered arches. When he has
delivered all his bowls, the numbers are added together, and he who has the
 highest score wins.
   Sometimes it is played by fixing a definite number—say 100—as the winning
number, and he who first reaches it wins the game.
                               COCKAMAROO.
   This game is in many places a very popular one, as it combines a certain
amount of skill with a good deal of chance. It is played with a cue or mace,
and two balls of different colours. Place the red ball on the cup marked No.
 10; the white ball to be thrown up on either side of the board by means of

172                         INDOOR GAMES.
the cue. Endeavour to strike the red ball, which counts ten : if you succeed
in removing it, it multiplies ten times wherever it may go.
   If the white ball be struck too hard, and rolls down the opposite side, the
adversary counts ten ; and if not sufficiently hard to prevent its returning, the
adversary will also count ten : if it pass under the bell so as to ring it, into
whatever number it may go, it will count double. If it pass into any hole
without either of the above, it will only count the number of the cup or figure.
If the white ball should lodge against any wire or bridge in its passage down
the board, the adversary counts five.
   The game may be 300 or coo up, according to the discretion of the players.
                           GERMAN BILLIARDS.
   The construction of the board for German Billiards is similar in principle to
that which is used for cockamaroo, but the game is played in a different
manner. In the first place, a greater number of balls are used, and in the
second, they are struck with a spring, and not with a cue. The rules are as
follow :
   The game is played with seven balls, thus : Place one of the balls on the
spot at the top of the board, the remaining six balls to be played singly by the
spring at the side of the board. Endeavour to strike the ball at the top, which
counts double wherever it may go. Any ball returning into the channel at
the side is lost. When the balls are played out, the numbers to be counted :
whoever gets the highest number wins the game.
    Any number of persons may play, or any number may be played for—300
or 500—as agreed upon.
                              GERMAN BALLS.
    In this, as in many other games, the principal charm lies in the mixture of
 skill and chance—the former being employed in order to obtain the latter. A
very lucky player may, perhaps, win against a more skilful but less patient one,
but a certain amount of skill is necessary in order to score at all.
    The game is a very simple one. and is in reality little more than an extension
 of the die-shot at marbles.
    The die is placed on the ground, with the figure 8 downwards, and the
 players each take a ball and bowl at it in succession. If they miss it they
 score nothing (in some places paying a stake to a pool), and if they hit it they
 score the number on the side which comes uppermost.
    By some rules each player puts a stake into a pool, and he who attains the

                        SKITTLE CANNONADE.                                  173
highest number in a certain number of throws wins the pool. If, however,
any one succeed in turning up the number 8, he takes the pool at once, and the
game begins afresh.
   This game may be played equally in or out of doors
                         SKITTLE CANNONADE.
   This game is played much after the same principle as the cannonade game
already described. No balls, however, arc used, the skittles being in them
selves sufficiently heavy to cause the top to fly about in a most amusing
manner as soon as it touches them.
   Nine skittles are used, each of
them being placed on a small circle
inscribed with a number. In playing
the game, the skittles are first set up
in their places, and the top is care
fully wound up. The top is then
placed inside the little gallery that
projects from the board, and the
string drawn through the groove.
The top is held in its place by the
left hand, while the handle of the
string is grasped in the right. The
player then draws the string smartly
towards him, so as to cause the top
to spin, and then leaves it to its de
vices.
   Even were the board a circular one, the course of the top would be erratic
enough as it bounces from one skittle to another, pushing them down, and
flying off them as they roll over the board ; but, in order to increase this
eccentricity of movement, three curved additions are made to the board, so that
there are eight angles, inclusive of those formed by the ends of the gallery.
   Each player spins the top in succession, and scores according to the numbers
which are laid bare by the skittles being knocked off them. In this game, as
in cannonade, the great point is to give the top a smart jerk when spinning it,
so as to make it retain its power of movement as long as possible. Very often
the last roll of the top as it falls knocks down a skittle that has escaped the
top while it was flying and spinning about the table.

  :74                        INDOOR GAMES.
                                 ROYAL STAR.
    This game is useful in testing accuracy of eye and aim, and is a decided
 improvement on Aunt Sally.
    The machinery of the game consists of a large wooden star with eight long
 rays, each painted of a different colour. The rays arc not fixtures, but their
 bases are merely slipped into grooves in the body of the star, so that they can
 be easily knocked out.
    There are also eight wooden balls coloured in accordance with the rays of
 the star. In order to play the game, each player takes the balls, and, standing
 at a specified distance, throws them at the star, so as to knock out the rays.
 If he succeed in striking out a ray of the same colour as the ball, he scores
 two points but if the ray and ball are of different colours, he scores one point.
 If he should miss the star altogether, three points are deducted from his score.
   When he has thrown the eight balls, the rays are replaced and the next
player takes the balls.
    Sometimes each player pays a counter into a pool, and instead of deducting
three points from his score when he misses the star, he pays three counters
into the pool. He who has scored highest takes the pool.
   When this game is played a curtain should be arranged behind the star to
stop the balls.
                             REVOLVING RING.
   This game is played something like lawn billiards, except that there are six
revolving rings instead of one, and that the ball is thrown and not pushed with
a cue. As in the previous game, the rings and balls are painted of corre
sponding colours.
   The object of the game is to throw the six balls through the rings, each
successful throw counting as three; but when a ball passes through a ring of
its own colour the player scores six.
   This game is best played by having a pool, as mentioned in the royal star.
                               CUP AND BALL,
   In this game there is no infusion of chance, the whole interest of the game
lying in the dexterity of the player.
   The cup is a piece of wood or ivory, with a point at one end and a cup—the
shallower and smaller the better—at the other. The ball is solid, with the
exception of a hole, which ought to be just large enough to receive the point,
and no larger. The ball is connected with the stem of the cup by means of
a string, which, if possible, should be of soft silk, so as to avoid " kinking,"
which is obstructive to all play.
   The learner should begin with catching the ball in the cup. He should
take the stem by the middle, taking care to hold it as lightly as possible between
the ends of the fingers and thumb, and not to grasp it firmly. Many good
players pass the string over the forefinger ; but we believe, after long experi-

                            THE FLYING CONE.                                    175
cnce, that the ball can be thrown more accurately if the string hang directly
from the stem. The ball should be thrown upwards by a slight jerk of the
wrist, not of the whole arm ; and, if properly done, it falls of its own accord
into the cup. Just as the ball touches the cup tiic
right hand should be allowed to drop a little,
otherwise the ball, though it may fall into the
cup, will roll out again.
   When the player can make sure of catching the
ball in this manner, he should hold the stem by
the very point between the forefinger and thumb,
and practise catching the ball as before. Me will
find this rather difficult, as the cup is apt to yield
to one side or the other, and to let the ball roll
out. In order to avoid this, the cup should be
rather balanced than held, so that it is perfectly
upright when the ball comes into it.
   The next feature is to sioing the ball into the
cup instead of throwing it; and the most difficult
feat that can be accomplished with the cup is to
jerk the ball into the air as usual, and then ra
pidly pass the cup under the left wrist, so that               Oft
when the ball settles in the cup the wrist is en-              ^^
circled by the string. A good player ought to
be able to catch the ball in the cup with his eyes shut.
   Now we come to catching the ball on the point, which is a very difficult
matter, and yet, difficult as it may seem, a moderate player ought to succeed
ten times in twelve. We have often caught it on the point thirty times in
succession.
   In order to do this properly, hold the stem as represented in the illustration,
and with the fingers of the right hand give the ball a smart spin. Let it spin
as far as it can in one direction, and allow it to spin back again for ten or
twelve times, watch that it is quite steady, and then throw it up as before.
Turn the point upwards as if you were aiming at the spot where the string
enters the ball, and just as the ball touches the point let your hand sink slightly.
   If this be done properly the ball settles itself on the point almost mechani
cally, and the proof of a really good catch is that the ball revolves several
times after it has been caught.
   This game is invaluable for giving lightness of touch, dexterity of hand,
and quickness of eye.
                             THE FLYING CONE.
   This singularly pretty toy is managed on precisely similar principles as the
last, namely, the revolution of a piece of wood or ivory round its axis.
   In shape it resembles two cones united at their points, and for convenience
sake it is usually made hollow, with a hole at one side so as to produce a
humming sound when spun rapidly.
   The mode of playing this toy is as follows : Take two slender sticks—those
used for " Les Graces" will answer the purpose admirably—and tic a string
about a yard in length to their tips. Lay the cone on a table or on the floor, take
one of the sticks in each hand, and slip the string under the middle of the
cone, taking care that the cone is near the right-hand stick. Now lift up the

176                           INDOOR GAMES.
string with a steady fling of the right hand, so as to make the string commu
nicate a revolving motion to the cone. Continue the process by a sort of
whipping movement, so that the cone is spun horizontally, just as a whip-top
is spun vertically ; and as soon as it begins to hum it may be considered as
fairly settled to its work.
   When a good player has made the cone hum, he takes all kinds of liberties
with it: sometimes he flings it high in the air, and catches it on the string,
which he stretches tight, and on which he makes the cone leap and spring
like a rope-dancer ; sometimes he throws it on one of the sticks, and makes it
roll upwards from the point of the stick to the arm ; sometimes he whirls the
sticks, string, and cone round his body, the cone continuing to spin, and retain
ing its place as if endued with life.
   We very strongly recommend this toy, as it gives plenty of exercise, and
combines the neatness of hand and precision of eye required for cup and ball
with an amount of continuous muscular exertion which cannot be obtained by
the cup and ball alone.
                               THE BANDILORE.
                        This toy, simple as it looks, and easy as it is when pro
                      perly managed, requires some little skill to make it play-
                      properly.
                         It consists of two discs united in the centre, and having
                      a string wound in the groove formed by their junction. In
                      order to play the bandilore properly, wind up the string
                      until the groove is nearly filled with it, and then let the
                      bandilore drop, as shown in the illustration, so that the
                      string is unwound, and makes the bandilore revolve ra
                      pidly. Just before it reaches the end of the string throw
                      the hand gently but firmly upwards, so that the revolution
                      of the bandilore may wind up the string again, but in a
            i         reverse direction. It can thus be kept flying up and down
                      for any length of time. A skilful player can mark the
                      string at different intervals, and cause the bandilore to
                      wind itself up to any mark that may be fixed upon.
                         About the beginning of the present century the bandi
                      lore became suddenly a fashionable toy under the name of
 Quiz, and scarcely any person of fashion was without one of these toys.

                    WATER-CUTTER— CUPOLETTE.                                     177
                           THE WATER-CUTTER.
  This very simple toy is made on the same principles as those which have
preceded it, and can be easily made by any boy.
  Get a circular piece of tin, three inches or more in diameter, and cut it
round the edges in the form of a star. Bore two holes through it about an
inch and a half apart ; pass the two ends of a string through the holes ; tie
them, and the toy is complete.
   Hold an end of the doubled string in each hand, as seen in the illustration,
and spin the tin star, or " cutter," as we shall call it, until the string is twisted
as far as it will bear. Now separate the hands, and the cutter will revolve
rapidly, and, when the hands are at fheir full extent, will come to rest as shown
in the illustration.
   But if, instead of allowing the hands to reach their fullest extent and to re
main there, they are brought gradually together again, the cutter will revolve in
the opposite direction and wind itself up again. Thus it may be made to wind
and unwind itself as long as the player likes, just as is done with the bandilore.
   This toy is called the water-cutter because, if spun over a basin of water,
and allowed to dip as it spins, it cuts through the water and sends a shower
of spray from it over the operator when it spins in one direction, and over the
spectators when it spins in the other.
                                 CUPOLETTE.
   This game doesnot require quite so much skill as some of those which have
been mentioned, but is nevertheless amusing.
   It consists of a board with a number of cups, a ball for each cup, and a
movable arm from which a heavy ball is suspended by a string. The cups
are numbered.
   The players begin by placing the balls in the cups, and the first player then
turns the arm in any position which he thinks best, draws the suspended ball
out to the full length of the string, and allows it to swing back again, so as to
strike the balls out of the cups.
   For each ball knocked out of a cup he scores one point. Each cup is num
bered, and if a player can strike a ball out of one cup into another, he scores
as many points as are indicated by the number in the cup. A ball struck off
the board is lost, and scores nothing.
   The second player replaces the balls in the cups, and commences in the
same way.
   Each player has four strokes. Threescore and one is a medium game ;
fivescore and one a long game.
                                                                       12

 I7«                         INDOOR GAMES.
                            LAWN CUPOLETTE.
   This game is played by means of seven pins, made so that they may either
be driven into the ground or fixed on a board. Each pin is numbered, from
one to seven. There is a slight cup at the top of the pins.
   To play the game, six of the pins are fixed in a circle, with the seventh in
the middle; and the players, standing at a given distance, take the wooden
quoits, with which they try to knock the balls out of the cups. Before play
ing, they must name the pin at which they aim, and if they strike off the ball
belonging to any other pin, the score goes to the adversary. If, however, he
knocks off the ball at which he aims, and by the same throw strikes off one
or more besides, he may score them all.
   In another version of the game, if the player can strike off the seven balls
and have one or more quoits to spare, he may try to throw the quoits so as to
fall upon the pins, and for every case in which he succeeds, he adds the num
ber of the pin to his score.
                        PARLOUR RINGOLETTE.
   This is entirely a game of skill.
   As may be seen from the illustration, it is played with pegs which can be
fastened firmly into a board, and with a corresponding number of wooden
rings or quoits. When the pegs are set in their places, the first player takes
the quoits, and, standing at a specified distance, endeavours to throw the rings
over the pegs. For every ring that fairly encircles a peg the thrower scores

                                SCHIMMEL.
 the number which is attached to the peg ; but should more than one ring fall
 on the same peg, the score goes to the opponent.
    In this, as in all games where a ring has to be thrown, the ring should be
 held just like a quoit (see p. 57), so that a spin may be communicated to it,
 and make it fly steadily to its mark.
                                      RULES.
    1. The game of ringole'tte is adapted for two or more players.
    2. The first player being decided upon, he places the board in the centre
       of the table, and standing about three feet or more from the board, com
       mences his play.
    3. Each player takes the eight rings, and plays by pitching the rings on the
       pegs.
    4. Each ring that is fairly on the pegs counts according to the number in
       dicated on the board.
    5. Should a player place more than one ring on each peg, it scores to the
       opposition.
    6. Threescore and one is a medium game ; fivescore and one a long game.
    These rules may be modified by agreement among the players, but not
 otherwise.
                                  SCHIMMEL.
    This is an amusing game and full of interest, though it is merely a matter
 of chance. The rules, as furnished to us by Mr. Cremer, Jun., are as follow:
   Rules. — Any number of persons may play.             Begin by throwing the
numbered squares: whoever throws the highest number takes the office of
Cashier.
   The cashier distributes an equal number of counters to each player ; he then
takes the hammer in his hand, and having called silence, puts up for sale the
five cards separately, and disposes of them to the highest bidder : the produce
is to be put into the pool, to which each player must pay four counters.
   The cashier has the privilege of first throw, and also of choosing who shall
be the second, third, and fourth players, always allowing the ladies to play
before the gentlemen.
   When all blanks are thrown, each player pays one to the holder of the
white horss.
                                                               1 2—2

180                         INDOOR GAMES.
   If with the blanks the bell or hammer, or both, are thrown, the possessor
of such cards pays one to the holder of the white horse.
   When numbers are thrown with the bell or hammer, the cashier is to pay
from the pool the amount of such numbers to the holder of the card.
   When numbers and blanks are thrown, the cashier pays the amount of such
numbers to the player from the pool.
   When the pool is nearly empty, there arises an advantage to the inn; for it
the amount of the numbers thrown exceeds what is in the pool, the player pays
the overplus to the owner of the inn.
   If all blanks are thrown after the inn begins to receive, the player pays no
thing, but the owner of the white horse pays one to the inn ; and should the
bell or hammer be thrown with blanks, the holder of such card pays one to
the inn ; and if numbers accompany the bell or hammer, the owner of such
card must pay to the inn the number thrown above those remaining in the
pool.
   The game is won by one of the players throwing exactly the same number
as what is remaining in the pool, who takes the contents thereof, and is cashier
for the next game.
                             DUTCH RACKETS.
   This toy exercises both eye and hand. It consists of a top and a racket,
with one face plain and the other furnished with several little numbered cups.
There is also a cup at the end of the racket. To play this game, wind up the
top exactly like a humming-top, place it against the upright peg, as shown in
the illustration, and draw the string smartly, so as to make the top spin.
 Change the racket quickly from the left to the right hand, throw the top in
 the air, and reverse the racket so as to catch it on the other side.
    Now throw the top from one cup into the other as fast as possible, and add
 together, as you do so, the numbers of the cups into which the top is received.
 He who can count the highest number before the top falls, wins the game.
    When the players are proficient in this mode of playing, which is really very
 easy, they ought to complicate it by catching the top in the cup on the end
 of the racket between each throw into the numbered cups. Should the top
 fall to the ground, the player gives up the racket.
                                    SUCKER.
    The sucker is rather a scientific toy than such a plaything as English boys
 love. For an hour or two, or in extreme cases for a day or two, it may afford
 some pleasure; but when its possessor has lifted with it everything there is to

                                      SQ UAILS.                                   iS.
lift, and fitted it on to every practicable place, his interest in it is apt to come
suddenly to an end.
    A sucker, however, is very easily made, and even though its interest lasts
only for an hour or two, it is quite worth the small amount of trouble that
must be expended in its construction.
    Get a piece of stout leather, cut it into as perfect a circle as you can achieve,
bore a hole in the centre, and through this pass a
piece of stout string with a large knot, or, better still,
a small button of leather, at one extremity, to prevent
it passing through the hole ; steep the whole concern
thoroughly in water, and your sucker is ready for use.
    Apply your sucker while still wet to any stone or
brick you may find with a tolerably smooth surface,
press it down firmly with your foot so as to exclude
all the air between the leather and the stone ; then,
supposing your sucker to be about three inches in
diameter, and well made, the stone must be heavy
 indeed that will defy its powers.
    The scientific explanation of th.s would take too
 long: suffice it to say that the lifting, or rather ad
 hesive power, of the sucker is due to the pressure
 of the atmosphere, which presses it and the stone
 together with a force of about fourteen pounds weight
 for every square inch of its surface.
                                       SQUAILS.
    This game is a kind of table bowls, or, perhaps, rather a cross between
 bowls and curling.
     It is like the latter in that the squails are discs instead of balls, and are slid
 along a smooth surface instead of rolled along over turf; in all other respects
 the game is exactly like bowls.
     It is by no means a bad game, and promised to achieve no little popularity :
 but the Fates willed it otherwise.
     For about one season it seemed as though, like croquet, it would take the
 world by storm ; but in some way or other it soon lost its hold upon society,
 and even its most enthusiastic votaries grew cooler and cooler in their attach
 ment, until now it is only ranked amongst the rank and file of table games,
 instead of holding, as it once promised to do, a leading place amongst them.
     This is owing chiefly, in our belief, not to any inherent defects in the game
 itself, but—for, as we have before said, it is a good game, a very good game—
 to a mistaken attempt to make the game amusing by a forced jocularity of
 technical phrases. The terms " process," " swoggle," " ex-squeezle," and the
 like, are not very funny in themselves and add but little to the amusement to
 be derived from the game ; but they give it an appearance of being a mere
  childish pastime, instead of, as it in reality is, a game of real skill, and thus
  keep off many who would otherwise have taken it up and made a thoroughly
  good game of it.
     We are afraid the only chance now of making it a success is to change its
 name and bring it out again with some slight alterations and a perfectly new
 and simple set of technical terms.

 I 82                          INDOOR GAMES.
    We have such a good opinion of the game that we would gladly devote
some time to it, did the other demands upon our space permit. We must content
ourselves with a few short directions.
   The squails are discs of wood about the size of a crown piece, and marked
or numbered in pairs like bowls.
   The players, who should be at least four or six, and may be eight or ten, in
number, are provided each with a pair and sit round a table—a round one with
straight-cut edges is the best; the "process," which is a stumpy cylinder of
white metal and answers to the "Jack," is placed in the centre, and each
player plays one squail up for first turn ; the squail nearest the process leads
off.
   The players are divided into two sides, and sit one of each side alternately,
and the turn goes round from right to left.
    The squails are played by placing them so that they project slightly over
the edge of the table, and then striking them with the palm of the hand. The
player may play with cither hand, and so long as he remains fairly seated may
reach along the edge of the table on either side to the full extent of his arms.
    The game is played exactly as in bowls, the same rules holding good
throughout.
   There is generally a penalty of two points to the opponents for knocking
the process off the table, or, what counts as-such, within three inches of the edge;
and a squail that, after being played, goes off the table, or within three inches
of the edge, is dead for that round.
   We can confidently recommend this game to our young readers as one that
will afford them a very pleasant indoor amusement, and one, too, that will, by
its constant variety, retain its freshness for months.
                                   BAGATELLE.
    Like billiards, Bagatelle is played with a cue and ivory' balls, but there are
 nine balls instead of three, and instead of pockets there are small cups sunk
in the board.
    The game is a very simple one, and consists in playing as many of the balls
as possible into the cups. When the board is levelled, which may easily be
done by pushing two or three small wedges under it, the first player takes the
black ball and places it on the ivory spot just in front of the cups. He then
 takes one of the other balls, places it either on or anywhere behind the ivory
 spot at the end of the board, and with the cue aims it so as to strike the black
 ball.

                                   SPILLIKINS.                                     183
     Should he miss, the white ball is called " dead," and is removed from the
 board. Should he strike the black ball, he plays all the other seven in succes
 sion, trying to get them into the cups ; and when he has played all the balls
 he counts up the number of points indicated by figures painted in the bottom
 of each cup, and adds them to his score.
    The great point of this game is to get the black ball into the central cup,
 because it counts double the number painted on the cup, so that if it goes into
 8 it scores sixteen, and if it goes into 5 it scores ten ; whereas if, as is often the
 case, it drops into r, it only scores two, and hinders play with the other balls
 besides.
    The numbers 8 and 7 are best got by playing the ball against the side of
 the board just opposite the 4 and 6 cups, so that it comes off at an angle and
 falls into the cup. It must be played with only just strength enough to reach
 the cup. or it will roll out again. The best way to get the black ball into the
 9 is to strike it with one of the other balls against the top of the board, so as
 to make it recoil either between the 5 and 3 or the 5 and 2, and come some
 where between the 4 and 9 or the 6 and 9, when a very gentle touch will drop
 it into the desired cup.
     It is hardly possible to play too gently at this game. In the first place, if
a ball be played so hard that it comes back beyond the middle of the board,
 it is called dead, and is taken off the board. The middle is indicated in those
 boards which fold up by the two hinges, and in those that stand on legs by
 a spot on each side, and a line of fine stitches on the cloth.
    Moreover, with hard play, the balls may get into the cups, but will not stay
 in them.
    There is only one case where hard play can do good. Sometimes the balls
 are very obstinate, and utterly refuse to go into the cups. They roll round
 them, they stop short on the edges, they roll in and out again, and when the
 last ball has to be played there is a whole assemblage of balls gathered to
gether at the top of the board. The only chance then is to drive the last
 ball among them, so as to cause a general scattering, and take your chance
of some of them falling into the cups. If you played the last ball gently
ever so well, you would at best get the 8 or 7; but by scattering them you have
a good chance of getting four or five of them into the cups.
    Never lose temper at bagatelle. There is a vast amount of luck as well as
of play, and it is very mortifying to a good player to score only six or eight
each turn, while his antagonist, who can scarcely play a stroke, scores his
thirty or even forty. But in the long run luck is tolerably sure to equalize it
self, and then the superior skill begins to tell, so that towards the end of the
game the score of the better player creeps quietly on, while that of his oppo
nent decreases in proportion.
                                   SPILLIKINS.
    This is a game of pure manual dexterity, and is rare practice for cultivating
steadiness of hand and delicacy of touch.
    Its worst fault is that in the very nature of the game a constant series of
dead-locks are inevitable, only to be overcome by the self-sacrifice of one or
other of the players.
    This is a great drawback to its popularity ; it is, we are afraid, however,
inherent in its very constitution, and therefore beyond the power of reform.
    The spillikins, or "jack-straws " as they are made familiarly and vulgarly

 184                EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
 called, are a number of thin narrow slips of wood, bone, or ivory, each more
or less notched, s:metimes cut into fantastic shapes, and numbered.
                                                 These being held together in a
                                              bundle, are allowed to fall on the
                                              table, and the players, two or more
                                              in number, each in turn pull them
                                              out one by one with a small hook.
                                              As long as a player can go on ab
                                              stracting from the heap, without in
                                              any way shaking or disturbing more
                                              than one spillikin at the time, his
                                              turn continues, and all he thus se
                                              cures he keeps; at the least shake
                                              his turn ceases, and the next player
                                              goes on.
                                                 When all the spillikins have been
                                              thus abstracted, each player counts
                                              his heap, each spillikin being valued
at the number inscribed on it, and he who has most wins.
                       (gbming parlour (Sames.
                       THE OLD FAMILY COACH.
   This is a very good old game, but it depends entirely for its spirit upon the
inventive' faculties of the person who tells the story upon which the game
hinges.
   The players sit in a circle, and all but the story-teller take names, each of
some part of the coach or its equipment ; door, step, boot, wheels, coachman,
horses, traces, &c
   The story-teller—when all are ready and know their respective names—be
gins a long tale about the adventures of this old coach, bringing it to all sorts
of grief, and making the story as humorous as possible. The story ought to
be told fluently, but not too fast to be readily followed by the audience. Every
time any part of the coach is mentioned, the player who has assumed its name
must rise from his seat and sit down again, under penalty of a forfeit ; and
every time the old coach is mentioned the whole party, with the exception of
the story-teller, must do likewise.
   The game may be played with a railroad instead of a coach if it be
preferred.                                                                         •
                        TWIRL THE TRENCHER.
   This is a game for almost any number of players —the more, within reason
able limits, the better. The players seat themselves in a great circle in the
middle of the room, each assumes the name of some town or beast, or they
are numbered one, two, three, and so on. One of the party now twirls or

                      PUSS IN THE CORNER.                                       185
                         fed           •1.       ' ' 1 *
                                                       1
                                                                  j ,;,-. 1|l .  "1
                                               1         f»*T*l
                                  .^L:W. On
                      m®
                      m
            SRsp^^LV         V*?-
                                  t^
          " ' m^.
spins a wooden trencher upon its edge, and leaves it spinning, calling the name
or number of one of the circle, who, under penalty of a forfeit, must spring up
and prevent the trencher from falling, twirling it in turn, and calling another
name or number.
   This is a very good game for forfeits, as the players are apt to forget their
names till too late. A change of names should be made every dozen twirls or
so, as from mere practice the players get too familiar with them, and so half
the fun is lost.
                        PUSS IN THE CORNER.
   A very good game for a small number of players. All the players but one,
who is called " Puss," take their places, each in one corner of the room, while
the puss stands in the middle.
   The fun consists in the endeavours of the several players to exchange cor
ners without letting puss supplant them. If puss can get into a vacant corner,
the player who is left cornerless becomes puss in his stead.
   The game must be played with spirit; too great caution in leaving corners
soon makes it fall exceedingly flat, whereas if the players evince a noble dis
regard to the danger of being cut off from their corners, and plenty of activity,
it may be kept up for a long time with undiminished zest.
   To those timid spirits who fear to leave their corners until assured of abso
lute safety we have only one piece of advice to offer, and that is simply to
abstain from playing; for if all went on the same principle it is very evident
there could be no game at all. If, therefore, they cannot play with some spirit,
and without this selfish sensitiveness to their own personal position in the
game, they are very much better out of it.

  1 86               EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
                            HUNT THE- SLIPPER.
     For this game at least ten or a dozen players are required to get any con
 tinued fun out of it.
     One player stands up in the middle of the room, and the rest sit on the
 ground in a circle, with him in the centre. A slipper is given to one of the
 seated players, who passes it under his legs to the next, and he to the next, or
 back again, and so on, being careful the while not to give the one who is
 standing any indication of its whereabouts.
    After a short interval the one who first took the slipper cries " Ready !" and
 the hunt begins. The hunter tries to detect the actual holder of the slipper
 and to seize his hands, while, of course, all conspire to baffle him in the search.
 All sorts of means are employed to deceive the hunter, one player pretending
 to be very busy and mysterious, while the slipper is actually on the other side
 of the circle; or, on the opposite principle, to be very quiet, and so excite his
 suspicions, and bring him down on a bootless quest.
    The hunter, if he have his wits about him, may generally give a pretty shrewd
guess as to the position of the slipper by watching the countenances of those
 in the circle: there are sure to be some two or three, at least, who have but
slight control over their features, and who, therefore, will certainly, by conscious
looks, betray themselves whenever the slipper comes to them. A useful maxim
for the hunter is to watch the less clever players closely, and leave the clever
ones to themselves.
    If hunter and circle are well matched, and all play pretty much alike, the
game is a very good one—the contest of wits becomes a source of great
amusement, and the attack and defence assume a character almost scientific
                            BLIND MAN'S BUFF.
    This is one of the best of indoor games, giving plenty of healthy exercise,
affording lots of food for laughter, and yet not so rough but that boys and
girls may join in it on tolerably equal terms.
    It is played thus : One of the party is blinded by having a handkerchief
tied over his eyes, which operation should be very carefully performed, or he
will be able to see quite distinctly, and all the real fun of the game be lost.
Fairly blinded, he is taken into the middle of the room, turned round solemnly
three times, and let loose to catch whom he may.
    If he succeed in catching one of the others, and in guessing the name cor
rectly, the person caught becomes blind man in turn. The blind man may
feel the face and dress of his captive— who, if once fairly caught, is required
to stand still until finally released—and is allowed to make one guess at the
name, which if he fail to do correctly, he must let the player go, and try his
luck again.
    The other players may touch the blind man, and call his attention by talk
ing to him ; but they must not push or pull him, or, in fact, use any violence
under any pretence. They may, however, employ any device they can hit upon,
within fair bounds, to mislead him as to their persons, such as exchanging coats,
altering their collars, the dressing of their hair, and the like. But they must
not put themselves in any way out of his reach, and if any of them leave the
room during play the blind man must be apprised of the fact.

                           BUND MAN'S BUFF.                                    187
   The room should be carefully prepared beforehand for this game by remov
ing as much of the furniture as possible altogether, and piling up the rest out
of harm's way, especial care being taken not to leave anything over which the
blind man might trip up : a hearthrug is a very common source of danger on
this head, and should be invariably removed.
    If possible, there should be no fire in the room ; if, however, it be unavoid
able that there should be one, the blind man must be warned every time he
approaches, and at loast a wire guard must be kept before it.
   A good blind man is guided more by his ear than anything else, and watches
not only for footsteps, voices, the rustling of dresses, and the like, but for all
indications which the presence or absence of noises in special parts of the
room afford him of their being vacant or occupied : a sudden raid into a very
quiet corner—too peaceful in his opinion to be natural—will often reward him
by the capture of some specially crafty individual. A sudden lull, too, in the
tumult, when he is bearing down upon some point, is an almost invariable
sign that he has struck a " warm corner," and the interest is so intense that
all the rest have stopped to look : if head and hands only work together then,
he ought to be secure of a capture.
   The blind man may, if he gets the chance, catch two people, and, failing
with one in guessing his name, may try the other ; but he is bound to hold both
all the time ; for though the captives, when once fairly held, are forbidden to
struggle, they are yet not bound to remain in durance any longer than their
captor has actual hold of them.
   The blind man is allowed to take his own time, within reasonable limits
that is, about making his guess at the name of his captive, and may, as said
above, employ his sense of touch to elucidate this matter, and he may ask

1 88                 EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
questions, hoping to get a clue by the voice ; but the captive, though bound
to stand still, is not bound to speak, and may, like Martin Chuzzlewit's Ameri
can friend, go upon the principle that " A man may ask a question, so he may,"
with the clear understanding " that another man mightn't answer it, so he
mightn't," and may please himself about answering, which, of course, he will
scarcely be foolish enough to do. The blind man is not, however, allowed to
mention names, as, "It is not so and so, or so and so," hoping to get a hint from
outsiders thus. The first name he mentions must be the one he abides by; only
if he has given the right name, and yet said " It is not so and so," he is con
sidered equally wrong as if he had given the wrong name. There arc a good
many more rules and regulations, which must depend a great deal upon the
circumstances of the moment, and may, therefore, be left for special legisla
tion at the time.
                                  SIMON SAYS.
   Also a very good game for forfeits. One of the party stands up before the
rest like a drill-sergeant, while they keep line before him. He holds his hands
before him, with the fingers clenched, and the thumbs or forefingers pointing
upwards, in which the squad must imitate him.
   He now cries, " Simon says, Turn down," and reverses his thumbs: all must
follow suit, under penalty of a forfeit ; then, " Simon says, Turn up," or " Simon
says, Wig-wag," suiting the action to the words, and looking out to catch any
ot the squad tripping.
   The squad must only obey an order prefaced by " Simon says," and the
leader tries to catch them by repeating the right formula several times rapidly,
and then suddenly saying "turn up," or "down" without the " Simon says;"

                     KXIGHT OF THE WHISTLE.                                  189
  he is pretty sure to catch one or two each time, who, of course, must pay
 forfeit.
    If the leader himself give a false order, telling them to do something they
 are already doing, he pays a forfeit himself and is deposed.
    A sharp leader will make it a very difficult matter to avoid paying forfeit,
 even for the most cautious in the squad.
                        KNIGHT OF THE WHISTLE.
   If well managed, this is one of the most ajriusing games possible; but to
carry it out with all the gravity and solemnity in which is the very essence ot
the game, a few elder boys are almost indispensable.
   An installation of Knights of the Most Noble Order of the Whistle being
resolved upon, those who know the secret rites form themselves into a Chapter,
and announce by a herald their gracious intention of honouring the remainder
by admitting them, without an apprenticeship, free, gratis, for nothing, to all
the honours, privileges, and emoluments of their most noble society, for which
purpose they will be summoned one by one to the presence of the officers and
members of the said society in Chapter assembled.
   The neophytes, who must know nothing of the game, are now dismissed to
another room, and the Chapter proceeds to make due preparations.
   One, who should be one of the eldest and the best player, is chosen Grand
Master, and assumes his seat in an arm-chair, covered with a tablecloth or
other drapery, in the middle of the room; for b&ton he may hold a ruler,
walking-stick, or, if possible, a sword.
   On his right sits " Grand Tongs," suitably accoutred, and on his left " Grand
Fire-shovel;" while behind him stand "Grand Poker" and " Grand Hearth

 190                 EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
 brush," each with his insignia of office. The rest seat themselves in a circle
 in front of the Grand Master, while the "Lord High Doorkeeper" guards
 the door against intruders.
    A cloak is now prepared by hanging a whistle by a long string to the back
of it; the whistle should be light, and the cloak thick,' for reasons which will
be soon apparent. This cloak is handed to the " Grand Apparitor," who folds
 it over his arm, with the whistle inside, and takes his stand behind the Grand
 Master.
    All being thus prepared, Grand Poker and Hearth-brush are sent to fetch
the first neophyte, who is brought before the Grand Master, into the circle,
which closes in round him, and there on his knees is made to take any oaths
the ingenuity of the Grand Master can hit upon. Then, being duly robed
with the cloak by the Grand Apparitor, who of course takes care not to let
him see the whistle, receives the accolade of Knighthood, and is told to rise
under the name of Sir           (somebody or other, at the fancy of the Grand
 Master) ; not, however, to take his scat until he has discovered the holder of
the sacred whistle of their Order.
    As he rises, one of the players behind him sounds the whistle and lets it go.
The new-made knight spins quickly round and challenges the most likely of
those behind him, who shows his hands in token of innocence. Again the
whistle sounds from behind, again he spins round, but of course to no purpose,
for he ever carries the whistle himself behind him.
    If the circle be not too eager, the fun may be kept up for some time before
the bewildered knight finds out that he himself carries the whistle, to his own
confusion.
    Sometimes a knight gives it up as a bad job, and declines to seek any longer,
under which circumstances he must be disrobed and dismissed; if, however,
he discover the whistle, room is made for him in the circle, and he joins in
the fun of persecuting the next victim.
    More than half the fun of the' game consists in the mock solemnities, which,
too, have their use in bewildering the neophyte, and so making his deception
more easy.
                          PRESENTED AT COURT.
    The same preliminary formalities will do for this game as for the preceding,
except that, instead of a cloak, a scat of crafty construction is prepared for the
" presented " as follows :
    Two chairs are placed about two feet apart, and covered, both back and
seat, with some sufficient drapery, so as to make the two chairs, with the gap
between them, appear like one solid seat.
    The King and his Grand Chamberlain, or, if possible, his Queen, sit on
either chair, leaving the gap between them vacant; and the Court stand round
with due observance and respect.
    The novice is now introduced by the proper officers, and kneels to kiss the
King's hand, and then the Queen's, after which—with constant exchanges of
compliments, in which, by the way, he must be previously instructed by the
proper officer—as a mark of high honour, and in assurance of the royal favour,
he is invited to take his seat between the royal pair. As he does so, the King
and Queen, who have been very careful to keep his attention constantly directed
to them by their protestations of esteem and regard, rise and bow ; the drapery
spread over the seat, and kept in its place by their weight, gives way beneath

             PRESENTED AT COURT—MAGIC MUSIC.                                  191
 the luckless wight, and he comes ignominiously to the ground amidst the
 applause of the Court and condolences of the King and Queen.
    The success of this manceuvre, which requires skilful timing, and no little
 tact to prevent the intended victim " smelling a rat," depends almost entirely
 upon the King, who, therefore, must be very carefully selected.
    If possible, this and the former game should be tried on the same set of
 novices, the difference between the traps laid for them being quite sufficient
 to prevent initiation into one being any protection against being duped by the
other. In fact, the experience gained in the one is very likely to put the
novice on a false scent for the other. To further this end, the investiture of the
 person to be presented in a cloak similar to the one used in the " Knight of
the Whistle " will be found a very serviceable ruse.
   Sometimes the Court are not satisfied with merely letting the "presented"
down, but take pains to make matters uncomfortable for him by putting some
thing bard for him to fall upon, or even sometimes a tub of water; but this is
not fun, but mere vulgar horse-play, suitable, perhaps, for sailors on board
ship, but not the sort of thing fitted for young gentlemen. Besides, it is highly
dangerous, and a boy might very well be crippled for life or even killed by
coming down too heavily upon the seat of honour. A cushion or folded coat
should always be put underneath, for fear of accidents.
                                MAGIC MUSIC.
   One player is sent out of the room, and in his absence the rest agree upon
some simple task for him to perform, such as turning a chair round, removing
it from cne part of the room to the other, or the like. He is then called in,
and endeavours to find out what they would have him do, being guided in the

 292               EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
search by the sound of the piano or some musical instrument, which is played
loudly or softly according as he nears or wanders away from the object of his
search.
   By following the guidance of the music, a quick player will soon find out
first the locality of the thing, and then the thing itself which he has to operate
upon, and, having discovered it, will soon hit upon the right thing to do with it.
   Sometimes, in the absence of a musical instrument or a musician to play it,
the other players form themselves into a band, and with the tongs, poker, and
fire-shovel produce more or less of a din as a substitute for the more legiti
mate music. The piano, however, is not only preferable on account of the
less riotous nature of the sounds produced, but also because the gradations of
tone are more easily marked, and it therefore affords a better guide to the
searcher.
   The game may be modified by hiding something and letting the searcher
find it under the same conditions as before.
                                SHADOW BUFF.
   A very amusing game and full of incident. A sheet is hung across one side
of the room, and the player who takes the part of " Buff" sits facing it at about
a yard or so distance.
   A lamp is placed on a table, or, better still, a clnir, at the opposite side of
the room, and the other players pass one by one between the lamp and the
sheet, on which, of course, their shadows thus fall. From these shadows buff is
required to give the names of the individuals, the actual entities of flesh and
blood of whom they are the " counterfeit presentments."
   The players may disguise themselves in any way they like,—by sticking

                                     FRIGHT.                                     193
out their hair, altering their clothes, improvizing impossible collars, distorting
 the outline of their faces by holding up their hands beside them, and the like.
 The latter method especially will be found very effective, as those may well
 divine who have seen—and who has not ?—the wonderful birds, beasts, fishes,
 and nondescripts which may be produced, with the simple aid of a candle, by
 one pair of skilful hands.
    A linger properly applied to the nose may change the most uncompromising
 of "snubs" into the most classical Roman, or turn a classical well-cut—or, as
 the novelists say, "chiselled"—nose into one of Bardolphian monstrosity.
    But we can do no more than hint at the various ways in which the player
 may disguise himself and deceive the buff. Of one thing, however, we must
 warn him. An experienced buff will take little notice of prominent features;
 these are sure to be disguised ; but will watch for slight indications of indi
 viduality, especially in the way of characteristic gait or gesture, and it is on
 this head, therefore, that the player must exercise especial caution.
    When the buff guesses correctly, the player detected becomes buff, and
 huff joins the rest.
    Where forfeits are exacted, each player as he is detected pays a forfeit, and
 buff pays one every time the whole party pass the ordeal undetected. Of
 course, it is absolutely necessary that there should be no other light in the room.
                                      FRIGHT.
   This is a very lively game, with plenty of fun and excitement in it. It is
played as follows :
   Suooosing there be twelve players, one is chosen as Fugleman ; ten chairs
are then placed in a row, facing different ways, alternately back and front, and
                                                                      13

 194                EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
the remaining eleven players range themselves in a line round them, with their
right sides to the chairs. The fugleman now gives the word " Slow march !"
upon which they march in slow time round the chairs in single file; "Quick
march !" and then "Slow march !" again, until, watching his opportunity when
they are least prepared, he shouts out, " Halt!" At this word they must all
endeavour to sit down, and, as only one may occupy one chair, and as there
are only ten chairs for eleven would-be sitters, one must necessarily be " left
out in the cold."
   This fate entails a forfeit ; the struggle, therefore, for seats is very exciting,
for none is willing to be the " odd man out," and sauve qui peut—each one
for himself—is the order of the day. The arrangement of the chairs alter
nately back and front adds amazingly to the perplexity of the unfortunate
member in search of a seat, and it is very amusing to notice how lovingly the
crafty ones cling to the chairs which have their seats towards them, how care
fully they eschew the backs— how it takes at least three steps to pass the
former, while the latter are easily cleared in one.
   It adds very much to the spirit of the game, and, indeed, improves it very
much in every way, if, instead of having a fugleman, a march is played on the
piano. The players must keep time to the music, and its cessation is the signal
to be seated. A good pianist will lead the players a pretty life, trying them with
all sorts of time, and involving them in all sorts of troubles. A very effective
plan is to make pretence with a good sounding chord or two of coming to a full
stop, and then dart off into a lively quick march. One or two of the extra sharp
players are sure to be taken in, and to make a dart for seats ; give them just
time to get out of their seats and rejoin the ranks, and then, while they are
yet covered with confusion and demoralized by their mistake, stop in right
earnest. A " heavy bag " may be looked upon as a certainty.
                              GERMAN DWARF.
   This is a capital deception, and, if well carried out, one sure to please the
spectators, who, unless they are in the secret, will try in vain to solve the
mystery.
   To produce this entertaining illusion two persons only are absolutely neces
sary, but the^assistance and co-operation of a third will prove of great service
both in making preliminary preparations and in carrying out the deception.
   The other requisites are a table, of the dressing-table character, with a long
cloth sweeping the ground, and a pair of curtains.
   These curtains must be hung over the doorway between two rooms, or at
the opening of some suitable recess, and the table, with its cloth so arranged
as to allow no one to sec underneath it, must be placed in front.
   The exhibition should be held, if possible, in a separate room, from which
the public must be rigorously excluded whilst the dwarf is being " got up."
If, however, this be not practicable, another curtain should be brought over
the front of the table until the dwarf is in his place; in fact, in either case, a
double set of curtains, one in front and the other behind the table, is a great
advantage.
   The dwarf is managed thus : The taller of the two chosen to enact that
part carefully disguises his face with a wig, a false moustache and beard, and
a liberal application of burnt cork and rouge, and having divested himself of
his coat, pulls over his hands and arms a pair of stockings, which should be

                             GERMAN DWARF.                                    '95
 of some bright colour—scarlet for choice—and over them a pair of shoes,
 ornamented at the instep with enormous buckles or rosettes.
   The shorter of the two then, standing behind him, thrusts his arms as far as
 they will go under his, the first-mentioncd's, armpits, and a kind of tunic or
other suitable garment is brought over all.
   This tunic, of course, must be made for the purpose, and should be as
extravagant as possible in colour and cut : a good-sized crimped frill or enor
mous turn-down collar is very effective.
   Thus arrayed, the first-mentioned, standing behind the table, places his shoe-
dad hands upon it, which thus represent the feet of the dwarf, and the curtains,
*hich are fastened together a few inches above his head, are drawn apart so
is just to reveal what appears to be the body of a dwarf with a most dispro-
poruoned head. By the way, a boy with a big head should generally be selected
for this part, and its size should be exaggerated by art.
   He must remember to lean slightly over the table; in fact, he should stand
¦ the attitude of a man making an after-dinner speech, or the legs will not
appear to support the body, and thus much of the vraisemblaitce will be de
stroyed.
   The third accomplice, who also undertakes the part of showman, must now
admit the public, and introduce to them his wonderful lusus natura.
   This part of showman is, perhaps, the most important of the three, for upon
his wit and readiness will depend all the real fun of the affair: the dwarf by
'-self can be but an object of passing curiosity, unless occasion be taken to
make it a peg to hang some fun upon.
   •t is impossible for us to put words into the showman's mouth ; we would
only advise him to get up his " patter," as the showman's talk is called, as far
                                                              13— 2

 196                EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
as possible beforehand, imitating and parodying the regular professional giant
and dwarf showman to the best of his ability.
   Of course, the more ridiculous and impossible his statements are the better.
His history, geography, &c, should be hopelessly at fault. A very good plan
is to describe his dwarf as a thousand years old, and make him take part in the
most incongruous historical events, jumbling up persons, localities, and dates
in hopeless confusion.
   This " patter" must be poured out in one continuous stream, and with per
fect confidence and self-possession, or it loses half its attractions.
   Both dwarf and showman, if they want to produce a really striking effect,
must practise their parts together for some time previously.
   If the dwarf can get up a dance, or play a short tune upon a penny whistle,
or perform some other similar feat, it will add much to the success of the
show.
   This whistle business is difficult at first, because the hands do not belong
to the owner of the mouth, and they must be guided by feeling alone, for their
owner cannot see anything; but the difficulty may be overcome, and that
without very much demand upon the learner's patience.
   He who does the head and legs part must be careful not to forget his part:
a momentary forgetfulness may betray him into the most ludicrous mistakes.
   The writer's brother one day, while officiating in this capacity, was suddenly
afflicted with an intense itching of the nose. Momentarily oblivious of his
part, he lifted his shoe-clad hand to his nose to scratch the seat of irritation,
an action that, of course, raised shouts of laughter from the audience, for the
dwarf appeared to be " taking a sight," not with his thumb and fingers, but
with his toes.
   Fortunately the spectators looked upon this as part of the performance, and
were proportionately delighted ; but similar mistakes may not prove always
equally fortunate.
                                 THE GIANT.
   This may be done in two ways ; first and most difficult, by one boy standing
on another's shoulders, and then putting over both a long loose garment, long
enough to reach to the knees of the lower one.
   This method, however, may be made much more easy by the upper player
putting his feet in a kind of stirrup fastened to straps passing over the under
one's shoulders, and hanging just down to the hips. Height, of course, is
sacrificed, but greater safety is secured ; the giant, too, can exhibit thus for a
longer time, as the attitude is not so fatiguing.
   The other and simpler method is to place a huge mask, which should repre
sent a head and neck, on the top of a pole about five feet long, with a cross-
piece to represent arms, and then tying a long cloak—it should be made for
the purpose : any common material will do—round the neck of the mask, get
bodily inside.
   Now, by raising or depressing the pole, the giant may be made to attain an
extraordinary stature or to shrink down again to ordinary dimensions at will.
   The lower end of the cloak, about two feet from the bottom, must be fas
tened to the performer's waist, so that when the head is depressed the cloak
may fall in folds, and not sweep the ground as it otherwise would.
   There is a very entertaining illusion of this sort exhibited under the name
of " The Nondescripts." Two figures with enormous heads, alternately giants

                      HEAD, BODY, AND LEGS.                                197
and dwarfs, run about the circus and indulge in the most surprising vagarie
being able apparently to contort themselves in every imaginable direction.
   Their final coup is to put their heads deliberately through their legs, and
make their exit with their eyes thus looking over their own shoulders.
                         HEAD, BODY, AND LEGS.
   This is a very amusing game, and will afford an almost endless fund of
amusement.
   Though it is a drawing game, yet it does not require that the players should
be artists, or even in the ordinary sense be able to draw ; a mere faculty—
which nearly all schoolboys possess—of being able
to scrawl some distant resemblance to a living crea
ture, is all that is necessary ; in fact, the worse the
drawing of the several parts, the more amusing is
commonly the result of the whole. The method of
    cedure is as fol-
   Three or more
players sit round a
table, each with a
sheet of paper fold
ed into three, and a
pencil. Each draws
a head, of man, of
beast, of fish, &c, according to the fancy of the mo-

198                  EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
ment, on the upper third, carrying the lines of the neck just over the fold as
a guide to the next artist, and folds it down, and then passes it to his left-
hand neighbour.                                           .
   Each, then, on this new paper, draws a body, working from the lines ot the
neck above mentioned, but of course in total ignorance of the nature of the
head thereto belonging, carries the lines over the next fold, doubles down, and
passes the paper as before.                                         .
   Each now, working from the lines brought over, affixes a pair of legs—the
more eccentric the better—to the unknown body. The papers are then passed
to the chairman, who opens them, and shows them for public inspection. The
combinations produced in this way are most extraordinary, and often raise
shouts of laughter.
   The illustration is a facsimile of a drawing thus produced while describing
the game to the draughtsman.
                                  DECAPITATION.
    This is a trick in essence like that of German Dwarf, and requires, like it,
 some little preparation. The subject for decapitation is placed on his back on a
 table, his head towards the audience, and hanging over the edge ; or, better
 still, he may lie on a mattrass placed on the table, with his head hanging over
 the edge.
     His whole body now, up to the chin, is covered with a cloak ; a wig and
 sham torehead, previously prepared, are brought over his mouth and nose,
 so as to make the place where his chin is appear to be the top of his head,
 and a nose and mouth are carefully painted on his forehead. The head now
  appears to rest upon its chin, and to be quite separate from the body, only
  leaning with its back against the trunk.
     The individual selected should have a good crop of long hair to play the
  part of beard, and a good thick pair of artificial whiskers should be brought
  down either side of his face, and made to mingle with his hair.
      If, in addition to this, a reasonably presentable false nose, with moustache
  attached, can be procured, it will be much better than the painted one, and
  will greatly further the deception.

                              CONSEQ VENCES.                                   1 99
    The lights also must be carefully arranged, so that, while apparently throw
ing plenty of light upon the subject, they are really rendering it more obscure.
A little previous rehearsal with them will be necessary to effect this satis
factorily.
    The head in this state, with the eyes upside down, &c, is a most ghastly
sight, and it would, therefore, be desirable not to admit very young children
to view the body.
    Of course some suitable story must be got up and told by the showman ; or
it might be brought into a charade or tableau vivant.
    A little flour and rouge will be found very useful in hiding the line of junc
tion between the real and imitation flesh.
                               CONSEQUENCES.
    This is a capital indoor table game, especially when there are some ten or a
dozen players to keep the game alive.
    It is founded upon the absurd incongruities that result when a number of
people combine together to make one connected sentence, each taking his
own part irrespective of each and all of the others.
    Just as in the preceding game a connected drawing was made by uniting
three several parts, each drawn in ignorance of the other two, so in this the
several component parts of a sentence are written down by a number of players
separately and without collusion, and then joined together in one.
    We will suppose eleven players are sitting round the table, severally provided
with a pencil and a strip of paper. Each writes on the top of his paper one
 or more adjectives attributable to a man, folds his paper down over the writ
 ing, and passes it to his left-hand neighbour, receiving one in return from him
 on his right ; and proceeding in the same order he writes in succession,
    Adjectives suitable to a man,            A date,
    A man's name,                            A short sentence suited to a man,
    Adjectives suitable to a woman,          A woman's reply,
    A woman's name,                          The consequences,
    The name of a place,                              and
    Some productions of ditto,               What the world said.
    As an example we will suppose the following to have been written down on
 one of the papers :
    The irascible and enthusiastic —Paul Pry—The pious and charitable—The
 Queen of the Cannibal Islands—The ball of St. Paul's— Bloaters and ginger
 beer— Christmas Day, B.C. 450— Have you seen Blondin?—Ask mamma—
 They both perished miserably— It always knew how it would be.
     When all have been filled up, the president takes the papers and reads them
 out; the one instanced above reading thus:
     The irascible and enthusiastic Paul Pry met the pious and charitable Queen
 of the Cannibal Islands in the ball of St. Paul's, famous for its bloaters and
 ginger beer, on Christmas Day, B.C. 450. He asked her in tender strains,
 '• Have you seen Blondin?" To which she replied, with a modest blush, "Ask
 mamma." As a natural consequence they both perished miserably ; and the
 world said it always knew how it would be.

                    EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
                                   ADJECTIVES.
   This is also a very amusing game. One of the players writes a letter, which
of course he does not show, leaving a blank for every adjective. He then asks
each player in turn round the table for an adjective, filling up the blank spaces
with the adjectives as he receives them.
   The following short letter will explain the game better than a long description.
   MY detestable FRIEND,
             In answer to your amiable letter, I am silly to inform you that the
dirty and degraded Miss Jones sends you her most fallacious thanks for your
kindness, and bids me tell you she will always think of you as the vainest and
most adorable friend she ever had. As for that sagacious fellow, Smith, he is
such a delightful ass, such a filthy and eminent muff, you need riot fear he will
prove a very complicated rival.
                                          Believe me, my foolish fellow,
                                                                       Yours, &c.
                                      CRAMBO.
   This is a game only for those who have some facility in rhyming and versi
fying ; with half a dozen such it will always afford unlimited amusement. It
is played as follows :
   The players sit round the table, each with a pencil and two slips of paper ;
on one he writes a question—any question that occurs to him, the quainter the
better—and on the other, a noun.
    These slips are put into two separate baskets or hats, and shaken up well,
so as to be thoroughly mixed. The hats or baskets are then passed round,
and each player draws two slips at random, one from either basket, so that he
 has one slip with a question and one with a noun.
    The players thus furnished now proceed to write on a third slip each a prac
 tical answer to the question before him. The answer must consist of at least
 four lines, and must introduce the afore-mentioned noun.
    For instance, supposing a player to have drawn the question, Who killed
 Cock Robin ? and the noun Jaw, he might answer it somewhat as follows :
                           I, said the Sparrow,
                           With my bow and arrow.
                              If you'd known him too
                           You 'd have wished him at Harrow :
                              With his cheek, and his jaw,
                           And his dandy red vest,
                              He became such a bore.
                           Such a regular pest!
                           Twas really no joke:
                           Such troublesome folk
                         Must not be surprised if they're promptly suppressed.
     Or, as a more concise example, question asked, Do you bruise your oats ?
  Noun, Cheese. Answer,
                            As I don't keep a steed.
                            For oats I've no need :
                            For myself, when my own private taste I would please,
                            I prefer wheatcn bread to oat-cake with my cheese.
     Here is another example of veritable crambo rhymes. The question was,
  "Can you pronounce Llyndgynbwlch?" and the noun "Oil." Answer as
  follows :

                                         DEFINITIONS.                                                    201
                                      "Pronouncing Llyndgynbwlch
                                        My glottis will spoil,
                                        Unless lubricated
                                        With cocoa-nut oil."
   There happened to be cocoa-nut cakes on the table.
   These will be amply sufficient as guides to the method of playing the game.
They are not offered as models of poetry or diction, but as just the sort of
things anybody might write on the spur of the moment, and therefore better
suited for our purpose than any more finished and elaborate productions.
    Of course this game can only be played by those who will take an interest
in it, and who possess some little facility of versification. A player who, after
half an hour or so spent in puzzling his brain and beating about for rhymes
and sense, cannot succeed in turning out a few lines of doggerel, had better,
for his own sake and that of others, turn his attention to other and less intel
lectual amusements.
    But we would not alarm any timid players—we have no wish to seem to
require any great poetical gifts in the player, though, of course, the more witty
and brilliant they are, the more delightful and interesting the game : the merest
doggerel is quite sufficient for all purposes, and the facility of stringing verses
together will be found to increase rapidly with every day's practice. None
but a veritable dunce need despair of taking at least a creditable' part in this
very amusing game.
                                            DEFINITIONS.
    This is a game only for elder boys and grown-up people; it is quite beyond
 the powers of youngsters, and not all even amongst the seniors can make any
 figure in it.
    The theory of the game is very simple, but the opening it gives for wit and
 satire is simply unbounded, and for pure intellectuality it stands unrivalled
 amongst evening games.
    The players sit round a table each with a pencil and piece of paper ; a noun
 is then selected at random from a list, or in any convenient way, and each is
 then bound to furnish an original definition. This done, another is given out
 and similarly defined.
    When a convenient number have been thus disposed of, the papers are
 handed up to the president, who is chosen for the occasion, and the several
 definitions read aloud.
     Some very brilliant impromptus are sometimes flung off in this manner;
 and we would strongly advise, where the game is much played, that a book
 should be kept for the enshrinement of the special flowers of wit.
     We offer a few here as examples, not so much for imitation, but as illustra
 tions of the modus operandi, or perhaps we might rather say, ludendi..
                                             NOUN—MIRROR.
                    DEFINITIONS.                                              DEFINITIONS.
   (a) The rarest gift the fays can gie us—                  (r) The type ofperfect unselfishnessj giving away
         We see oursells as ithers see us.                all that it receives and retaining nothing for itself.
   (/) The vain man's most intimate friend ; the             (tf) The hermit of modern life : it spends all its
 wise man's acquaintance.                                 time reflecting on the vanities of the world.
                                           NOUN— PROSPEriTY.
                    DEFINITIONS.                                              DEFINITIONS.
    'a) The reward of exertion.                          to expect for himself, and is least inclined to desire
     A) Man's greatest temptation.                        for his neighbour.
    /) The world's touchstone of merit.                      U) The pass-key that unlocks the gates of societ> .
    (tt) What each man most thinks he has a right            (/) A prize in the lottery of fate.

                        EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
                                       NOUN —HUMANITY.
                  DEFINITIONS.                                    DEFINITIONS.
  !a) The best abused virtue in the calendar.      (f) The begging impostor's Tom Tiddler's
   b) The highest triumph of civilization.       ground.
   c) The basis of Christian charity.              (g) The weakness of the many, the virtue of
   d) The most God-like of virtues.              the few.
   e) A common cloak for cupidity.
                               HOW DO YOU LIKE IT?
   HOW DO YOU LIKE It, WHEN DO YOU LIKE IT, AND WHERE DO YOU
like IT?—This is also, like "Proverbs," a guessing game. One player, as
before, goes out of the room while the others fix upon a word. He then
returns, and puts to them severally in turn the question, " How do you like it ?"
and then, having completed the circle, "When do you like it?" and thirdly,
in like manner, "Where do you like it?" To each of which questions the
other players are bound to return a satisfactory reply.
   At the end of these questions, or at any time in the game, the questioner
may make a guess at the word, being allowed three guesses in all, as before
in "Proverbs." If he succeed in guessing rightly, he points out the player
from whose answer he got the right clue, who, therefore, pays a forfeit and
takes his place, and the game goes on as before. If he do not succeed in
guessing rightly, he himself pays a forfeit and goes out again.
   The great secret of the game is to select words that, though pronounced
alike (spelling does not matter), have two or more meanings.
    For instance, Z goes out, and the word " bow " is chosen. He asks of each,
"How do you like it?" A answers "In a good temper" {beau); B, "With
long ends " (a bow tied in a ribbon) ; C, " Very strong " (an archer's bow) ; and
so on, ringing the changes upon the three different sorts of bow.
    In the next round the players are not bound to adhere to the same meaning
they selected before, but may take any meaning they think most likely to puzzle
the questioner.
    Thus, to the question " When do you like it ?" the answers may quite legiti
mately be as follows: A, " When I am dressing ;" B, " When I want exercise ;"
C, " When I am going to a party." And to the last question, " Where do you
like it ?" A answers, " Under my chin ;" B, " At my feet ;" C, " Outside on the
lawn."
    If there be only three to be questioned, this would prove hard enough to
find out, though " Under the chin " might perhaps give a clue. Z's chance
lies in the number of answers that have to be given to the same question, and
 in the short time each has to prepare a satisfactory answer—one that shall
 satisfy all conditions and yet give no clue to the word.
    The whole fun in this game, as in " Proverbs," depends entirely upon the
 wit and spirit of the players. To bt seen at its very best it should be played
 by a party of really clever grown-up people. The contest of wit is then, as
 Mr. Cyrus Bantam would say, " to say the least of it, rc-markable."
    Below will be found a few words taken almost at random suitable for this
 game.
 Air— Heir         Band            Balm—Barm   Chest    Dram—Drachm       Pear—Pair Note
 Ant- Aunt         Aisle—Isle      Arms—Alms   Club     Draft— Draught    Fair— Fare Poll
  Bow— Bough       Bar             Bowl        Corn     Knight— Night     Sail—Sale  Roll
  Bow—Beau         Bill            Cask—Casque Drop     Hair- Hare       Rain— Rein Sole
  Flour— Flower    Ball            Cell— Sell  Gum      Mail— Male        Vale -Veil  Box
  Bale— Bail       Buoy— Boy        Chord—Cord Kite     Main— Mane        Tale—Tail  Game,&c

                    WHAT IS MY THOUGHT LIKE?                                    203
                       WHAT IS MY THOUGHT LIKE?
   This game is somewhat like the last, only that the questioner does not
leave the room, and the onus of the game lies on the questioned, not on the
questioner.
   The players being seated in a semicircle round the questioner, he thinks of
something or a person— it matters not what—and demands of each player,
" What is my thought like ? " The answers, of course, being given without any
clue to the word thought of, are of the most incongruous nature.
   This, however, is only the commencement of the fun. Having taken and
noted each player's simile, the questioner now reveals the word he had thought
of, and demands of each a verification of his simile under penalty of a forfeit.
   As the answer must be given promptly, without time to arrange an elaborate
defence, much quickness of wit and readiness of resource is required to avoid
the forfeit for failure.
   If the whole party succeed in justifying their similes, the questioner pays a
forfeit, and a new questioner is appointed.
   The decision as to an answer being satisfactory or not lies in disputed cases
with the whole party of players.
   An illustration of the working of the game may be, perhaps, not out of
place.
   We will suppose that Z, the questioner, has thought of a baby, and has asked
the question, " What is my thought like ?" all round, and received the following
answers:
   A, "A lump of chalk;" B, "Alexander the Great ;" C,"The Great Eastern;"
 D, "A gooseberry;" E, "A fishing-rod;" F, "A carpet bag;" and so on ;
   Z now tells them he thought of a baby, and calls upon them each severally
to justify his simile.
   A, " It is like a lump of chalk because it is white." (Allowed.)
   B, "It is like Alexander because it cries for what it can't gtt." (Allowed.)
    C, " It is like the Great Eastern because it costs a great deal of money
 before it makes any returns." (Disputed as rather too fanciful, but finally
 allowed.)
    D, " It is like a gooseberry because it is soft and red." (Not allowed. It
 had previously been likened to chalk as being white ; red, therefore, cannot
 stand, and softness is not a sufficiently distinctive characteristic Forfeit.)
    E, " It is like a fishing-rod because it has many joints." (Allowed by general
 acclaim.)
    F, " It is like a carpet bag because it has most elastic capacities of stowage."
 (Allowed after some discussion.)
    Of course, it is easy enough in most cases to find some sort of justification
 of almost any simile if time be allowed, though even then one sometimes comes
 across one that would puzzle the most ingenious ; but in the actual game the
 explanation must be found on the spur of the moment, and herein consists
 half the fun.
    This game, like all others of its kind, is entertaining exactly in proportion
 to the wit and capacities of the players. Even the most witty and most
 learned may join in it without derogating from their dignity, and with a
 certainty of deriving from it a fund of endless and highly intellectual amuse
 ment.

  2o4                 EVENTNG PARLOUR GAMES.
                                    PROVERBS.
    This is a very good mental exercise for all, and is capital fun even for adults ;
 indeed, the better educated and the more clever the players are the more fun
 is there to be got out of the game, as it gives ample occasion for the exercise
 of wit of the highest quality.
    One player goes out of the room, and the rest, being seated in a circle, fix
upon a proverb, which should not be a very long one. The first player being
now recalled, he begins at player number one in the circle and asks any ques
tion he likes : the answer must contain the first word of the proverb. He then
tries the next, whose answer must contain the second word, and so on.
    He is allowed to go completely round the circle if it be a large one, or twice
if it be a small one, and then must either guess the proverb or go out again and
try a new one. If he guess rightly, he has to declare the answer that gave him
the clue, and the player who gave it has to go out in his stead.
    In answering the questions much ingenuity may be exercised, and much
amusement created in concealing the key-words of a proverb. For instance,
in " Birds of a feather flock together " there are three dangerous words—birds,
feather, and flock— all difficult to get into an ordinary sentence, and it requires
much dexterity to keep them from being too prominent. Let us take this
proverb as an example. A goes out, and " Birds of a feather flock together"
is agreed upon. A asks of B, " Have you been out to-day?" B, "No ; but I
sat at the window for a long time after sunset listening to the birds and watch
ing the rabbits on the lawn ; you can't think what a lot there were." A is
puzzled, he has so many words to pick from, and the word, which when ex
pected seems so prominent, falls unnoticed upon his ear. He asks C, "And
what have you been doing with yourself this evening?" C, " Oh, I have been
sitting with B, looking out of window too." Next comes D, who can have but
little trouble in bringing in his word a, only let his answer be not too short.
Then E has to bring in the word feather. A asks him, " What did you have
for dinner to-day ?" F, " Oh, roast beef, turkey, and plum pudding; but the
turkey was so badly plucked, it tasted of singed feathers, and we couldn't eat
it.' This, repeated rapidly, may deceive the questioner, who goes on to E : "I
saw you with a fishing-rod to-day; what did you catch?" F—who is by no
means required to adhere to absolute facts, and may draw upon his imagination
to any extent—replies, " Well, to tell you the truth, I did not catch any ; for
there was a.flock of sheep having their wool washed ready for shearing." F
brings in the wool to lead A off to the proverb " Great cry and little wool,"
as almost his only chance of concealing the real word flock. A then demands
of G, "Do you like walking?" G, "I do if I have a companion. When
Charlie and I go out together we always have lots of fun ; but Harry is such
a duffer, it 's awfully slow walking with him."
    If A is at all quick, he ought to have heard quite sufficient to know the pro
verb ; he may, however, be puzzled by the complicated sentences ; but after the
second round at least, when the catch-words have been repeated, he must be
slow indeed if he does not discover it.
    One of the party should be appointed umpire, to decide whether any answer
is a fair one, and no one else should be allowed to interfere in any way ; no
thing is so likely to give a clue to the questioner as a dispute whether a word
has been fairly introduced or not. In cases of doubt the umpire may call for

                                MESMERISM.                                    205
 a fresh question and answer. There is no reason why the umpire, who should
be one of the oldest players for authority's sake, should not join in the game.
He is appointed almost solely to prevent confusion, and his being a player or
non-player can have no influence on his decisions.
   The answers should be made with decision, and as rapidly as is consistent
with distinctness—a quality upon which the umpire should insist ; and the
 player should especially avoid giving short answers when he has a simple word,
 such as " of," " the," &c, and thus give the questioner the clue to the answer
in which lie the catch-words, and thus aid him materially in his task. Of
course, great pains must be taken not to lay any stress upon the word that has
to be introduced, and not to make the answers unfairly long.
   Simultaneous Proverbs.—A very good modification of the above. No
questions are asked ; but the players, one for each word of the proverb, stand
or sit in a semicircle, and the player who has to discover the proverb stands
in front of them. One of them, who is chosen leader, now gives the time,
" One, two, three ; " at the word " three " they all call out simultaneously each
his own word. This they may be required to repeat once or twice, according
to previous arrangement, and then the guess must be made under the same
conditions as above.
   A long proverb should be chosen for this, if there be enough players ; the
greater the number of voices, of course, the more difficult it is to discover the
proverb.
                                 MESMERISM.
   This is a capital game, and, if well managed, will defy all detection. To do
it well, however, requires some practice.
   Two persons assume respectively the rSles of Professor of Mesmerism and
Clairvoyant. The professor must have a ready wit and a good store of lan
guage, a plentiful vocabulary at his finger ends ; whilst the clairvoyant must
be quick of observation and retentive of memory.
   A semicircle is formed by the spectators, and the clairvoyant is seated blind
fold with his back to them ; and the professor, after going through the usual
ceremony of mesmerizing him, leaves him and crosses to the spectators, asking
them for any objects they may have about them for the clairvoyant to name
and describe.
   If they are both well up to their work, the clairvoyant will appear to those
who are not initiated into the secret to be able to see without his eyes, to their
intense astonishment and admiration.
   The author once thus played clairvoyant to a friend's professor at a large
charade party, and deluded the whole company into a belief in the reality of
the exhibition.
   Robert-Houdin, the great French conjuror, and his little boy made this
clairvoyance one of the leading features of his entertainment, and brought the
art to a wonderful pitch of perfection.
   It would be impossible in the contracted space of one of these short notices
to give full instructions how to produce this clever illusion ; a mere outline of
the method of procedure is all that can be attempted. This, however, will be
amply sufficient for a boy of any intelligence to grasp the idea of the leading
principles; the mere details he will soon learn to work out for himself. If he
should desire any further particulars, he will find much interesting information

206                 EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
in the " Memoirs" of Robert-Houdin, which may now be procured at almost
any library.
   The method of procedure is as follows : The clairvoyant makes it his busi
ness to observe narrowly—unostentatiously, of course—and to catalogue in
his mind the persons present, any little peculiarities in their dress, ornaments,
&c, the general arrangement of the room, and any little knickknackeries lying
about. Practice only will enable him to do this to any considerable extent;
but if he have any talent for such mental exercise, and without it he will never
make a clever clairvoyant, practice will soon enable him to observe almost at
a glance and retain in his memory almost all the leading features of all around
him, animate and inanimate.
   Robert-Houdin trained his son and himself by walking rapidly past various
shops in the streets of Paris, and then writing down on paper, after passing
each shop, all the articles they could remember seeing in their transitory
glimpse through the window : at first half a dozen or so was all they could
manage, but they rapidly rose by practice to twenty or thirty, until the young
Houdin, who quite outstripped his father, would tell almost the whole contents
of a large window.
   Of course, such a wonderful pitch of perfection is scarcely attainable by an
ordinary boy, and would not be worth his while if it were; nor, indeed, is it,
or anything like it, necessary ; but the instance may serve as an indication of
the right method of procedure, to be worked out by each boy according to
his individual bent and opportunities.
   It should be understood that all this preparation and practice is not abso
lutely necessary before beginning to exhibit the trick. A ve y few rehearsals
will suffice for a very respectable performance ; only if anything like perfec
tion be aimed at, some extra trouble must be taken to attain it. Of course,
every exhibition will do its work of improvement.
   Meanwhile professor and patient must practise the code of signals by which
the former conveys to the latter any necessary information about the objects
to be described.
   These signs may be words or other sounds ; but great care must be taken
with the latter, as they are more open to detection.
   The initial letter of the first, second, or last word in each sentence the pro
fessor addresses to the clairvoyant is the same as that of the object ; and as
the number of objects likely to be offered for description is limited, a little
practice will ensure its instant recognition from the clue thus given. Some
signal should be preconcerted by which the clairvoyant may be warned that
the object presented is at all out of the common.
   If there be any difficulty in making out the object, the professor may, by a
little ingenuity and assurance, spell out in successive sentences the name of
the object in his hand. To cover this manoeuvre, he should pretend that the
mesmeric influence is failing, and make " passes " at the patient, being careful,
of course, not to go near him, and the clairvoyant must pretend to brighten
up under their influence.
   In the instance above referred to in the author's own experience, one of the
company presented for description something very much out of the common
way, a nutmeg-grater or something similar, and the professor, with the greatest
readiness and the coolest assurance, deliberately spelt its name through almost
to the last letter without detection.
   The above, it is hoped, will be found sufficient to set the young aspirant to

                                  FORFEITS.                                   207
mesmeric fame on the right track ; but an example of the actual working may,
perhaps, prove more serviceable than much description.
   Suppose, for instance, the object be a coin— a shilling, say, of George the
Third, date 1800. The professor, who, by the way, should speak with as much
rapidity as is compatible with distinctness, says sharply,
   Can you tell me what I have in my         George the Third.
hand ?                                       But what value ?
   A coin                                    Shilling.
   Modern or ancient ?                       How dated?
   Modern.                                   1800.
   English or foreign ?                      Thank you, sir! Your shilling, I
   English.                               believe ? Right, is it not ?
   Give the reign.
   The first question, it will be seen, begins with c ; this, without further
explanation, means coin. The next two explain themselves. The fourth
begins with G for George, the only possible modern English reign ; and the
next word beginning with / gives the clue to third. B at the beginning of the
next stands for "bob," or shilling, when speaking of English coins. The
guesser can't be far wrong in his date, knowing the reign. In enumeration the
several digits are represented by the letters of the alphabet ; // is the eighth
letter, and therefore stands for 1800. Any odd numbers might have been
spelt out in similar fashion.
   Both professor and clairvoyant should speak rapidly and decisively to pre
vent detection, and should constantly change the key-word from first to last,
and so on. A knowledge of French or some other language will be of great
service in concealing the machinery
                                   FORFEITS.
   In several of the preceding games we have mentioned forfeits as penalties
for failure in some of the conditions.
   When a player has to pay a forfeit, he gives in pledge some piece of port
able property, which he will afterwards, at the end of the game, have to redeem
in due order.
   One player is declared judge, and, with eyes blindfold, stands with his face
to the wall, while another takes up the several pledges separately and asks,
" Here is a pretty thing, and a very pretty thing ; what is to be done to the
owner of this very pretty thing?" Or, omitting the formula, asks merely,
" What is to be done to the owner of this ?" The blindfolded player, who, of
course, does not know to whom each forfeit belongs, and therefore cannot be
accused of unfairness, assigns for each forfeit a task which must be fulfilled
before the pledge can be reclaimed.
   This calling of the forfeits requires no little ingenuity, tact, and judgment,
and the entire success depends upon the suitability of the penalties to the
company and the circumstances.
   The judge must take into consideration not only wnat penalties can be
enforced, but what will afford the most fun, and at the same time must avoid
the slightest shadow of offence.
   Where the party is composed entirely of boys with no great inequality of

208                  EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.
ages the task is tolerably easy ; but where there is a mixed company of girls
and boys, not only must the penalty attached to any forfeit be such as a girl
could perform, but it must be such as no girl would object to perform.
   In cases like this it is better to get an older person—a lady if possible —to
cry the forfeits ; and where such is not forthcoming, it is better not to cry them
at all ; or, if that be too hard a trial for the young players' philosophy, to cry
the girls' and the boys' separately.
   As the penalties, therefore, must depend so entirely upon the special cir
cumstances of each occasion on which they are imposed, it would be impos
sible for us to find space enough to give a list sufficiently comprehensive to
be of any real service as a guide to the judge in all cases.
   The old stock forfeits are so well known and so stale that it would be mere
waste of time and space to insert them here. We might certainly give a few
new ones ; but the exigencies of space would, as we said above, prevent our
giving more than a very few, and we therefore prefer to leave them entirely
to the ingenuity and invention of the judge for the time being, who, if he be
worth his salt, will with one glance of his eye round the group of expectant
pledge-owners gather more hints for penalties suited to the occasion than he
would from whole pages of printed instructions.


ACTING CHARADES.
                                        %dmQ Cfrarabes.
                                    PUSS IN                BOOTS.
                                           Dramatis IJrrsome.
       The Old Miller.                                              The Cat.
       Araba (the Miller's eldest son).                             The King.
       Baraba (the Miller's second son).                            The Ogre.
       Caraba (the Miller's third son).                             The Princess.
           King's servants" Ogre's servants, Peasants Hodge, Jenkins, Giles, and Luke.
   Should there be a paucity of actors, the peasants' parts can be played by the Miller and his three sons ;
also the Miller may play the King's part entirely, and the Ogre's part. The O^re should wear a horrible
hairy mask, with huge teeth and bristling beard His dress should be of fur if possible ; but a railway
wrapper might serve as a poncho or mantle : some railway wrappers like leopard-skins would do. The
Cat ought to be all fur if possible, grey or black ; if the latter, the black should be slightly whitened, to
look aged. A couple of black carriage rugs, or a large seal-skin cloak, might be contrived: the head
must be a mask. The four scenes might be roughly painted by any amateur draughtsman, and hung
on a large screen. They need not occupy the whole of the stage-back, being only suggestive. As each act
ends, when the curtain falls, the scene is removed, and the one below is shown, which, in its turn, is
taken off, till all the four have been employed. The rest of the stage background may be filial up with
drapery. This is, of course, for drawing-room acting ; when proper stage scenery can be had, it should
be used.
                                         Snnopsis of Scmrrn.
                                                 ACT I.
  A Windmill in the centre of the stage ; the door open ; the action takes place in front of the mill,
there may be a few bushes roughly painted at the sides of the scene.
                                                 ACT II.
  A River-side. —The river is not seen, but supposed to run behind a fringe of low copsewood, osiers,
or alders, interspersed with reeds. Action goes on in front of the copsewood, and at the side whet
Caraba is supposed to jump into the water.
                                                                                          14

 »io                               ACTING CHARADES.
                                                 ACT III.
    A Corn- field with com half cut: reapers at work. A farmyard with ricks and sucks may be painted
 in the distance ; high road in front, where the action tales place.
                                                 ACT rv.
    Hall in the Interior or Ogre's Castle.— May be represented in Gothic style: mulHoned
window; lofty chimneypiece, ornamented with skulls, and an armorial shield representing a salvage
man proftr, holding half a dozen diminutive captives by the hair (something in the style of the Egyp
tian Kings at the Crystal Palace). On the left of the stage a large screen before the door; on the right
of the stage the window; in the middle, behind the Ogre s arm-chair, the mantelpiece.
                                                  ACT V.
   Same as before ; but the screen is removed to make way for a large table spread with a banquet for
the King. Door on the left wide open ; servants ranged on the right ; actors enter by the left in pro
cession.
                                                 ——<U+2666>
                                                ACT I.
                                               Scene I.
                 Enter Miller, Araba, Baraba, Caraba, the Cat.
Miller.             My sons, I bring bad news : I Ve failed, in short,
                    And must be whitewashed in the Insolvent Court.
                    The times are hard, the harvest 's rusty brown,
                    Corn 's going up, and railways running down.
                    I bought too many shares—none live in clover
                    Whose dividends depend on lines to Dover;
                    So not much profit you '11 get out of that.
                    Vour mother's settlement was just the Cat ;
                     fhe mill I from my father did inherit.
                    So, Araba, 't is yours ; and see you merit [To Araba, proudly.
                    The good old masonry, wind-vans, and hopper.
                    Take you mine ass,—don't snigger; he's a whopper,
                                                                     [To Baraba, apologetically.
                    And donkey-power sets all the world a-going,
                    On a wise Saturday Reviewer's showing.
                    I doubt not your fortune you '11 quadruple
                    If you can follow Long Ears without scruple.
                    For you, my youngest, best-beloved brat —
                                                              [To Caraba, sadly and tenderly.
                    Your mother's wedding portion was the Cat,
                    And though since then his black hairs have grown grey,
                    He's all the wiser in the world's wise way.
                    A better counsellor you cannot hit on,
                    For you are but an inexperienced kitten.
                    I 've said my say ; I 've given all I own,
                    And to the workhouse now must trudge alone.
                                                                        [Exit Miller, weeping.
                                              Scene II.
                              Enter Araba, Baraba, Caraba.
Araba {jingling the keys of the mill). Don't be downcast / cry not o'er spilt
                       milk.
                    At any rate I 'm miller of that ilk.
                    A good old name, a landholder of note,
                    And worth a little bribing for my vote,1

                            PUSS IN BOOTS.                                 211
            So if you want to stand for shire or borough,
            You know my price.                                    [Exit Araba.
Baraba (disgusted, virtuously goes to the side, and kicks the ass outside the
                scene).               His selfishness is thorough :
             He 'd sell both brothers for a sack of bran—
             Nought is so hateful as a selfish man l
             Gee up, old Teddy ! jog a little faster;
             The world goes quicker with a younger master;
             Stir your stiff stumps to trot a mile, an hour,
             Let 's have a specimen of donkey-power.
             We 'll have no vulgar costermongering Jack :
             I think you might be leader of a claque;
             Your voice sonorous would be sure to pay—
             More than one singer has a touch of bray.
             You only need some lessons, brief and scanty,
             At the Conservatoire of Mercadante.
             Signor Somaro, then, I 'll dub mine ass,
             In Schumann's operas a double bass.                        [Going.
Caraba (humbly). Dear brother, I am footsore, you are strong,
             Let me ride on your donkey—not for long—
             Just till I reach some town, to be a tutor.
             As for the cat, poor wretch ! I think I 'll shoot her. [Sighing.
BARABA (angrily). What ! ride my donkey, you presumptuous elf I
             No man shall mount my donkey but myself.
             There 's nought so hateful as a greedy lad.         [Exit Baraba.
CARABA (sulkily). You called our brother selfish ; you 're as bad :
             Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! my legacy 's a mockery ;
             My cat 's not worth a penny pig of crockery i.
             Hoary and mangy, e'en a London rough
             Would scorn to steal him for a seal-skin muff.
             He can't catch aught but sparrows for a pie ;
             Indeed, I fancy he's too old to try..
Cat (persuasively). What say you to a rabbit for a roast ?
             Or partridge, plump, served up on buttered toast ?
Caraba (startled). Did you speak, Pussy ?
Cat (proudly).                                 Yes, indeed ; I wis
             Better than cockneys ; not an h you '1l miss.
Caraba (doubtfully). Were you a spaniel, and had I a gun,
             Down in the stubble something might be done.
Cat (grandly). Game you shall have—a princess for a wife !
             Lord—marquis—King—you shall be in your life ! .
             Trust to your Pussy ; follow Fortune's calling.
CARABA (in ecstacies). O Cat, what music in your caterwauling !
             Cat of good omen ! Cat of prophet race !
              Macbeth's three witches in one whiskered face!
              New strength,, new hope, your promises infuse,—
              Feline Thalia ! deign to be my mews I
                           Care killed a cat,
                             But that was long ago ;
                          Shakspeare tells us flat
                             Her mind she did not know.
                                                               U— 2

                         ACTING CHARADES.
                           Oh, Pussy, stupid Pussy !
                             Pussy unlike you.
                           We 'll hunt our.fortunes, Pussy—
                             Hunt, and find them too !
                           Care killed a cat,
                             But not the jolly miller ;
                           He cared for nobody,
                             Except himself and siller.
                           Oh, Pussy, clever Pussy I
                             Thou hast wits for two ;
                           Find me a good place, Pussy,
                             And not too much to do.
                           Care killed a cat ;
                             Care shan't kill you or me ;
                          We are strong and fat
                             As Baboo fed on ghee.
                           Oh, Pussy, clever Pussy !
                             Pussy, I trust you,—
                          Find me a rich wife, Pussy-
                             Rich, and pretty too !
                                   Scene III.
                          Re-enter Araba, very cross.
 Araba (to Caraba,). Clear out of this ; I'm lord and master now ;
              You 've got your portion ; pack your goods and go.
 Cat (consolingly). Never mind, youngster; we'1l set out on our journey,
              Like knight and steed for mediaeval tourney,
              And find a lady quite as rich and fair
              As ever knight did on his destrier;
              You only need your Sunday clothes complete,
              And / new boots to decorate my feet.
Araba (roughly). I 'd have you shod, my friend, with walnut-shells.
 Caraba (determined). He shall be booted like the Bond Street swells.
Araba (sarcastic). You'd better sell him to a French guinguette;
              Mosso would find him toothsome when snarp-set ;
              With sauce piquante, some restaurant scapin
              Would turn him into gibelotte de lapin.
Cat (to Caraba, gloomily). If you kill me, you kill your golden goose.
Caraba (cheering him). Live, Puss, and prove that you can be of use.—
              Sniff out some heiress worthy my devotion—
              A young man from the country on promotion :
              Can you not help me to a Lord Mayor's daughter,
              Like Whittington's famed cat across the water ?
Cat (disdainfully). Lord Mayor indeed! I hope your views point higher;
              To a King's daughter should your eyes aspire !
Araba (pushing them away). Princess or mayoress seek elsewhere, I pray,
              And don't stand jabbering at my door all day.

                            PUSS JN BOOTS.                                  213
                                    ACT II.
                                    Scene I.
                           Enter Caraba and Cat.
Caraba (yawning). I 'm in the dumps ; I wonder if I 'm spoony ;
              I 'm off my feed, and off my sleep, and moony.
              I saw a lovely lady in a carriage,                      [Sighing.
             And ever since my thoughts have run on marriage ;
             Though which I love, fine coach or finer lady,
              I know no better than the Poet Sadi.
Cat (aside). He 's smitten with the Princess and her riches.
                                                          [ With dignity, aloud.
             Fine clothes look finer when beheld from ditches,
             And coaches softer when we tramp on stones.
              Come, leave off whining ; what 's the good of moans ?
              Strip, and jump headlong in that reedy river.       [To Caraba.
Caraba (starts). You idiot Cat ! the mere thought makes me shiver !
             A cold bath on this damp day of September?
              I 'd have rheumatic gout in every member.
CAT (with energy). Nonsense ! your fortune hangs upon this minute,—
             Cold water's very pleasing when you're in it;
             Trust to your Tom.
Caraba (grumbling and taking off his coat). Fool that I was to heed you !
             For Heaven knows where each new caprice will lead you.
             Such folly 's quite enough to make one swear.—
             There goes my collar !
CAT.                                    Never mind a tear ;
             It is the last time you shall don those rags.
             There, lay them on that tuft of reeds and flags,—
             Don't stop to argue, for the time is pressing ;
             If we succeed, you 'll give poor Tom your blessing.
      [CARABA goes, grumbling, to the side scene, and is heard to splash into
           the water. The Cat seizes his clothes, and flings them out on the
           other side of the stage, as if into the water.
             He 's in ; then follow, thou clodhopper tweed !
             If he wants clothes now, he with Poole must plead.
             T is time I get rid of this seedy bundle ;
             I hear, I hear the royal coach's trundle.        [Sound of wheels.
      [Cat runs mewing about the stage, and wringing his paws in distress,
           crying out aloud,
             Help, help my lord ! Oh, where 's my master's drapery ?
             His coat, his bathing-sheet, and other napery ?
             Some thief has ta'en them, and here comes the King !
             Thieves! Thieves! Fire! Fire! Murder!—everything!
                         Enter King and Princess.
Cat (with great rapidity of speech). O gracious liege ! my lord is in the
                 river.
             He can't get out except to shake and shiver
             In puris naturalibus, and that
             I know he won't, as I'm a modest cat.

2i4                     ACTING CHARADES.
             Some thief, has stolen his suit of cramoisie,
             And not a shirt or pantaloon has he—
             Sad plight for nobleman of high degree !
King (astonished). A talking cat ! the missing link, I vow !
             Huxley and Darwin, triumph with me now !
             De Chaillu's apes were never half so human :
             This creature chatters like a pretty woman.             [Cat giggles.
             Remind me, love (to Princess) —Good heavens) the thing can
                  laugh !—
             When I go home, to write a monograph
             To the Society of Anthropology
             On this, my new discovery in zoology :
             On one side genus Felis, on the other
             (He 's black) the negro type—a man and brotherj
PRINCESS. He talks good English, not like Quashee's pranks.
King.        Has he a tail, child? Can his race be Manx?
PRINCESS. He has his tail on, like Mac Ivor's chief.
KING.        A Celtish cat from Inverness or Crieff.
Cat (kneeling down before the King,). Have pity on my master wet and chilly.
Princess. Let 's drive back to some shop in Piccadilly
             For shirts with ballet girls or boatmen printed.
King (severely). Your taste lacks culture, as I oft have hinted ;
             Read Owen Jones, his " Decoration Grammar."
Cat (aside). O King, you 're dense as Civil Service crammer.
             A flannel shirt will do ; cheap tweeds from Hyam,              [Aloud.
              Pegtops and cutaway
PRINCESS (with energy).                    1 11 go and buy 'em !
King (peevishly to Princess,). You wasteful girl I some old clothes we will
                lend;
             Who runs up tailors' bills to serve a friend ?
              In my valise you '11 find a robe to spare ;                 [To Cat.
              Take it and welcome. Is my valet there ?                       [Calls.
 Cat (prostrating himself with gratitude). Good King 1 kind King ! you 've
                saved my master's life,
              And helped him half-way to his future wife.                    [Aside.
                                                   [Servant enters with a valise.
                                                     King examines the contents.
 King.        Not that—my best suit ! anything that's seedy
              Is quite sufficient guerdon for the needy.
              That lace is rather tarnished ; that will do ;
              Add vest and collar, and a glove or two.
                                                [Cat seizes the things, and rushes
                                                              off the stage, crying,
Cat.          Come, Marquis Carabas, come from the water !
              Present yourself before the King and daughter ;
              Reflected lights of royalty you show
              From your cocked chapeau to your buckled toe,
              Your velvet vest o'erlaid with golden laces,
              And royal handiwork on those gay braces.                     [Exeunt.

                            PUSS IN BOOTS.                               215
                                    Scene III.
                          Enter King and PRINCESS.
    KING writes notes in a memorandum-book; Princes fidgets about.
                    Old Scotch Air.—/ wonder if I'll be married f
PRINCESS (sings).       Oh, I wonder if 1 11 be married ?
                           Married ? Ay, married !
                        Oh, I wonder if I '11 be married—
                           Married before that I die ?
King (still writing). Grey whiskers ; body, lean; fur, black; fore-paws,
              Not over-clean ; the usual share of claws ;
              Hind legs thrust into boots ; the strangest feature
              Of this remarkably abnormal creature—
              Born booted—is a fact scarce known to hearsay.
PRINCESS (aside). His master is abnormal too, I dare say ;
              Another of those spectacled old fogies
              Pa brings to Court, as ugly-faced as bogueys,
              Professors of the ologies, red-nosed !
              My only fun is when with slang I 've posed
              Max Miiller's worshippers, or bet Fitz-Lyell
              At six-bar gates to have a racing trial,
              Which makes a first-rate geologic " dip,"
              As he heels over like a tacking ship.                 [Laugks.
              Pa sent me up last Christmas to the Local ;
              Of course they plucked me, save in music vocal ;
              I sang them " Champagne Charlie:" it was stunning !
              The president rebuked me—" Cease your funning."
              Court is so dull ! I wish I were of age,
              And I 'd elope to-morrow with my page :
              He 's a conceited ape, 'twixt you and me ;
              But anything is better than ennui.
                         Air. —Heyfor one and twenty, Sam t
(Princess sings.)    Hey for one and twenty, pa ;
                        Ho 1 sweet one and twenty, pa ;
                     1 11 take the bit between my teeth,
                        When I am one and twenty, pa.
                     Professors cannot flirt or jest ;
                        Their lectures are too plenty, pa ;
                     I want to have the talk myself,
                        When I am one and twenty, pa.
                     I 've ten Venezuela shares,
                        Were left me by my auntie, pa ;
                     So I can boil my own kail-pot,
                        When I am one and twenty, pa.
                     You 'd have me wed some Dryasdust
                        As glum as gloomy Dante, pa ;
                      But I '11 pick up a soldier lad,
                        When I am one and twenty, pa.

216                      ACTING CHARADES.
  Enter Caraba in the King's robes, Cat following, holding up his train.
Princess. Here comes my hero ; well, he is a beauty !
              To please the gentlemen 's a lady's duty.               [Demurely.
              Good evening, Marquis ; would you like a drive ? [To Caraba.
Cat (aside). A fast young lady with her wits alive 1
                                   Scene IV.
   [Ca kaba stares shyly at the Princess. Princess holds out her hand
         encouragingly. Cat impatiently pushes Caraba forward.
CAT.          Quick! seize it ! faint heart ne'er fair lady gained.
       [Caraba takes the Princess's hand, and drops it again sheepishly.
           King calls to the coachman, who is supposed to be outside.
King.         Drive by the sewers that I may see they're drained
              According to last sanitary laws.
              Was your cat born with boots upon his paws?           [To Caraba.
              Why not with gloves ? Discrepancy prolific
              Of many a wise conjecture scientific !
Caraba (to Princess, stammering). Ne'er saw I beauty till these eyes saw
           you.
Princess (jauntily.) You flatter, sir; you flirt, I dare say, too?
Caraba. I don't know how.
Princess (laughing).             Oh, la ! the boy 's a booby I
Caraba (taking courage). What a small hand ! and what a Balas ruby !
PRINCESS (putting it on hisfinger). I 'm glad you like it ; wear it for my sake.
Caraba (putting his hand on his heart). If e'er I part with it my heart will
            break.
Princess (aside). T is only Palais Royal gem and gold.
King (pettishly). Come, children, haste ; the evening air grows cold.
                                                                  [Exeunt omnes.
                                      —*—
                                    ACT III.
     Scene I.—A Corn-field. 'Peasants reaping, and singing ballad.
( Peasants sing.)       It was the mirk midnight,
                          And sharp the north wind blew ;
                        The witch-wife rose from out her bed,
                          And saddled the sea-mew,
                        And over the sea and over the land
                           To the witches' tryst she flew.
Jenkins.       Dost thee believe in witches, neighbour Hodge ?
HODGE.         Ay, that I du. I heerd one at my lodge
              A-howling and a-howling all the night,
               And off fi scoured just at the morning light.
Jenkins (doubtfully). Mayhap it was a Aowlet if it howled.
Hodge (offended). Can't thee believe a story when thou 'it towld ?
              'T ain't no good manners to pick holes and doubt
Giles.         Sure, nobody tells lees till he 's found out.
Hodge.         I know for sartain old folks make a bargain
               With the foul fiend by French or Latin jargon,
               And then they turn black cats upon a broom,
               Flying o'er hill and dale across the gloom.

                           PUSS IN BOOTS.                                   21 7
Jenkins (still sceptical). Black cats don't fly.
HODGE (with an air of superior wisdom).            Not common cats, I know ;
              But witch-cats have some magic way to go ;
             And then Old Nick is under pledge to aid.
Jenkins (bragging). I 'd like to see them coming ! Who 's afraid ?
                                  Scene II.
                       Enter Luke, pale and terrified.
Luke.         Oh, neighbours, neighbours, here 's an awful story !—
              The world's come to an end. \Wipes his brow, stares wildly.
All.                                           Luke, what 's come o'er ye ?
Luke.         A cat bewitched, that talks, and scolds, and swears,
              And on its hind legs hobnailed bluchers wears ;
              A savage monster, to our field he came,
              Rolled his green eyes, and called us each by name :
           " Good people," quoth he, " you must boldly say,
              When we and His Majesty do pass this way,
              And asks, inquiring whose fair parks are these,
              Whose fields, whose flocks, whose cattle, and whose trees,
            ' The High and Mighty Marquis Carabas,'
              Or every one of you, ground down to glass,
              Chopped in small bits, shall be to vultures flung."
              Then, glaring fiercely, down the road he sprung ;
              Here comes he quickly—he 'll tell you the same.
ALL.          But Carabas is not our master's name ;
              Our lord's an ogre with Hungarian titles.
Hodge.        This news comes very home to all our vitals.
Giles.        Chopping and changing is an endless pother.
LUKE.         Chopping or changing—choose ye one or other.
HODGE.        First law of nature is self-preservation ;
              Truth 's but a secondary consideration.
Jenkins (stolidly). If I must tell a lie, why, then I must.
 Hodge.       I call that logic
Luke (angrily).                  Don't kick up a dust !
GILES.         In vain to-day brief safety should we borrow;
              Our Ogre master would find out to-morrow.
 HODGE.       And then would come the chopping, I assure you ;
              Down in his donjon dark he would immure you,
              Sending his cook to fatten up each pheasant—
              No, I mean peasant.
 GILES.                               Either is unpleasant.
              I 'm skin and bones, but you 're like larded capon,
              And in a pie would take a goodly shape on.
              Here comes the monster, kicking up the dust !
 All.         Well, if we must tell lies, of course we must !
                                  Scene III.
 Enter Cat, booted and spurred, cracking a huge whip, and scowling fiercely
                                on the Peasants.
 Cat.         Good people, when the King drives here to-day,
               If every one of you don't boldly say,

218                      ACTING CHARADES.
             When asks His Majesty, " Whose farms are these ?
             Whose stacks, whose barns, whose orchards, and whose trees ?"
           " The High and Mighty Marquis Carabas !"
             Then every one of you, ground down like glass,
             Chopped in small bits shall be, to vultures flung,
             And carrion crows make mincemeat of your tongue.
             Now, let me hear you shout it ere I pass— [With authority.
             The High and Mighty Marquis Carabas!
Jenkins (humbly). Please, Mr. Cat, an Ogre is our squire.
Cat.         Villain ! I '11 have you broiled upon the fire !
All ( trembling and stammering) . The High and Mighty Marquis Carabas!
Cat (graciously). Now to reward you for this small concession.
             The Marquis comes to-night to take possession ;
             Munched up himself before to-morrow morning
             Shall be your Ogre,—all of you take warning 1
                     [Exit Cat. Peasants breathefreely, andgrow very bold.
All.         We might have floored him—such a mite to bounce!
             Are we but mice for stranger cats to pounce ?
Hodge (to Jenkins,). You should have struck him; you've a bullock's fist.
Jenkins (to Hodge,). I did think of it; but suppose I missed!
Giles (to HodgeJ. I killed the last wolf; it is now your turn.
HODGE (grandly). Cats are but vermin, and such prey I spurn!
ALL.         Cats are but vermin—set the dogs to worry 'em,
             And when they 're dead we 11 not disdain to bury 'em.
                                                              [Exeunt omnes.
                                    ACT IV.
       Scene I.—Interior of Ogre's Castle. A large Hall.
            OGRE seated at table, arranging Red Indian scalps.
OGRE.        I 'm very dull here ; everybody 's quiet ;
             Europe 's forgetting how to make a riot ;
             Even a dissolution of the House
             Can't raise abroad the spirit of a mouse.
              If in the hustings bleed no broken pates,
              I must cross over to the United States :
              They know what 's what ; with Colt's and Bowie knives
              Folks get some small excitement in their lives.
              But here we 've nothing but excursion trains
              To mangle limbs, and blow out people's brains,
             And strew with carcases the six-foot ways,
              Recalling the dark ages. Happy days 1
              Too happy days ! when one could roast a Jew,
              And not a meddler write the " Times " unto ;
              When serfs were serfs, and sought not useful knowledge,
              And no man lectured at a Ladies' College.
              Too happy days ! when Tyburn tree bore fruit,
              And gibbets were a British institute ;
              Hanging the cura for thieving and for forging,
              Our jails and prisons daily crammed to gorging.
              Ah, happy days ! when to the drop we sent all.
               I 'm always hungry when I 'm sentimental !

                            PUSS IN BOOTS.                                     219
             I had my boy-soup at eleven o'clock,
             And now I feel as peckish as game c»ck. [Rings bell violently.
             Ho, there ! my babyfricass/e! my lunch !
             Bring in the tray, oaf, or your bones I 'U crunch.
                                         [Enter Servant with luncheon-tray, £r>e.
SERVANT (humbly). My lord, a travelled cat your audience seeks,
             A wizard cat—he wears boots, and he speaks !
Ogre (fiercely). I want my lunch, you rascal ! Where 's my lunch ?
              Put down the tray ; your travelled cat I 'll munch
             In one small mouthful I                       [Begins to eat greedily.
      Cat enters unannounced, and coolly sits down opposite Ogre. •'
Cat.                                      Would you like to try ?
              Pray don't disturb yourself, 't is only I ;
              Passing your door, I thought I 'd just drop in
             And take pot luck.
OGRE (roars out).                      My castle 's not an inn !
Cat (blandly). Just so. Your hospitality 's renowned.
             A Dorking capon ! larded, I 'll be bound. [Examines the meal.
OGRE (with fiendish glee). T is baby-arms, with curry-powder drest.
Cat (shuddering). An ! then there 's not too much for host and guest ;
              It s not a dish to which I 'm very partial.
              Ingenuus puer, as saith the poet Martial.
              You 're fond of poetry and tuneful tones ?
              You 've a grand piano ?
OGRE (growls).                              No, I play the bones.
Cat.          Well, as for me, I sing sometimes by rote ;
              So, when I 've washed the dust out of my throat,
              I '1l give you a new ditty, quite the rage,
              The very spirit of our cynic age.           [Helps himself to wine.
                       [Drinks off his glass, leans-back in his chair, and sings.
                             Air. —PaddU your ovm Canoe-
                              I have no wife
                              To scratch out my life,
                         No kittens to squeal and prowl ;
                              So, till day is done,
                              I sit in the sun,
                         And blink like a barn-door owl.
                              Cheop's Pyramid
                              Holds my ancestors hid,
                         Each swaddled in mummified fold ;
                              They were worshipped once
                              By both sage and dunce
                         Who lived in Egyptia old.
                              But I never would crave
                              An idol's grave,
                          Nor to sleep by the mummied Thoth ;
                              So, till day is done,
                               I sit in the sun,
                         And doze like a drowsy sloth.

                           ACTING CHARADES.
                               I can catch my mouse
                             • In stable or house,
                          Nor care for one human scowl ;
                               And, when work is done,
                                I sit in the sun,
                          And blink like a barn-door owl.
              That 's nineteenth century philosophy :
              De'il tak' the hindmost, if the first I be;
              Live for yourself, and let the world go smash.
Ogre.         It's very good sense—no humbug or trash—
              It 's quite our ogre creed.
CAT.                                             And Stuart Mill's.
              Let the strong spend ; the weak must pay the bills.
OGRE (crossly). When are you going off? I want my nap.
Cat.          I 've heard at magic you 're the cleverest chap,—
              Can change to lion great or tiny bee ;
              It is a sight I 've long desired to see,
              Yet can I not believe it !
Ogre (roars).                                   Starveling brute !
              D' ye think I 'd lie? 1 11 brain you with your boot !
              I 'd eat you up as soon as look at you !
Cat (coolly). Don't look then ; and don't eat me : if you do,
              I '11 disagree so with your membrane mucous !
              It's only French restaurateurs can cook us.
              But can you change, then, to a lion's shape ?                  [Coaxingly.
OGRE.         Tigers and lions I have yet a few                          -
              Railed in my park, a sort of model Zoo,
              Also gorillas—that 's their proper place ;
              But lions here, 'mong tapestry and lace,
              Tumbling upon my carpet's velvet pile 1
Cat.          Oh, please don't mention it, 't is not worth while ;
                                                                       [With indifference.
              I dare say 't is a trumpery sorry sight,
              Some juggling trick. He '11 do it out of spite.                      [Aside.
Ogre.         You think so ! I can see you dread the peril.
Cat.          Ha, ha! he takes me for hysteric gir-r-r-r-1!
OGRE.         You like to bluster, and then shun the test.
Cat.          My dear friend, you 're a twaddler, I protest !
              Excuse me for strong language ; high faluting
              Is not your line at all, and no way suiting.                         [Sings.
                   Air. —Believe me, ifall those endearing young charms.
                  Believe me, if all those old ogreish charms
                     That I gaze on astonished to-day,
                 Were to change in my presence to dreadful alarms
                     Of a lion that roars for its prey,
                  I would still be as calm as this moment I am,
                     Let thine ogreship change as it will ;
                  I would finish my plateful of omelette and jam,
                    And enjoy my dry Sillery still.

                              I>[fSS IN BOOTS.                                 221
       [While he is singing, the OGRE disappears behind the screen in the
            corner, a roar is heard, in rushes a lion. Cat seizes the wicker
            back of his chair, and holds it before him as a shield.
               An optical illusion ! nought to boast
               Like Stodare's sphynx or Polytechnic ghost :
               I see the Ogre underneath your gape ;                     ,
               Your lion 's not so good as Blondin's ape.
               But if you will play Flavian Circus games,
               Have at you then ! Lo, how the impostor tames !
                                [Flings a hassock at lion, who ducks to avoid it.
               You 're only make-believe, like ass in fable.
               I 'll ring and have you locked up in the stable ;
               Nobody now feels reverence or fear
               For men or gods, for lions or small deer.
                                 [Lion skulks out with his tail between his legs.
               Ha, ha ! he can't stand preachment, I perceive :
               At my first sermon-head he took French leave.
 Ogre (reappears). Art now convinced ? My power dost humbly own ?
 Cat.          Oh, anybody can be overgrown ;
               The test of genius is to shine in littles:
               Radetzky beating corporals at skittles ;
               Lord Derby emulous of Tupper's diction ;
               Carlyle a copyist of Miss Braddon's fiction ;
              Napoleon scribbling half Burnand's libretto ;
              Or Gladstone drowning Mario in falsetto.
              Let 's see you try that sort of thing, old codger !
                                                          [Slaps him on the back.
                                                        1
              Don't mind the furniture,— I 'm but a. lodger    ;
              Or, if you fear to spoil your tasty house,
              Your portly person squeeze into a mouse ;
              Or, smaller still, one of the industrious fleas,
              Or mites that burrow in a Stilton cheese.
OGRE.         I hate to personate such petty vermin ;
              But that my magic power you may determine,
              Behold!
      [Ogre vanishes behind screen/ a mouse runs out. Cat pounces on the
           mouse, shakes it, worries it, and carries it round the room dangling
           in his teeth. (The mouse can be one of those worked on wheels).
Cat.         Yes, now I know your power beyond a miss.                   [Eats it.
              How very little of a meal it is !
                 Who would have thought an Ogre's mighty corpus
              Would scarcely whet one's appetite for dinner ?
                 I could as lief have eaten up a porpoise
             As him, without this magic for beginner !
                                                           [Rings the bell loudly.
                                   Scene III.
Enter Servants, who stare at the Cat, but keep silence. Cat sits in the Ogre's
                            chair twiddling his paws.
Cat.          Well ! where 's your manners, fools ?
Servants (scraping and bowing).                          My lud, your grace?

                          ACTING CHARADES.
Cat.         Your master's gone down to his proper place;
             Vanished, my friends ! He dabbled, as you knew,
             In the black art. You need not look so blue.
             His hour has struck. Long since he sold his soul ;
             T was a bad bargain ! Did you see the scroll,
             Signed with his blood ? To-day the debt fell due,
             So I 've dispatched him home.
Servants.                                             He 's gone ; is 't true ?
Cat.         You never more will see your Ogre chief.
SERVANTS cheer. Hurrah ! hurrah !
Cat.                                       You don't seem choked with grief!
             But don't you reckon on democracy,
             For I am pledged to aristocracy ;
             I give you leave to vote, each man Jack there,
             But only for my nominee,—that 's fair ;
             That 's universal suffrage ! Vote, then, free               [ Very grandly.
              For your new master, as proposed by me.
             Speak up, then ; vote for Marquis Carabas ;
                This very night you must receive him here.
SERVANTS. It 's all the same— Lord Cat or Carabas—
                So we 've our perquisites and lots of beer.
CAT.          Clean up the hall, then, for the King get ready,
              Deck Monsieur Ogre's boudoir for the lady—
              The lovely Princess—who, 't is said, will pass
              Her life here as the Lady Carabas.
                  [Servants hurry about, Cat leans back in the OGRE'S chair,
                                        humming sarcastically.
                             Air. —Boh. ban, Ca-Caliban.
                Ban, ban, Catamaran,
                Of your old master you 11 make a new man.
                                       ACT V.
                                       Scene I.
 INTERIOR OF Ogre's Castle. Table spread with a banquet in the back-
    found. Servants drawn up to receive the KING. Enter the royalparty,
       ING and PRINCESS abreast; Caraba very much surprised and bewil
     dered; Cat doing the honours. Servants cheer lustily; music strikes up—
                    Air. —Hail to the Chief that in triumph advances.
                Hail to the Marquis that shyly advances !
                   Honoured and blest be the ever-wise Cat !
                Long may the King and the maid with arch glances
                   Flourish and fidget, and laugh and grow fat.
                      Heaven send them plenty money,
                      Earth yield them bread and honey;
              Gay may they glitter, and loved may they grow.
                      Shout, groom and vassal,
                      Through courtyard and castle,
              Marquis of Carabas, ho t ieroe I

                              PVSS IN BOOTS.                                  223
                  He is no Ogre, to pilfer and purloin,
                     Snapping up strangers to roast at his board ;
                  When the butcher comes up with his saddle and sirloin,
                     Oh, then will Carabas joy in her lord.
                       Fed upon wholesome diet,
                       Wedded in peace and quiet,
               Never a breeze on the couple shall blow.
                       Housemaids and servingmen,
                       Echo their praise again,
              Marquis of Carabas, ho! ieroe!
       [During- the song the King goes peering about, examining the wain-
            scotting, the chimneypiece, the hearth, and window-sashes.
 KING.        Well built—good ventilators—patent, whose ?
              Amott's or Moore's ? 't is difficult to choose.
              The vulgar have a prejudice 'gainst draughts—
              Confuted in my book on chimney-shafts.
               Is that a Ransome's filter ? I 'in expectant
              Of miracles in my new disinfectant,
              Shown at the Social Congress.
Princess.                                          Stop that, Pappy !
              He 's such a twaddler when he 's pleased and happy.
                                                                  \To Carabas.
              And now we 're waiting, Marquis, {or your speech.
Carabas (alarmed). Oh, please ! I can't !
Princess (scornfully to Carabas, with a nudge). He reddens like a peach!
              Men nowadays are but half educated.
              I fear me, in this case, I 'm matched, not mated.
              Say something, like a well-drilled British lord ;
              Suppose yourself guest at the Lord Mayor's board,
              Returning thanks for King and Constitution.
              Come, fire away ! don't splutter in confusion.
Carabas (desperate). My lords and gentlemen; {to Princess) but ar* they
                 gents?
Princess. They like the honour—'t is a poor pretence—
              Don't hammer !
Carabas (stutters).                Pr-o-udest m-m-o-ment of my life—
              Unused to public speaking— h-h-e-re 's my wife.
PRINCESS (interrupts). There, that will do ! and as my name is in it, '
              I 'II polish off your speech in half a minute.
(To Servants,) Good folks, you're welcome ! gardeners, horseboys, pages;
              If you suit me, I '1l double all your wages.
                                                          [Servants cheer loudly.
              But see my croquet lawn you daily mow,
              And my park ride keep soft as Rotten Row.
              I 've set my heart upon a pony chaise,
              Two piebald ponies—horses are my craze—
              A hack I must have, and an Arab mare,
              So see you keep my stable on the square ;
              For I '1l examine, when I 've had my supper,
              Stable and harness-room, from bit to crupper.

 224                      ACTING CHARADES.
 King.         My dear ! my dear ! you strain the woman's tether.
 Princess.        Oh, I 'm a nobody x.o you, of course I
 Cat (aside). What fun it is to bring that pair together,
                  And watch the grey mare prove the better horse.
               I 've raised my younker to the highest ranks,
               But, after all, I don't expect much thanks ;
              There must be drawbacks in this weary life,—
              A throne might be a bore with such a clever wife !
                              Scene II.—The same.
 Servant enters and announces Araba, who follows, dressed in blue coat and
                       brass buttons, gaiters and top boots.
SERVANT.      Araba Miller, of Milltown, Esquire,
              And Deputy-Lieutenant of the Shire.
Araba (advances to Kingj. My liege {starts on perceiving Caraba), my liege
              —why, Caraba !—and there 's the Cat !
               Oh, gemini ! they 'll give me tit for tat.          [Ruefully.
CARABA.       Yes, brother, it is I, and I 'm a lord :
              This is my castle, comfortably stored.
              You 'll stay and sup, and taste my port, beeswing?
              And, by-the-bye, this gentleman 's the King.
                  [King eagerly takes Araba by the coat, and begins to gabble.
King.         The very man I 've wanted long to see,
              An agricultural Midland grandee !
Cat.           So, majesty hath got him by the button,
                 And prattles on without regard to stops.
King.         Do you approve of Thorley's food for mutton ?
                 And what is your rotation of green crops ?
              Will you assist me with some papers deep [Gabbles very fast.
                 On guano from the Kooria Mooria Isles?
              Did you e'er speculate in Tartar sheep ?
                 And what 's the price of terra cotta tiles ?
              Have you extracted silica from stubble ?
                  Is whisky swill thought wholesome for pig-wash ?
ARABA (haughtily). My liege ! my money 's made. I never trouble
                 My head with all that stupid stuff and trash.
CARABA (wondering). How made you money? for the place was poor,
                 Trade was but slack, ungrateful was the soil.
ARABA.        Nobody thrives now by the slow and sure !
                 I dug up my foundations, and—"struck oil!"
              Then made a tidy business of the selling
              To a cute Yankee, but retained the dwelling.
              Our ancestors for ages owned that mill,
              And so I 'm Miller of the Milltown still.
              It is a handle with the landed gentry,
              Land is a pass-word to Belgravia's sentry ;
              As for the Scotch, you may be rich as Croesus
                 And yet they say, " We will esteem you poor ;
              If you 've no country-seat you cannot please us :
                 You must be of some rock, or bog, or moor."

                              PUSS IN BOOTS.                               225
Carabas.       Pussy and I congratulate you, brother !
Cat.           I wonder what has happened to the other?
                                   Scene III.
Servant announces Baraba, who enters, extravagantly dressed in a foreign
         style, bowing and smirking and dangling a gold eye-glass.
Servant. Signor Baraba, Impresario.
 PRINCESS (ecstatic). The dear black man ; he parts his hair like Mario !
 Baraba (with a foreign accent). Zis be delights (starts). Per Bacco ! what,
                  old Araba !
               And chef the Cat! and chef che! booby Caraba!
               Sare, I muche frightened that I make one misses.
                                                                 [To the King.
Cat.           Come on, you need not fear this company's kisses.
Caraba.        So, you 've turned artist?
Baraba.        Yes ; ze opera 's mine !
               I bring great stars togezzer zere to shine ;
               I bring out my great card, my double bass,
              Signor Somaro.
Araba.                            Why, that 's daddy's ass !
Baraba (dignified). Sare, you have wrong ! he singer from abroad ;
               He get muche clapping—vat you call applaud.
               Gounod wrote for his part—compose for us
              Ze Golden Legend of Apuleius ;
              Ze musik critics back us in a body.
Cat.           Upon my word, this donkey-power beats Shoddy.
PRINCESS (sentimentally). I like that black-haired signor best of all ;
               I wish he owned the Ogre's house and hall,
              I 'd be his prima donna if he chose ;
              My Marquis has not half so good a nose!
Cat (to PRINCESS^. Upon an opera-house your faith don't pin,
              Theatrical lessees too seldom win ;
              At first you 'd make a splinge and spout and splutter,
              Then out you 'd go ! and where 's your bread and butter ?
PRINCESS (to Cat;. That 's very true : a love-match never pays ;
              I '1l stick to my new stable and my bays !
              Cupid was never known to drive a team
                  More sprightly than his mother's doves, they say ;
              So I 'll give up my sentimental dream,
                 And let the signor toddle on his way.
              Signor, put me down for a box next season,         [To Baraba.
              I don't mind prices—anything in reason—
             A good place, please, to see whatever passes,
              On stage or off it, without aid of glasses ;
             And bring your star on my first concert night :
              I 'll put him in my programme (gold and white)
             As "by desire!"—it always makes sensation.
BARABA (bowing). Madame, your bounty gives me palpitation.
KING.         Is it not supper-time? who else is coming?
              Out in the lobby there 's a fiddle strumming,—
                                                                 16            •

226                      ACTING CHARADES.
              Is that the supper gong? I 'm here incog.
              Hand round the sherry; Marquis, help the prog!
                           [They turn towards the supper-table. Outside, in a
                                     very deep bass voice, Signor SOMARO sings,
                                Air. —Sound an a/arm!
         Solo. Sound an alarm ! your silver trumpets sound !
                And call the hungry and the thirsty round.
                 Who craveth, follow ! To the joint again !
                 Roast beef and mustard for a thousand men !
       Chorus. We hear ! we hear the appetizing call,
                 And follow to the banquet one and all;
                 King, Marquis, guests, let 's hope there 's food for all !
CAT (to BarabaJ. I thought you said your signor was a bass ;
              But that 's a tenor's ditty. What an ass !
Baraba.       He can sing all ze gamut, top to toe,
              Farzer zan any biped's troat can go.
              Oh, he sing everysing,— he roar like Santlcy,
              Bellow like Formes or ze Worm of Wantley.
                                                              [Music again outside.
      Recitative. I rage, I melt, I burn, I hubble bubble!
                   The royal bride of Caraba 's my trouble.
                   Thou trusty pannier, that I bore so long
                   With stumbling steps, 'neath many a lash and thong,
                   I lay thee by. Bring me a pound of shag,
                   To fill a pipe for my capacious mouth ;
                   A porter pewter, that at once I brag
                   The Princess' beauty, and appease my drouth.
                           Air.—Oh, ruddier than the cherry !
                        Oh, strong as brandied cherry !
                        Spicy as elderberry !
                           Oh, Princess fast
                           As winter blast,
                        And sharp as Afric sherry !
                        Cool as a currant cluster !
                        She ne'er is in a fluster !
                           With all her fun
                           Minds Number One,
                        And lets the weak world bluster.
              Enter Donkey as Signor SOMARO. (Applause.)
     [All come forward to thefront of the stage; Cat in the centre addresses
                                       the audience.
Cat.         Now, gentle friends, my task is well-nigh done.
             Royal and noble is the miller's son ;
             His wife may rule the roast, but then she's rich,
             And well we know how money can bewitch !
             In fact, there's nothing like it in our days
             To win the bachelor from his lone club ways ;

                                    CONFLA GRA TION.                                              227
                    A Gorgon is a houri in his eyes
                    If in her hand she bring the yellow prize.
                    Nor failed the brothers in their fortune's quest,—
                    Each has attained the thing he likes the best,
                    Titles and fame and notoriety.
                    I hope you have not found satiety
                    From our brief rendering of an old-world story,
                    Which gladly we'1l rehearse again before ye;
                    And wish you good luck of your humblest friends.
                    Cats, donkeys, fools, may bring about your ends.
                                                                                     [CurtainJails.
                                CONFLAGRATION.
                                          In Four Acts,
                                       Sjmopsis of Sccncrg.
                                    ACT I. (The word is CON.)
  Scene I.—A Library.—Door to left of stage ; writing-table, four Windsor chairs, horse-hair sofa.
  Scene II. —The same.
  Scbne III.—The same.             ACT II- (The word is FLAG.)
  Scene I.—A Ship's Deck. —The rigging may be represented by the housemaid's steps. If a ladder
be placed against the side wall, it would add to the scene. The Union Jack should be hoisted on the
top of the steps or ladder. A large square box may represent the hatches, behind which the crew
come up to the front.
                                 ACT III. (The word is RATION.)
  Scene I. —A Desert Island. —Must be imagined if there be no good painter at hand. The furni
ture of the room must be cleared away, and some shrubs from the greenhouse set about as disorderly
as possible, shells strewed about, and any pieces of stone or mineral that can be got
  Scene II. —A rude tent in the corner can be made ot shawls and waterproofs hung over the umbrella-
stand or a couple of screens. A barrel of flour, a keg of mm, and a heap of broken cups and plates
furnish the tent. A fire with pot boiling—can be represented with red foil for fire.
  Scene III.—The same as before : a heap of shawls in a corner for the child Effie to lie upon.
                                  ACT IV. {CONFLAGRATION.)
  Scene I. —A Bed-room. —Sofa can be arranged like a bed ; a toilet-table and glass, and a big bath
complete the accessories.
  Scene II. —The same.
  Scene III.—A Boudoir—which means the drawing-room restored to its usual condition of neatness
and ornament.
  Scene IV.— A Dining-room.—At the back a window which can open : if there is no balcony at the
back of the room that is used for acting in, a false window must be made, with paper sash and panes,
which can be smashed in by the fireman ; if there is a balcony, the real window can be opened for the
escape of the actors from the supposed fire. Flashes of flame might be thrown into the room by clever
management -of mirrors and candies in the passage, the mirrors being quckly moved at the proper
angles of reflection, in the way that boys tease their opposite neighbours by flashing the sunlight into
their eyes.
   Scene V.—Another Dining-room.—A very slight alteration would do for this last scene.
                                                ACT I.
                                     Scene I.—A Library.
                                         Dramatis ^persons.
Dr. Rigid (a Stlwolmaster).                            Johnson.
 Frank Bumptiois (a boy going w/J to pass for          Thomson.
     the Navy).
 Hon. Adolphvs Fitzlames (a ditto).                    Mrs. Rigid (the Schoolmaster's Wife).
 Brown,                                                Miss Rigid (her Daughtcr).
 Mrs. Rigid is working on a sofa tn the corner; Miss Rigid is cop reefing
        the boys' sums at the writing-table; Hon. Adoi.PHUS is trimming
                  his nails; Frank, is riding astride a Windsor chair.
                                                                                  13 —2

228                        ACTING CHARADES.
Frank.       Here, Dolly, lend a hand to pull this taut.
                                      [Fitzjames pays no attention, but yawns.
Miss RIGID {over her slates). " If fourteen quarters of ten pigs be bought,
            And sold for twelve-fifths of the cost price"—Oh !
                                   [Starts because Frank has jogged her elbow.
            You rude boy ! quickly to your grammar go ;
            You '11 never pass.
Frank.                              I hate that vile exam.;
             It 's all a humbug; cram is only sham,—
             Isn't it, Dolly?
Fitzjames (yawning).             Yaas, an awful bore;
             I did three problems, and they 've asked for more !
Frank.      Besides, I know about the sea already,—
             Port there, my hearties ! luff her ! steady, steady !
                [Acts steering a boat with the chair, which cracks at the bars.
Mrs. RIGID. Another breakage! Master Bumptious, pay
            Two half-crowns for the damage.                   [Jumps up angrily.
Frank.                                               Hoy! belay!
            You 11 soon re-furnish this old room with fines.
Miss Rigid (severely). Bring me your task on tangents and on sines.
Frank.       I '11 fly off at a tangent, if you tease. [Takes out a pea-shooter.
             My gunnery practice first. What jolly peas !
        [Hits Mrs. Rigid on the cap. Mrs. Rigid, in a rage, boxes his ears.
             Oh, oh ! I beg your pardon ; do not worrit ;        [Pretends to cry.
            Your cap was Captain Cole's revolving turret.
             How well I aimed !—allowance made for wind,
             Straight as a shaft the topmost bow I pinned !
            T would gain a thousand marks at Shoeburyness.
Mrs. RIGID (angrily). I '11 teach you aiming, imp of wickedness !
             Can't you behave like gentle, sweet Fitzjames ?
                                       [Pushes him into a corner with a big book.
             There, learn that column of historic names !
             I '11 tell the Doctor of your faults this minute.              [Exit.
Miss RIGID (coaxing). Adolphus, will you play upon my spinnet?
Frank (aside). Just like herself, as bony, hard, and yellow!
             Here, Dolly, help me, like a right good fellow.               [Aloud.
Miss RIGID (sternly). Self-help should be your motto, vide Smiles.
Frank.       Your smiles, my Pallas ! (Aside.) How the poor joke riles !
             You should be proctor of a ladies' college;                   [Aloud.
             You 're awfully got up in useful knowledge.
             Pray tell me how the human chignon grows,
                                                          [Slyly pulling her hair.
             And hangs behind in such a stunning pose.                       .
             Why, bless me ! 't is a new sum in subtraction,
             A curious case of capillar attraction.        [Pulls off her chignon.
             I only touched it with admiring fist
            [Miss Rigid sobs and cries, and catches hold of Frank's hands.
                          Enter Dr. Rigid, reading aloud.
Dr. Rigid. "The aqueous strata of micaceous schist,"—
             Heydey! who's crying?

                           CONFLAGRATION.                                       229
Miss Rigid (incoherently).                 On my hair look !—bread and water!
Dr. Rigid. Young rascal! have you dared to hurt my daughter?
Frank.        No ; only scalped her.
Dr. RIgiD (in a rage).                  I 'll skelp you—that's plain !
              Come to my room, sir ; Barbara, fetch the cane.
                                    [Exeunt Doctor, Miss Rigid, and Frank.
FitZJAMES (yawning). I am so bored, I scarce can keep awake;
              Well, Bumptious is a fool, and no mistake.                     [Exit.
                           Scene II.—A Library.
Dr. Rigid, Frank, Fitzjames, Brown, Johnson, Thomson, all scated
                            round the writing-table.
Dr. Rigid (to Frank,). Here, take your book; you don't know half your
                 dates.                                      •
              And you, sir, arc deficient in your weights.         [To Brown.
Brown.        Oh, dear no ! I 've gained half a stone in flesh.
Frank.        Dates come so far, they never can keep fresh
              In any memory. With six hundred men                      [Gabbling.
              William the Conqueror weighed twelve stone ten.
BROWN.        Two choppins English make one mutchkin Scotch.
Frank.        Robert Curthose was poisoned with hotch-potch.
Dr. Rigid. Your ignorance is crass—from Latin, crassus.
Brown.        Bother the Latin ! it will never pass us.
Dr. RIgiD (to Fitzjames/ I 'm sure you'll break down in your hydrostatics.
              And you 'll be plucked, sir, for your mathematics. [To JOHNSON.
FitZJAmeS. I know sea-water wets my flannel jacket.
JOHNSON.      If A. can't equal B., why, A. will catch it!
Dr. Rigid. On politics and history now begin,
              With facts from " Mangnall's " and " Inquire Within."
Brown (gabbling). The rotten boroughs through Welsh rabbits fell.
Frank.        Porson invented the artesian well,
              When very thirsty after cheese and onions.
JOHNSON.      Corn Laws have proved the cure of British bunions.
Dr. Rigid. Oh, muddle-headed crew ! I 'm all amaze !
              Spout me a stanza from Macaulay's " Lays."
FRANK (recites). Now, glory to old Lillywhite, who makes the bats that win ;
    And glory to our first eleven, who keep their party in.
    Now, let there be the pleasant sound of roller on the swards,
    And cheers from carriage company, thou jolly land of Lord's !
    And Harrow, thou, our Harrow, praised in Public Schools Commission,
    Send all thy batters swinging forth in excellent condition ;
    As thou hast won thy fights of old, thy innings win to-day,
    And lick the cheeky Eton lads once more in grassy fray.
     Hurrah ! hurrah ! a hundred fields inspire our champions' souls ;
     Hurrah ! hurrah ! for Harrow, for her wickets, bats, and bowls !
                            [A II the party join in a loud chorus of " II 11 rrah ! "
                                      Servant put> in his head and says,
Servant. Young gentlemen to pass up to the examiners.
                               [Dead silence. All look ruefully at each other.
Dr. Rigid. Delay not; take the plunge; it must be done.

23°                      ACTING CHARADES.
Frank.       Here goes! exam, must be no end of fun.
Brown.       My memory's gone off upon a holiday.
Johnson.     My head seems reeling round in a strathspey.
Thomson.     I 've got a faint idea of triple X.
Frank.       Faint heart wins nought : here goes it. Vivat rex!
                                                                   [Exeunt omr.cs.
                           Scene III.—A Library.
           Enter Frank, Fitzjames, Johnson, and Thomson.
Frank (singing). A riddle-ma-ree, now solve it he who can—
             Why is young Johnson just like Plato's man ?
Johnson (sulkily). You're like a hen o'er addled nest-egg cluckincj.
Brown.       Ah ! nobody likes roasting after plucking,
             Though 't is the natural order of affairs.
Johnson.     Mind your own business.
Frank.                                     Let 's all cry shares ;
             Plump all our marks into one common pot,
             And deal them equally round, scot and lot.
             D'ye think we'd any of us come out winner ?
Johnson (to Frank/ I wonder how you passed, you lazy sinner!
             I know you cribbed the little that you learned.
Frank.       Not I ; by impudence success I earned.
Thomson. And I too. Let's have your story of defeat.               [To FlTZJAMES.
Fitzjames (grandly). Defeat ! I passed.
Brown.                                         On all-fours, hands and feet !
              I heard you give it as your fixed opinion
             That Phineas, Aaron's grandson, was a Fenian !
 Frank.      They tried to pose me with pons asinorum.
             And whether Chatham was next door to Shoreham.
 Brown.       I wish I 'd known the isles of Bass and May !
             When Bass geology they bade me say,
              I vowed its aqueous stratum was the same
              As Allsopp's, and enjoyed as great a fame.
 Brown (to Johnson/ But what floored you, old fellow?
 Johnson.                                                       Who can tell?
              On chilled shot I could patter pretty well,
              Cool as a cucumber, and Captain Coles
              Describe as king and jolliest of souls.
              I can't think why they spun me.
 Frank.                                             Never mind ;
              A better trade to-morrow you will find.
              You never could keep up your head in water.
              Dolly, you '11 marry the First Lord's rich daughter,
              And leap up commodore in double quick.
 Fitzjames. I don't mind board ship if one wasn't sick.
 JOHtJSON.    Well, there, you 're all three middies fast and tight ;
               I 'm rather glad I have escaped the plight—
               The weevily biscuit, and the hard salt junk,
              And fighting—fighting always made me funk.
 FITZJAMES. And me too, only I dared never show it ;
               The Earl would cut me off did he but know it —

                               CONFLA GRA TION.                                 231
                 There 's always been Fitzjames in every battle.
Frank.            Cheer up, old boy ! we middies arc tough cattle ;
                                                       [Slaps Fitzjames on the back.
                 To knock us down would take a week of Sundays.
                  Let's have a spree, and quite forget Black Mondays.
                  Cheer up, I say !
Fitzjames.                            You hurt me : you 're too rough.
Frank.            Oh, how they 'll bully you on board, you muff !
                  Put gunpowder within your waistcoat fobs ;
                  Use up your 'broidered handkerchiefs for swabs ;
                  Your scents       .
Fitzjames (ready to cry).              I 'd write home to my lady mother;
                  She 'd tell the Admiralty !
Frank.                                           Idle bother !
                  At sea they own no master but the skipper.
Fitzjames. I 'd rather have my own fireside and slipper,
                  My railway novel, and my old Bordeaux.
Frank.            For my own pleasure to the seas I go,
                  Because I want prize money, and I feel
                  Drowning than hanging is the more genteel.
                  One cheer together ere we part, my lads—
                  Hurrah for England and her ironclads !
                                      [They all join in lusty cheering, and depart,
                                            the sound dying away behind the scenes.
                                         ACT II.
Scene III.—The Deck of a Ship. Rigging may be represented by the
                    housemaid's steps,' with aflagflying at the top.
                                   Bramatis 33nsona\
    Frank.                                           Mrs. Lane (passenger).
    Hon. Adolfhus Fitzlames.                         Effik Lane (her child).
    {ones (lieutenant).
     Iiles (boat'iwain).                             Sailors.
                       Enter Frank and Miles, pacing the deck
FRANK.            I think our captain trusts by far too much ;
                  The luff's a cur whom I would treat as such.
                  His eyeballs white show like a vicious horse:
                  If he had murdered 't were a thing of course.
 Miles.           You don't pull well together, I can see;
                  But, howsomdever, 't is no odds to me.
 Frank.           It would be odds if he should seize the ship,
                  Turn her head round and give our Queen the slip.
 Miles.           He's master here: the skipper's a mere babby
 FRANK.           A lump of gelatine, so soft and flabby !
                  Dolly and he are just a pair of ninnies.
 Miles.            In this world somehow ninnies have the guineas.
                   If so be that the skipper will be idle—
 Frank.           And let old Jones ride rough-shod, bit and bridle—
 Miles.            It's no good grumbling.

  232                      ACTING CHARADES.
 Frank.                                     I 'd desert, I swear,
               Did not a woman need some friendly care:
               She and her child would well-nigh starve neglected,
               If I should leave them wholly unprotected.
 Miles.        'T was a kind deed of skipper home to take her.
 Frank.        Yes, if he did not quite so soon forsake her.
               The luff looks out no dainties come her way ;
               The very water grudged her day by day.
               If / were captain, 'stead of that poor flat       .
 Miles.        Hush, hush, young sir ; you '11 get pulled up for that.
 Frank.        Truth must come out— see, there 's the ruffian Jones.
                          Enter Jones, the Lieutenant.
 JONES (fiercely). You 're fudging work, sir. Dash ! I '11 break your bones !
               Up to the mast-head ! Dash ! I '11 stop your grog !
 Frank.        If you mast-head me, please to cast my log.
 Jones.        Dash ! do you dare me ? I '11 crack all your pates !
                                                      [Frank goes up the rigging.
               Turn up the hands there.                              [To Miles.
 Miles (whistles with a boatswain's whistle). Tumble up, my mates.
                                   Scene II.
 The Sailors come from behind and stand in a row, MILES in front.          JONES
               pulls down the Union Jack, and stands upon it.
JONES.         Now, listen, men : the captain 's in his cot ;
               He gives me power to tell you what is what.
              Yours is a shabby trade—all kicks, no pence ;
              You could get rich if you had common sense.
Sailors.      Ay, ay, sir; lead the way, point out the prize.
                                    [JONES shows a paper and holds out a pen.
JONES (tapping the paper). You've only to sign this,—it tells no lies.
              The Yankees want more money and more men,
              You wan't more wages. (To First Sailor,). Here, man, take the
                 pen.
Sailor (drawing back). But that 's deserting !
Jones.                                              Never mind the name,
              The ship, the captain, and the crew's the same.
Sailors.      We can't desert our pennant, bless its flutter !
Jones.        You fools, to quarrel with your bread and butter !
              Who asks what pennant flies at the mast-head ?
              'T is but a coloured rag when all is said.
Sailors.      Ay, but we love Old England's Union Jack.
Miles.        No stars ! no stripes !
              [Jones is going to hoist the Yankee colours. He stops angrily.
Jones.                                  1 11 lay them on your back !
              Here, men, be wise now—pockets full of gold !
              And you 'd stick, idiots ! to that canvas fold.
                                                   [Flings away the Union Jack.
              By Heaven ! I '11 make you wear round for New York !

                            CONFLA GRA T10N.                                    233
            Enter Fitzjames, with a flask of liquor in his hand.
FITZJAMES. Can anybody draw this Noyeau's cork?
             Jones, you've a pocket screw.
JONES (surlily).                                I think you 're screwed already.
Fitzjames, Pardon, I think it 's you that stand unsteady ;
             You 're flushed—and why is all the ship's crew mustered ?
             Who threw this down ? Why, man, you 're strangely flustered.
                                                       [Picks up the Union Jack.
Jones (trying to hoist the Yankee pennant). I 've done with Union Jacks and
                 British crosses;
             I 'm going to take a turn with Yankee bosses.
  [Frank seizes the American colours, andprevents him from hoisting them.
Jones.       Ho, you there ! ease her, lubber that you are !
Frank.       I '11 make you swallow every stripe and star !
          [Slides down the rigging, with the American colours in his grasp.
             Who is for England and her hearts of oak ?
                                                          [Sailors moveforward.
Jones.       Who wants good wages and an easy yoke ?
             No cat ! (Sailors hesitate.) No stopping rations, pay, nor grog.
Sailors.     We 're yours, sir, if you promise not to flog.
Jones.       Ay, ay !
FlASK,       Oh, blockheads! promises bind him!
Jones (in a rage). I promise you, sir, that I '11 dowse your glim!
                     [Jones rushes upon Frank. They struggle. Fitzjames
                         hovers about them, trying to part them, and whining.
Fitzjames. Oh, pray don't ! pray be quiet ! Goodness gracious !
             Do, men, assist !                                         [To Sailors.
Sailors.                           We won't be so owdacious
             As meddle in the squabbles of our betters.
Fitzjames. Oh, Frank ! he '11 have you punished, put in fetters.
             He 's your superior officer. You are mad !
             Oh, dear, he 'skilled!
                                [Frank falls heavily. JONES rises, staggering.
JONES (savagely).                        You 've got enough, my lad !
             Dashed meddling idiot ! never can be quiet !
             I '11 stop him once for all from making riot.
             Out with the cutter! lay him safe and sound,              [To Sailors.
             And he can please himself when homeward bound.
Fitzjames (crying). I '11 not stay here to break my country's laws.
Jones.        You'll find, without the cat, I still have claws.
Fitzjames (crying). You shouldn't treat my chum so.
Jones.                                                       No abuse?
             You shall go with him, dash it ! if I choose !
              1 11 have no mutiny in my ship, I say !
             And there 's that silly woman in the way.
              Bumptious may steer her to the British Channel.
              Fetch her and fetch the child.                            [ To Sailor.
Fitzjames (to Sailor;.                            And lots of flannel,
              For, oh ! it 's freezing in an open boat ;
              Be sure you bring some shawls and pilot coat.

  234                         ACTING CHARADES.
                                       Scene III.
            Enter Mrs. Lane, leading tittle Effie, wrapped in shawls.
  Effie.         Me seepv, seepy— mammy, what 's the matter ?
                 Oh, Mitter Fank! oh, Mitter Fank!                [Sees Frank lyin%.
  Jones (roughly).                                            Don't chatter !
                 Hold mother's hands, and sit down on her knee.
                                 [Sailors fasten Mrs. Lane and child into a chair.
  Effie (frightened). Oh, mammy! will they put us in the sea?
  Mrs. Lane (to JONESJ. Heaven will repay you by some sore distress
               • For wronging widowed ones and fatherless.
  JONES.          I '11 take my chance. (To Sailors.,) Here, fling him in the boat.
                  He '11 soon recover when he 's once afloat.
                                                       [Pushes Frank off the scene.
  Mrs. Lane. Alas! alas! a wounded man for guard !
  Fitzjames (to Mrs. LaneJ. Don't cry, ma'am ; I am going with you too.
                  Frank 's only stunned ; his skull 's so precious hard.
  Miles.         And I '11 make one of that adventurous crew.
  Two SAILORS. And I —and I —we wont let women drown.
  Jones.          Go, and be hanged, then, with a woman's gown!
                  You lily-livered cowards !
•            [Sailors carry off Frank, and Mrs. Lane and Effie in the chair.
  JONES.                                        Shove off there!
                  Haul up the studding-sails ; the wind is fair,
                  Shake out all reefs, and let go sheets unfurled ;
                  Steer north-north-west, and hey for the New World!
                                        ACT III.
                             Scene I.—A Desert Island.
                               Enter Frank and Miles.
   Miles.         There 's not too much of it to call an isle ;
                   From sea to sea I 've walked it—half a mile.
   Frank.          At any rate, there 's water fresh and sweet.
   Miles.          And burning rocks to burn one's shoeless feet.
   Frank.          We may be thankful, after such a night,
                   On terra firma safely to alight.
                   I wonder if the ship rode out the gale
                   That smashed our little vessel ?
   M I les.                                           Sir, you 're pale-
                   Still weakly from your blows.
   Frank.                                            Not I : yon cask
                   I rolled up from the beach ; that 's no bad task.
                   T is flour, and turtles in the shallows breed,
                   So we shall have the wherewithal to feed
                   On Lord Mayors' dainties every day we choose.
    Miles.         What 's turtle-soup when one has lost one's shoes?
   Frank.          That can't be helped. Let 's rig a tented roof
                   Out of this canvas bag and waterproof;

                           CONFLAGRATION.                                    235
             We 11 plait sea-bent for slippers—don't look glum !
             See, here 's a keg full of the Queen's own rum—
             We '11 serve it out in equal portions fair,
             And all sleep soundly as an Arctic bear.
                          Enter little Effie, crying.
Effie.       I 've lost my mammy—lost her in the sea !
Frank (petting her). 1 '11 be your mammy ; come along with me.
             Isn't it fun to live quite out of -doors?
Effie.       Me like a ship best when it rains and pours.
Frank.       It won't rain here, not for a month to come.
             Now, messmate, give a shove to that old rum.            [To MILES.
           Enter Fitzjames, disconsolate, without cap or jacket.
FlTZJAMES (sighing). I 've searched in vain in every nook and cranny—
             My ivory brushes and my Frangipanni !                      [Groans.
             My dressing-case, inlaid and silver mounted !               Groans.
             And the sweet trinkets that so oft I counted!               Groans.
             Oh, if my lady saw me thus distressed—
             One shirt alone, and that my second best !
Frank.        Dolly, you've got a waistcoat, I declare;
             And trousers too, and not a holey pair.
              Doff me that vest for this poor shivering brat;
             T will make a frqck, tied on with your cravat.
FlTZJAMES (aghast). My vest ! my only vest ! I 'd die of cold !
             And my cravat ! Upon my word, you 're bold.
Frank (angrily). Not for myself, you churl! I want your gear,
             But this poor orphan,—like us, shipwrecked here.
Fitzjames. You must excuse me such a sacrifice.
Frank.       You selfish dog, 1 11 strip you in a trice !
                                           [Collars Fitzjames and shakes him.
Fitzjames (alarmed). Oh, Bumptious! Bumptious! let me go! I'm choking!
              Shipwrecked T garotted ! ah, 't is too provoking !
       [Frank tears off the waistcoat and wraps it round Effie, twisting
          the cravat round it like a sash. Effie dances forjoy.
Effie.        Oh, putty, putty buttons ! putty scarf !
Frank.       Leave off that blubbering, you insane mooncalf!
                                     [To Fitzjames, who is lamenting his loss.
              D' ye think I 'd hurt you, my old fellow-chum ?
              Cheer up, you goose, and drink my health in rum.
                                             [They all go off in the background.
                                    Scene II.
A rude tent made of a waterproof wrapper and shawls; a barrel offlour in
    one corner, keg of rum in another, a heap of broken cups and plates
           in another; fire, with pot boiling; Mrs. Lane, Sailors.
 Enter Frank, Hon. Adolphus Fitzjames, Effie, and Miles. Effie
                runs into her mother's arms screamingfor joy.
Effie.        Oh, mammy ! mammy ! Oh, my mammy 's found !
Mrs. Lane. My child! my darling! Oh, I thought you drowned !
Effie.        And did you dump up, right up, from the sea?

 236                      ACTING CHARADES.
 Mrs. Lane. Oh, sir ! what blessings you 've conferred on me !
                                                                  [To FitZJAMES.
              To save my child, and in your clothes to wrap her.
 FitZJAmeS (smirking). You 're very welcome.
 Frank (slapping him on the back).                  Bravo, Dolly Dapper !
 FitZJAmeS (aside). She 's five foot nine, and has a blacksmith's arm ;
              There 's quite too many here to cause alarm. .
              Somehow a desert isle makes folk look truculent :
              It 's the bad food, maybe !
 Mrs. LANE.                                  Yes, succulent          [To FRANK.
              Is turtle-soup for men and babes.
 Frank.                                               Of course !
              A child like that would thrive on a cab horse !
              See here !            [He lays out the dinner on the head of the
                                          flour-cask; broken cups, platters, Sr'c.
              A pienic service from the wreck,
              A footless jug our barrel board to deck.
              First course, the turtle-soup ; then turtle eggs ;
              Third, pudding flavoured from the keg of kegs.
              Now share and share alike must be our rule;
              Fall to, men, quickly, ere the turtle cool !
              Whatever happens, equal shares divide,
              Till some kind ship across yon water glide.
[They all gather round, and cat with much show of appetite. MILES sings:
                      Let London's May'r
                      Green fat prepare
                          With Mounseer's crack-jaw names,
                      On our desert isle
                      A feast we 'll pile
                          That Guildhall's banquet shames.
                      Let peers their plate
                      Send for whitebait
                          At Lovegrove's by the Thames.
                      Then, hurrah, my boys
                      For turtle's joys,
                          Sound sleep, and pleasant dreams.
       [They wish each other good night, and disperse in different directions.
                           Scene III.—The Tent.
                   Effie asleep; Mrs. Lane watching her.
Mrs. LANE (anxiously). She 's very feverish, and, I may assert, ill !
             I fear, I fear she 's had too much of turtle.
             Sailors to mothers milk may liken rum,
             But, oh ! I wish a real cow could come
             O'er these salt waters ! Then, the flour runs low:
             On half allowance we already go.
            What can we eat when empty is the cask ?
             In vain, each day, that question sad I ask,
             What can we cat ?
                             [Frank enters softly, with an armful of seaweed.

                              CONFLA GRA TION.                                237
FRaNK (cheerily).                    Why kelp, dear lady.
                I found this seaweed in a corner shady :
                It tastes like Iceland moss.
Mrs. Lane (shakes her head).                   She will not take it !
FRANK.         Oh, yes, you'1l see how tastily I 'll make it.
                Don't vex yourself,—a ship must pass by soon,
               'T is the best season of the trade monsoon.
               The flag-staff can be seen for miles away,
                And will attract some vessel to this bay ;
                My red shirt blazes like a beacon fire.
                              [Voices 011tside. Mrs. Lane looks sadly at EffIE.
Mrs. Lane. She can't hold out long !
 Voices outside.                             Run the red rag higher !
Voices outside in great excitement. Hurrah! she sees us! no, she don't! she
                  veers!
Mrs. Lane. Alas ! these moments are as long as years.
 Voices outside. She tacks—shifts sail— she wears— her helm 's a-port—
               She 's making way !—was that a gun's report ?          [Gun heard.
                I saw the flash ! I heard the shot ! ha, ha !
               She lowers a boat ! we 're saved ! thank Heaven ! Hurrah !
        [Loud shouts outside; Effie wakes and cries; Mrs. Lane clasps her
             in her arms, weeping and exclaiming. Enter the rest, crying all
             at once.
Ali-           The boat 's at hand ; let 's gather up our traps !
Frank.         The precious goods ! bequeath our island scraps
               To the next Robin Crusoe that here lands.
               Come, Effie, let me lift you o'er the sands.
Mrs. Lane. Oh, if there should be one milch cow on board !
Frank.         T is a large Indiaman, all fully stored ;
               Effie will revel like a queen to-night.
Mrs. Lane. I hope some ladies will assist our plight !
Sailors.        And we 'll have grog now, and some Christian grub.
Fitzjames. Shall I find scented soap, and means to rub ?
               I 've got a half-crown in my trousers pocket,
               Beside my tooth-brush and my mother's locket ;
               I 'll buy wax candles, if I can, on board,
               And have a silver fork.
ALU                                        Restored ! restored !
               To home, to country, and to friendly faces !
               Here comes the boat- -I hope well all find places.
Frank.         Finis to desert island's brief adventures,              [Looks out.
               Of ups and downs, like railway Cos.' debentures ;
               But, luckier far than Chatham line and Dover,
               We launch afresh, and henceforth live in clover.
                                              [Exeunt all, shouting and rejoicing.

 238                       ACTING CHARADES.
                                      ACT IV.
                                 Dramatis i)rrsonx.
 Earl. Marquis.                           1       Countess.
 Hon. Adolphls Fitzlames.
 Frank.                                           Marchioness.
 Pompey.                                 J        Maid.
                                      Scene I.
  A Bed-room in a London House. Frank brushing his hair with two
         ivory brushes before a cheval glass : he is very smartly dressed.
 Frank.         Now, this is jolly ! When I reached the station,
                And counted shillings in some trepidation,
                Lest e'en a Hansom were beyond my figure,
                Behold, a gorgeous, gold-laced, liveried nigger,
                Who showed his teeth, and bobbed his woolly pate,
                Saying, " By golly, but dis train be late !     {Mimics a negro.
                You Massa Middy, from ship Clio true?
                Dis all your luggage ? you hab berry few !
                Poor massa lose um tings in desert isle."
               Then he snapped up my valise from the pile,
               And, as I did not quite know what to say,
                I thought I might as well go on his way.
               There 's nobody expects me in this city,—
                No friends have I in London, more 's the pity!
               By Jove ! he handed up my luggage shabby
               To a wigged coachman, not a humble cabby ;
               Opening the door of such a splendid carriage,
                It might have borne a princess to her marriage!
             '•Jump in, sar, quick,—dc horses dcy catch cold."
               So I jumped in. I own t' was rather bold,
               But such a lark ! and after whacks and blows
               I think one good turn Fortune to me owes.
               So here am I, in this patrician mansion,
               Received by all the plushes with expansion ;
               For such a seedy coat as I had on
               Must have been nuts to Chawles and Jcames and John.
               Well, here I am as cosy as a cricket
               Under an oven ; how I got the ticket
               Of entry matters not a pin to me—
               All ports are home, from Hong Kong to Dundee.
                                                            {Rings bell violently.
                                     Scene II.
                        Enter Pompey the blackfootman.
Pompey.        What, massa ? Here be all the smells he lub-
               Millefleur and Jockey; de big sponge and tub;
               Two, tree, new brush, and inlaid water-jug.
              Ah, Massa Dolly, you like all tings snug!              {Chuckling.
Frank.         You grinning monkey, tell me who I am.
Pompey.        Law bress us, Massa Dolly !
Frank.                                         What a cram !

                         CONFLA GRA TTON.                                 239
Pompey.    You Massa Dolly, of dc Queen's ship Clio!
Frank.     Then who are you ?
Pompey (with great dignity).        Free nigger from Ohio !
           Own footman to my lady your mamma.
                                                    [Bell rings, exit Pompey.
FRANK.     My lady mother? what a sell! ha, ha!
           I 've got promotion faster than " Gazette;"
           From orphan middy to an earl's cadet.
           So I 'm old Dolly Dandy ! Now for fun ;
           I 'll play his part, and then I 'll cut and run !
                              Re-enter POMPEY.
POMPEY (grandly). My lady ready to embrace her treasure!
                                  [Frakk flourishes his cambric handkerchief
                                              and pretends to be a great swell.
FrANK.     Ah, yaas ! announce me ! with the greatest plcashaw!
                                                                      [Exeunt.
                   Scene III.— Countess's Boudoir.
 Countess and Maid. Countess lying on a sofa, painted, bewigged, and
                      much made up. Frank enters.
COUNTESS (affectedly). My son ! my precious ! rescued from the ocean !
                                       [Kisses him, then pretends to sink back
                                       fainting; Maid rushes to support her.
           Oh, my poor nerves ! it kills me, such emotion !
            lienson, my drops! my salts! support my head!
            There, that will do. (To Franks. We all supposed you dead,

240                      ACTING CHARADES.
              And what I suffered nobody can tell !            [Languishingly.
              My heart 's too tender ! Pompey, ring the bell :       [Sharply.
              My chocolate. (To Franks. So there you are,—so tall !
              Not like a Robinson Crusoe at all !
              Do you still use that violet pomade ?
              Were you shipwrecked ? Wasn't your captain mad ?
              Have you spent all your money ?
FRANK.                                            Every shilling !
                   Enter EARL ; he is short, fat, andfussy.
EARL.         Ha ! back again ? some folks take extra killing !
              But—hey ! the wrecking has worked wondrous well,—
              You 're more a gentleman, and less a swell. [Stares at FRANK.
               [Countess gets up languidly and draws Frank to stand side
                   by side with her before the mirrorj she minces and ambles.
COUNTESS (to Earl;. Isn't he quite my image, eyes and all,
              When you first met me at the county ball ?
FRANK (asidej. Like her/ I hope not ! skinny-armed and yellow !
Maid (asidej. Like her, old hag! that bright-eyed bonnie fellow!
Earl (bluffly). I shouldn't have known you, that's the truth, old Dolly—
              Your mother made you such a precious Molly.
              There's nothing like the navy for a muff!
              You don't mind dining now on junk or duff?
Frank.        Or shark, or porpoise, when nought else turns up !
              When do you dine, ma'am?                          [To Countess.
Countess.                                     Have a tiny cup
              Of this Vanilla chocolate ?                                    "
FRANK.                                       Oh, ma'am !
              My hunger 's such I could devour black Sam,
              Your gorgeous nigger, to his last gilt button :
              Were there no scraps left from the servant's mutton ?
Earl.         Bravo, old chap ! you 're something like a sailor,
                                      [In high glee, takes him by the shoulder.
              Not a mere cross 'twixt hairdresser and tailor!
              I owe the Service something for this service ;
              You'll be a tar like Collingwood and Jervis,
              Ready for squalls, cross-seas, and dirty weather:
              Come, and we '11 have a glass of grog together.
                                                                      [Exeunt.
                Scene IV.—The Earl's Drawing-room.
  Guests at dinner : Earl, Countess, Marquis, Marchioness, Frank.
                       Servants putting dessert on table.
Countess (to Marchioness;. Now, hasn't he the Montmorenci nose i
              And family air, down to his very toes ?
Marchioness. Urn—um !—they have hawk's beaks, and he 's a pug !
Frank (asidej. Horrid old harpies, jawing at my mug !
              I must be off, and change these borrowed clothes,
              Or, spite of all my Montmorenci nose,
              There '11 be a row when Master Dolly shows.
              He's still a-bed at Portsmouth, I dare say,
              While in his family I am making plav.

                            CONFLAGRATION.                                  241
MARQUIS (to Earlj. I compliment you, sir, upon your son;
             The Admiralty knows what he has done
             In that sad mutiny.                 [A loud peal at the hall door.
Frank (aside).                      There he is, by Gemini !
             Could I but hide in that capacious chimney !
             But 't is choked up with pasteboard wreaths and trash.
             T is Dolly's voice; oh, ain't I in a hash !         [Voice outside.
             I 'll just go on, and give them all fresh bother.
             I wish him joy of that idiotic mother !
      [Servant announces Mr. Adolphus Fitzjames. Enter Fitzjamf.s,
           very mud-stained and disordered in dress; he slops and smiles
           awkwardly on seeing visitors; the company stare at him.
Fitzjames. Oh, dear ! I 'm hardly dressed for ladies' presence.
Pompey.      Two Massa Dollys!
Countess Cshrieksj.                   Who 's that ? Where 's my essence ?
Earl.        Bless me, what impudence, in here to push !
Fitzjames. Oh, what a pleasure to see men in plush
             At home ! 'mong silver forks and finger-glasses.
Earl.        He's an impostor! turn him out, you asses!
Countess. That muddy lout my son ! Oh, no ! no ! no !                 [Shrieks.
MARCHIONESS. Two Dromios—a Shakspearian tableau !
             Which is the Simon Pure ? Decide, dear earl,
             Which is the honourable and which the churl ?
FITZJAMES. l know that I 'm Adolphus, and that's Frank,—
             As usual, after some outrageous prank.
             But I 'm too tired to quarrel or abuse you,           [To Frank.
             So in your own name let me introduce you
             After I 've dined. Here, Wilson, bring the wine,       [To Butler.
             Some entries, vol-au-vent—I want to dine ;
             And then, mamma, I 'll kiss you when I 'm dressed,
             Meantime I 'm rather muddy for your guest.
             You sent no carriage, so I had to foot it.
             This pheasant 's stunning ; father, did you shoot it ?
             The blessing of a napkin !               [Spreads napin on knees.
EARL (angrily).                             That 's old Dolly !
             The same old cormorant and Molly !
             And you, sir, staring like a stuck cockroach !—
             What brought you here, sir?                   [To Frank, fiercely.
Frank (coolly).                               'T was your family coach—
             You sent to meet me.
 Earl (in a rage).                     No, to meet my son.
 Frank crising). 'T was well intended, and I 've had my fun ;
             So here I wish the company good night.             [Bows and exit.
 COUNTESS. He 's very plain —in fact, an utter fright.
             T was only my emotion could deceive me. [To MARchIONESS.
             Now, there you see blue blood, pur sang, believe me.
                                                         [Points to Fitzjames.
 MARCHIONESS. But what about the Montmorenci nose ?
             He's your own child for selfishness, no doubt.              [Aside.
                                   [Sudden cries of "Fire! fire!" Every one
                                       starts up. Lights seen at back window.
                                                                  16

?42                        ACTING CHARADES.
All.           How ? what ?      Break in the doors ! Let 's out ! let 's out !
                                     [The door is burst open, smokeJills the room.
Earl.          Good gracious ! 't is the passage that 's a-flame.
FitZJAMES. Oh ! (stammers) now, I think, the moment when I came
              A candle I upset upon the table :
               Perhaps that caused it.
Earl.                                       Idiot!—Who is able
               To scramble out of window and get aid ?
Marchioness. I am too fat.
Fitzjames.                         And I am too afraid.
               I never could help when we beat fire-quarters.
                         [Marchioness screams; Countess faints; Marquis
                                           and Earl bang at windows and doors.
Earl.          Help ! help, outside ! Oh, for some brawny porters !
              The lobby 's quite impassable for smoke
               And fire. Oh, me ! the only ladder 's broke ! [At the window.
Voices outside. We 've sent for Shaw and all the fire brigade ;
               Wait till they come.
Earl.                                   Wait till we 're broiled and flayed !
                       [The window is smashed in; Frank appears, black with
                             smoke. He seizes the Countess, who is insensible.
Frank.         You called me son to-night, and a son's part
               I 'll do to you. Here, Dolly, pluck up heart ;
               Help out your father, there.
Fitzjames.                                      I can't—I daren't !
               It 's worse than shipwreck.                       [Cries in a corner.
                             [Frank lifts Countess out through the window to
                                the people outside. Comes back and seizes Earl.
Frank.                                         Though he 's not my parent,
               I owe him a good dinner; so here goes !
               Come, Dolly, save your Montmorenci nose.
Fitzjames. Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! I 'm stupefied with terror.
               The heat has split down all the sideboard mirror.
               I think I 'm dying, I do feel so queer !
          Re-enter Frank ; finds Fitzjames stupefied, and carries him off.
Vrank.         Poor Dolly ! muffs would only frizzle here.
               I 'll give him one more chance to be a man—
               Here, you outside there, catch him if you can.
                             [Scrambles out. A crash is heard. Scene changes.
                        Scene V.—An adjoining House.
EarL, Countess, Marquis, Marchioness, Fitzjames, Frank, in a chair,
               much bruised and burnt; Doctor examining him.
Earl.          Nothing of danger? He's a noble youth.
               I wish he were my son, and that 's the truth.
               He saved our lives, while you could only blubber,
               You good-for-nothing, gluttonous land-lubber ! [To FitZJAmeS.
               You idle dandy !
Fitzjames.                           Yes, I know I am !
               I never tried on the heroic sham.

                            CONFLAGRATION.                               243
            I'm a philosopher with few desires ;
            And as for fishing people out of fires,
            That 's not my line— I leave it all to Frank,
            Whom in the public name I hereby thank.
COUNTESS. He must have good blood in him—some great-aunt
            Must have been a Montmorenci.
Marchioness.                                     Silly cant!
            He's better as he is. I like his face.
            Spite of pug-nose, he beats your nosey race.              [Aside.
MARQUIS.     I '11 write to the First Lord ; on second thought,
             I '11 get your name down for the Royal yacht.
Earl.        In token of my gratitude—hum, hum !—
             1 11 bid my bankers pay you the same sum
            As quarterly to Dolly 1 allot.
Frank.      Oh, sir!
Fitzjames.               Well, but for you we'd gone to pot !
            So that 's but fair, and make no bones about it.
Frank..     What luck is mine ! I never more will doubt it :
             Such glorious ending to my silly prank.
ALL Cdrink and come forward). Here 's health and happiness to gallant Frank!
             Soon may he fly his Peter at the fore,
             Fame crown his brows, and wealth increase his store.
                                                                   [Curtain.
                                                              16—2

                gijjlcitr Sports, ^tajmglisjjtmnts, &t.
                               GYMNASTICS.
                                   With Apparatus.
 IT is scarcely requisite, in these days of advanced physical education, to
     expend time and space in advocating the study of Gymnastics. These
delightful and healthy exercises have now become so thoroughly an institution
among us, their popularity is so firmly established, that very many years must
elapse before it again becomes necessary to take up the cudgels in their defence.
   " But," say some, " are they not dangerous for boys?'' To this we may return
answer, " Most assuredly yes," and with equal confidence, " Most assuredly no."
It depends upon the sense in which the word "dangerous" is understood. If
it is meant to signify that a boy may in his early essays at gymnastics damage
himself more or less severely, break a bone perhaps, or otherwise come to grief,
it would be vain to deny it ; but unless a boy be tied up to his mother's apron-
strings all his life, how is he to avoid all exposure to such accidents? He must
not run, climb, or swim ; and as to cricket, football, or riding, and similar more
violent exercises, they must not even be thought of.
    But if it be asked whether gymnastics are not exceptionally dangerous, we

                                 GYMNASTICS.                                   245
can answer unhesitatingly " no." With proper apparatus, and a little super
vision to prevent liberties being taken with it, we believe that the ordinary run
of boys may enjoy almost perfect immunity from danger.
    Where accidents do occur, they may almost invariably be set down to one
of two causes, or perhaps more frequently to both combined : either, that is,
to the foolhardiness of the boy or to the imperfection of the apparatus. The
latter is a specially fertile source of accidents.
    Now, a foolhardy boy will, as we all know, thrust himself into danger- -indeed
he is never quite happy out of it—and must, unless he be exceptionally lucky
in his mishaps, expect a certain number of more or less severe casualties. All
that can be said in his case is that a well-constructed gymnastic apparatus is
far safer for him to exercise his climbing propensities upon than any tree or
temptingly precipitous rock ; and that at least he will thus almost daily acquire
a control over his limbs that will save nim from many an after fall.
    Boys, and men too, if they take their share of ordinary British pastimes—
and who would have them do otherwise?—must come in for a certain amount
of risk: in some cases, such as hunting and the like, of life as well as limb.
 But amongst all these sports, with the before-mentioned reservation of trust
 worthy superintendence and apparatus, they can hardly anywhere be so safe
as in the gymnasium.
   The real foundation of this adverse prejudice is that, for want of habit, these
exercises look dangerous. No one dreams of going into paroxysms of alarm
at seeing a man disporting himself in ten fathom water; yet a momentary
attack of cramp —quite as probable an eventuality, by the way, as that a gym
nast should let go his hold of a rope—may drown him without hope of rescue.
    Does any one take the trouble to cry out, " How dangerous !" when a man
trots by at ten miles an hour in his dog-cart? And yet how many accidents,
and fatal accidents too, do there not yearly occur from this cause? And as
for gun accidents, or accidents in the hunting-field and the like, is not their
name legion? is there a week that passes in the season without record of one
or more of them in the newspapers? Yet who dreams of preaching a crusade
against field-sports as too dangerous?
   Three or four fatal accidents may occur every season, but they make no
more than a passing impression upon those who are not immediately affected.
    Let, however, a single accident occur in the pursuit of some new-fangled
pastime, and the British public is up in arms ; the novelty is ticketed " dan
gerous," and thenceforth many a iong year it must wait before it can hope
to be re-established in public opinion.
   Accidents of course do occur now and then, with the ropes and bars, as
they will occur everywhere else,— some, as we have above observed, referable
to the foolhardiness of the individual, and therefore not chargeable against
the practice of gymnastics ; for a foolhardy boy will be foolhardy, and get into
dangerous positions, and meet with his destined share of accidents, wherever
 he is. The gymnastic apparatus is merely an outlet, and the safest he could
 have, for his exuberance of recklessness.
    Some there are that are really and truly accidents, quite impossible to foresee
or to provide against; but these are really surprisingly few, and mostly not of
 a very serious nature. But the real and most prolific cause of accidents in our
 gymnasia, the source of the most and most serious mishaps, is the imperfec
 tion of the apparatus.
    A gymnasium is to be erected; the job is given to a country carpenter or

 246                            GYMNASTICS.
 builder, who knows as much about the matter as he does of making a steam
engine : proportions, materials, construction, all equally important, arc all taken
equally at haphazard.
   The carpenter sets up a pole with a spindle and hooks at the top, with pen
dent cords, and this he calls a circular swing or giant stride : whether the pole
is sufficiently strong to bear the strain to be put upon it, or whether it be
secure from the insidious attacks of the damp, or whether the hooks and ropes
arc so constructed as to be trustworthy, he has no means of knowing, and
probably does not care.
   Then some day the boys who use it sit astride, as they will do if not checked,
of the cross-sticks, instead of holding on by their hands, and while they are
thus urging on their mad career, an accident, as it is called, in due course
occurs—something gives way, or the rope slips off the hook; the unfortunate
victim comes heavily to the ground, and, being in an attitude which renders
him perfectly helpless, comes also heavily to grief.
   Or, as happened once in our own experience, the pole, weakened by damp-
engendered rot at its point of junction with the ground, the part where the
strain is always the heaviest, gives way suddenly under some more than usually
severe jerk, topples over among the crowd of confiding youngsters, and does
one of them to death, under circumstances of extreme and prolonged suffering.
   Forthwith uprises a popular cry, "Away with such dangerous inventions!"
the authorities are frightened, and, knowing little personally about the matter,
or perhaps secretly prejudiced themselves in its disfavour, make a clean sweep
of everything, not even troubling themselves to make out very distinctly the
real cause of the mishap. " An accident has happened ; the thing must be
dangerous ; we will none of it ! " Such is their easy logic
   And yet these very same men shall, in the same year, see a score of acci
dents in the play-ground, in the field, on the river, some of them perhaps even
more disastrous ; but they never dream of therefore shutting up the play
ground, or tabooing the field or the river.
   Yet the very same men, when they have to deal, not with new-fangled novel
ties, but with fine old crusted English sports, say, " An accident has happened;
sufficient care has not been taken—more must be taken for the future."
   This is the sensible way to look at the matter ; and in all consistency, why
should gymnastics be made an exception?
   There is a prejudice against them to begin with : the apparatus is provided
totally unsuited for its purposes : a circular swing such as we have described
above ; parallel bars, as we have ourselves seen, two-and-a-half feet apart,
and solid as an ox-fence, three inches by four at least in thickness ; a fixed
horizontal bar to match ; a hanging bar like the trunk of a young tree, fit for
the hands of a giant, working loosely round in the loops of the sustaining
ropes, and carefully contrived to throw off any performer at the shortest no
tice; and the rest in like proportion : an apparatus, in fact, that would be the
death of half the gymnasts in Europe if they were weak-minded enough to
trust themselves to it. The boys are allowed to fling themselves upon this
without due guidance and instruction : they soon find they can make nothing
of it in the ordinary way, and so, with their usual ingenuity, are not long in
extracting fun out of it in other ways, — selecting, of course, by natural instinct,
the most dangerous. Then come the usual results. Immediately there is a
terrible outcry, and the exercises of the gymnasium get the discredit due to the
mixed ignorance and stupidity of those who thus abuse them.

                                GYMNASTICS.                                  247
   Let a set of apparatus be erected after the pattern we are about to give, and
use be made of it as we shall recommend, and we will guarantee that there
shall be fewer accidents in a whole year than may be looked for in any ordi
nary high field-day at football ; nay, more than this,—that it shall prove not
only a less perilous pastime than any of the regular outdoor sports, but actually
a preservative against accidents from other causes.
   This we are enabled to do, not relying upon ourselves, though we are not
wholly unskilled in the use of the ropes and bars, but upon the long practical
experience of a well-known gymnast, Mr. Chas. Spencer, of whose admirable
little work, " The Modern Gymnast," we have largely availed ourselves in pre
paring this article.
   Our apparatus will consist of the following : horizontal bar, hanging bar,
parallel bars, vaulting-horse, ladder, hanging ropes, and the usual ct ceteras.
Of these latter, however, we shall not take notice here ; our attention will be
entirely directed to the more advanced exercises.
   The Horizontal Bar should be set up as follows: If intended as a per
manency, two strong posts must be let into the ground or into iron sockets,
standing seven feet apart and about eight feet in height; these are to support
the bar, which must be made to shift up and down in grooves cut in the posts,
so as to be easily adapted to the height of the performer. This bar should be
of straight-grained ash, seven feet between the uprights, an inch and three-
quarters in diameter, perfectly round, with a steel core an inch thick running
through the centre. This latter is a very important point.
   If there be no steel core, then the bar must be reduced at least one foot in
length and increased to two inches diameter ; both of which, especially the
latter, as making it clumsy to the grasp of an ordinary hand, will detract much
from its practical value.

248                              GYMNASTICS.
   The bar must be so fastened to the uprights that there shall be no unsteadi
ness or vibration. A wabbly bar is a terrible nuisance, and is apt to throw
one out of all calculation just at the critical point of a feat.
   If for private use, or it be thought desirable to make it portable, the method
of construction figured in our cut (Fig. 1) will be found very convenient and
serviceable, and, what is more, thoroughly trustworthy.
   The Hanging Bar must be very carefully constructed. The ropes should
be attached securely to a good, firm, unyielding support, about fifteen or
eighteen feet from the ground—this will be quite sufficient height— and the
bar, which should be about twenty-six inches long by one-and-a-quarter in
diameter, with a steel core as before, must be firmly attached to the ropes, so
as to afford a safe hold. Above all things, it must not revolve in the grasp.
The height from the ground must be regulated by the stature of the performer.
    The Parallel Bars are very seldom constructed with anything like cor
 rectness of shape or proportions. A couple of clumsy rails—one might almost
 say beams —laid across two pairs of posts at any height from the ground and
 at any distance apart, are set up, dubbed "parallel bars,'' and arc supposed
 to be all that could be desired. But, as might be supposed if people only took
 the trouble to think, parallel bars, to be of any real service, require as nice an
 adaptation to their purposes as any other mechanical contrivance.
     The bars or rails, being intended for the grasp of the hands, must be of
 such size and shape as will afford the best grasp, and their height and distance
 apart must be adapted to the stature of those for whose use they are intended.
     The size of the bars is especially important : if they be too large for a fair
  grasp, not only is the hand likely to slip and a heavy fall to result, but there
  is great danger to the wrist and thumb of serious sprains or dislocation. The

                                GYMNASTICS.                                  249
jar resulting from an ordinary vault Over, with 3-inch rails, is something to re
member. We can recollect once injuring one of our wrists seriously in this
manner. Moreover, when a fair grasp is impossible, many of the exercises—
most of them, indeed—are also ipso facto impossible, and thus many beginners
are disgusted at the outset : they are told to begin with such and such exer
cises, as simple preliminaries to others more advanced; they find after repeated
trials that they cannot even make a commencement, and naturally soon give
up the whole thing in despair.
   For ordinary purposes, that is, for people not of exceptional stature, the
most useful dimensions are these: height from the ground, four feet eight
inches; distance apart, eighteen inches, or nineteen at most; for boys, seven
teen or even sixteen will be sufficient. The length should not be less than
seven feet, and the bars should be round, and of a diameter of two-and-an-
eighth inches.
   Oval bars are sometimes used, but we prefer the round ones, as they feel
more natural, most of the other apparatus being of similar form.
   For the uprights no dimensions need be given : all that is needful is that
they should be sufficiently strong. They should be fitted into a stout wooden
frame, firmly morticed together. When in use, this frame must be fastened
to the floor by screws. If required for a playground, or any place where it is
necessary to have them fixed, they may readily be secured by wooden stakes
or wedges driven into the ground.
   A more convenient way is to sink the posts permanently into the ground ;
but then they are liable to decay from the damp, and thus to become unsafe.
                                       Fig. 3.
   The Vaulting-Horse is of all gymnastic apparatus that which has been
hitherto most neglected in this country, and even now in many parts the most
rudimentary ideas as to its proper use and construction are extant. One of

25°                            G YMNASTICS.
our writers on gymnastics describes it as being simply the trunk of a tree
mounted on four legs. Now, this is most barbarous, and calls loudly upon us
to "reform it altogether," as the use of it is much more likely to cause injury
than benefit to any one attempting feats of agility upon it. The sketch will
give an idea of a proper vaulting-horse.
   There are various lengths for these horses, but the one you will find to be
the most generally useful is six feet long and about sixteen inches across the
back. It is covered with cow-hide all over and evenly padded, and is gene
rally made with one end a little raised, with a slight bend corresponding to
the neck of the animal which is its prototype; and this gives some form to it,
and is useful as a mark where to place the hands.
   There arc two pommels placed about the centre, eighteen inches apart, and
movable, so that the horse may be used without them if required ; and in
this case flush pommels, level with the back of the horse, are inserted into the
grooves.
   The legs must be made to slide up and down after the manner of a telescope,
so that the horse may be used at heights varying from about three feet six
inches to six feet.
   It is also necessary to have a solid deal board, about three feet square,
rising in thickness from a feather-edge to three inches, for taking what is
technically termed a " beat " off, which is very useful in exercises which require
to be performed lengthways on the horse. Of course it is not used as a spring
board, but only to give a firm foundation for the feet in jumping, and par
ticularly to mark the place of starting when increasing or diminishing the
distance from the horse.
                                       Fig. 4.
   The ladders, hanging ropes, and so on, we need not describe. There are,
however, two more requisites to which we should wish to direct attention.
One is the Hand-Rings: two ropes, as if for a hanging bar, but terminating
instead each in an iron ring covered with leather, and large enough for the
hand to grasp comfortably. These rings are made of various shapes ; but that
which we recommend as the most practically useful is the stirrup.
   One other requisite, indispensable for safety in first essays at many of the

                         THE HORIZONTAL BAR.                                  251
  feats vse shall describe, is the LungerS, so called. This is a strong broad
 leather belt to buckle round the waist, with on iron ring or eye at each side.
  To these eyes are strongly attached ropes, one on each side, of sufficient
  strength to support the weight of the wearer. The figure will indicate the
  method of using it. (Fig. 4.)
    This is an invaluable safeguard for novices, and enables many to learn
 quickly— simply by the fearlessness it engenders—many a difficult feat which
  they would otherwise never dream of attempting.
    We cannot help thinking that a similar appliance, only a little more above
 the centre of gravity, would prove of immense service in learning difficult
 figures in skating. Ladies, too, might profit by it in their first efforts, as
 all fear of unseemly falls would be quite dispelled.
    So much for the construction of an apparatus ; now for the use to be made
 of it. We will begin with
                          THE HORIZONTAL BAR.
    But before we begin it must first be put into good condition. Most likely
there will be a little grease on it from previous practice, which it is highly
 important should be removed before commencing. This is done in the follow
ing manner : Take a wet cloth (without soap or soda, as any kind of alkali
will raise the grain of the wood and make it rough), and rub the bar with
 it; then get a few feet of rope— I find thick sash-line the best—give it one
turn round the bar, and, taking hold of each end, rub it up and down, gradu
ally moving it from one end to the other. The friction will dry the wood,
 remove the grease or dirt, and put on a good surface.
    The bar being now in good condition, wash your hands perfectly clean, and
you are ready to commence. You will find that there is no resin required,
which every gymnast is compelled to use if the bar is not kept in good order.
The use of resin is bad for various reasons : it will dirty your hands, and if
you have not practised much it will cause blisters sooner than otherwise. I
have sometimes seen the skin of hard hands torn, and wounds ensue, pre
venting further practice for some time. But if you are obliged to use resin,
do it judiciously : powder a little, and rub only the tips of the fingers in it ;
avoid, above all things, getting it into the palm of the hands, as it will make
them stick to the bar, and it is also very likely to cause jerks in swinging, and
the grip will not be so certain as when the hands move smoothly round.
These details may appear rather tedious, but you will find them useful, as they
apply to all apparatus where the wood is handled.
    Now, there is another thing you must bear in mind, and that is, the way
in which you must take hold of the bar.
    Some say that you should take hold of it as you would a handle, with the
thumb underneath ; but we think that there is no doubt that the proper way
is the same as that in which a monkey holds the branch of a tree—the thumb
on the same side as the fingers. If the thumb be underneath, in all ordinary
swinging exercises it has a tendency to draw the fingers off: although in some
few slow movements it may be under, yet, as a rule, it is better above.
    Now, keeping what has been said in mind, let us try some actual exercises.
    Jump up at the bar, and hang with the hands, the body, amis, and legs per
fectly straight, and the feet close together.
    Hardly anything looks worse than to see the legs swinging about in all di
rections when you are performing an exercise ; be careful, therefore, to keep

252                             GYMNASTICS.
them quite quiet : every unnecessary movement, you must recollect, is so
much wasted force, and so much, therefore, taken from your chance of per
forming the feat.
   To perform all feats quietly and easily shows the finished gymnast ; and so
                        far from violent exertions being the test of difficulty, the
                        reverse is generally the case, and the easiest-looking feats
                        are very often the hardest, and vice versd. And, besides,
                        these irregular movements only tend to tire you.
                           Now, having hold of the bar with both hands, draw
                        yourself up until the chin is above the bar ; then lower
                        the body until the arms are quite straight again.
                          Practise this exercise as often as you can without tiring,
                        or until you can perform it six or eight times in succes
                        sion, which you will not do until you have practised for
                        some little time.
                           Beginners must now try a few gentle exercises, such
                        as hanging by each hand alternately, the other close to
                        the side.
                           Then begin to walk along the bar by the hands, taking
        Fig. J.         alternate steps with them, making the steps as equal as
                        possible, and keeping, as we said before, the legs hanging
                        quietly down. Go in this manner from one end to the
other, then reverse the hands, and back again.
   Now draw yourself up, with your chin above the bar, as in Fig. 5, and repeat
the walk in this position.
   Next try a few good swings backward and forward at arms' length : you
will find that you will swing farther each time, until you can swing your body
almost into a horizontal position.
   All these little exercises should be repeated as often as possible ; they help
to strengthen the muscles, and accustom the hands to the feel of the bar.
                               TO GET ON THE BAr.
   Draw yourself up as in the last figure (Fig. 5), then suddenly drop the whole
                                                              Fir; 5.
of the right side, raising at the same time the left leg and throwing it over
 the bar, as in Fig. 6. Now establish a good swing with the right leg, and you

                        THE HORIZONTAL BAR.                                  253
will bring your body well over the bar, when a sudden exertion of muscle will
bring you sitting in the attitude of Fig. 7. This is by no means an easy thing
to do at first; but persevere, and, after a few failures, you will suddenly find
you have succeeded : once accomplished, it will come easy enough.
   At first you will find it hard matter enough to get your legs up to the bar at
all. Beginners mostly try to lift the toes without bending the knees, and, of
course, find it beyond their powers. Bring your knees up to your chin, doub
ling your feet well into your body, and you will find it come easy enough.
   There is another method of getting on to the bar, by bringing the leg up
through the hands, and with one good swing bringing yourself roundly up.
   You may try either of these methods, but nothing but continued practice
will enable you to master either of them ; but when you do, and can get on
to the bar in a respectable manner, you may consider you are making some
progress. We now proceed to
                                 THE LEg-SWING.
   Being in your original position, as in Fig. 7, throw your right leg as far be
hind you as possible, at the same time slipping the other leg backward, and
catching by the bend of the knee, as in Fig. 8. Then throw the head back
with a good swing (keeping the arms straight), and you will thus make one
turn backward round the bar.
   You will find at first you are apt to make a half-turn too much ; but after
a little practice you will be able to regulate the first swing so as to go round
once, and come up into your first position with a good balance.
   Next try two or three turns without stopping; but always endeavour to
finish above the bar, as at starting. It is bad to stop as in Fig. 9, as you are
disabled for the next exercise.
           Fig. 8.                          Fig. 9.
    For the forward swing, reverse the hands, keeping the whole weight of the
body on the arms, throw the head well to the front, and with one plunge for
ward—keeping tight hold with the hands, and the body erect, as in Fig. 10—
 you will make one forward revolution round the bar.

  254                           GYMNASTICS.
     After some practice, you will be able to go round several times without
  stopping.
    This exercise is actually easier than the former, but it requires more confi
  dence, for the want of which you are apt to keep too close to the bar, and thus
  you do not get sufficient swing to bring you up again.
    Practise both these exercises with right and left legs alternately.
                               SITTING, ON THE BAR.
    Having accomplished the backward and forward leg-swing, we will now
 proceed to something a little more difficult.
    You will now get on to the bar as in Fig. 7, with leg over ; now try to
                         balance yourself in this position without holding by your
                         hands ; having succeeded, take hold of the bar with both
                         hands behind you, and pass the hanging leg over the
                         bar into a sitting position, as in Fig. 1 1.
                            Now practise a few different balances while sitting;
                         that is, with the bar under different parts of the thigh.
                            Try to sit almost straight, and again with the bar just
                         within the angle of the knee. This must be done with
                         out touching the bar with the hands.
                           We now come to
                                   THE SIT-SWING.
                         This is so called from its being a swing performed while
 sitting on the bar, and we will commence with the backward swing.
                                                            Fig. ij.
   The " sit-swing" is somewhat similar to the leg-swing, but, of course, more
difficult, as in the latter the weight of the body is mostly on the leg; but in
the present exercise the whole weight is thrown upon the arms, therefore re
quiring more strength.
   While sitting on the bar, as in the last figure, but holding with the hands,
straighten the arms, and let them support a great part of the weight of the
body ; now throw yourself backwards with a good swing, still keeping a firm
hold of the bar with both hands.
   Now, the object of this movement is to go quite round the bar in the swing

                        THE HORIZONTAL BAR.                                     253
and thus make one complete revolution, which is called the " sit-swing back
ward ; " but of course no one can expect to accomplish this feat at once.
   The first few times you attempt it, you will most likely find yourself hang
ing with the weight of the body beneath the bar, and with the momentum of
the swing gone.
   In this case, all you can do is to let your legs pass through your arms, and
thus drop on to the ground ; but you must repeat the movement until you are
able to swing quite round.
   The way to practise this is, to swing about three-quarters round, and then
to come back into the sitting posture again. This will give you confidence, and
after a time you will feel yourself able to go all the way round, and to come
up into your original position.
   For some time you will find that you will come up in rather an awkward
manner, without having swing enough to balance yourself, and therefore you
will fall forward again ; in which case you must be prepared to let go with the
hands, and to throw yourself off the bar on to your feet ; or, what is much better,
to have some one standing in front, in readiness to catch you as you come off.
   But you may take comfort, for when you can get thus far the feat is nearly
achieved, and after a few more trials you will be rewarded by feeling yourself
able to accomplish the "sit-swing."
   In the forward sit-swing, the first start is the principal thing, as the impetus
gained will be sufficient to bring you up again. In order to get a good start,
you must raise the body as far away from the bar as possible, supporting the
whole weight on the arms, as in Fig. 13 ; now throw the chest out and the head
                                                          Fig. is.
back, with the legs rather straight, then with a good plunge forward, keeping
the arms straight as in Fig. 15, you will go quite round; that is to say, you will
in time, for you must not think of succeeding at first in any of these feats, but
perseverance will soon enable you to accomplish them.
  .You will find in practising this exercise, that some of your strength will be
expended in getting on to the bar again after each failure. I will now show
you a very good way of getting into the sitting position again, while hanging
as in Fig. 9. Straighten the body as in Fig, 15, and draw your centre of

 256                            GYMNASTICS.
gravity a little above the bar, then, bending the body again slightly, you will
roll quite over so as to come into a sitting position again. This movement is
called the " Plymouth."
                            HANGING BY THE LEGS.
   Get on to the bar in a sitting position, and then throw yourself off back
ward, as for a sit-swing ; but instead of going round, drop the body and bend
your knees, and thus let them catch on the bar, getting a firm grip with them,
at the same time letting go your hands as in Fig. 17.
   A young beginner should practise this on a low bar, so that, when he hangs
by the legs, his hands will touch the ground ; and thus, when he is getting
tired and cannot raise himself, he may let his legs drop, and come on to his
           Fig. 17                                         Fig. 18.
hands on the floor safely. He may then get on to the bar again, hanging by
the knees as before, and practise swinging backward and forward as high as
he can. At first the friction will make the legs a little sore, but the muscles
will soon harden with practice.
   There are a few other leg exercises which may be practised with advan
tage, and which will afford variety, and also help to bring all the muscles into
play.
   One of these is shown in Fig. 18, where you hang on the bar with one leg,
stretching the other straight out with the toe against the under side of the bar,
and the exercise is to bend the body up and down. This should be done with
right and left legs alternately.
   A performance which is also very showy (although we should not advise
any one to attempt it without very good nerve and also strength in the legs)
is
                    THE STANDING BALANCE ON THE BAR.
   This may be practised on a bar as low as you like, so that you can easily
jump off; but of course it looks better on a bar of ordinary height.
   While sitting on the bar, lift one foot and gradually bring it on to the bar,
as in Fig. 19, and then raise yourself up standing, as in Fig. 20, a feat which,

                          THE HORIZONTAL BAR.                                     257
            Fig. 19.
  of course, requires great strength in the legs, and a good command of ba
 lancing power. Now endeavour to walk forward and backward by shifting
  the feet ; and if you lose your balance, jump off the bar altogether, without
  trying to recover it, and get up again.
                               HANGING BY THE TOES.
    This will make a good finish after the standing balance on the bar. To do
 it artistically, stand first on one foot, then on the other, turn
 round, let yourself down, and drop quietly and smoothly be
 neath the bar, hook your toes on to it, and hang down quite
 straight with your arms folded across your chest. (See Fig.
    This, if done without stopping, has a good effect ; but of
 oourse you must not expect to accomplish anything in this
 style for some time, and therefore must be content simply
 to hang by your hands, and then bring your legs up, and
 hook your toes over the bar, taking care, the moment you let
go with your hands, to straighten the body and stretch out
your arms, so as to save your head if you should chance to
slip.
                              VAULTING OVER THE BAR
is a very useful exercise, and quite as well performed on the
horizontal bar as on the vaulting-horse if your choice of
apparatus should be limited.
   Try it first on a bar about three feet six inches from the
ground, and gradually raise it ; but take care not to over
task your powers by having it too high for you, as very often, when young
gymnasts find that they are getting on respectably, they are very apt to be too
ambitious, and to attempt heights far beyond their powers. About four feet
six inches is a fair height for a person about five feet four or five, to begin with.
Learn to clear this clean and in correct style, before you attempt anything
higher.
                                                                       17

258                             GYMNASTICS.
   As vaulting is by no means a difficult feat, to look well it should be done in
good style. To make a clean vault, the body should be kept as straight and
                                         as far away from the bar as possible (see
                                         Fig. 22), and should be practised right
                                         and left alike.
                                           No careful gymnast need ever be afraid
                                         of injury if he uses his brain as well as
                                         his body, and you will find that, if a mis
                                         hap occurs, it is generally to some one
                                         who attempts exercises without taking
                                         into consideration in what different posi
                                         tions he may come off the apparatus; but
                                         all these exercises may be gone through
                                         safely if sufficient precautions are taken
                                         at first. Mr. Spencer says on this head,
                                            "I am sure I can speak for myself,
                                         having often in former times made my
self quite a laughingstock at the gymnasium from the careful way in which I
have tried new exercises which had any risk attending them. But ' let those
laugh who win.'
   "I first put on the ' lungers ' (which you will find represented and described
on page 250), with a comrade on each side to hold the ropes, and something
soft underneath (such as a mattress, tan bark, or any other suitable material),
and having some one in front to prevent my pitching forward when I came
 down.
    " This is as you might have seen me when trying my first ' fall-back,' or other
difficult exercise; and what was the result? Why, I tried many times, and
fell many times, and should have hurt myself many times had I not been
caught.
    " But I knew I was perfectly safe, from the precautions taken (I did not mind
the look), and this gave me confidence, and left me at liberty to give my whole
attention to the feat I was attempting; and since then I have done that, and
many other more difficult feats, numerous times, without the slightest injury.')
                                 HANGING BAR.
    The exercises on this will be much the same as those on the fixed bar. We
 shall not, therefore, with the limited space at our disposal, do more than re
 commend it as an agreeable change from the fixed bar. Its use as a flying
 trapeze is too dangerous for ordinary boys to attempt, and we shall therefore
 not introduce it here.
                            THE PARALLEL BARS.
    You may commence with the parallel bars, as in the horizontal bar, with
 the simple movements which any one would naturally perform upon them ;
 such as standing between them, and with a spring placing a hand upon each,
 and thus supporting the weight of the body.
     When you have become somewhat used to them in this way, commence
 swinging forwards and backwards, with the legs straight down, trying to go
 higher each time.
     Of course, if you have practised on the horizontal bar, the preliminary exer
  cises will be mastered at once ; but as it is possible that some may commence
  on the parallels, I give this short description of these simple movements.

                         THE PARALLEL BARS.                                   259
   The first exercise after you are on the bars should be
                                    THE WALK.
   This is very simple, being performed by jumping up and placing one hand
on each bar, with the body hanging suspended between them as before.
   Now walk along the bar by taking steps with the arms, making them as
evenly and regularly as you can, keeping the head well up, and the body per
fectly straight.
   Walk in this way from one end to the other, and when you can do this easily,
walk back in the same way, without turning round. Then let the body sink
down as in Fig. 23, and hop from one end to the other backward and forward.
        Tig. 23.                       Fig. 24-                  Pig. as.
This you will find capital practice for the muscles of the arms, although rather
tiring at first.
   When this hopping movement is done with a good swing, so as to go for
ward or backward some considerable distance, it has a very good effect, and
is called " The Grasshopper."
                             VAULTING MOVEMENTS
are performed by getting up between the bars as for the walk, placing yourself
near the centre of the bars.
   Now swing backwards and forwards until you are able to throw both legs
over one side of the bars in front of you, as in Fig. 24.
   Now with another swing bring them back again, and throw them over
behind you on the same side as before. (Fig. 25.)
   There are several of these movements which may be practised with great
advantage to the muscles. Another is shown in Fig. 26.
   This is one of many which may be gone through while in this position on
the bars, the dotted line (as seen in the figure on page 248) showing the serpen
tine course of the movement.
   All these exercises should be performed with the body as straight as pos
sible, and when done neatly, with the legs close together, have a veiy prett/
effect, and are very good practice.
                                                                17—2

260                             GYMNASTICS.
   There are several similar movements, such as those represented in Figs. 27
and 28, which are done by first swinging backwards and forwards, and then
throwing the legs over the outside of the bars in front, one on each side ; then
bending back a little, and bringing the legs over back again between the bars,
and then, without stopping, throwing them over again behind you, one on
                                     •Pic. xj.                    Pig. j8.
each side as before. This you should practise until you can repeat it several
times without stopping.
   The next exercises are good practice. Stand between the bars, and place
the hands on the under side of them, even with the shoulders, then gradually
raise the legs until they turn over and bring the body into an inverted position,
as ir Fig. 29; then continue the movement right over, until you are hanging
as in the position shown in Fig. 30.
                                                          Fig. 30
    You should practise this until you can do it several times without touching
 the ground with the feet, and you will find it very good practice for the frcnt
 and back horizontal movements, previously shown on the horizontal bar.

                         THE VAULTING-HORSE.                                   261
                    Fig. 31.                                   Fis. 3X.
              THE PUMPING MOVEMENT
is one of the finest exercises for developing the
muscles of the chest. You must first practise the
swing until you can bring yourself up horizontally,
as shown in Fig. 31 ; then, by bending the arms,
drop the body into Fig. 32, and then swing round,
your feet describing a semicircle, and come up again
into Fig. 33, finishing the movement by swinging
backwards again in the same manner into Fig. 31,
as un commencing the movement.
           THE VAULTING-HORSE.
  There are no simple preliminary exercises on the
horse but what may be just as well performed on
the parallels ; and, indeed, such is the similarity in
some of them, that we have invariably noticed that
any gymnast who is good on the one is not likely to
be a novice on the other.                                           Fig. 33.
  For this reason we shall endeavour to make as
much variety as possible, and shall therefore not
                              describe exercises which may be as well gone through
                             upon the parallels, but only give those which have a
                             distinctive character.
                                 Commence by jumping on to the horse, with the
                             hands one on each of the pommels, and supporting
                             the whole weight of the body ; the legs hanging
                             straight down as in Fig. 3.
                                 Now bring one leg over the body of the horse
                             in between the pommels, as in Fig. 34; then bring
                             it back again without touching the horse with
                             the foot, and pass the other leg through in the same
                             manner.
                                Now try and change the legs simultaneously ; that
                             is, while the one is being brought back, pass the
                             other through forward; the body, of course, still
          fiu. u.            supported by the arms.

*62                             GYMNASTICS.
                                 THE LEG-SPRING
is the next exercise, and is performed in the following manner :
   Get on to the horse as in Fig. 3, and then bring both legs up on to the back
in a kneeling position, as in Fig. 35 ; then, while the body is thus gathered,
give a good spring up, throwing up the arms as in Fig. 36, and you will come
over to the other side on to your feet on the ground.
                  Fig. 35  •                         Fig. 36.
   If you are nervous in attempting this at first, get the assistance of some
one to hold your hand, and you will accomplish it without much difficulty.
   The next exercise must be practised at first with the horse as low as possible,
and the jumping-board placed about a foot from the horse.
                         JUMPING THROUGH THE HANDS.
   Take a short run, and jump on to the board with both feet down at once, flat-
 footed. Place your hands one on each pommel, spring up, and pass the legs
 through the hands, as in Fig. 37, shooting them out in front of you over the
                    horse, so as to come neatly down
                    on the other side. Of course you
                     must measure your distance, so that
                     you may rise high enough while
                     passing over for the back to clear
                     the top of the horse.
                        Another form of this exercise is to
                    jump over the horse with the legs
                     outside the hands, and is performed
                     in a similar manner to the last, but
                     is rather more difficult, as you will
        Fig 37.
                     need a much greater spring to raise
                     yourself sufficiently high to pass
 clear over ; and you must also take care to let go with the hands at the proper
 moment, when in the position shown in Fig. 38.
    If you retain your hold of the pommels too long, you will lose command c(
 yourself, and they will have a tendency to pull you back and cause you to
 pitch head first on to the ground ; but when you commence to practise this
 movement, it is necessary to have some one standing in front, to catch you in

                        THE VAULTING-HORSE.                                       263
case your feet do not quite clear the top of the horse, more especially if it
 should be at all too high for you.
                                SADDLE VAULTING.
    Get on to the horse as in Fig. 39, sitting across as in a saddle, but behind the
 pommels; then, bearing the whole weight upon the arms, throw your legs
 right up, and giving yourself a kind of twist, describe a semicircle with them,
 and bring yourself round with the face the other way ; your hands being one
           Fig. 39-                        Fig. 40.                      Fig. 41.
 upon each pommel, your course will naturally be towards the one which holds
the aftermost.
                                  THE LONG FLY
is a very fine exercise for the whole of the body, and more especially the lower
extremities.
   You commence practice for this movement by placing the jumping-board
about three feet from the largest end of the horse, then with a run, pitch with
your hands on to the end, as in Fig. 40.
   Now move the board a little farther off, and repeat the movement ; and thus
continue the exercise, increasing the distance each time, until you can pitch
on to the end from about five or six feet.
   Now vary this movement by jumping from different distances, and pitching
on the hands first, and then bringing up the feet on to the back of the horse,
as in Fig. 41.
   And when you are in this position, pitch with the hands on to the extreme
end of the horse, and go over as at " leapfrog."
   Having now sufficiently practised these preliminaries, place the board about
a foot from the end of the horse (having first had the high pommels taken out,
and the flush ones substituted).
   Now take a run and jump, pitching with your hands on the first pommel,
landing yourself astride, as near the middle of the horse as possible; repeat
this exercise, gradually increasing the jump, until at last you clear the whole
length, as in Fig. 42, coming down safely on the ground in front of the horse.
   When you can get near the neck and are likely to come right over in a few
more trials, have some one standing in front to catch you in case you do not
quite clear the end, and come instead into a sitting position on the neck of the

 264                              GYMNASTICS.
horse, as in this case the sudden stop is likely to throw you over head forwards
in a rather ignominious manner ; but if you practise assiduously, when you
feel that you can do it, and make up your mind for it, you are almost certain
to clear it.
                                       Fig. 4a.
   It will, of course, take some time to master this thoroughly ; but it is a fine
dashing feat, well worth the trouble of acquiring. Only don't think you are
doing it if you are satisfied to pitch short and paddle along on your hands for
the rest of the distance ; you ought to pitch clear over at one movement. If
horses of various lengths are available, they will prove of immense service in
practising this exercise.
                                 HANGING RINGS.
  These are very useful for developing the muscles of the arms and shoulders.
We have, therefore, found room for a few exercises upon them as a guide to
                        FIG. 43.                      Fin. 44.
the young gymnast, who will find little difficulty in supplementing our instruc
tions with exercises of his own.
   Commence by drawing yourself up, as in Fig. 43, holding one ring at arm's
length, and the other close to the body.

                                HANGING RINGS.                              265
   Draw in the outstretched arm and straighten the other, and repeat this as
often as you like, as it is very good preliminary exercise for the trapeze.
   Now, from this position gradually spread the arms wide apart, suspending
the body between them, as in Fig. 44, and then let the body gradually sink
down until you hang straight down by the arms again.
   There are many other strength movements on the hand-rings, but you will
soon find them out for yourself; we will, therefore, pass on to the swinging
exercises.
   Commence swinging simply backward and forward, increasing your momen
tum by drawing yourself up by contracting the arms as you ascend, and when at
the highest, lowering your body with a drop, and by this means you will swing
higher each time, until you are able to bring your arms and legs straight and
nearly into a horizontal position, as in Fig. 45.
                  Fig. 4J.                                        Ftc. 46.
   Also swing in different positions in order to get command of yourself while
 swinging. Practise by drawing the legs over the head when at the end of the
 swing, as in Fig. 46, passing back in this position to the other end, and then
 bringing the legs smartly over, and shooting them straight out (in order to
 preserve the momentum), and coming back all straight again to the starting-
 point.
    Repeat this several times, and you will find it very good work for the
 muscles.
                       Fig. ,1.                          Fig. 48.
    Also swing with the hands close to the groin, and the arms nearly straight
 by the side, and supporting the body, as in Fig. 47 ; keeping yourself from

 266                              GYMNASTICS.
 pitching your head and shoulders too much forward at the end of the swing
 by bending the arms and projecting the legs, as in Fig. 48, which represents
 the bent position which you assume when beginning to descend.
                                      Fig. 49.
   Another variety of this swing is shown in Fig. 49, where the body is kept
 horizontal throughout.
            CLIMBING LADDERS, ROPES, POLES, &c, &c.
   Climbing the rope is a very useful exercise, which should be practised by
every one, as it may often be the means of saving life in cases of fire or ship
wreck, &c.
  Fig So.                Eig. 51.                                    Fig. 53.
   We mean climbing by the use of both legs and arms. Fig. 50 shows the
way of taking hold of the rope, and Fig. 5 1 the position when climbing.
   At a gymnastic festival lately some of the competitors ascended on a rope
in this way to the height of upwards of one hundred feet.
   Another method is by holding on and raising yourself by using the hands
only, but this is more difficult.

                       CLIMBING LADDERS, &e.                                  267
   Another exercise is by climbing the knotted rope, and also one with short
cross-bars fixed at frequent intervals.
   Climbing the pole, either fixed or hanging, as in Fig. 52, only varies from
the same exercise on the rope by its being rather more difficult to grasp, from
being thicker and also rigid.
   Climbing ladders, fixed both in vertical and horizontal positions, and at
various angles, furnishes a good variety of exercise for the arms, and is very
easy to commence with. Fig. 53 shows an exercise on the horizontal ladder,
in which you hold by the outside, and progress by moving the hands forward
alternately. Fig. 54 represents another movement, in which you walk along
under the ladder, increasing the length of the step by holding the rounds at
some distance apart, the intervening ones being passed. Fig. 55 shows one
              FIG. 54.                    Fig. JJ.                   Eig. 56.
 of the movements upon the perpendicular ladder, in which the object is to
 keep the arms and legs as straight as possible while the steps are taken.
 Fig. 56 is the oblique ladder, which may be practised by moving both up and
 down by the hands.
    The " giant's stride " is a very good exercise for beginners, and consists of
 a very strong and firmly-fixed upright, about fifteen feet in height, having an
 iron cap at the top which will revolve easily, and around which ropes are fixed,
 each having a short cross-bar at the bottom, so that several may exercise at
 once, each one holding a bar and running round, increasing the speed until
 the body takes the same angle as the rope. Various evolutions may be gone
 through in this manner, which will be found very amusing.
    It is hardly necessary to say that there are some simple rules to be observed
 in practising.
    One is, never over-tire yourself by practice, as that will do more harm than
 good. And be careful not to get into a heat without having a wrapper handy
 to put on when you leave off; and do not practise after a full meal.

268                             GYMNASTICS.
   Dress must also be suitable, as it is highly important to have all the limbs
free and unfettered ; and therefore light and loose garments, and gymnastic
shoes, should be worn. A belt may be used by those who require it, but it is
not indispensable.
                                           <U+2666>
        GYMNASTICS WITHOUT SPECIAL APPARATUS.
                           THE THREE CHAIRS.
   Even should the young gymnast be without any apparatus, he can train his
body in various ways, so that, when he obtains apparatus, its work will be half
done.
   For example, he may practise the "Three Chairs" exercise, which will
strengthen the loins immensely ; that being just the portion of the body that
is least exercised in the artificial life of the present day.
   The young gymnast should take three chairs, and set them in a row, the
two endmost chairs facing each other, and the central one set sideways. They
should be just so far apart that the back of the head and the heels rest on the
two endmost chairs, and that the central chair supports the middle of the body.
   Now curve the body a little upwards, so as to take its weight off the centre
chair; take the chair with the right hand, draw it from under you, pass it over
you to the other side, and with the left hand replace it under your body. This
should be done several times, so as to pass the chair from side to side.
   The easiest way of learning this really useful exercise is to begin by putting
the head and nape of the neck on one chair, and allowing the feet to reach
nearly to the middle of the other. This will greatly take off from the diffi
culty; and as you feel yourself getting stronger, move the chairs gradually
apart, so that at last you lie exactly as shown in the illustration.
                           KICKING THE CORK.
   This is a capital exercise, and has the advantage of being exceedingly
amusing.
   Draw two lines on the ground (like a J_ reversed), one at right angles to the
other. Place your right foot with the heel just touching the cross-line of the
_L, and the foot pointing along the upright line. Next, put your left foot in
front of the right, with the heel just touching its toe, and then place the right
foot in advance of the left in a similar manner. You will thus make three
short steps, each the exact length of your foot.

                        STOOPING STRETCH, Gre.                                   269
    Exactly in front of the advanced foot stand a common wine cork upright.
    Now, go back to the cross-line, place your right heel against it as before,
and with the left foot try to kick down the
cork, as shown in the illustration, without
losing the balance of the body or allowing
the left foot to touch the ground. At first it
will be found utterly impossible to do so, the
toe not reaching within an inch of it ; but a
little practice will enable the young gym
nast to perform the feat without very much
difficulty. The best plan is to reach forward
until you judge that your foot is close to the
cork, and then, with a slight sideways kick,
strike at the cork, and bring yourself again
to the upright position.
   This exercise is exceedingly valuable for
strengthening the legs and giving pliability
to the whole body.
                        THE STOOPING STRETCH.
   This exercise does for the arms what the preceding does for the legs.
   Take the same lines as before, and stand with both toes on the cross-line.
Now throw yourself forward on your hands, and with the right hand make a
chalk-mark on the floor as far as you can stretch. Having done this, spring
                                         up to the upright position by means of the
                                         left arm, taking care not to move the toes
                                         from the cross-line. Each competitor at
                                         this exercise tries to chalk his mark as far
                                         as possible.
                                            When this exercise is first attempted, it
                                         seems utterly impossible to reach to any
                                         distance, the spring of the left arm being
                                         found insufficient to bring the body up
right again. After a time, however, when the muscles of the arms become
strengthened, the player finds that he can rapidly extend the length of stretch,
until at last he can throw himself nearly flat on the ground, and yet spring up
again.
    In order to strengthen both arms equally, they should be used alternately.
    One secret in performing this exercise is to chalk the mark and spring back
as quickly as possible, as every second of time takes away the strength of the
supporting arm.
                                       STILTS.
    There are various forms of stilts and modes of using them. Some, such
as those which are employed by professionals, are strapped to the ankles and
 have no handles. These should not be tried until the young gymnast is skilled
 with the handle-stilts, as a fall is really dangerous.
    Others have long handles, and the feet are received into leathern loops
 nailed on the stilt ; but by far the best are those which, like the stilts repre
 sented in the illustration, are furnished merely with two wooden projections
 on which the feet can rest.

270                              GYMNASTICS.
   The easiest way of getting on the stilts is to stand with the back against a
wall, and take the handles of the stilts under the arms, as shown in the illus
                    tration. Then place the right foot on the step of one stilt,
                    raise yourself, with your back still leaning against the wall,
                    and then place the left foot on the step of the other stilt.
                       Now try to walk, raising each stilt alternately with the
                    hands, and lifting the foot with it. A very short time will
                    get you into the way of doing this, and in a few days you
                    ought to be able to walk with freedom.
                       Having obtained some degree of proficiency, you should
                    race with other stilt-walkers, ascend and descend steps,
                   planks, or stairs, pirouette on one stilt, holding the other
                   above your head, and then replace the feet without coming
                   to the ground, and perform similar feats. Accomplished stilt-
                   walkers can even ascend and descend ladders laid at a con
                   siderable slope.
                       The height of the feet from the ground rather diminishes
                   than adds to the difficulty of walking on stilts. If the stilt-
                   walker should feel himself losing his balance, he should at
                    once jump to the ground, and not run the risk of damaging
                   himself by trying to recover his balance. After some little
                    skill has been attained, the young athlete ought to be able to
                    get on his stilts without needing the support of the wall, a
                    short run and a spring being quite enough for the purpose.
                              THE WALL-SPRING.
   A very good preliminary exercise is that which is called the " Wall-spring."
   The young gymnast stands at some little distance from a wall, places his
left hand behind his back, and throws himself against the wall, supporting
himself by the right hand. He then springs back to the upright position
without moving his toes from the spot on which they had been placed. This,
like all similar exercises, should be done with both arms alternately, and the
gymnast should learn to throw the strength of all his body, as well as of the
arms, into the spring.

                                  RIDING.
    We remember well in our youthful days being told by a cautious, well-mean
 ing old lady, that " we ought not to attempt to bathe until we could swim."
 This caution puzzled us extremely, as we did not quite comprehend how we
 were to learn swimming unless we did go into the water. If such a proceed
 ing were possible as to acquire a knowledge of a practical subject by a theo
 retical course of study, we should undoubtedly urge on the reader the import
ance of never mounting a horse until he could ride.
   The most neatly dressed, gentlemanly-looking man, who is a pattern of all
that is correct, will, if he be a bad rider, look an awkward Guy if he be on
horseback and cannot ride. The lovely girl whose every movement is elegant
will make an exhibition of herself if she attempt an equestrian performance
when she is unskilled in that branch of her education. Not only is it on
account of the mere look, but also for safety and comfort, that one should be
able to ride, to know what to do under ever-recurring conditions, and, in fact,
not to be content to " stick on a horse without fear," but to be able to ride as a
horseman should do. We shall, therefore, divide the subject of Riding into
two parts : first, What to do ; then, How to do it.
                                 What to do.
   We will now suppose that a horse or pony has been procured for us to ride,
that he is saddled and bridled, and held by a groom ready for us to mount.
   In the following remarks we principally address those who know nothing
about horses or riding ; but we intend also to point out the defects in the per

 272                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
formances of those who, from having lived entirely in the country, or from
 being self-taught, or untaught, have acquired habits which the sooner they are
 done away with the better.
    When we have a groom or stableman whom we can entirely trust, we may
 run the risk of mounting a horse without even glancing at the manner in which
 the bridle or saddle is put on ; but as no man is free from the possibility of
making mistakes, we as a rule, previous to mounting, proceed as follows:
    1st. Pass the finger under the throat-strap to ascertain whether it be too
tight, many grooms thoughtlessly buckling this so as almost to choke the
horse.
    2nd. Glance at the curb-chain and buckles, to see that they are hooked and
buckled firmly.
    3rd. See that the saddle is neither too forward nor too backward on the
 horse.
   4th. Look to the girths to see that they are not crossed nor wide apart : they
 should pass over each other, and thus occupy the breadth of one girth only,
otherwise they are likely to gall the horse. By feeling the girths we can know
if they are tightly buckled, as they ought to be ; for, if loose, the saddle will
slip backwards and forwards on the horse as he ascends and descends hills,
the consequence being a sore back, from which the animal may not recover
for weeks; or, if the rider be a bad one, the saddle may possibly slip round
under the horse's belly, and the rider be deposited under his horse's hoofs.
    The manner in which a man with a momentary glance examines all these
details, and then mounts his horse, reveals to the experienced eye whether he
be a " horseman," or merely a person who " sits on the top of a horse."
    Often have we smiled as we have observed the cautious wink given with a
most serious face by the groom to his stable-companion, as he watched " the
visitor" mount one of his master's horses. Not a word was uttered, but won
derfully expressive was that wink: it said in grooms' language, "That 'ere
gent 's a muff with a 'oss, in spite of 'is pretence," as plainly as words could
have said it; and yet the visitor had done nothing but mount the horse
brought to him.
                                    TO MOUNT.
    When we arc going to mount a horse which we have ridden on former occa
sions, we can learn whether the stirrups are of a proper length by measuring
on our arm from the stirrup to the buckle. Usually the stirrup-iron should
just pass under the arm when the extended fingers touch the buckle. If, how
ever, a horse be very round in the barrel or very knife-like, a slight variation
to this rule will occur. We will treat again of this subject after giving other
details on mounting.
   Having examined the details mentioned above, we should, on mounting,
first stand on the left side of the horse, near to his fore-leg. Take the middle
of the bridle in the right hand, and draw it through the left, letting the reins
pass—one between the thumb and forefinger, the other between the first and
second fingers. This should be done gently, and so as not to jerk the horse's
mouth ; but the reins should be just tight enough to " feel " the horse's mouth.
Then quit the reins vith the right hand, take a large lock of the mane and
pass this round the thumb, so that, when the hand is closed, reins and mane
are grasped firmly by it. Then place the foot in the stirrup, using the right
hand to accomplish this if necessary. Then place the right hand as far over

                                     RIDING.                                    273
  the saddle as possible, so as to bear on it on the right side, and thus counter
  act your weight borne by the stirrup in mounting. Rise with a good spring
  from the right foot, giving the weight on to the right hand. Take care that
  the right leg is swung well clear of the horse's back, and drop gently on to the
  saddle. Turn in the toes of the right foot, and the stirrup is found at once,
  wen though the groom does not aid you. Quit the lock of mane, take the
  right rein in the right hand, and you are ready for your ride.
    Now for some additional details on this mounting.
    If you have a whip, it should be held in the left hand when mounting, and
  grasped firmly in the palm, which can easily be done even when the reins and
 mane-lock are held as directed.
                                                                     D. Saddle-flaps
                                                                     E. Stirrup lea
                                                                       thers.
                                                                     F. Girths.
   Get into the habit of making your horse stand steady during and immedi
ately after mounting. When an animal has been in careless hands, he not
infrequently tries to move off immediately he feels your weight on the stirrup.
                                                                    18

274                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
This is not only an unpleasant but also a dangerous proceeding, especially
when a lady is mounting. It may be checked by keeping the reins tight, and,
if necessary, using the curb-rein. The horse is so docile an animal, though
a creature of habit, that it can easily be taught what is required, or cured of
its defects, provided only that its master is patient and intelligent. Thus,
when mounted, instead of immediately starting off at a trot or walk, wait a
few seconds, and thus teach your horse that he is not to rush away immedi
ately he feels your weight in the saddle.
   In order to discover the proper length for your stirrups, sit comfortably
down on your saddle, keep the body upright, let the legs hang loosely at first,
then clasp the horse slightly with them, turn the toe in and rather up ; then
the stirrup ought just to support the foot. Then stand up in the stirrups with
the legs straight, and see whether the fork will clear the pommel of the saddle:
it ought just to do so if the stirrups are the correct length. Having once ascer
tained what is the correct length for the stirrups, you should measure from the
finger-tip to armpit the length from the buckle to the end of the stirrup, and
thus you can always on future occasions tell whether any alterations are re
quired before mounting.
    Being now seated on the horse, which we will suppose is a quiet, well-
trained animal, it would be advisable that a groom or some friend should lead
the horse for a time, in order that we may get accustomed to the motion 01
the horse and to sitting in the saddle.
    The seat in the saddle should be obtained by sitting well down, leaning
 rather backwards than forwards, and grasping the horse with a tolerably firm
grip of both legs. There are two seats to be avoided, but which nearly all
 beginners at first practise : one is leaning forward as if in readiness to go over
 the horse's head ; the other is sitting on the saddle as though it were red hot.
 The very best method of getting " shaken down in the saddle," as the term is,
 is to quit the stirrups—that is, take the feet out of them—and trot round and
 round a circle. This can be easily done by having a rope attached to a head

                                   RIDING.                                   275
collar on the horse, and getting this rope held by an attendant. After a few
days of this kind of bumping, we learn how to grasp with the legs so that we
scarcely move from the saddle, and we do not then adopt the dangerous and
unsightly practice of depending mainly on the stirrups for our equilibrium.
   During the time that we are "jogging" in the trot the reins should be held
one in each hand, and so that we " feel " gently the horse's mouth : at no time
should the reins become slack, but an uniform "feel" should be maintained.
A horse soon becomes accustomed to the hand of its rider, and learns to obey
the slightest change. Many horses, especially those gifted with tender mouths,
will become restive, or will rear, attempt to run away, &c, when their riders
either suddenly slacken, then tighten the reins, or in other ways alter their
hold upon them.
                                   THE TROT.
   Having passed through the process of being shaken down in the saddle,
we may then take our stirrups and learn how to sit down in the saddle, keep
our stirrups, and yet not to rise in them when the horse trots ; after which we
may practise rising to the trot. There is scarcely a more ridiculous exhibition
than that of a rider working laboriously to rise to his horse's trot, using much
more exertion than the animal he bestrides, whilst he works his arms and body
as though riding were a very painful matter. The very slightest movement
of the instep and a spring from the knee is sufficient to prevent the bumping
produced by a horse's trot ; and the skill or awkwardness of a rider is never
more prominent than when his horse is indulged in a long slashing trot.
                                 THE CANTEr..
   To " raise a horse into a canter" from a trot, we should slightly pull the left
rein, at the same time closing the legs. By a steady hand on the reins we
may increase or decrease the speed of the horse, or again reduce his pace to
a trot.
   Nothing but practice and instruction will ever give a rider a good firm seat
on a horse ; but at the same time practice alone may produce a strong seat
                                                               18—2

276                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
but a very awkward one, unless the defects of the seat are pointed out
early.
                        Vices and their Treatment.
   Having attained a certain amount of skill in sitting on a horse and in hand
ling the reins, the horseman may devote his attention to certain matters which
are not unlikely to happen to every equestrian performer. These may be
classed under the head of the vices of the horse, and are principally as follows:
running away, shying, rearing, bucking, and refusing to move; kicking, biting,
and stumbling.
                                 RUNNING AWAY.
   A runaway horse is a most dangerous animal, and for an unskilled rider to
keep such a creature is not advisable. Many so-called runaway horses, how
ever, are merely high-spirited animals whose former riders were unable to
manage them. As an example : we possessed for three years a horse which
we regularly hunted, and on which we placed a lady, and which had been sold
because he was a determined runaway. Only once did this horse run away
with us, and that was in consequence of the reins breaking. That horses do
run away, however, is a fact ; and we will now consider the best means of
dealing with this vice.
   A runaway horse is usually one with a very hard mouth, which is unaffected
by any amount of pulling applied merely as a dead pulL A horse is stronger
than a man, and therefore to pull against him is useless.
   A particular kind of "bit" is requisite for a runaway horse; the best that
we have found being a powerful " Pelham." The reins should be very stout,
so as to afford a firm grasp, with no fear of breaking. Stout strong reins also
do not slip through the fingers as do those which are thin.
   We will now suppose that a rider is seated on a horse, and starts for a canter
on a nice bit of turf. His horse, probably- fresh, bounds off, and the rider soon
finds the animal pays no attention to his " Woa, woa !" or to the pull at the reins.
A bad rider has at this point come to the end of his expedients, and usually
does nothing more than give a dead pull at the reins until he gets cramp in
his arms and fingers, and is unable to use them effectively, when he is at the
mercy of his horse. Some riders vary the " dead pull " by sawing their horses'
mouths by alternately pulling the right and left rein. This sometimes, but
rarely, has the effect of stopping a horse ; the common result being that the
animal throws up its head, changes its feet m the gallop, but still goes on,
probably with a temper not improved by the fact of its mouth bleeding in
consequence of this ill treatment.
   As an effectual method for pulling up a runaway horse we have never found
any equal to the following :
   The reins being very strong, and the bit a " Pelham," or one which will not
slip through a horse's mouth, we gather the reins short up in the left band, so
short that the hand is pressed against the horse's mane ; then pass the right
hand down the right rein until it grasps this rein within a few inches of the
bit ; with a firm hold pull this round towards the right knee, taking care that
the horse does not snatch the rein out of your hand, as he will try to do if he
be an accomplished runaway. When the horse's head is thus pulled round
he cannot gallop, nor can he do more than twist round. We have by this
method the advantage of a lever pulling round the horse's head with enormous
power.

                                  RIDING.                                     277
   Against this plan it has been urged that we are very likely to throw a horse
down. Grant this ; and it is perhaps the less of two evils that we throw a horse
down where we like, selecting a soft piece of turf, than that we get dashed to
pieces by coming in collision with a carriage or cart, a lamp-post or railing, or
slip up on stone pavement, &c But in answer to this objection we can say,
that on an average once a week the horse we before mentioned tried to run
away with us, but we invariably stopped him by this plan, and never, during
three years, did we ever throw him down. Two other horses that we rode also
on one or two occasions tried to run away, and were instantly stopped by this
method ; thus we have practical proof of its efficacy, against the theoretical
objection urged against it.
   To a bad or timid rider, or even to one not capable of dealing with it, a run
away horse is a dangerous possession ; unless, therefore, a rider is well skilled,
well nerved, and strong armed, our advice is, never mount a known runaway
horse. As, however, every horse may, some time or other, try to run away,
the preceding advice should not be neglected, as it may save a fall, a broken
arm, leg, or neck.
                                    SHYING.
   Shying is a very common practice of horses, particularly of young horses.
It may arise from defective sight, or from mere frolic To a good rider it is
of no consequence, but to a bad horseman a fall may result. After a brief
acquaintance with an animal we can tolerably well tell at what objects he
usually shies. To overcome this practice we should never be off our guard,
but should ever keep a watch on our horse's ears. When we notice that he
suddenly raises his ears, and looks attentively at any object, it is probable that
he may shy. To avoid such a result, we should endeavour to distract the
animal's attention by patting his neck and speaking to him, a slight move
ment of the reins to rouse him, or by letting the whip rest on his neck, his
attention may be withdrawn from the object that alarms him. A brutal and
ignorant horseman usually commences thrashing his horse when it shies, and
thus only adds to its fear, and causes it to repeat its vice with double effect.
   The late Mr. Rarey used to say that a horse never could surprise him, be
cause its ears always told him what it was thinking of doing. There is much

278                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
truth in this remark, as every one accustomed to horses must know, and those
unaccustomed to them may learn.
                                    REARING.
   Rearing is one of the most dangerous and incurable of vices; it may, however,
arise from a harsh use of the curb ; but a rearing horse may at any time cause
his rider's death by falling back on him. When a horse rears we should sit
quietly on him, and well forward. A rider without a firm seat may lean back,
 holding on to the reins, and will thus pull the horse over on him. A sharp
 pair of spurs may be used with advantage on a rearing horse, but the reins
 must be very delicately handled — the cause of rearing being in many cases
 due to that abominable habit of bad riders of continually jerking their horse's
 mouth, for no other reason, apparently, than that they are themselves bad
 riders.
                                 BUCK-JUMPING.
    Bucking is a habit not so common amongst English as it is among colonial
 horses. Bucking is an endeavour to unseat a rider, and consists in a series
 of bucks in the air, or a sort of rocking motion produced by a succession of
 jumps. The horse tries to get its head down between its legs, arches its back,
 and springs several times from the ground. There is no other means left than
 to sit the horse through its performance, which generally takes place when
 first mounted, after which it not unusually will travel quietly all day.
                               REFUSING TO MOVE.
    This is not a very common vice, except with a horse which has been cruelly
 ill used. We once found a horse belonging to a friend which possessed this

                                   RIDING.                                     279
vice, and we cured it by getting two leather straps, like handcuffs ; by these
we fastened the horse's fore-legs together so that it could not move, and then
sat patiently on its back. In about ten minutes the animal got tired of standing
still ; but we determined on giving it a lesson, so we kept it hobbled for fully
an hour, after which it at once moved on. On every occasion afterwards,
either the exhibition of these handcuffs or the attempt to put them on, at once
was received as a hint, and the horse was ready to start off.
                                     KICKING.
    A kicking horse is always dangerous ; when, however, we are on his back,
it is well to remember that he cannot kick with both hind-legs whilst his head
is held up. We should, however, be very careful how we allow any one to
approach him ; also when in the stable great caution is requisite. The same
remarks apply to a biting horse : it is better at once to get rid of such a brute,
for we are never safe from his vicious habit.
                                   STUMBLING.
    Stumbling may arise from careless riding or from the imperfect form of a
horse. An animal which in its walk or trot does not raise its feet much will
usually be a stumbler ; and if its fore-feet, when they come to the ground, are
not placed in advance of the shoulder, the horse is likely to be a dangerous
stumbler.
    Those who wish to become adepts in regard to horses should, when the
opportunity offers, study the form and action of a well-known good horse ; the
shape of his shoulders, set on of the head, and, in fact, every peculiarity should
be noticed. Although horses differ very much in external appearance, those
which are fast, enduring, good jumpers, &c, all possess somewhat similar
characteristics ; and we can tolerably well conclude that a strange horse is a
good jumper when we find his hind quarters and general form similar to those
of a well-known horse which possesses this qualification. A friend of our own,
when at Goodwood races, selected the celebrated mare Blink Bonny as the
winner of the Derby before he knew her name or performances, he merely
knowing that she was to start for the next year's Derby. This he did from
her action and style of going being very similar to that of a horse which he
had owned, and whose speed and endurance were unequalled.
    There is no indicator equal to the eyes and the ears for telling the character
of a horse : the eye of a vicious horse never will look good-tempered, nor can
he conceal its vicious look. The ears of a playful horse may to the inexperi
enced seem to indicate vice ; for a horse that is playful, well bred, and fond
of its master or groom, will often put back its ears and bite at its manger when
 its master approaches it ; but this is not vice, and should not be misunderstood
for such. Experience in this respect is needed to prevent mistakes.
    Having now offered a few remarks to those unacquainted with horses and
ignorant of riding, we must venture some suggestions to those who can ride a
little, or who consider they can stick on a horse. Among those who regularly
mount horses, and are carried a certain number of miles per day by their
animals, there are probably not ten in a hundred who are " horsemen." When
a man is really a horseman, almost all danger in riding ceases ; when he is not
a horseman, he is in perpetual danger as long as he is on horseback. Many
men ride all their lives and never become horsemen, whilst others become so
 in a very few years.

 280                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   Our reader may possibly ask himself the question whether he is a horseman
or not ; and he may answer his question himself. If he can ride an average
hunter over about three miles of hunting country, taking all the leaps he
meets without losing his seat or losing a stirrup ; can sit a horse neatly over
a hurdle when his stirrups have been crossed over the saddle ; can remain
tolerably firmly seated when his horse, from a trot, suddenly stops and twists
round, alarmed at some trifle, he is in a fair way to become a horseman. If,
however, he dare venture only to trot or canter his horse along the roads, is
very particular as to riding strange horses, and always feels anxious when in
the saddle, he certainly is not a horseman.
   It is not unusual to term a rider "a man on the outside of a horse" when
he is a bad rider, and this definition is very graphic, as it expresses the seat
and appearance of such a person ; he is not " down " in his saddle, but seems
on the top of it, and is very likely soon to be beneath it and beneath the horse's
feet also. It is somewhat a curious fact that bad riders almost invariably
adopt nearly the same practices, even in different parts of the country, and
when they never could by any means have seen each other, and thus have
imitated each other's vices. In order to indicate what to avoid in riding, we
will give a brief description of the appearance and practices of that awkward
creature, a bad horseman.
   A bad horseman usually rides with very short stirrups,—so short that the
leg from the hip to the knee is nearly horizontal ; he thus loses all grip with
the leg, and is already half out of the saddle. When the horse is in tolerably
rapid motion his body is bent back, whilst his toes are projected even with, or
in advance of, his horse's shoulders; his toes are turned out, whilst his calves
press against the horse's sides, and nearly the whole of his weight rests on the
 stirrups. When the horse decreases its speed and changes from a trot to a
 walk, the bad horseman changes his position from leaning back to leaning
 forward, and he suddenly seems to be regarding attentively and closely his
 horse's ears. As soon as the animal he bestrides, puzzled by his strange pro

                                   RIDING.                                    281
ceedings, starts for a trot when a walk only was intended, or walks when a trot
was desired, he makes sundry fierce snatches at the bridle, thus making his
horse's mouth bleed, and then with his whip or stick strikes the animal over
the head and ears, at the same time heaping on the quadruped terms of abuse
justly attributable only to himself.
   When riding along a road, not the slightest attention is paid to the newly
deposited flints or gravel : these are rattled over as though a horse's legs and
hoofs were of cast iron or steel : though at the road-side a soft piece of turf
may extend for some distance, this is neglected, and the hard and dangerous
flints preferred. Then this monster usually starts off at a canter, which almost
reaches a gallop for about a mile or more, irrespective of hills or flints ; then
the horse is suddenly pulled up and walked, but is again thrashed onwards.
   These are the main characteristics of the bad and ignorant horseman, be
sides several other items which may be noticed at various times.
   When the horse, irritated or frightened by such brutal treatment, plunges
or rears, the rider's hands are at once held high up, whilst he unconsciously
jerks his horse's mouth in his vain endeavour to maintain his seat. The finale
not unusually is, a man on his back in the mud, and a riderless horse gallop
ing along a road pursued by boys.
   Let every young horseman carefully avoid all these faults.
   Remember how to ascertain whether your stirrups are of the correct length ;
also bear in mind that your legs should cover the girths, and should not pro
ject before your horse's shoulder ; your seat should be in your saddle, not on
your stirrups ; the leg from the seat to the foot should remain as nearly fixea
as possible, whilst the body should move in accordance with the horse's move
ments from the waist upwards. Whenever a horse is inclined to be restive, the
hands should be held low, even below the withers— never high — whilst '-he
body should be upright. It is an important thing to remember that a rider
scarcely ever is thrown over his horse's tail, whilst scores are thrown over his
head : thus, when a rider leans forward and gets his own head close to his
horse's ears, he is already half-way over his horse's head, and requires but little
more to send him over completely. It is the common proceeding of the bad
rider to thrash his horse when he himself is unable to make his wants known
to the animal he is riding. No man is a good rider who thrashes a willing
horse. Therefore be sparing of the whip : one blow of the whip is in almost
every case sufficient to inform a horse that he is in error or must increase his
speed. In fact, a willing horse ridden by a horseman rarely if ever requires
the whip, the hand of its rider indicating to it all that is required.
   A good horseman, unless much pressed for time or when hunting, will never
ride his horse so as to cause it to sweat much : by a judicious arrangement of
speed a horse may be ridden far and fast without its turning a hair. When
ever a horse is found to sweat much in only moderately warm weather, this
arises either from riding him too fast, from bad riding, from the horse being
in bad condition, or from not regulating the speed properly. To canter or
rapidly trot a horse over a piece of turf is much less distressing to the animal
than to walk him over flints or gravel on the road ; then, if a horse be gently
trotted for a mile or so, and afterwards walked for a quarter of a mile, and so
on, selecting good ground for him, he will journey far without much distress.
   In order to feel comfortable as well as to look well on horseback, we should
have trousers made on purpose for riding : they should be made of some stout
material, and should be tighter round the knee than ordinary trousers. In

                           ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
order to get a good fit, it is not a bad plan to sit across a chair, and bend the
 knees as though in the saddle : the trousers, if unsuitable for riding, will then
 be baggy under the knee and tight in other places. A tailor can then be in
 structed to take out a portion from this part, which will render our seat much
 firmer and better looking. In muddy weather there is nothing better for riding
 than a pair of overall boots which come up to the knee : these protect the ex
 tremities, and are easily taken off and cleaned when the ride has been finished.
     The coat for riding should be short : extensive skirts, such as appertain to
 frock coats, &c, are very bad ; for if a horse sweat much the coat tails become
 soiled, so that the shorter the coat the better.
     Gloves should be of stout leather or dog-skin. If a horse has a hard mouth
 or pulls very much, we have seen instances where the hands, unprotected by
•stout gloves, have had the skin taken off the fingers.
     There are several items which are taught by good riding-masters, but which
 a self-taught horseman is rarely if ever acquainted with. One of these we will
 remind the reader of in the same manner as it was impressed upon our own
 memory. As we were riding round the school, the reins in our left hand and
 the whip in our right, the word was given,—
     " Scratch your face, sir !"
     To so unusual a request we complied, however, by raising our right hand to
 our face.
     "That's awkward, sir!" said the riding-master. "You should never raise
 your whip in that hand. Transfer your whip to the left hand before you raise
 your right."
     It certainly does look awkward to see a man raise his hand with a whip in
 it to adjust his necktie or to lift his hat; and what is far worse, if the horse
 be a high-spirited animal, the whip being raised in the hand may cause it to
 start, imagining that the whip is about to descend upon it.
     Every equestrian ought to practise mounting his horse from either the right
  or left side. It is sometimes considered that to mount from the left side is
  the only correct way ; but this is a mistake, and, when mounting in a street,
  may oblige us to turn the horse about,— a proceeding fraught with "inconve
  nience.
      When riding on roads, every horse or vehicle that we meet we should pass
  on our right hand ; but when we overtake anything, this should be passed on
  our left. The exception to this rule is when we meet two horses, one of which
  is led and the other ridden ; the rule then is always to pass nearest to the
  ridden horse, so that, if a groom is leading a horse and is holding the reins of
  this horse with his right hand, we pass these horses on our left. The reason
  is that a led horse, either from viciousness or play, may lash out and kick a
  passer-by, whilst the groom is perfectly helpless to stop this proceeding;
  whereas, if a ridden horse be between us and the animal that is led, this can
  not be done.
      It is customary in England to entrust the saddling and bridling of our
  horses to our grooms ; and to such an extent is this dependence carried that
  we have known many an instance where a gentleman did not know how to
   saddle or bridle his horse any more than he did how to cook a dinner. This
   is a condition which should not be allowed to prevail. Every gentleman ought
   to be able to put on a saddle and bridle ; and as the process can be learned
   in a quarter of an hour, the knowledge should be acquired at the first oppor
   tunity.

                                   RIDING.                                    283
   The bits in most general use are the Plain Snaffle, the Curb, the Pelham,
and the Hanoverian Bit.
   The Snaffle is used for horses with good mouths, and may, in the hands of
a skilful rider, be used even for hard-mouthed, pulling animals.
                          6 w 0-^
      THE SNAFFLE.               THE PELHAM.                THE HANOVERIAN.
   The Curb is often used with the snaffle. It is more powerful, and will pull
up most horses ; it also makes a horse carry his head well, and is a favourite
bit with military riders.
   The Pelham bit is very powerful, and is that which we recommend for a
runaway horse. It can be used either as a snaffle or curb, and is a very ser
viceable bit.
   The Hanoverian bit is more powerful even than the Pelham, but cannot be
used as freely or like a snaffle. It is very similar to the curb, the mouthpiece
being bigger.
   When a rider has become sufficiently skilled to sit a horse well during its
trot and canter, it is not improbable that he will wish to try a leap with it, or
he may be desirous of hunting. Should this be the case, the first precaution
is to find whether your horse can leap. One of the worst falls we ever had
was from a mare whose appearance was that of a hunter, but who had not the
slightest idea of hunting. We rode this mare over a ploughed field and at
a small fence about two feet high. The animal went on as though meaning
to rise at the leap ; but, instead of doing so, she never lifted her legs ; conse
quently she came down on her head, sending us with our face ploughing along
the ruts. To cure the anhnal of this practice, we obtained two small wattle
hurdles about two feet high ; these we fixed firmly into the ground at about a
foot apart at the base and touching at the top; the space between we filled
with earth rammed tightly in. With a stout head-collar and a dumb jockey
on the mare, we lunged her round a circle for a few minutes, and at a short
distance from the hurdles. Suddenly changing our position, we allowed the
mare to come upon the hurdles in her circle : she made a kind of lazy, careless
leap at them, and, as we hoped, came down upon her head. She quickly got
up, and looked as foolish as a horse can look. We again sent her round at
the hurdles, which she now tried to avoid ; but a judicious threatening of the
whip made her take the leap, though in a clumsy manner ; but again and again
she was sent round to it, until at length she leapt very easily over it. Day by
day we increased the height of this leap by adding strong bars covered with
furze,—so strong that to touch them was to ensure a fall, and several falls did
take place, to the shaking of the mare, not of our own bones ; until after a week
she would clear five feet without difficulty. At the end of each day we placed
a saddle on her back and rode her over the same leap which she had previously
jumped with merely the cross-bars on her. She was thus taught how to jump,

284                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
and when we once more took her into the hunting-field it merely required
determination and quiet riding to make her behave very properly.
   It is not to be expected that a horse is to know how to do anything which
he has not been taught any more than that a man should. Some horses may
have reached the age of four or five years and have never taken a leap ; they
don't know how to do it, and should be taught. If we ride a strange horse at
a stile or stout fence, we may very probably find that the animal has been
called upon to perform a feat as difficult to him as for a boy to leap with a
pole when he has never before attempted to do so.
   Remarking upon the number of accidents that annually occur in consequence
of foolhardy conduct with firearms, when some boy points a gun at his friend,
and says, " I 'll shoot you !" and straightway does so, whilst the boy shrieks,
"Oh dear! I didn't know it was loaded !" a veteran sportsman once recom
mended us ^Always to treat a gun as if it were loaded and on full cock, then
we shall never have an accident ; " so we would recommend a young horseman
always to treat a horse as though he were likely to run away, likely to shy,
and were unable to leap a stile safely, until we have personally proved the
contrary. We can easily test our horse's leaping power by trying him at small
safe fences ; but we must bear in mind that many good horses will often refuse
a leap at which they are not ridden in a determined manner. Ahorse is very
quick at finding out whether his rider really means to ride at a leap or is "just
a little nervous " about it ; and as few animals care to exert themselves un
necessarily, the horse is not likely to take a leap unless he believes his rider
means it.
   Some right good hunters will not take a leap in cold blood, or if turned
from a road at a fence, whilst nothing will stop them when excited by the
presence of other horses or of hounds.
   We once owned a horse that we bought at auction, having been taken with
 his form. He was described as " a bay gelding," and was not warranted to

                                    RIDING.                                     285
 do anything. During the first day or two we tried him on the road, and found
 him a very high-spirited horse. We next tried him at a small fence, but he
 refused, and commenced rearing in the most dangerous manner. We there
 fore concluded that he would not do for a hunter at present. The next day,
 however, we went to the meet of the old Surrey hounds on the same animal, -
 though we never expected a run, or never hoped to take part in it. As soon
 as the hounds found a fox, they ran under a very stiff line of rails which ex
 tended a quarter of a mile on each side, then over a stiff fence, and along a
 fair hunting country. One of the huntsmen, mounted on a splendid hunter,
 rode at the rails, and cleared it like a buck. " Neck or nothing," we said, as
 we cantered our horse at the same leap. The animal pulled like a steam
 engine, and we felt he meant to try the rails whatever the result might be.
 We felt a bound, like as if seated on an India-rubber ball, and we were over
 the rails ; a few strides more, and we had cleared the quickset hedge in the
 same manner, whilst not above a dozen of the field had chosen to take the
 same line. For an hour and ten minutes, and round a semicircle the fox led
 us, the last leap being a drop into a lane, up the opposite bank, and over a
 hedge at the top—a very difficult and dangerous leap—without apparently the
 slightest idea of refusing, the horse that on the previous day, in cold blood,
 had refused a small fence, went willingly at this leap, got safely over, and
 landed us within one hundred yards of the pack which were killing their fox.
 As we trotted home with our "brush" we possessed a very different opinion
 of our new purchase's leaping power to that which we had formed on the
 preceding day.
    Many horses which have been badly ridden, or bullied by bad riders, have
bad tempers, which show themselves by refusing leaps, or refusing other things.
 A good rider, or even an observant person, will soon discover what irritates
 his horse, and will avoid any acts which produce this effect. A stupid child
beats its hoop when it cannot trundle it, and a stupid rider not unfrequently
 thrashes his horse because of his own bad riding or ignorance of good horse
 manship.
   We once owned a horse which invariably showed temper when we raised a
whip near its head, and this, we found after some time, was because a groom
formerly beat the horse about the head with a whip. We therefore discarded
a whip and rode with spurs only.
   Horses that are usually ridden, vary in age from about four years to seven
or eight. Whenever your horse commits any fault, bear in mind that he is
not so old as you are, and in fact is a mere child in years ; treat him accord
ingly, try to assist his weaker mental powers by your skill, and you will always
find him a good and faithful servant ; bully and ill treat him, and he is partially
your enemy. When once, by ill treatment, you have produced any particular
vice in a horse, it is almost impossible to eradicate it.
   The age of a horse may be known by his teeth, and the following will aid
the tyro in learning how to discover a horse's age.
   When a colt is two years old its teeth are called " milch teeth," the Centre
of which is whitish.
   At three years old the two centre milch teeth are displaced by two which
are called " permanent teeth," and are distinguished by being broader, larger,
and in the centre upper surface having dark cavities.
   When a horse is four years old there will be four instead of two permanent
teeth in the lower jaw, and between four and five years old the tusks begin to

2 86                           ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
appear in males. Up to four years old a male is called " a colt," after this age
" a horse."
     At five years of age the horse's permanent teeth are complete, and the age
after this is known by the wearing down of the cavities of the permanent
teeth.
     At six years old the dark oval mark on the centre teeth is worn down, whilst
the cavities in the other teeth are more filled up. The tusks of the horse are
longer than when five years old, but are still sharp, and not much worn.
     At seven years old the cavities of the second pair of nippers are filled up ;
the tusks are blunted by wear, and are longer than formerly.
     At eight years the horse is sometimes said " not to have a good tooth in its
head," that is, the corner nippers are filled up, and the age teeth are nearly all
alike, the tusks exhibit greater signs of wear and tear, and are very blunt.
  i. Muzzle and parts about the  8. Back.                 if. Fetlock.
         muzzle.                 9. Loins.                17. Pastem.
  2.  Gullet.                   10. Ilium or Hip.         18. Shoulder-bone or Scapula
  3.  Windpipe.                 11. Croup.                19. Elbow.
  4.  Crest.                    13. Haunch or Quarters.   20. Fore-arm.
  5.  Withers.                  13. Thigh.                21. Knee.
  6.  Chest.                    14. Hock.                 22. Coronet
  7.  Girth.                    15. Shank or Cannon.
      Beyond eight years old it is difficult to decide upon the exact age of a horse.
 The length of his tusks, however, and the appearance of the teeth will indicate
 to the experienced about the age of the horse. Just above the horse's eye
 there is a projecting bone, and above this a hollow. This in old horses is

                                   DRIVING.                                    287
almost invariably a deeper hollow than it is in young animals, and at a glance
this may be noticed, and an estimate formed of the animal's age.
   It is usually considered that a horse that has not been overworked in its
young days is in its prime from about six to nine years of age. A horse, how
ever, is rarely known to die of old age ; and many old and seasoned horses
make good and useful hacks or hunters. We once knew an experienced
veterinary surgeon who regularly hunted a horse which was certainly not less
than eighteen years of age ; his remark invariably was, " I look at a horse's
legs to judge of his age." Many horses not more than five or six years of age
have been ruined in consequence of overwork before they had gained strength,
or from having been galloped or continually trotted on hard roads ; whilst
others, of twelve or fifteen years of age, having been carefully ridden and well
fed, are sound and strong where the others are cripples.
    In so limited a space as that at our disposal here, we can do little more than
give a few brief hints to young equestrians. These few which we have given
are the results of personal experience. From childhood we have been accus
tomed to look upon a horse as a friend and companion, and as long as we did
so we ever found him a true and honest one : whether it was under the burning
 sun of Africa, when our horse's speed enabled us to ride down the lordly eland
 or escape the charge of the infuriated elephant, or in our more tame hunting-
 fields, where sport is more artificial, we have ever found the horse a really
 noble animal. Let it, then, ever be remembered that a horse is a friend who
 serves us well, and not a mere beast that is to be ill used and worked without
 any consideration, and too often neglected by a master who thus wilfully sacri
 fices his own property.
    For more full particulars connected with horses and horsemanship we re
 commend our young readers to some of the many large works written thereon,
 among which " Rarey's Horse-taming," "The Horse and its Rider," "Youatt
 on the Horse," and others, will be found good books on the subject.
                                   DRIVING.
    Compared to riding, driving is usually considered an old gentleman's per
 formance—the requisite skill for the latter being less than for the former.
    In riding, it is necessary to have a good hand, seat, and head ; in driving,
 hand and head alone are needed, the requisite seat being easily acquired.
    We will briefly refer to the various kinds of driving which we may be called
 upon to practice.
     1st, a single horse; 2nd, a pair; 3rd, Tandem; 4th, a Four-in-hand.
    Driving a single horse is the most simple of the four named. We will
 suppose we have a tolerably fresh horse in some vehicle, and are going for a
 drive, and we can then point out the various items to which attention should
 be particularly directed.
    It may be assumed that the groom or coachman has placed the harness on
 correctly, and is standing at the horse's head. The driver should see that
 the reins are placed handy, so that they may be grasped the instant he is
 seated in the carriage. Although not likely, yet it is still possible, that the

288                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
horse's head may be quitted by the groom sooner than it ought— and if the
reins are out of reach, an accident is sure to happen if the horse start off
suddenly, as he is tolerably sure to do.
   A well-trained, high-spirited horse, on finding his head released, will usually
move forward at once; but he should always be restrained from that very
bad habit of starting off immediately he hears any one enter the vehicle or
feels his weight on the shafts. This habit is commonly engendered by strik
ing the horse with a whip immediately on entering a vehicle, and the animal
endeavours to avoid this unnecessary punishment by starting off at once.
   In driving, the reins should be firmly held in the left hand ; the knuckles
and back of the hands turned to the left. The left, or near-rein, should be
grasped between the first and second, or second and third fingers, whilst the
right, or off-rein, should be grasped between the first finger and thumb.
   By practice and judgment the driver can soon find the correct length at
which to hold the reins. They should be held short enough to enable the
driver to pull up his horses instantly without shortening the reins, and not so
short as to give an awkward appearance by an extended hand and arm.
   For turning the horse to the right or left, the right hand may be employed,
it being by the pull of the rein alone that a horse can be turned when driving.
   The driver's seat should be high, so that the legs are nearly straight ; thus
a firm purchase is obtained, and a steady pull against the horse.

                                  DRIVING                                   289
   In driving, all sudden stoppages or starts-off should be avoided. A horse
should be gradually checked in his pace when he is about to be stopped ;
otherwise those in the vehicle are unpleasantly jerked from or in their seats.
   The same rule of the road holds good in driving as in riding : all vehicles
that face us are passed on our right-hand side ; but when we overtake vehicles
going the same way as ourselves, we pass them so that they are on our left
hand. The only exception to this rule is when two horses are met—one of
which is ridden, the other led.
   Accidents happen in driving most commonly from horses running away,
from collisions, or from some part of the harness or carriage giving way.
    Horses which are too fresh and high-spirited may run away ; but with a
powerful bit, strong reins, and a strong arm or steady hand, it is not likely to
occur. Should such an event happen, it is not only the safest proceeding, but
the one which every man should adopt— to sit in his place, and use the utmost
endeavour to stop the horses. This may often be accomplished by a succes
sion of steady pulls at them ; or, if this fail, they may be kept from collision
with other vehicles, and probably tired out, by being breasted at some steep
hilL To throw oneself out of a carriage or a vehicle usually results in death
or a broken limb, and is, after all, only the worst that is likely to happen.
    As an example of this, we may relate an incident that happened to two
lady friends some years ago.
    They were returning from a ball in a brougham drawn by a pair of horses.
 The horses took fright and ran away down a hill, and were quite ungovern
 able. A gentleman in the carriage let down the windows to avoid splintered
glass, and begged the ladies to sit quiet. At the bottom of the hill, the off-
horse came into collision with a lamp-post, and was killed on the spot ; but
the occupants of the carriage received only a sudden jerk, and were unhurt.
 The door being opened, they stepped out without having even the skin
scratched
    Timid people sometimes cast themselves over a precipice to avoid danger ;
 and those similiarly constituted not unfrequently throw themselves out of a
 carriage with a similar result.
    Most of the remarks relative to driving a single horse are applicable to
driving a pair. There is, however, the necessity when driving a pair to be
watchful that each horse fairly does its work. Unless this is done, we should
 soon find that one horse was sweating and fatigued, whilst the other had
 scarcely turned a hair. Thus each horse ought to be kept well up to the
 collar, and should keep his traces taut. By watching the traces, we can soon
 tell when a horse is shirking his work, and he should then be reminded by
 the whip of his laziness.
    In turning corners or passing a road, care must be taken that other vehicles
 are not suddenly encountered ; it is in such places that accidents happen.
    Driving Tandem is not so fashionable now as it was some years ago; it
 is, however, one of the most difficult performances that a whip can be called
 upon to attempt
    Very few horses arcgood leaders in a Tandem, they require to be spe
cially trained for this work, and when trained, must be driven with a steady
 band. Nothing is more absurd than to see a tyro in a dog-cart with a tandem,
the leader of which has turned himself round and is looking complacently at
his driver, or has succeeded in getting the traces over his back or his legs
over the traces.
                                                                    19

290                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   Never attempt to drive tandem unless you are quite certain that your
leader is up to his work.
  There are two simple expedients in case of accidents, which should always
be remembered at the proper time and acted on at once. First, if a horse is
kicking, or has his leg over a trace, or is otherwise mutinous, either lift one
of his fore legs off the ground yourself or get some one else to do it. A horse
cannot kick on three legs.
   During the summer of 1868 we saw a horse allowed by a careless rider to
become entangled among some tent-ropes. In half a minute, horse, rider,
and tent would have been on the ground had not a person close by seized the
horse's fore leg and lifted it up, whilst another let go a couple of tent-ropes
and freed him.
   Secondly, if a horse fall, get a strong heavy man to at once keep its head
down, until the horse is sufficiently freed from shafts or harness to arise with
out breaking anything ; for as long as a horse's head is kept close to the
ground, he cannot get up. It does not require much strength to keep a horse
down : it is more dependent on determination and weight.
   Driving a Four-in-hand is more difficult than driving a pair, as there is
more to do. The leaders must be kept well forward, the traces all straight,
and the leaders should be abreast, as should the wheelers. In keeping the
team in their proper places, and in making each horse fairly do his work,
consists the skill of driving four-in-hand—practice in this, as in all else, being
the only road to proficiency.
   The few remarks which we have here offered on driving are merely suffi
cient to point out to what items attention should be directed in actual practice.
                                 ARCHERY.
   It is scarcely needful to say anything in praise of Archery. Though it has
declined from its position as the first of English sports into a mere accom
plishment, it takes a very high rank in its modern capacity. It trains the eye,
imparts a good and graceful carriage, expands the chest, and gives plenty of
walking exercise without fatigue; moreover, it is equally adapted for both
sexes.
                      The Equipment of the Archer.
   The first thing we have to consider is what constitutes the necessary outfit
for an archer—how it should be chosen, and how taken care of. Before
choosing his outfit, the archer should find out a good maker, and obtain from
him a list of prices ; having done so, he will be able to determine what ex
pense he is willing to go to, and then to apply the following hints in choosing
his apparatus. Let us, however, entreat him not to sacrifice all his hopes of
future success to a desire to get cheap things ; let him rely upon it that things
obtained at a fair cost from a good maker are twice as cheap as those whose
only recommendation is their low price.
   The following list will show about what is a fair price, and may be a guide
to our readers in future selections.

                                         ARCHERY.                                          291
                 Gentlemen's                                        Ladies'
                                         £ i..
Hacked Bows .              £1 iat. to     5  5   Backed Bows .                 £1 is. to
Self Yew .                    • A3 to    IO  O   Self Yew .                    £1 51. to 3 10 o
Practising Arrows             per doz.    o 12   Practising Arrows     per doz., tor. to
Best footed Arrows            per doz.    1  4   Best footed Arrows per doz. , £1 it. to 140
Bow-strings (best)                 each   o  2   Bow-strings (best)                  each
Belt and Pouch .                                 Belt and Pouch .
Grease-box                                       Grease-box
Tassel                                           Tassel
Bracer                            2S. to         Bracer                        SS. (:d. to
Shooting-Glove               ] s. dd. to         Shooting-Glove .                   as. to
Tip, .      .                 . per set 0 3      Tips .                  per set, p. to
Targets                        per pair 1 5      Targets                        per pair
Stands                                    o 15   Stands     •    .
                                            The Bow.
   Bows are of two kinds. The selfbow consists either of one piece of wood,
or of two dovetailed together at the handle, in which latter case it is called a
grafted bow ; by far the best material for a self bow is yew, although a variety
of other woods, such as lancewood, hickory, &c, are used. As it is but very
rarely that we are able to obtain a piece of yew long enough for a bow of
equal quality throughout, the grafted bow was invented, in order that the two
limbs, being formed by splitting one piece of wood into two strips, may be
of exactly the same nature.
    The backed bow consists of two or more strips of wood glued together longi
 tudinally and compressed so as to ensure perfect union. The strips may be
 of the same or of different woods—for instance, of yew backed with yew, yew
 with hickory, lancewood, &c; but of all backed bows the yew-backed yew is
 far the best. It has been a great subject of controversy whether the self or
 the backed bow be the best for shooting purposes ; we most unhesitatingly
 decide in favour of the self, although many good authorities prefer the backed.
                                      HOW TO CHOOSE IT.
    In purchasing a bow, it is always better to go to a good maker ; the inferior
 makers, although they may sell their goods a trifle cheaper, are still not to be
 depended upon, and as a good deal concerning a bow has to be taken upon
trust—e.g., whether the wood is properly seasoned, horns firmly fastened, &c
—a maker who has a reputation to lose always proves the cheapest in the end.
 Having selected a maker and determined on the price you are willing to give,
you will proceed to see that the bow tapers gradually from the handle to the
horns ; that the wood is of straight, even grain, running longitudinally and
free from knots and pins, or that, if there are any pins, they are rendered
innocuous by having the wood left raised around them. The bow should be
quite straight, or even follow the string (bend in the direction it will take
when strung) a little. Beware of a bow which bends away from the string :
it will jar your arms out of their sockets, and should the string break, there
will be an end of it. See that both limbs are of equal strength, in which case
they will describe equaTcurves. The handle should not be quite in the middle
of the bow, but the upper edge of it should be about an inch above the centre,
and above the handle a small piece of ivory or mother-of-pearl should be let
in on the left side of the bow, in order to prevent the friction of the arrow
wearing away the wood. See that there are no sharp edges to the nocks on
the horns of the bow, for if they are not properly rounded off they will be
                                                                          19—2

  292                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
              *                                                                 ___
 continually cutting your string. Lastly, make sure that your bow is not be
 yond your strength —in other words, that you are not overbowed. It is a very
 common thing for persons to choose very strong bows under the idea that it
 gives them the appearance of being perfect Samsons ; but their ungainly
 struggles to bend their weapon, and the utterly futile results of their endea
 vours, are, we think, anything but dignified. The weight of the bow should
 be such that it can be bent without straining, and held steadily during the
 time of taking aim. The strength of bows is calculated by their weight,
 which is stamped in pounds upon them, and which denotes the power which
 it takes to bend the bow until the centre of the string is a certain distance
 (twenty-eight inches for a gentleman's, twenty-five inches for a lady's bow)
 from the handle. It is ascertained by suspending the bow by the handle from
 a steelyard whilst the string is drawn the required distance. Gentlemen's
 bows generally range from 48 lbs. to 56 lbs., and ladies' from 20 lbs. to 32 lbs.
                             HOW TO PRESERVE IT.
    Many things will spoil a bow which a little care and attention would pre
 vent. Amongst the most fatal enemies to the bow are chrysals (see Glossary),
 which, unless noticed in time, will surely end in a fracture. A chrysal should
at once be tightly lapped with fine string saturated with glue; this, if neatly
done and then varnished, will interfere but little with the appearance of the
bow. Care should be taken not to scratch or bruise the bow. When shooting
in damp weather, the bow, especially if a backed one, should be kept well
wiped, and perfectly dried with a waxed cloth before putting away. A backed
bow is always the better for a little lapping round each end just by the horn,
which prevents the bow from breaking if by any chance the glue is softened
by damp. A bow should always be kept as dry as possible ; when going to
shoot at a distance, a waterproof cover is advisable. Do not unstring the bow
too often while shooting; once in every six double ends. is quite enough, unless
there are many shooters.
                                   The Arrow.
   Arrows are distinguished by weight in the same manner as bows, only in
the former it is calculated as weighed against silver money, and arrows are
known as of so many shillings' weight, &c. The lengths and weights recom
mended by the best authorities are as follows :
                                                          Length.       Weight.
For ladies                                                25 in.  2s. yi. to 3*-. yi.
                  !Bows ofand      feetand
                             50 6lbs.       upwards, )'
                                         long             „<,b »  4 °r " S ,
                    Bows under 50 lbs. and not
                      exceeding 5 ft. 10 in. long                             + 6
   There are two kinds of arrows—self, made of one piece of wood, and footed,
having a piece of hard wood at the pile end. The latter are the best for
several reasons, one being that they are not so likely to break if they strike
anything hard. The best material for arrows is red deal footed with lance-
wood.
                              HOW TO CHOOSE IT.
   The first thing to ascertain is whether it is quite straight, which is done bv
bringing the tips of the thumb and two first fingers of the left hand together

                                    ARCHERY.                                      293
and laying the arrow thereon, while it is turned round by the right hand. If
it goes smoothly, it is straight ; but if it jerks at all it is crooked. Then
make sure that it is stiff enough to stand the force of the bow without bend-
                                           _
                                                ' —
                                  THE FOOTED ARROW.
ing, as, if too weak, it will never fly straight. The pile or point should be
what is called the square-shouldered pile ; some prefer the sharp pile, but the
other answers best for all purposes. The nock should be full and the notch
pretty deep ; a piece of horn should be let in at the notch to prevent the string
splitting the arrow. The feathers should be full sized, evenly and well cut,
and inserted at equal distances from each other, as shown in the plate. It
has been much disputed whether the Bobtailed, the Chested, the Barrelled, or
the Straight arrow is the best to shoot with (see Glossary). Horace Ford, the
champion shot, decides in favour of the straight arrow, and our readers can
not do better than take his advice. The arrow should be carefully wiped each
time it is picked up, and this not only to preserve it, but also because the least
particle of dirt clinging to the pile will effectually spoil the flight of the arrow.
Every care should be taken to keep the feathers smooth and stiff; if attention
be not paid to this point everything else will be in vain. Should they by
chance become ruffled, a little warming in front of a fire (not too close) will
generally restore them.
                                The Bow-String.
   The best bow-strings are of foreign manufacture, and arc generally sold
complete; but in case any of our readers wish to fit their own, we will say a
few words about them. The string should be not too thin, or it will not last
long ; in the selection of it, it is best to be guided by the size of the notch of
your arrows. At one end of it a strong loop should be worked to go over the
upper horn, the other end should be left free in order to be fixed on to the
lower horn ; this is done with a peculiar loop, as depicted in our cut. When
the lower end is fastened, the distance between it and the loop at the other
end should be such, that when the loop is in its place {i.e., the bow strung)
the string is, in a gentleman's bow, six inches, in a lady's, five inches, from
the centre of the bow. The string shouid be lapped for an inch above the
nocking point, and five inches below it, with waxed thread, and this again
with floss silk—to such a thickness that it completely fills the notch of the

294                         ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
arrow, but without being too tight, or it may split it. Never trust a worn
string ; take it off and put on a new one—should it break, it will most probably
snap your bow.
                 BOW-STRING LOOP.                    LADY'S BELT AND POUCH.
                               The Belt and Pouch.
   This is used for carrying the supply of arrows required in a match (three
for use and one spare one), as also for hanging the tassel, &c, to. We would,
 however, recommend our gentlemen friends to do without it—it is always in
 the way, and the arrows can be carried far better in a pocket made diagonally
in the right rear of the coat, so as to come conveniently to the hand, and yet
be far enough back to escape the risk of the feathers being spoilt by the elbow
 rubbing against them. In our cut we have depicted a lady's belt, complete
with pouch, tassel, grease-box, scoring-card, and pricker.
                                   Grease-Box.
   This is a little box, generally made of ivory, of such a shape as to hang
 from the belt. It is used for the purpose of holding the grease, which some
 archers use to anoint the string and their shooting-glove with, so as to get a
 better loose. The advantage of it is a matter of opinion, and so it may
 remain ; if used too freely, however, it causes the bow-string to unravel.
                                      Tassel.
    This is merely a large tassel of green worsted, and is used for wiping the
 arrows when they have stuck in the ground. If a belt is not used, it should

                                 ARCHERY.                                    295
be hung from a button-hole of the coat : it is an absolutely necessary part of
the archer's outfit.
                                 The Bracer.
   This is a guard for the left arm, to prevent its being abraded by the string
when loosed; it also has another object, viz., to confine the sleeve and keep
it out of the way. It consists of an oblong piece of smooth leather, and is
fastened to the arm by straps. In fitting it on, care should be taken that the
ends of the straps are not left loose, and that the buckles come well round
to the back of the arm, so as not to be in the way of the string ; for if there
be the least projection on which it can catch, your best aim will be of none
effect.
                THE BRACER.                               CLOVE AND TIPS.
                            The Shooting-Glove
Is used to protect the fingers of the right hand from abrasion by the string
when loosing, and consists of three finger-guards, attached by strips of leather,
passing down the back of the hand to a strap fastening round the wrist. This
form of glove has, however, rather gone out of use of late years, most archers
preferring independent guards, called tips, for each finger, generally fastening
by means of an India-rubber ring round the finger, about the best of this kind
being those invented by Mr. Buchanan of Piccadilly. In the matter of the
shooting-glove, however, it is best to leave the archer to choose for himself,
merely cautioning him to make sure that, whether gloves or tips, they fit him

  296                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
  well, or he will never be able to make a good loose, The cut represents a
  glove and set of tips.
                                    Scoring-Cards.
     These are made of various shapes and sizes, to accommodate a single
  archer or to serve for a match. About the best for private use consists of a
  circular piece of cardboard coloured like a target, divided into three segments
  for three distances, and having the other side printed to receive the score
  when reckoned. These are carried in little ivory frames made for the purpose,
            SCORING-CARD AND J'KICKER                 SCOR1NG-CAKD (REVERSE).
   the whole being about the size of a watch. A small ivory pricker for marking
   is carried with it ; the accompanying cuts represent one of these cards. Per
   haps, however, for ordinary practice, nothing is better than a common metallic
   memorandum-book, ruled for the day of the month, and vertically for the
   rings.
                                      The Quiver.
      The quiver is a tin case somewhat in the shape of the quiver usually repre
   sented as forming part of the equipment of Robin Hood and his band: it is
   not now, however, used as part of the personal equipment of the archer, but
   is employed simply for the purpose of protecting the spare arrows. It is made
   of all sizes, to hold from six to three dozen arrows, and is provided with a
    cover and lock to make all secure. The best receptacle for arrows, however,
    is the box which is now almost universally used ; in it each arrow has a place
L

                                   ARCHERY.                                     297
to itself, and by this means overcrowding is prevented and the feathers pre
served unrumplcd.
                                      Targets.
   A target is made of straw, bound with string into an even rope, which is
twisted upon itself until it forms a flat disc, and then covered on one side with
canvas painted in five concentric rings, viz., gold or centre, red, blue or inner
white, black, and white. These rings should be all of exactly the same width,
the target itself being four feet in diameter. In scoring the following value
is given to the rings :
                         Gold                                9
                         Red                                 7
                         Blue                                5
                         Black                               3
                         White                               1
   When an arrow strikes on the edge of two rings, the higher is counted, un
less it is otherwise agreed upon. It is necessary to have two targets, one at
each extremity of the distance fixed upon—as it is not usual to shoot more
than three arrows at each " end," as it is called—walking over between each
three to reclaim your arrows, and then shooting them back at the target you
have just left. By this means a different set of muscles are called into play,
those used in shooting are relaxed, and in addition, a great deal is added to
the exercise which renders archery so healthy a pastime; for example, in
shooting the national round the archer walks 3,920 yards, or nearly two miles
and a quarter, between the ends. The stands for the targets are usually made
of iron or wood, and somewhat resemble in shape an artist's easel. The
legs should be padded or wrapped round with straw, otherwise arrows striking
 them will be apt to break. Mr. Aldred, of Oxford Street, has, however, in
vented an iron stand for targets, so constructed that the legs present a very
 thin edge to the shooter, thus reducing the chance of their being struck by an
 arrow to the minimum. In some places butts are erected, instead of stands,
 for the targets: they are built of sods piled together, the target being hung to
 a peg in the front of them. The target used differs from the ordinary one,
 and consists of a circular piece of white pasteboard, the size differing accord
 ing to the length of range : e.g., at thirty yards it is four inches ; sixty yards,
 eight inches ; ninety yards, twelve inches in diameter, and so on according to
 distance. Butts certainly abolish the trouble of stooping, as they catch all the
 arrows (except the very wide or high ones) which miss the target. The chief
 disadvantage of them is that after shooting at a butt it takes some time to get
 used to the target on a stand, so that it spoils an archer for matches, &c.
 Another advantage of butts is this, that as the targets are merely made of
 cardboard, they can be easily manufactured at home. In all cases, whether
 butts or stands are employed, the centre of the gold should be four feet from
 the ground.
                           Instructions for the Field.
    Having procured his outfit, the archer will doubtless be anxious to make a
 trial of it in the field, and we will now endeavour to give him the clearest in
 structions for the management of his weapon, by attention to which, and
 constant practice, we hope he will succeed to his utmost satisfaction. It will
 be useless for him to overburden himself with accessories more than are abso
lutely necessary— they will only be in the way; an archer who wishes to shoot

2oS                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
well will find that the less he has about him the better. Besides his bow, he
will take four arrows (three for use and one spare one in case of accident),
which he will put into his pouch or pocket, bracer, glove or tips, tassel, and
scoring-card. A spare string also it will be prudent to have in the pocket
Anything more than these is unnecessary in the field.
   Stringing the Bow.—In stringing the bow it is held by the handle in
the right hand (flat part towards the body) with the lower horn resting on the
ground against the hollow of the right foot. The left hand is then placed
upon the upper part of the bow in such a manner that the base of the thumb
        STRINGING THE BOW.                                 NOCKING.
 rests upon the flat side of it, the thumb pointing upwards. The bow is then
 bent by the combined action of the two hands, the right pulling, the left
 pressing it ; at the same time the loop of the string is slipped into its place
 by the left thumb and forefinger. Our readers will better understand the
 operation by reference to the plate, which has been very carefully drawn.
 However, actual experiment under the guidance of a proficient will teach them
 sooner and better than \ve can possibly hope to do by mere precept. When
 the bow is braced, the string should be exactly six inches from the centre of
 the bow in a gentleman's, and five inches and a half in a lady's bow. Care
 must be taken that the string lies evenly along the exact centre of the bow,
 that it is not turned on one side at either horn. If this be the case, it will, by
 pulling the bow unevenly, in all probability break it.
    Position.—It is difficut to determine exactly what is the best position for

                                 ARCHER Y.                                    299
the archer. Every one naturally subsides into that which is most easy to him;
still there are certain fundamental rules, which are given in almost every book
on archery, by attention to which in the first place the shooter ultimately falls
into the best position for himself. The left foot should point rather to the
right of the mark, the right foot being nearly at right angles to it, the heels
six or eight inches apart, in a straight line from target to target, both feet flat
on the ground, knees straight, body erect but not too stiff, face turned towards
                              THE AkCHEtt— llli. TOMTION.
the mark. The body must be carried as easily as possible on the hips, not
too stiffly upright nor yet bending forward. Nothing looks worse than a stiff,
constrained attitude, except a loose, slouching one. Our woodcut represents
an archer taking aim.
    Nocking.— Having mastered the position, the next thing to be looked to
is the nocking, and we cannot do better than give Ford's rule for so doing,
which is decidedly the best published. " The bow being held by the handle
in the left hand, let the arrow be placed with the right {over the string, not
under) on that part of the bow upon which it is to lie ; the thumb of the left
hand, being then gently placed over it, will serve to hold it perfectly under
command, and the forefinger and thumb of the right hand can then take hold
of the nock end of the arrow and manipulate it with the most perfect ease in
any manner that may be required." (See cut.) When the arrow is nocked
it should be at right angles with the string. Some archers are accustomed to
try to alter the range of the arrow by heightening or lowering the nocking

302                         ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
club. Hat of white straw, bound with black velvet and trimmed with green
and white feathers. This is a very pretty costume, and is worn, with modifi
cations, by a great many societies.
   We hope that the foregoing hints may prove of service to our readers. If
in any part we have not succeeded in making ourselves as intelligible as we
wish, we must plead in extenuation the difficulty of explaining by mere precept
thaj which is not easily learnt even by example.
                Glossary of Terms employed in Archery.
Ascham               A cupboard especially constructed to hold bow and arrow.
Back                 The flat side of the bow.
Backed Bow           One made of two or more strips of wood glued together longitudinally.
Barrelled Arrow      One made largest in the centre.
Belly                The round side of the bow.
Bobtailed Arrow      One made larger at the point than at the feather.
Bracing              The act of stringing the bow.
Chested Arrow        One made larger at the feather than at the point.
Chrysal              A small crack, which, gradually enlarging, ultimately breaks the bow.
End                  Each discharge of three arrows is termed an "end, ' as three is the number
                        to be shot from each end of the range in turn.
Grafted Bmu           One made of two pieces of wood joined at the handle.
Handle                The wrapping of plush by which the bow is held.
Horn                 The tip of each end of the bow.
Limbs                The parts of the bow above and below the handle.
Nock                 The groove in the horn of the bow into which the string fits; also the notch
                        in the arrow for the reception of the string.
Nocking Point         The point in the bow-string which, when the bow is strung, is opposite the
                        top of the handle.
Pile                 The point of the arrow.
Self Bow              One made of a single piece of wood, or grafted.
Stele                 The shaft of the arrow.
Straight Arrow        One of even thickness throughout.
                                    FENCING;
             With the most recent means of attack and defence when
                             engaged with an adversary.
   Fencing, though considered a gentlemanly accomplishment, does not receive
the attention it deserves as an art, chiefly owing to the difficulty of learning,
or the disadvantage of not having a master at hand to teach it, more especially
in provincial towns and schools. With a view of overcoming some of these
difficulties, the writer (having had twenty years' experience as an instructor
of fencing, &c), hopes he may not be considered presumptuous in submit
ting to the public some of the principal positions of the body, with foil in
hand,— the object of which is self-instruction on a new system — by plates.
By reducing the art to simple movements, we avoid all the complications
which fencing usually embraces for the skilful fencer. By the practice of
this noble art we bring all the muscles of the body into action ; it gives
quickness to the eye, lightness to the hand, firmness to the foot, and in
creases and confirms health—that most desirable of all blessings. A suffi
cient knowledge of the foil may be gained from these plates to enable two

                                  FENCING.                                    3o3
persons to practise together, by studying the paper carefully for a short time
before beginning. Elaborate works have been written on fencing, therefore it
is not necessary to enter here into a long detailed account of all the various
movements, as that would only tend to perplex the mind. The writer's aim
has been to convey a practical knowledge of fencing in the simplest manner
possible, and in the shortest time.
   Introductory. —The writer would impress upon beginners the necessity
of strictly attending to the instructions laid down in the first seven positions,
as it is only by so doing that they will arrive at a true knowledge of all the
other guards and parries. Most people are apt to read a book through too
quickly : thus by the time they get to the end they forget the beginning. But
whoever wishes to gain a knowledge of fencing must study one movement
before he begins another ; by this means only can he accustom himself to the
                                                          Fig. j.
various thrusts and guards. The fundamental principle of fencing consists in
the execution of the right arm, the longe, the recovery, advancing, and re
treating quickly ; and lastly, not least, a good opposition, which is one of the
most essential things in fencing, as you are guarded at least on one side. This
 will also give you the advantage of knowing what your adversary intends
doing, which you must endeavour to discover by the feel of his foil.
                         FIRST POSITION OF THE BODY.
    Place the right heel against the left ankle, so as to form a right angle with
 both heels, the foil to be held in the left hand under the hilt with the thumb
 and fingers, the right hand straight on the outside of the right thigh, shoulders
 square and pressed rather backwards, eyes turned towards the adversary,
showing the right breast to the front, without constraint. (Plate I., Fig. 1.)

304                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
                                SECOND POSITION.
   Bend the right arm as high as the elbow, and at the same time bring it
across the body ; take hold of the foil, thumb stretched along the convex. In
this movement the body must be kept quite steady, shoulders square, eyes
front, head up without appearing stiff, knees perfectly straight, waist in.
(Plate I., Fig. 2.)
                                THIRD POSITION.
   Raise both hands above the head, holding the button of the foil with the
thumb and first finger of the left hand, turn your eyes to the right, so as to
see your opponent full in the face. (Plate I., Fig. 3.)
                  MANNER OF HOLDING THE FOIL IN HAND.
   Let the concave of the handle rest in the palm of the hand, the thumb
stretched along the convex, the first finger about half an inch in advance of
the thumb ; the foil should only be held firm in the hand when parrying or
thrusting, otherwise the fingers and thumb will get stiff from grasping it too
long.
                             ON GUARD IN CARTE.
   Bend both knees together until they are in a perpendicular line with the
toes ; step out with the right foot in a direct line from the left ankle, about
twenty-two inches or more, according to the length of the legs ; keep the left
arm up and bent, so as to form a half-circle, as high as the head, palm of the
hand turned towards the left face; keep the body upright, the. weight to be
kept equally on both legs ; bring the point of the foil down to the height of
your adversary's left eye ; this is the engage of carte ; arm bent and the elbow
drawn inwards, the hand as high as the centre of the chest. (Plate II.)

                                   FENCING.                                   305
                                 THE HALF-loNGE.
     1. Straighten the right arm without moving the body, point of the foil as
 high as the chest of an opponent, hand as high as your face.
     2. Throw the left hand backwards, at the same time press the shoulder well
 back, palm of the left hand to the front, about four inches from the thigh.
     3. Straighten the left knee and incline the weight of the body forward on
 the right, without moving the foot from the ground.
                                   TO RECOVER.
     1. Bend the left knee.
     2. Throw the left arm upwards to the, position of the guard, bear the weight
 of the body again equally on both knees, right arm bent, elbow turned inwards;
 stand firm on guard without appearing stiff; head held easy and upright.
                                   THE LONGE.
    1. Extend the right arm, direct the point of your foil to the height of your
chest, longe in carte, looking over the right arm, the hand as high as your face.
   2. Throw the left hand backwards to within four inches of the left thigh,
palm of the hand to the front ; press the shoulders well back.
   3. Straighten the left knee and keep the foot flat on the ground.
   4. Longe forward in a direct line from the left ankle, about forty inches or
more, according to the length of the limbs, until the right knee is in a vertical
line with the instep, toes turned out.
   These four motions should be repeated often, so as to give freedom of action
to all the joints.
                            HOW TO RECOVER GUARD.
   1. Bend the left knee back.
   2. Throw the left hand upwards to the position of the guard, palm of the
hand turned inwards towards the left face, arm bent.
                                                                   20

 306                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   3. Bring the right foot up to the guard, supporting the weight of the body
equally on both knees.
   4. Bend the right arm, nails upwards, point opposite the face, hand as high
as the chest, elbow rather inwards, head kept up. The groundwork of fencing
depends on the attention given to all those preceding movements of the body.
                          THE ASSEMBLE OR FINISh.
   This is done by beating twice with the flat of the right foot on the ground,
without moving the body; secondly, bring the left foot up to the right heel;
thirdly, bring the right hand under the chin, dropping the left hand to the side
at the same time ; fourthly, straighten the right arm to the right side as low
as the knees, knuckles downwards.
                               HOW TO ADVANCE.
   Being on guard, take one step forward with the right foot, about twelve
inches, bring up the left foot directly, keeping the same distance between both
feet, as if making one movement with both ; the knees equally bent, the body
held upright, eyes fixed on the opponent or object in front.
                                HOW TO RETIRE.
   Take one pace back with the left foot, bringing the right foot up immedi
ately, at the same time beat once with the flat of the right foot firmly on the
ground. The distance in walking backwards should be longer than the ad
vancing by two or three inches, taking care that the weight of the body is kept
equally on both feet; the left breast should be turned slightly towards the
adversary. Having practised these movements frequently, finish by beating
twice with the right foot, bringing up the left foot, and right hand under the
chin, lastly straightening the right arm on the right side.
                            THE ENGAGE OF CARTE.
   Inside guard high. —Being engaged in carte with an adversary, turn the

                                   FENCING.                                   3o7
nails upwards, cross foils about nine inches from the button : this half of the
foil is called the foible, from being the next part to the end ; the other half is
termed the forte or part next the hilt : oppose the opponent's foil sufficiently
to prevent him from touching you in the engage, keep the right arm bent in
wards, point of your foil opposite your adversary's face, right arm as high as
your chest.
   The straight thrust.— If your opponent does not cover himself in the engage,
straighten your arm, lower the point to his chest, longe in carte, looking over
the right arm, hand as high as the face, recover, and engage in carte, crossing
foils as before.
                             THE ENGAGE OF TIERCE.
   Outside guard high.—This being the opposite guard to carte, it only differs
from it in the position of the hand, nails of which are turned downwards.
Engaged in tierce, join foils as in carte ; if your adversary is not well covered
in the engage, straighten your right arm by lowering the point to his chest,
longe in tierce, looking inside the arm, shoulders pressed well back, left foot
firm on the ground, left knee straight, the body not thrown forward but rather
upright ; recover in tierce.
                          THE GUARD OF HALF-CIRCLE.
   Inside guard low. — The half-circle guard is generally used against the
thrust of second and low carte. The guard is generally taken in the following
manner: raise the hand as high as the left shoulder, nails upwards, the elbow
turned well in towards the body, the foil to be held firm in hand, and opposed
to your adversary, the point as low as your opponent's waist. If an opening
should occur, raise the point and return carte.
                                                                20—2

 308                     ACCOMPLISHMENTS
                                    Tlate VI.
                           THE GUARD OF OCTAVE.
   Outside guard low.—The guard of octave is the opposite guard to the half-
circle, and is used against the thrust of octave ; it also prevents the adversary
from counter disengaging. Raise the hand as high as your chest, keep the
point as high as the lower part of the opponent's chest. This is a very useful
parry in returning the thrust of low carte.
                                   Plate VH.
                       THE DISENGAGE FROM CARTE.
   If your adversary presses your foil, lower your point to within about two or

                                  FENCING.                                    3o9
three inches of his hilt, at the same time passing it to tierce, straighten the
right arm, and longe ; recover in carte.
   The feint of one, two. — Being engaged in carte, if your opponent takes the
guard of tierce when you disengage on him, return back to carte and longe,
making the movement quickly from the fingers, not from the shoulder; right
arm quite straight, nails upwards, look over the right arm ; recover in carte.
                                    Plate VIII.
   Thefeint of one, two, three. — Engage in carte, as before, disengage to tierce,
again in carte. In both cases raise the point of your foil as high as your
opponent's face, arm kept straight, return again to tierce, point to the chest of
your adversary, and longe in tierce, looking inside your arm, shoulders pressed
well back, body upright ; recover in carte.
                        THE DISENGAGE FROM TIERCE.
   Engage in tierce. As soon as your opponent presses your foil, lower your
point, straightening the arm, at the same time pass your foil to carte, longe
with the knuckles turned upwards, taking care that the left foot does not quit
the ground ; recover in tierce.
   Thefeint of one, two.—Engage in tierce. Disengage to carte, pointing to
the face of your adversary, arm straight, the body kept steady ; the moment
your opponent takes the simple guard of carte, return to tierce, longe, looking
inside the right arm ; recover in tierce.
   The feint of one, two, three.— Being engaged in tierce. Disengage to carte,
again to tierce, extending the arm in the first disengage ; finding that he takes
the simple guards each time, return to carte, longe, looking over the arm, left
knee always being kept straight in the longe ; recover in carte.
                                WRIST PRACTICE.
   An excellent practice for the wrist is for two persons to practise the counters
of carte and tierce. This is done in the following manner: being engaged in

 3io                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
                                      Plate IX.
carte, your adversary disengages on you, take the counter of carte, and dis
engage on him without touching, unless by mutual agreement, he taking the
counter of your disengage ; keep repeating this for some time ; then engage
in tierce, the opponent disengages, take the counter of tierce, disengage on
him ; continue this also for some time and change again to counter carte.
These practices will soon make the wrist supple and strong—two essential
things for fencing.
                       HOW TO THRUST AT ALL FEINTS.
   To thrust to all feints is to put all the thrusts of fencing into practice: for

                                    FENCING.                                  3ii
  this purpose, begin by endeavouring to confuse your adversary by beating with
  the foot on the ground, disengaging without longeing, extending the arm ; by
  this means you will discover what parries he intends taking and what thrust
  you can make safely.
                              THE PARADE OF PriME.
     Being engaged in tierce, your adversary tries to get in by main force ; bend
' your arm and wrist, turning the nails downwards at the same time, raise the
  hand as high as your chin, drawing the arm inwards as you raise the hand,
  the point of your foil directed towards the lower part of the chest of your
  adversary, parry and longe in seconde, recover quickly in tierce.
                                 THRUST OF SIXTE.
    After having parried prime. Should your opponent keep his hand low in
  trying to get in by force in tierce, turn the knuckles upwards quickly, bring
  the point over his arm, thrust sixte over the arm by binding his foible with
  your forte : this must be done by a quick turn of the wrist.
                                       Plate XI.
                            THE PARADE OF SECONDE.
     Engaged in tierce, if your adversary should drop his point, parry seconde
  by giving a dry beat on the foible of his foil with the forte of yours, nails
  downwards, hand opposed, so as to prevent him touching you in the longe,
  point to the lower part of his waist, holding the head well up, the body not to
  be thrown too much forward, otherwise you cannot recover quickly ; recover
  in sixte.
                             THE FEINT OF SECONDE.
    Being engaged in tierce, drop your point under the hilt of your opponent,
  principally with the fingers, nails downwards, but without lowering the hand,
  return directly back again, longe by turning the nails upwards in sixte, over

312                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
the arm, or return back to seconde again, longe, and recover in tierce.     This
is called the feint of seconde and tierce.
                           THE PARADE OF QUINTE.
   This parade is used in the same side as carte inside guard, and taken in
the following manner : the hand as high as the breast, nails turned down
wards, parry and longe in seconde or carte over the arm: th; parr)- is mostly
taken when the adversary thrusts low.
   It is also a very quick return thrust when your adversary keeps his hand
too low, or drops the point to feint for the lower part of your body.
                            THE PARADE OF SIXTE.
   This parade only differs from tierce in the nails being turned upwards in
stead of downwards. The hand must be kept as high as the shoulder, point
as high as your adversary's face if your opponent is not well covered, straighten
the arm, longe with the nails upwards, recover; if he presses, disengage in
carte. The feint of one, two, and one, two, three, is generally made from this
position.
                        BINDING THE FOIL FROM SIXTE.
   Engage in sixte; if your opponent endeavours to get in under your wrist,
drop your point opposite his waist, binding his foible with your forte, longe in
octave, recover in tierce or sixte.
                       THE PARADE OF COUNTER CARTE.
   Having joined foils in carte, nails upwards, as soon as your adversary dis
engages, follow his foil by making a small oircle until you meet it again in
 carte ; if he disengages a second time, take the simple guard of tierce. This

                                  FENCING.                                     313
is one of the best and safest parries in fencing, as it stops most of the feints.
Being engaged in tierce, if the opponent feints one, two, take the counter of
carte in the same manner as before; should he disengage a third time, take
the guard of tierce ; if he lowers the point, take the half-circle, returning again
to carte.
                             HOW TO PARRY CARTE.
   When your adversary stretches his arm to thrust, give a beat on the foible
of his foil with the forte of yours, so as to make an opening for your thrust.
This may also be done in the counter of carte, when your opponent is not too
close.
                       THE PARADE OF COUNTER TIERCE.
   This parade is performed similar to the counter of carte, but the nails must
be downwards. Being engaged in tierce, if your adversary disengages, follow
his foil in a circular manner until you meet it again in tierce ; if he disengages
a second time, take the simple guard of carte. Should he make the feint of
one, two, without stopping, take the counter of tierce, as before, but be care
ful not to be too near, as the guard is only safely taken when out of distance.
If he disengages after having feinted one, two, take the simple guard of carte.
   How to parry tierce.— Turn the nails downwards, keeping the foil firm in
hand, to prevent being disarmed. When your opponent stretches his arm to
thrust, give a dry beat on the foible of his foil with your forte, so as to throw
it out of the line. Direct your point to his chest, longe either in tierce or
seconde.
                              HALF-CIRCLE PARADE.
   The half-circle is generally used after having parried tierce against the
thrust of seconde or low carte. For this purpose raise the hand as high as the
shoulder, bend the arm, nails turned well upwards, elbow drawn inwards, parry
and point rather low, longe in carte.
                         THE COUNTER OF HALF-CIRCLE.
   Having crossed foils in half-circle, which is only done in making an assault,
your opponent passes his foil over yours ; follow by making a circle till you
meet him again in half-circle ; if he disengages again, take the guard of octave
or seconde, longe and recover in tierce.
   Sometimes the circle may be made twice with success by keeping the hand
well up, holding the foil firmly. (Plate XII.)
                            THE PARADE OF OCTAVE.
   The octave parade is the opposite guard to half-circle, and is taken to
prevent the opponent from getting in by force in the lower part of the body
in octave or seconde.
   Keep the hand as high as the centre of your body, straighten the arm
slightly so as to oppose your adversary, point of the foil rather low, parry and
longe in tierce or octave.
                           THE COUNTER OF OCTAVE.
   Having opposed your adversary in octave, he may disengage over your foil,
therefore follow his foil, immediately describing a circle until you meet his
foil again in octave, taking care to keep the hand well up. If he passes over

3^4                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
a second time, take the guard of half-circle or quinte, longe in low carte, keep
ing the head up.
            THE CUT OVER THE POINT FROM CARTE TO TIERCE.
   Engage in carte. If the opponent holds his hand low with the point high,
raise your wrist sufficiently to clear the foil of your adversary without ex
posing your body. Cut with the foil over his point until it hits the centre of
                                    Plate XIII.
his chest. If your adversary parries tierce, as soon as you see him take the
guard, disengage under his arm by passing your point under the wrist. Longe
in carte. The cut and longe should be made simultaneously.
                      THE CUT FROM TIERCE TO CARTE.
   This cut is made in the same manner as carte, but the longe must be in
carte inside the arm; be careful that the body is well covered, and not run
the risk of being hit at the same time; keep the body a little backwards. If
the adversary takes the guard of carte when you cut, disengage to tierce by
passing your foil quickly over his wrist, arm quite straight, longe in tierce.
                              ON THE DISENGAGES.
   The disengages are made when an adversary takes the simple guards, or
leaves himself uncovered on either side ; however, care must be taken that he
docs not thrust at the same time as you disengage, thereby both hitting at the
same time. This can be avoided by keeping the hand opposed to the adver
sary, cither in carte or tierce, whichever you may be engaged in at the time
of making the disengage, the one, two, or one, two, three.
   The disengage is also advantageously taken when the adversary advances or
retreats. Allow him to take one pace backwards, opposing his foil on either

                                    'FENCING.                                   3i5
 side ; lower the point of your foil ; longe, covering your body in carte or tierce,
 whichever you may be engaged in at the time. Should your opponent advance,
 retreat one pace, keeping a good opposition ; disengage as before, longe, and
 recover quickly on guard. The feint of one, two, and one, two, three, can be
 made in the same manner.
                                     THE SALUTE.
    The salute, previous to making an assault or loose play, as it is termed, is
 an established form of politeness before fencing for hits ; it is also an excellent
 practice, as it prepares the body to undergo the more energetic movements in
 the assault. Begin in this manner :
    1. Stand, as in Plate I., Fig. 1, with the foil in the left hand. Salute by
 presenting the right hand to your adversary as high as the chin, palm of the
 hand upwards.
                                      Plate XIV.
   2. Bring the hand across the body, as in Plate I., Fig. 2.
   3. Raise both hands above the head. See Plate I., Fig. 3.
   4. Step out on guard, in tierce, with your foil out of the line of your adver
sary's body, your opponent doing the same ; now both beat twice with the
right foot, leaving the body exposed ; ask the adversary to thrust first, upon
which he brings his point in front of your body, and longes in carte, but with
out touching your body. The distance of his point should be at least one inch
from your breast. This is called measuring distance.
   Your adversary having recovered, do the same by bringing the right foot up
to the left ankle, dropping the left hand, the right hand brought under the chin.
From this position salute, first in carte, by turning the eyes to the left simul
taneously with the foil; bring the foil under the chin again; salute in tierce,
bringing the foil back once more ; salute your opponent by presenting your
point in front of his face ; then by a circular movement made inwards with
both hands get on guard in carte.

316                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
                        THRUSTING CARTE AND TIERCE.
   Engaged in carte, being the adversary's turn to thrust first, he disengages
in tierce, you parry tierce, and turn the hand to seconde, nails down, by drop
ping the point ; your opponent's foil is now over the left shoulder, holding with
the fingers and thumb very slightly. Six disengages are to be made, that is to
say, three on each side, finishing in carte. When your adversary gets on guard
                                     Plate XV.
in tierce, engage with the foil, at the same time beating once with the right
foot ; now he disengages to carte, parry carte, and turn your foil in half-circle,
nails up ; his foil is now over the right shoulder. When he gets on guard,
engage again in carte, beating once with right foot. When he has completed
the six disengages, he finishes by feinting one, two, without longcing, recovers
in tierce, leaving his body exposed, bringing the right foot up to the left ankle,
left hand down to the side.
                       DISENGAGING CARTE AND TIERCE.
   Being your own turn to thrust, your opponent asks you to do so. Begin by
bringing the foil in front of your adversary's body, arm quite straight, longe
in carte within one inch of his chest, recover, and both go through the salute
as before ; engage in carte. Make three disengages on each side as before,
finishing in carte, each beat twice with the right foot, bring the right foot up
directly to the left ankle, take one pace backwards with the left foot, resting
the pummel of the foil on the right knee, the foil perpendicular, body upright;
beat twice again, bring the left foot up to the right heel, right hand under the
chin, go through the salute again, finish by describing a circle with both hands,
resting the right hand on the knee, beat twice with the right foot, bring the
right foot up to the left ankle, hand under the chin, and drop it to the right
side over the knee, left hand down, after which put the mask on.
   Beginners should wear the mask while going through the salute, to avoid the
possibility of receiving a thrust in the face.

                                   'FENCING.                                   317
                                THE TIME-THRUST.
   The time-thrust is to be made when your adversary comes upon you holding
his hand rather low, and without being well covered. Make sure that you are
 covered yourself, stretch the arm, longe quickly; if he forces the foil, dis
 engage. Never take the time-thrust unless you are pretty certain that you will
 not get hit at the same time.
            THE MEASURE WHEN ENGAGED WITH AN ADVERSARY.
   The measure being one of the most difficult things in fencing, it must be
determined by the length of the foil and the height of your opponent. Keep
out of distance until you know how far he can longe out. In fencing with a tall
man, do not make many movements with the body, keep well on guard, make
false attacks ; as soon as he answers them, longe rapidly; if he parries, recovei
as quickly as possible.
                           HOW TO PARRY ALL FEINTS.
   To parry all feints is to make use of all the various guards and parries learned
in the lesson, varying them every moment ; by this means your adversary will
not be able to discover which of his feints you will answer. The counter parades,
with the circle, octave, and seconde, are the best, as they baffle the designs of
 the adversary.
                           ANOTHER WAY TO DECEIVE.
   Disengage in carte with a straight arm ; if the opponent parries with the
counter, double disengage ; if he parries with the simple, feint one, two ; parry
sometimes when engaged in carte on the foible of his foil with your forte ;
changing to tierce, parry tierce ; in fact, make as many movements as possible
to deceive him in parrying, but never deviating from the opposition on which
ever side you are engaged, otherwise you run the risk of being hit while making
your feints.
                                   THE ASSAulT.
   An assault with foils resembles an encounter with small-swords. All the
thrusts and parries learned in the lesson should be brought into play, the
object of each fencer being to discover the intentions of his adversary and
conceal his own.
   I would impress upon parents and those who have the charge of youth never
to allow them to fence together without having a mask on, also a jacket of
leather or some strong material, to prevent accident ; also, to see that the foils
are properly buttoned. When you put yourself on guard, endeavour to dis
cover whether your opponent has a mind to attack or defend ; for this purpose,
take one step backwards^showing your point opposite his chest ; if he thrusts,
parry carte by giving a beat on his foil ; if engaged in tierce, parry tierce ;
should he make the feint of one, two, take the counter of carte ; and so on.
Try not to let your adversary know your intention by your eye ; keep changing
to avoid this advantage which you may give him. Never throw the head for
ward in longeing : by so doing you cannot recover quickly. Always take care
to be covered in whatever side you are engaged : if in carte, cover the body to
the inside ; if in tierce, cover the body outside ; observe the same rule in the
low guards.
                        HOW A FOIL IS TO BE MOUNTED.
   The length of the blade is thirty-three to thirty-four inches from the shoulder

 318                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS. '
to the button. First put the blade in the vice about one inch frow the shoulder,
bend the flat of the blade slightly towards you, so as to be in line with the
concave of the handle. Then put the foil perpendicularly in the vice, about
two inches of the bright part to be seen. Make the two shoulders quite square
by cleansing them with a file. Next put on a piece of strong leather to make
the guard and handle fit more firmly ; put on the guard next ; now the handle
is put on by beating it down with a mallet. Should the handle be too loose,
put some pieces of thin wood down the sides. The length of the pummel
must be taken next : if the end of the foil projecting above the handle is too
long, cut it down to an eighth of an inch, put on the pummel and rivet it on.
                           HOW TO BUTTON THE FOIl.
   The foil is generally buttoned with gutta percha. Heat the end of the foil a
little, press the gutta percha on the top, and heat the substance until it is warm,
then dip your ringers in water, and make the button quite round. The best
foils are those marked " Solingen," with a crown stamped on them. Should a
foil break, dismount it and remount it in the following manner : file the rivet
ing down to the surface of the pummel, then with a small punch beat out the
iend of the foil, and mount your foil as before.
                      NECESSARY APPARATUS FOR FENCING.
   To begin lessons, a pupil requires a foil gauntlet and shoes ; the shoes ought
to be made of buckskin tops, the soles of strong leather. After acquiring some
knowledge of fencing, the pupil will require a leather jacket, which should be
made of strong brown leather, in case a foil may break while making an assault ;
also a mask made of strong wire—the French pattern will be found the best,
as they are light and yet strong.
                        THE REPOST or RETURN THRUST.
   The return is given, after having parried successfully, by returning a longe
in the most rapid manner possible, taking care that your adversary's foil is
out of the line of your body, and that you are well covered in whatever line
you are engaged in, cither high or low.
                           ON LEFT-HANDED FENCING.
   When fencing with a left-handed fencer, you must adhere to the same rules
as in right-hand fencing, only your carte will be his tierce, your tierce his carte.
If possible, engage on the outside, so that you may be able to take the counter
of carte easier, this being the stronger guard against a left-handed fencer ; also
use the half-circle parade against his low thrusts.
                             THE DOUBLE COUNTERS.
   Engaged in carte, disengage to tierce, straightening the arm without longe-
ing. If your adversary takes the guard of counter carte, disengage again ;
should he take the counter a second time, double, following his foil, longe in
tierce ; for instance, by doubling counter tierce, you deceive with a circle your
opponent's counter carte.
   Engaged in tierce, disengage to carte ; straightening your arm, point to your
opponent's chest, but be careful not to expose your body by inclining it forward;
this should always be avoided. As soon as he takes the counter of tierce,

                                  FENCING.                                     319
double, and longe in carte ; the same rule is to be observed in the Tower guards ;
that is, if you are engaged in half-circle, disengage to octave ; if your adversary
takes the counter of half-circle, double and longe in octave, engage in octave,
disengage to half-circle ; if he takes the counter of octave or seconde, double
circle, and longe in half-circle or carte.
                    HOW TO GUARD THE DOUBLE COUNTERS.
   After having taken the counter guard twice, not meeting with the foil of your
adversary, take the simple guard on the opposite side ; for example, being
deceived in your double guard of counter carte, take the simple guard of tierce
or half-circle ; being deceived in your double guard of counter tierce, take the
simple guard of carte ; the same for the low guards. Being deceived in your
double circle, take the guard of octave ; being deceived in your double of octave
or seconde, take the guard of half-circle or tierce, always continuing the guard
until you meet with the adversary's foil.
   Another way of stopping the double movements is to take the guards of
counter carte and counter tierce, or counter tierce and counter carte, without
stopping ; for the lower part of the body, take the guards of counter circle and
counter octave, or counter octave and counter circle. This is an excellent
practice to strengthen the wrist and make it supple.
                          Observations on Fencing.
   1. Never put yourself on guard within reach of your adversary's thrust, more
especially at the time of drawing your sword.
   2. Be not affected, negligent, nor stiff.
   3. Be not angry at receiving a touch, but take care to avoid it.
   4. Do not think yourself expert, but hope you may become so.
   5. Be not vain of the hits you give, nor show contempt to those you receive.
   6. Do not endeavour to give many thrusts on the longe, running the risk of
receiving one in the interim ; and it is wrong to deliver a second hit on the
longe if you are certain you made a hit the first time.
   7. When you present the foils to a stranger, give the choice without pressing.
   8. If you are much inferior, make no long assaults.
   9. Do nothing that is useless ; every movement should tend to your ad
vantage.
   10. Judge of a thrust rather by reason than by its success.
   11. Let your play be made as much as possible within the line of your
 adversary's body.
    12. It is not enough that the parts of your body agree, i.e., that you are
 supple, firm, and vigorous ; they must also answer to your adversary's move
 ments.
    13. Endeavour to discover your adversary's designs and conceal your own.
    14. Two skilful men fencing together act more with their heads than their
 hands.
    15. The smaller you make your feints the quicker will your point arrive at
 your adversary's body.
    16. Do not take the time-thrust too frequently, unless your adversary is
 much your inferior, and that you are not likely to be hit at the same time.
    17. If one hit the body, and the other the face or elsewhere, at the same time,
 the hit on the body only is counted.
    18. If in binding, parrying, or by any means, your adversary's foil falls, the

  320                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
  hit that is made in the interval is good, because you are not obliged to know
  that he will lose the grasp of it ; but if the hit is made after you sec the foil is
  out of his hand, you cannot reckon it, but in politeness you should pick up his
 foil and present it to him.
     19. Never attempt to hit your adversary while thrusting carte and tierce in
 the salute, unless by mutual agreement ; and jt is a proper civility in saluting,
 to ask the adversary to thrust first.
     20. Be sure, at no time while fencing with a skilful man, to attempt to volte,
  disarm, &c ; these are ridiculous things, only taught by the ignorant, and often
  attended with danger.
     21. Never deny a hit.
     22. Do not laugh nor ridicule another's manner of taking his lessons.
     23. Never make use of the left arm, nor turn your back to avoid being hit
 on the chest.
     24. Always join foils (if possible) after a hit is made, previous to another
 attack.
    N.B.—Never use thefoils without having the mask on.
                           A Dialogue on Fencing.
     Q. When I parry your thrust over the arm, with the simple parade of tierce,
 what are you to do to avoid my parade ?
    Aus. I make the feint, une-deux, in carte, within the arm.
    Q. If I make use of the counter in carte?
    Ans. I should avoid your counter in carte, by doubling over the arm.
    Q. Which parade must I take to prevent your doubling?
    Ans. You must parry with the counter in carte, miss my blade, and take
 the parade of tierce, or semi-circle.
    Q. If I parry your feint, une-deux, over the arm, with the counter in carte,
 what should you do to avoid my parade?
    Ans. I make the feint, une-deux, and take advantage of your round parade,
to push double carte over the arm.
    Q. When I parry the feint, une-deux, in carte, with the parade of semi-circle,
how would you deceive that parade?
    Ans. I make the feint, une-deux, and as soon as you form the parade of
semi-circle, I go over your blade, and thrust low carte.
    Q. If I had parried with the circle?
    Ans. I should pass twice over your blade, and thrust double carte, within
the arm.
    Q. When you perceive that I am going to parry with the counter in tierce,
what thrust arc you to make in order to touch me?
   Ans. I am to double carte within the arm.
    Q. How if I had parried the counter in tierce and carte?
   Ans. I should have been round once, and made the feint, une-deux, over
the arm.
   Q. When you fence with an adversary who keeps a straight guard, what arc
you to do?
   Ans. I am to make several beats with the right foot upon the ground ; if that
do not put him in disorder, I am to give him a dry beat upon the foible of his
sword, in order to put it aside, then push a straight thrust.
   O. When your adversary disengages and extends his arm to thrust, what
are you to fear?

                            RIVER-BOATING.                                  321
   Ans. I perceive it is a snare to oblige mc to form a parade, so I instantly
cross his bladefput it aside, and push seconde.
   Q. What do you risk in crossing the blade?-
   Ans. He may take the opportunity to push carte over the arm.
   Q. Which parade would you make in that case?
   Ans. Having missed his sword, I should parr)' tierce ; my return would be,
carte over the arm, or seconde.
   Q. Which is the best time to attack one's adversary?
   Ans. When the least motion puts him in disorder, or when he breaks ground.
   0. Do you not fear his retreat is but a snare to take the time?
   Ans. In closing on him I make sure of his sword, and know by the feel of
i: whether he has a mind to thrust or parry.
   O. When you have to deal with an adversary that does not feel your blade,
ind puts himself in an open guard, with the point of his sword downwards,
what would you do?
   Ans. Make false attacks, to oblige him to take a proper guard, and only
thrust when he answers them.
   <\ Which are the best parades in fencing?
   Ans. The counter parades and circles, because they baffle all the feints.
   (J. How can you tell when your adversary will make use of them?
   Am. In disengaging either in carte or tierce, or by the feel of his sword.
   Q. Which are the best thrusts in fencing?
   Ans. The straight thrusts pushed with swiftness ; they are the only ones we
ought to use when within reach, because then the body is less exposed.
   Q. What is the best method to acquire swiftness?
   Ans. To practise thrusting perscveringly tierce and carte, for by that exer
cise only I gain swiftness, firmness, exactness, &.c.
                        RIVER-BOATING.
   INTRODUCTION. — When sitting down to teach the art of Rowing, we must
confess that, had it been possible, we would rather have taken up an oar than
a pen. First impressions, however, are not always to be depended upon : in
this very instance, we are not at all certain that we cannot give a good deal
of information and do a considerable amount of good even with the instru
ment to which we have been reduced.
   If you know little or nothing about river-rowing, we may inspire you with a
desire to excel in that noble art ; we can prevent you from acquiring a faulty
style and bad habits which are so fearfully difficult to drop ; we can put you
up to the boating vocabulary, so that, though quite a young hand, you will
be able to avoid blunders which would turn a laugh against you. We can
describe to you all the different classes of boats on the river, so that you will
know what they *rc called, and what they are used for, when you see them ;
and when you hear people talking about " tubs," " canvasses," " whiffs," &c,
you will know what they are speaking about ; and, finally, among other things,
*e can — even if you are somewhat of "an oar"—give much information
»hich will be most useful to you when on the river, and which, if you have
                                                                   21

322                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
not been taken regularly in hand by a waterman, you must have had very
little chance of obtaining. You cannot always have a professional waterman
at your elbow, but you may easily carry the following advice in your mind.
   Preliminary Remarks.— Rowing is one of the most useful of the out
door sports, as it is far more than a mere pastime, and ranks almost on a par
with swimming. It is the most healthy of all exercises, as good rowing exer
cises every part of the body equably and at the same time ; and if the rower
is in a good state of health, and his strength is not over-taxed, it can not
only do him absolutely no harm, but much good ; and all violent exertion is
hurtful to those of a weak constitution. However, it is not "boat-racing"
which we wish to recommended, as that may be, and often is, carried to too
great an excess, but the art of " boating," from which you will derive pleasure,
and acquire skill, health, and strength. Before learning how to row, it is
essential that you should know how to swim. Boats are liable to be upset
 even when in the most experienced hands, and any one unable to swim not
 only risks his own life, but seriously endangers those of others. Many of the
 rowing-boats on a river arc so exceedingly light, or cranky as they are called,
 that a young oarsman, as he takes his place in one, cannot but feel that an
 upset is not an unlikely occurrence. The knowledge that he would sink like
 a stone in such a case would not by any means be an assistance to him in
 learning how to row skilfully and fearlessly. Almost the same arguments
 might be used as to the expediency of becoming a good " waterman," that is,
  mastering everything connected with river navigation, as well as becoming a

                             RIVER-BOATING.                                          323
good "oar." You may get into many an awkward fix on the river which,
unless you are an old hand or have the necessary skill, will more than likely
end in a ducking, a thing to be avoided under any circumstances.
    Try and avoid being on the water either too early in the day, when the
morning dew is unwholesome, or too late, when the heavy evening mist is
equally objectionable. Darkness is infinitely more dangerous on the water
than on the land : however well you may know the river, only skill will save
you from being run down. Changing your clothes, both before and after
rowing, is of great importance. " Flannels"—as boating costumes are called
 —show what you should wear. These should be taken off as soon as pos
 sible ; and if you are not too hot, a good sponge over, or even a dip in the
 stream, is a wholesome thing to do before resuming your ordinary dress.
    We shall restrict ourselves in this paper entirely to rowing on fresh water,
 for it is scarcely any exaggeration to say that on a river you see good rowing
 and bad sailing, and on the sea good sailing and bad rowing.
    The popularity of rowing is remarkable, it seems so unmistakably a true
 British pursuit; and yet the first inter-University match was only in 1829;
 and boating trips, of which there are now dozens every year, were almost
 unheard of ten years ago. England is almost the only country in Europe in
 which one style of river-rowing is universal. On the Continent, standing up,
 forward rowing appears to be a very common method of propulsion. We
 also use much lighter boats than our neighbours across the Channel ; but here
 again this is quite a modern practice: the earlier matches between the two
 Universities were rowed in heavy boats, and it was not until 1846 that out-
rigged boats were used. Inconceivably light as are some of our racing boats
 (a wager sculling-boat only weighs an average of 38 lbs.), there is this to be
 said in their favour, that they enable skill and science to compete on even
terms with superior weight and strength.
    Before describing all the different classes of river-boats, it will be best to
.begin with the model of an ordinary pair-oar GIG or DlNGY.
                                                    BUTTON LOOM   HANDLE
                                References to Number*.
       i. Stem or Cutwater.       5. Stroke Thwart.           9. Yoke and Yoke-line.
       2. Painter.               6. Stroke Rowlock.          10. Rudder.
       3. Kow Thwart.            7. Stem Thwart.             11. Extra Rowlocks for
       4. Mow Rowlock.           8. Chain-rail.                   double sculling.
    The other parts of a boat, which cannot well be shown in the model, arc-
                                                                      21—2

324                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   The Thole. —That part of the rowlock against which the oar rests while
pulling.
   The Afier-tholc or Stopper.—The opposite side of the rowlock.
   Clockheads support the tholes.
  Filling. —The leather at the bottom of the rowlock.
   The Keel.—A long piece of wood running along the bottom of the boat.
  Straiks.—The planks with which a boat is built.
   Garboards. —Those nearest the keel.
   Gunwale. —The top straik.
  Bulwark.—Above the gunwale ; seldom used in river-boats.
  Stretchers. —Against which the feet of the oarsmen rest.
   Stretch-pieces support the stretchers.
   The Lands. —The inside supports of the boat.
   Knees.— Pieces of wood which fasten the thwarts to the boat.
   Burthens or Bottom-boards. —The flooring at the bottom of the boat.
   State-room. —The space between the coxswain and stroke's seat.
   The Waist. — Between the midship and forward thwart.
   The Stern-post fits into the keel, and on it is hung the rudder.
   Tintles attach the rudder to the stern-post.
   Transom. — Square-sterned boats are made with one.
   Bilge-piece.—A long piece of wood tapering off at the sides, and placed at
the lans of the second and third straik, counting from the keel.
   Lans.—Where one straik overlaps the other.
   Skin.—The planking of a boat.
   Steerage comprises yoke, yoke-line, and rudder.
                      The Technical Terms in Use.
   Bow.—The name given to the rower who sits on the forward thwart in a
four or eight-oar; he would also be called No. I.
   Stroke.—The sternmost oar in a boat in a four or eight-oar ; No. S or N o. \
respectively.
   Coxswain.—The steercr, who sits in the sternmost thwart.
   Starboard is the right-hand side of the steerer.
   Larboard or Port. —The left-hand side.
   [These terms are really sea terms ; on a river it is sufficient to say bow and
stroke sides.]
   Clinker-built boats have the straiks overlapping one another.
   Corbel-built boats have the straiks edge to edge, which gives a perfectly
smooth surface. (Wager-boats are corbel-built.)
   Hitcher or Boat-hook consists of a staffox hoe.
   To Bale.—To throw water out of a boat.
   Tracking.—Another name for towing.
  Kink. —A twist in a rope.
  Beam.—Width of a boat.
  Fore and Aft.—Front and back part of a boat.
   Porting the Helm is more a sea than a river term : the effect is the same
as pulling the right-hand yoke-line.
   Unshipping ox Shipping.—Taking the oar or scull out of and putting it in
the rowlock. Unshipping is done by raising the hand smartly upward.
   Backing Water.— Reversing the blade of the oar or scull, and rowing for
wards.

                              RIVER-BOA TING.                                325
    Boat in technical language means the crew of the boat.
    Ship.—The boat itself.
    Catching a Crab—a terrible sound to all beginners—is caused by the oar
turning in the water the wrong way ; this forces the blade down, and causes
ithc handle to knock the unfortunate oarsman off his seat. The only way of
avoiding this misfortune is to unship the moment it is felt that all control has
been lost over the oar.
    Rowlocks.—There are three sorts of rowlocks :
    Outriggers, introduced by the celebrated Clasper, of Newcastle, in 1841,
.who also invented the oars and sculls which are now used with all boats ;
    Swivel, principally used in sea-boats ;
    Inrigged, which may be of the gig or skiff clan. ( Vide description.)
                                    BOATS.
    A Gig.—This plan of boat can be described shortly by saying that it is a
broad high boat, with inrigged rowlocks, a straight gunwale, a narrow keel,
nearly an upright stern, a transom, and that it carries a steerer.
    There are sculling gigs, pairs, fours, and eights. They are perhaps the
commonest class of pleasure-boats on a river, and the pair-oar (see model)
are the most often seen of the class. Gigs, with short movable outriggers, are
very popular out of Oxford and Cambridge. These boats are rather larger
and narrower than the inrigged gigs. The rowlocks are either fixed alter
 nately as in all-right boats, or are doubled so as to allow for sculling.
    Dingy.—Another name for a short inrigged gig.
    SKIffS were once very popular, but have now been to a great extent sup
 planted by gigs. A skiff is not very unlike aiT inrigged gig ; it is rather
 heavier, has not so upright a gunwale, and has a different rowlock, which is
 best explained by the annexed outline.
                                                          SWIVEL ROWLOCK.
    It is considered by some, and notably by the Author of the " Oarsman's
 Guide to the River Thames," to be the best class of boats for travelling pur
 poses.
    A Skiff is a short, tight sculling boat, with skiff rowlocks.
    A Randan may be either of the gig or skiff class, and it is the only boat
 which admits of a combination of sculling and rowing. Three persons row
 in this boat. 1 pulls a bow-oar, 2 rows with sculls, and 3 pulls a stroke-oar ;
 it also carries a steerer. It is generally from 30 to 35 ft. long and 4 ft. wide
 amidships, in order to give ample space to the sculler. This rather " Cockney
 boat " is a very safe and handy one for river expeditions. The work in it

326                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
is very easy ; it carries luggage well, will sail very fairly and safely under a
small lugsail, and is easy to get through a lock. On the other hand, it is
barely possible to row or scull properly in it ; the only chance is for the
sculler to have outriggers.
   A Wherry is a boat we hear of more in history than sec on the water. It
is of the skiff class, but shorter, broader, stronger, and heavier, with bows
projecting out of the water.
   A Shallop.—An old-fashioned and large boat, used for pleasure parties
and pienics. It may have any number of oars. Has a large state-room, and
bows out of the water.
   Tub Boats, originally a Tub, was a name given to a boat which was not
used for racing purposes ; now the term is applied to all the heavier kind of
racing-boats. They are long, narrow, gig-shaped boats, with long fixed out
riggers, and may be either scullers, pairs, fours, or eights ; the two first seldom
carry a steerer. These boats on rough water, from their greater steadiness
and from their carrying a keel (an immense advantage in steering), are almost
as fast as the canvas or wager-boats. To all-right boats a strap is attached,
to the stretcher for the rower to put his feet in.
   Racing or Wager-Boats. — These boats are often called Canvasses or
Outriggers. These, however, are wrong terms, there being canvassed and
outrigged boats which are not wager-boats. A racing-boat, as may be
imagined, is the lightest class of boat, the special characteristics of which are
—whether sculler, pair, four, or eight (the first two never carry a steerer)—no
keel, corbel-built, bows and stern canvassed over and barely out of the water,
and extremely long outriggers. (See engraving of wager, pair-oar, and sculler.)
All the principal races are rowed in these boats. An eight-oar is about 60 ft.
long, and 2 ft. 3 in. wide ; a pair-oar is about 36 ft. long and 1 ft. 8 in. wide ;
and a sculling-boat is 30 ft. long, 1 ft. 3 in. wide.
   Scullers or Sculling-Boats have been already described under their
different classes. In a wager-boat, very great care should be taken in getting
in and out of the boat; but when the sculler is once seated and the sculls are
flat on the water, they are difficult to upset. Whenever choosing a sculling-

                            RIVER-BOA TING.                                 327
boat, the size and weight of the sculler should be borne in mind. The same
sculls do not suit every one, and outriggers may sometimes be found to be too
small for the sculls.
   A Funny is a heavy wager sculling-boat ; it has a keel, is canvassed over,
and is generally clinker-built. It is shorter and broader than a racing-boat.
At Cambridge this class of boat is often called a Noah's Ark, and a regular
wager sculling-boat goes by the name of Funny.
   A Noah's Ark. —The Cambridge name for an ordinary Funny. This is
a very good boat for practising.
   A Whiff is a light sculling-boat, very like a Funny, except in not being
canvassed over; it is easily upset.
   A Galley. —Another name for a tub eight ; originally it was only applied
to an inrigged eight.
   A Cutter is, properly speaking, any boat which takes a full-lengthed oar.
Now the name is generally given to a racing eight.
   Tom-tit or Jolly-Boat.—A very short broad boat, useful for sailing.
   A Punt. —A very strongly-built boat, with straight sides, flat bottom, and
square ends. It is used for fishing and wild-fowl shooting. It is shoved
along by means of a punt-pole, and has no rudder. Punting is a favourite
recreation, but the art is by no means so simple as it looks. It may be easy
enough merely to shove against the bottom of the river and keep the boat
moving, but the knack of keeping it straight will take a long time to' learn.
After the shove, which should commence at the head of the punt and be
continued to rather past the middle of it, the handle of the pole should be
pressed against the side, by which means the natural impulse which the stern
has of swinging round is checked. Beginners should be careful that, after a
vigorous shove on a soft bottom, they are not left minus the pole, or that the
punt has not slipped from under their feet, and left them suspended for a
second in mid-air, to be shortly soused into the water. In deep water, punts
arc fitted with swivel rowlocks.
    CANOES.—There are four different kinds of canoes. 1. The ordinary
 river-canoe, which is built of deal, is about 12 ft. long and 22 in. wide, and
 is canvassed over fore and aft. It has little or no keel, and is not suited for

 ;;8                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
sailing; 2. A long, narrow, and light canoe, with a long spoon-shaped paddle,
only used for sailing; 3. A heavy canoe, with a fan-keel, used almost entirely
for sailing ; 4. The " Rob Roy,'' a travelling canoe, designed by Mr. Mac Gregor.
"to sail, to paddle, and to bear portage and rough handling." The sketch,
on a scale of a quarter of an inch to the foot, gives a section of one of these
canoes.
   The original " Rob Roy," the one in which " a thousand miles " were com
passed, was not nearly so perfect a boat for its purpose as the present one.
which was designed for the cruise in the Baltic, and is now the model for all
travelling canoes. (Searlc of Lambeth has built over a hundred of these
canoes.) The "Rob Roy" is built of oak, except the top straik, which is of
 mahogany, and the deck of cedar. It weighs 60 lbs., and, with fittings com
 plete, about 70 lbs. (An ordinary river-canoe weighs little more than halt
 this.) Its length over all is 14 ft., beam outside 26 in., keel 1 in., and extreme
 depth 1 1 in. The paddle should not be too long ; one about 7 ft. long, with
 flat blades of 5 in. in width, will be found to be the most useful ; but for speed
 a longer paddle, with a spoon or claspcr-shaped blade, is better. The paddk
 should have a leather cup or India-rubber ring on the clasp of each blade to
 catch the dripping water. A waterproof apron must also be used by the
 canoeist. The canoe sails very well and safely, but care should be taken thai
 the sail—a working lug— is not too large. Canoes are not nearly so dangerous
  as is supposed. .If you sit fairly straight and do not overreach yourself in
  your stroke, you cannot come to much harm. In paddling, work from the
  shoulder, and not merely from the elbows, and the exercise, though not nearly
  so fine a one as that of rowing, and particularly that of sculling, will develope
  and strengthen some important muscles.
                        TMK ART OF ROWING.
    In the beginning of this article we laid considerable stress on the import
 ance of beginning to row well and in good style. This can only be done by
  the young oarsman placing himself in the hands of a good oar, and implicitly

                              RIVER-BOATING.                                   329
 following his directions. Unfortunately, as good oarsmen are not to be found
'everywhere, the result is that by far the larger majority of young people learn
 how to row on a sort of innate " rough-and-tumble " way, which is not con
ducive to good style, though it may enable them to row sufficiently well for
 enjoyment. The best test of good rowing is "pair-oar" rowing without a
 steerer. A pair-oar wager-boat is shown in the illustration on p. 326. The men
are " forward all," and on the point of commencing their stroke. The attitude
should be carefully compared with the directions which are given below.
 The best way of beginning to learn is in an inrigged pair-oar, with a coxswain
•who should act as coach. The very worst way is pulling seven "land-lubbers"
 in an eight-oar, with a decent oarsman as stroke, and an old hand to steer, teach,
 and race. You should choose, therefore, a heavyish boat to begin with. Row
 really well in that, and a little confidence and practice will soon do the rest.
    Step into the boat carefully—no jumping in—and notice how the waterman
 holds the boat against the bank in order to steady it. See that the mat is
 fairly fastened to the thwart, and on the proper side of the boat, and take
 your appointed place. Stroke (No. 2) always sits on the right hand of the
 steerer, and rows on" the port side or left hand of the steerer; Bow (No. 1)
•exactly the reverse. Understand your stretcher—how to lift it, and what
 length you require ; your knees should be neither too high nor too low. There
are three kinds of stretchers : the common old-fashioned one, secured by means
 of stretch-pieces ; those which, in addition to the stretch-pieces, are fastened
 with an iron band and hook and eye; and those which are secured by means
of screws. Stretchers in light boats have straps attached to them. Place
 both your feet in them, otherwise you may pull sideways, or screw. You
 ought, however, to be able to row without the assistance of any straps. The
 oar, which should be roughened in the handle, ought just to clear the side
 of the boat; a full-lengthcd oar is about 13 ft. 5 in. long, but in an inrigged
 boat the oar is shorter. Grasp the handle of the oar with both hands,
 thumbs under, the top hand close to the end of the oar, the other two inches
 nearer the rowlock. Some oarsmen keep the thumb of the outside hand
 over; in rough water they must be liable to have the oar jerked out of their
 hands altogether. Stretch out your arms before you to their fullest extent,
 elbows straight, hands low, and the blade of the oar at a right angle with
 the water. Your head should be erect, though a little forward, the shoulders
 square, the back straight, and your knees well bent. The men in the pair-
 oar illustration are exactly in this position. Drop the oar into the water and
feel the water at once—that is, begin to pull instantaneously. This is what
 is called the catch in the beginning, and it is, perhaps, the most important
 part of the stroke. The blade of the oar should be covered and no more,
 but this should be done at the very commencement of the stroke, and kept
 to exactly the same depth in the water to the end. There is no greater mis
take than beginning with a shallow stroke, and then deepening as you go on.
 We now come to the end of the stroke. You have been pulling with the
 whole weight ofyour body as well as with your arms ; you have been pulling
 with your feet pressed hard against the stretcher, so as to bring every muscle
 in your legs and thighs into play. Continue the pull until your body is rather
past the perpendicular and your knees straight, when you will find that your
stroke has done its utmost, and that it is mere waste of power to continue it.
 Bring your oar out of the water, drop your wrists, and turn the back of your
liands towards the chest ; this will bring the blade of your oar in a line with

3S°                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
the water, which process is called feathering. Feathering will require some-
practice ; you should not attempt it at first. At Cambridge, where the water
is very smooth, after the feather the blade of the oar is kept very low on the
water ; at Oxford and elsewhere, it is usual to feather much higher. Though
not so graceful to look at, the latter method is by far the most useful. Your
oar out of the water, recover your body with an elastic bound from the hips.
Throw forward your arms simultaneously with your body, as already de
scribed, still keeping the blade of the oar horizontal with the water until you
have got your hands well over your toes, when you are ready to turn the blade
at a right angle with the water, and recommence your stroke. We have not
half done yet. Besides rowing well on your own account, you should try to
row in the same style and pull the same kind of stroke as the other man or
men in the boat. You should keep exact time ; hurrying on the stroke is a
very common fault. Your oar should drop into the water at the same moment
as the other oar or oars are dipped, and you should finish the stroke at the
same time. This can only be done by keeping your eyes in the boat, care
fully watching and imitating whoever is in front of you. The stroke should
be as long as possible : it is the length and strength of a stroke which wins a
race, and not the number of strokes which can be pulled in a minute. In
swinging up and down on the stroke, you must swing straight and evenly.
Any jerking, screwing, or pulling sideways is utter destruction to yourself and
to everybody else in the boat.
   In a light or outrigged boat more care will be necessary than in a heavy
inrigged one. In the case of outriggers the oar is placed in the rowlock after
you have taken your seat, but before you arrange the stretcher.
                                    Sculling.
   Sculling is rowing with two small oars or sculls. A sculling boat may be
of any size or of any class, only the heavier sort carrying a steerer. The sculler
sits exactly in the centre of the boat. The sculls, which should not be too
heavy, should overlap three or four inches. The sculler should grasp the
handle of each scull, thumbs under, and scull according to the directions
given for rowing, with this difference —that each hand has to do in sculling the
work of two in rowing. The two pictures give an accurate illustration of the
beginning and end of the stroke.
   To prevent the handles of the sculls dashing against each other, one hand

                             RIVER-BOA TING.                                 33i
should be kept slightly uppermost. Sculling, to a beginner, is certainly more
difficult than rowing. To make the two sculls do exactly the same amount of
work and act as exact counterparts of each other will require considerable
practice. Another difficulty is the steering. At least once in every half-dozen
strokes the sculler will find it necessary to turn his head and neck— but not his
body—to look behind him. The principal
                               Faults in Rowing,
most of which are given in treatises on the subject, are :
   1. The rower or sculler omits to straighten both arms before him.
   2. Continues to place his hands forward by a subsequent motion after the
shoulders have attained their full reach, which is getting the body forward
without the arms. Every part of the person should move in unison.
   3. Extends the arms without a corresponding bend on the part of the
shoulders, which is getting the arms forward without the body.
   4. Catches the water with unstraightened arms ; thus time may be kept, but
not stroke.
   5. Hangs before dipping downwards to begin the stroke.
   6. Rows shallow ; that is, does not cover the blade up to the shoulder.
   7. Rows too deep ; that is, covers the bladed part of the shank of the oar
or scull.
   8. Rows round and deep in the middle of the stroke, with hands high and
blade still sinking after the first contact.
   9. Curves his back forward or aft. Persistent stooping is most injurious to
the rower.
   10. Keeps one shoulder higher than the other.
   11. Jerks.
   12. Rocks.
    13. Bends over the oar at the feather, thus bringing the body up to the
 handle, instead of the handle up to the body.
   14. Strikes the water at an obtuse angle, instead of at a right angle.
    15. Rows the first part of the stroke in the air.
    16. Cuts short the end of the stroke, prematurely slackening the arms.
    17. Shirks—a combination of Nos. 4 and 16.
    18. Screws or rolls backwards, with an inclination towards the inside or
 outside of the boat.

332                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
    19. Turns his elbows at the feather, instead of bringing them sharp past the
flanks.
    20. Keep the head depressed between the shoulders instead of erect.
   21. Looks out of the boat instead of straight before him. This inevitably
rocks the boat. Looking at the blade of the oar whilst rowing is a very
common fault with beginners.
   22. Throws up water forward instead of aft.
   23. Causes a splashing by dipping the oar in the water before finishing
going forward.
   24. Leans on the rowlock.
   25. Runs away with the stroke.
   26. Rows a single careless stroke.
   27. Moves in his seat whilst rowing.
                                    Steering.
   The steering of a sculling-boat has been already explained.
    In a light pair-oar without a coxswain the bow-oar steers, so regulating his
stroke as to keep the boat straight in its course. The stroke-oar rows on
steadily, in no way interfering with the steering.
    A Coxswain should commence learning his duties, which are as important
and as difficult to learn as those of a rower, in a small but heavy boat. When
he has learnt to steer this boat with a moderate use of the rudder and as few
 zigzags as possible, let him try a larger one. The coxswain sits on the steer
 thwart, keeps his legs well under him, and the yoke-lines twisted round his
 hand. At each stroke his body may bend forward evenly, but on no account
 with a jerking motion. To whatever side he wishes the boat to move, he pulls
 the line on that side. The pull should be a steady and even one, not hard
 or jerking ; the yoke-line should also always be kept tight. Whenever neces
 sary, the coxswain should call upon the bow or stroke-side oars to assist him,
 by pulling, backing, or holding water, in altering the course of the boat. The
 only chance of keeping a straight course while steering is to steer for some
 fixed point. The strength of the current or tide, the effect on the waters by
 a projecting point of land or by a small bay, the nature of backwater and of
 eddies, can only be learnt by experience. Wind is one of the greatest enemies
 of the young stcerer. With a strong side wind the stern of a boat has a ten
 dency to turn away from the wind, which gives increased labour to the oars
 on that side. As in such a w ind the boat is driven bodily to leeward, the bows
 should be directed to some place to windward (the point from which the wind
 conies) of its destination.
     The coxswain, if a good oarsman, has other duties besides that of steering.
  His position enables him to see what all the crew are doing, and he should
 not allow any fault to pass unnoticed. Coaching may be done from the river
 bank, but it is more effective from the coxswain's scat. It is for this reason
  that we advise the captain of the boat occasionally to assume the yoke-lines.
  In a race, besides steering, the coxswain should keep an eye upon the other
 boats, to prevent fouling. He should keep the stroke informed of the position
  of the race, state when a spurt is absolutely necessary, and, in fact, bring to
  bear all the intellect and pluck he possesses on the race.
                            Management of a Boat.
     Boats arc generally kept under cover in a boat-house, and the crew are ex

                             RIVER-BOATIXG.                                   333
pected to lend a hand both in launching and stowing "away. The captain
should tell off the crew according to the position they are to row, each man
taking his proper oar, which for fours and eights are ulways numbered. Bow
or coxswain should be the first person to enter the boat. The getting into a
boat has already been described. All the directions of the coxswain should
be implicitly obeyed.
    Turning.—A sculler would turn his boat by backing or holding water with
one scull and rowing with the other. A rowing-boat is turned on the same
principle, with the assistance of the rudder.
    Backing.— How to back water has been already explained. It must not
lie forgotten, whilst backing with the rudder fixed, that the yoke-lines are to
be pulled on principles the exact opposite of ordinary steering.
    Landing.— In landing or getting a boat alongside, it is better, if possible,
to row up stream. The head of the boat should be steered for the landing-
jetty or wharf, and the tide or current will drift the stern level with the shore.
 In a heavy or inrigged boat, the oars or sculls would be unshipped and placed
in the boat blades fonvard. In a tub or wager-boat, each man, after unship
ping, would— according to his turn —rise, take the oar with him, and stow it
away.
    Passing.— In passing, a boat—unless there is plenty of room between the
boat and the shore —keeps on the outside.
    Meeting. — If the boats are very close, the sculls or oars should be un
 shipped and allowed to drift alongside. The boat which has the tide in its
 favour must get out of the way. The general rule is, that boats pass each
 other on the left side ; that is, a steerer would pull his right yoke-line, and a
 sculler would pull his left scull. The rule is the same on a river for boats as
 it is on a footpath for pedestrians. Different rivers have sometimes different
 rules. On a race-course every boat is expected to get out of the way of any
 boat going over the course, whether racing, practising, or otherwise. The
 winners should also always be allowed their own course as they return.
    Crossing.—A boat crossing another should, if coming down stream, keep
 astern of it ; the same if crossing the course of a barge, as by so doing you
 avoid the danger of " heading " it.
    TRACKING or Towing. — All pleasure-boats should be furnished with a
 towing-rope and mast. If there is any tracking to be done, the steerer should
 at starting so hold the rudder that the bows of the boat are sent out into the
 stream, otherwise they would to a certainty be pulled into the bank.
    Weirs.— In going down stream great care should be taken not to approach
 too closely to a weir, which in England is seldom protected. Keeping on the
 same side of the river as the towing-path, and crossing where the ferry shows
 the path has changed sides, will prevent any unfortunate mishap on a strange
  river. A weir always announces the presence of a lock.
     Locks are the greatest nuisances on a river. They occur every two or
 three miles on the Thames, and about ten minutes should be allowed for get
 ting in and out of one. In every respect it is more difficult to pass a lock
 going up stream than down : some skill and considerable care is always re
 quired to avoid daneer. Boats are more easily managed with sculls than with
 oars. On arriving near a lock, call out, " Lock, lock, lock, lock, lo-o-o-ck ! '
 and keep well away from the gates. You will find all sorts ot cross-cur
 rents and back-waters will try to get the upper hand ; but as long as you
 keep clear of any obstructions and have the free use of your oars and sculls,

2 34                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
you are all safe. On entering the lock you will have to contend against the
strength of the water, which, in issuing out of the lock gates, has a tendency
to turn the boat round the moment her nose shows inside the gates. Ship
your oars and be ready with the boat-hook ; and if you have outriggers, be
particularly careful they do not hit or get jammed against anything. When
inside the lock and the gates closed, you may either keep in the middle of the
lock with the sculls out, or be alongside, holding fast to the sides, but looking
out that the boat's gunwale or outriggers are clear of any projection. The
boat must be kept as close as possible to the lower gates—the one which has
just been passed—as the drawing of the upper sluices, in order to fill the
lock, will cause an eddy, out of which it is better to keep. When the water
has risen to its proper height, the upper gates are opened, through which it is
easy enough to pass. Passing a lock down stream is much more simple. The
water outside it is quiet ; the principal thing to be avoided is not to go in too
fast. When inside, keep by the upper gates, as the water which is being let
out of the lock always sucks the boat towards the lower gates. Inside a lock
strict command should be kept over the boat, otherwise she will cither hitch
against the side, or be thrown athwart the lock and inevitably be filled.
    On the Thames below Oxford, and on the main portions of other English
 rivers, there are lock-keepers attached to every lock. We have not, therefore,
thought it necessar) to go on to the subject of opening them. Locks are also
constructed upon various principles ; but we strongly advise the young oars
 man not to attempt to open one without the assistance of a competent person.
    It may be useful to mention that the first lock on the Thames is at Ted-
 dington ; and that to the time of high water at London Bridge there should
 be added—if you wish to know the time of high water on other parts of the
 river—35 minutes in the neighbourhood of Chelsea, 50 minutes at Putney,
 1 hour at Hammersmith, 1 hour 10 minutes at Barnes, 1 hour 30 minutes at
 Kew, and 1 hour 50 minutes at Richmond.
    We will conclude with some remarks on the subject of
                                  BOAT-RACING.
    A large number of boat-races are held at regattas. These are managed
 under certain rules ; but as we may take for granted that our young oarsman
 will be a member of some boating club before he takes part in one, it is un
 necessary to give them here. However, as many a friendly contest is sure to
 take place long before he aspires to the higher dignity of inter-club contests,
 it will be useful to give a summary of the laws of boat-racing which have been
 approved of by the Universities and by the principal boat-clubs.
     1. That there be an umpire and a judge.
     2. That the umpire may act as starter.
     3. That the starter may recall the boats to their stations if he should con
          sider the start to have been a false one.
     4. That no fouling whatever be allowed.
     5. That the umpire decide a foul only when appealed to.
     6. That the umpire's decision be final.
     7. In case of a foul, the non-fouling boat to row on over the remainder of
          the course, in order to be able to claim the race.
     8. Any competitor, by his oar, boat, or person, coming in contact with the
          oar, &c. of another competitor, to be considered to have fouled.

                              RIVER-BOATING.                                 335
   9. Such contact while attempting to cross a competitor's water to be a foul;
        but when once a clear lead has been obtained by a boat, that boat to
        have a right to keep the water which then becomes its own. At Eton
        the water assigned to a boat at starting belongs to it throughout the
        race.
  10. When the stern of the foremost boat has ciearly passed the stem of the
        hindmost, it shall then be considered to have a clear lead.
  11. A boat's own water at starting is the straight or most direct course from
        the starting-post.
  12. The umpire to be the sole judge of the boat's true course.
  13. Unless the fouled boat comes in first, the race to be rowed over again.
  14. Any boat refusing to row again to be distanced.
  15. Every boat to stand by its accidents. When the width of a river will
        not allow all the boats which are entered for a race rowing at the same
        time, the race is rowed in heats, the victors of each heat afterwards
        contending against one another. At the Universities nearly all the
        races are either time or bumping races. This last description of race
        may be best described as a stern race, all the boats starting one after
        the other, with a clear boat's length between them ; and if any boat can
        bump another (it is here that a clever coxswain may show his skill),
        the boat which has been bumped loses the race and rows into the bank.
   In selecting a crew for a race, great care should be taken that there is not
too great a difference between the weight of the rowers. In an eight-oar the
heaviest man rows No. 5, and in a four-oar No. 3. The stroke need not be
the captain of the boat or the best oarsman ; but he should possess an even
temper, sound judgment, indomitable pluck, and, above all, a perfectly steady
stroke, so that the time from one stroke to the other should not vary by a
fraction. Nos. 3 and 7 in a four or eight-oar respectively arc very important
oars ; they have no one directly in front of them, and upon them depends all
the oars on the bow-side keeping time. Before going in for a race training is
considered to be necessary. This may be described in a few words as get
ting up at seven and going to bed at ten o'clock ; meals at stated periods ;
the most moderate use of liquids; no smoking; a couple of hours' sharp
•exercise on land, and three hours' practice on the water. The great aim in
practising is to row well together. A moderate crew which has arrived at this
invaluable result is more than a match for a much more powerful crew unac
customed to pull in the same boat. The more pair-oar rowing the men have,
the more likely will they be to keep good time and pull the same kind of
stroke, both as to form and strength. Practising should be easy at first ; but
towards the expiration of the training time, the whole course should be rowed
over with a long swinging stroke ; the time taken should be kept ; short spurts
should be attempted and good starts effected. Whenever the crew is found
to be rowing wildly, an "ease all" should be immediately called.
   We hope that our remarks on the subject of river-rowing will not only have
been of use to the reader, but will have inspired him with a love for the art.
There are innumerable opportunities for practising it: boats and rowing clubs
are to be found on almost every sheet of water in England. Eton, Cheltenham,
Radley, Shrewsbury, Winchester, and Westminster schools have boat clubs.
The Universities have sculls, pair, four, and eight-oar races, both in tub and
canvas boats. Every college in the University is a separate club, the members
of which have races with one another. The principal clubs on the Thames

336                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
are the London, North London, West London, Thames, Ariel, Twickenham,.
 Kingston, Ilex, Ino, Leander, &c On the Tyne, the home of the celebrated
Clasper, the rowing almost more than rivals that on the Thames. We go to-
 I'aris to row races, and America comes to row against us on our own waters.
The principal regattas on the Thames are those at Henley and on the Metro
politan course. There are a great number of races rowed in the year, both
among amateurs and professionals. The two most important events are those
for the championship of the Thames; the amateur championship goes by
the name of the "Wingfield Sculls." The principal boat-builders on the
Thames are Searle of Lambeth, Simmonds of Wandsworth, Salter of Putney
and of Oxford, Biffen of Hammersmith, and Massinger of Kingston.
                                 SAILING.
   As a general rule, Sailing can only be fully enjoyed upon salt water,—in the-
bays of our coasts or the estuaries of large rivers. Inland waters are the best
for rowing; but that nobler sport which Englishmen love—are they not sprung
from the Vikings of old ?—seeks wider fields for its gambols. A sailing-boat
on a river can rarely hold a straight course up and down, on account of the
windings of the stream, which bring the wind first on the side, then on the
bow, and at last dead against her. If she try to "tack," she is no sooner
under way on one tack than she is into the bank, and must put about on the
other,— of course with the same result. Moreover, the main pleasures of sail
ing are absent—the dancing, springy motion, the " plash, plash!" of the waves,
and the sweet sea air. The river has none of these, and nothing can make
up for them. Good sheltered roadsteads like Spithcad, the Solent, Plymouth
Sound, and a hundred other harbours on our coasts, and the mouths of rivers-
like the Thames, are the places for sailing.
                        First Principles of Sailing.
   The head or fore-part of a boat is called the bow or the bows; the other or
after-end is the stern. Sitting aft in the stem-sheets, as the place for the
steersman is called, and looking towards the bow, the left hand is called the
port side (formerly " larboard "), and the right starboard. The sides of the
boat near the stern are called respectively the port and starboard quarters.
Beam means breadth: thus, "the boat has 6 ft. beam;" "great breadth of
beam." On the beam means on or opposite to the side. (The beams of a ship
are the transverse timbers which support the decks : their length, therefore,
becomes a measure of the ship's breadth ; hence the term.) (1.)
   The direction in which the wind blows is called to windward; the opposite
direction, to leeward. When a ship drifts sideways or backwards from the
wind, she is said to be making lee-way. The weather side of anything is that
Against which the wind blows; the other is the Ice or sheltered side. To
weather an object is to pass on the windward side of it —between it and the
wind, in fact. (2.)
   The horizon, like the compass, is divided into thirty-two " points," the names

                                    SAILING.                                337
of which are well known. If you face the wind, that point in the heavens full
on your right or left will be " eight points from the wind," and straight behind
you will be sixteen points, and so on. Four points from the wind would be
half-way between the point you face and the point on your side. (See Fig. 1.)
   In Fig. 2 the wind is said to be against the boat, or
          Ahead, when blowing from a.
          On the starboard bow, from anywhere between A- and B.
          On the starboard beam, between B and D, but especially from C.
          On the starboard quarter, between D and E.
          Astern or abaft, from E.
          On the port quarter, between E and F.
           On the port beam, between F and H, but especially from G.
           On the port bow, between H and a.
    In Fig. 1, wind blowing from 2 a would be called "two points on the port
 bow;" from 5a, "three points before the starboard beam;" from 10a, "two
points abaft the port beam."
   Sailing with the Wind nearly or quite Astern.— If a sail or any
thing capable of catching the wind be raised up in a boat when the wind is
                                        \1/
                                      - 0 -
                                                 E
                                               Fig. 2.
 astern, any one can see that she will scud, or run before the wind, so long as
 the rudder keeps her straight ; and it is easy to understand that the rudder
 will be able to do this even with the wind from D or F in Fig. 2. An open
 umbrella has done the writer good service on the Thames, and has carried
 him up against stream as long as the wind kept well behind the boat.
    This kind of sailing is plain enough to every one ; but many people are
 puzzled to see how a boat can advance when the wind is " a-beam," and tend
 ing only, as they think, to blow her sideways ; and how it can be possible to
 sail against the wind, or beat up to windward, as sailors call it, passes their
 comprehension altogether. At first sight it does appear strange that the very
 breeze which should blow us to the west is pressed into our service to take us
 to the east. Truly the wind is mighty and man is weak, but skill makes up
 for lack of strength ; thus we prove mind superior to matter, and learn that in
 sailing, as in all things else, " knowledge is power."
                                                                    22

338                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
    Sailing with the Wind on the Beam—called also Sailing on a Reach
or Reaching. — In Fig 3 is shown a vessel with a sail represented by the thick
line. Tire wind blows from A in the direction A n. Now, under these circum
stances, if the sail were set right across the vessel (as it would be to fit her lor
moving before the wind), the wind would only strike it on the edge, and pro
duce no effect beyond shaking it. On the other hand, if it were turned "fore
and aft "—i.e., with its length in the direction of the length of the vessel—the
wind would act upon it with great force, perhaps overturning the boat, and
certainly blowing her more or less to leeward. But when the sail is held by
suitable ropes in the position shown, then each particle of the stream of air
which strikes the sail bounds off, after striking, right astern, or parallel with
the line B D, just as a marble bounds off when thrown slantwise against a wall.
Now, though this little paper is upon sailing, and not upon mathematics, it is
yet necessary to point out, since " action and reaction are always equal," that
the wind, in bounding off towards the stern, exerts a pressure—a kind of part
ing kick—upon the sail in the contrary direction. Two forces are thus at work
upon the sail, one trying to drive it sideways, the other forwards. If the boat
were round instead of long and pointed, it would, by the law known as the
" composition of forces," be driven in the direction C B ; but as the shape of
the boat is such that it will easily slip bow first through the water, while it
will only move sideways through it with difficulty, it follows that of the two
Pressures mentioned, the forward one, D B, alone produces much effect. Any
   ttle falling away to leeward caused by the pressure A B is corrected by the
rudder. Thus the wind on the beam sends the boat ahead.
    Taking the line A B to represent the force as well as the direction of the
wind in Fig. 3, we can, by the law of " composition of forces," resolve it into the
forces A C and c B, the latter representing the real pressure of the wind upon
the sail. But C B, by the same law, resolves itself into C D and D B. D B
 (just half of A b) stands for the power finally available to drive the boat for
ward, while c D represents the power wasted in the fruitless attempt to drive
her sideways. When the wind is on the beam about half the effect produced
 by it on the sail is thus wasted.
    Sailing with the Wind on either Bow, called also Sailing on a
  Wind or Sailing close-hauled.— In Fig. 4 we have the wind on the starboard
 bow. By setting the sail to the angle shown, and by the same process of rea
 soning as in the last case, we get a force resulting in the direction c B, resolv
 able into C D and D B as before, but with the difference that C D, the part
 wasted, is now very much larger than the useful force, D B. No arrangement
 of sail can enable the vessel to advance when the wind is dead against her,
 and few boats can sail when it is more unfavourable than is shown in Fig. 4.
 Some have done so, but to sail " within less than four points of the wind " is
a rare achievement: a boat must be built expressly for sailing to do so well,
 since the amount of useful power then gained from the wind is too slight to
move a clumsy hull through the water.
     Tacking.— With the wind blowing in the direction of the arrows, it is
 evident that the boat at A in Fig. 5 can easily reach B or C, or any point be
 tween them, by merely moving there " before the wind." As easily can she
 reach D or E, having the wind upon her beam in going there ; and the last
 paragraph shows how she can reach F and G, by merely sailing there close-
 hauled and just within four points of the wind. But how is she to approach
  any point between f and G—H, for instance—seeing that the wind is then

                                     SAILING.                                  339
dead against her ? A little contrivance overcomes the
difficulty. The boat must first sail towards g, with the
wind on her port bow ; when she has gone far enough
she " puts about," and sails to H with the wind on the f
starboard bow. If K were the point aimed at, she
would " make a short leg and a long one "—an expres
sion easily understood by looking at the dotted lines.
If the boat had to sail a long distance against the
wind, she would make a number of these " tacks " or I
" boards " (B C, C D, &c, in Fig. 6), going first to the
right and then to the left of her proper line of journey
until she reached her destination. This zigzag method
is called " tacking " or " beating up to windward," and
is the most important part of the sailor's lesson. Any '
lubber can go to leeward (and often does, whether he                    IG" *"
wants to or not), but only a sailor can get to windward.
   In Fig. 6 the boat A, sailing to H, makes successive " tacks " to B, C, anu d,.
thus getting about half-way. she being but a clumsy sailer ; but if of better
build, the same tacks may bring her to tf, c', and d', in which 'case she has
only to make one short tack to H to reach her destination. The clumsy boat
has still the tacks D E and E F before her ere she can " lay her head " for H.
This great difference arises from the one being able to sail withinfour points
of the wind, while the other cannot get nearer than five.
   On the line B C the boat is on the port tack, because the wind is then on the
port bow ; from C to D she is on the starboard tack, and so on. The change
from one tack to another is called putting ox going about. The longer each
                   tack can be made without going too far out of the way the
        jU I       better, but in this the sailor is guided by circumstances. Some
    *XV i          obstacle, for instance, at K may prevent the completion of the
 oV'       •-..    tack d d', and call for some ingenuity to arrange tacks, which
     \K / e        shall keep the boat clear of it.
                      These explanations are dry, but very necessary^ A man
                   who understands the reason of what he does, in a boat or any
                   where else, is worth twice as much as one who works by " rule
                   of thumb."
                                  II.—The Boat and her Sail&.
                      Ships and boats are rigged very differently. The former
                   depend chiefly on square sails hung to horizontal yards, placed
                   across the ship (as in Fig. 3), half of the yard and sail being
                   on each side of the mast it hangs from. Square sails are best
                   for running before the wind ; but they cannot be braced round
       Fig. t.     far enough to enable the ship to sail as close to the wind as is
                   shown in Fig. 4 (although for convenience the boat is there
 represented with a square sail). Small vessels and boats carry fore-and-aft
 sails—i.e., sails which naturally hang in a line with the keel : these are more
 manageable. The " lug " is the only approach to a square sail carried by a .
 boat.
    Perhaps the best and safest rig for an open boat is the sprit-sail and fore
 sail rig, with the addition of a mizsen, a sail often but not always added to
 boats of all kinds. We accordingly take this rig first. (See Fig. 7.)
                                                                   22—i

34°                         ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   The mast, D, passes down through a hole in one of the thwarts, as the cross
seats in a boat are called, and its heel, or lower end, is " stepped" in the floor
of the boat. A rope called a stay, G, on each side keeps it steady. The main-
                                        FlG. 7.
sail, B, is laced to the mast by a small rope, passed through little metal rings
sewn into the edge of the sail, called thimbles. The sides and corners of this
and all other four-sided fore-and-aft sails are thus named :
                1. Head.                                       a. Throat.
                2. After-leach.                              ) b. Peak.
       Sides 1 3. Foot.                             Corners
                                                             1 c. Clew.
              ' 4. Fore-leach or luff.                         d. Tack.
   These names, except the " head " and " throat," apply also to the fore-sail
in Fig. 7, and all other triangular sails. The small hanging ropes marked 5
are reef-points or knittles: they are arranged in pairs on opposite sides of the
sail. The canvas below a line of these being gathered up close, they are tied
in couples beneath the gathered up portion, thus reducing the size of the sail
by as much canvas as lies between them and the foot. This is reefing. 6, 6
are reef-cringles or thimbles, to which the sheet is made fast when reeling,
instead of to the original clew. When there is a boom (see 25), the cringles
                    are lashed to it by the reef-earrings—ropes attached to the
                    boom for that purpose. The main-sail is hoisted by the main
                    halyard, R, a rope passing over a sheave or pulley let into the
                    mast near the top, and thence brought down below, where its
                    end or "fall" is made fast or "belayed" round a thwart or
                    elsewhere. The sail is extended by a spar called the spreet,
                    H, pointed at each end. The smaller end is pushed into a
                    rope " eye " at the peak of the sail ; the other end is held
                    close to the mast by fitting into an " eye " in the snotter or

                                   SAILING.                                   341
inorter (Fig. 8), the largest loop of which encircles the mast. When fixed, the
snotter is pushed up the mast until the sail is strained tight. It will not slip
down unless the spreet is a heavy one, in which case its weight is taken by
the htel-rope, s, which also has an eye at the end, into which the spreet fits.
The heel-rope passes through a block at the mast-head, and is hauled tight
from below.
   The position of the main-sail is regulated by the main-sheet, N, the most
important rope in the boat. As there is much strain upon it, a system 01
Mocks—pulleys contained in wooden cases or " shells "—is used to gain power.
Such a combination of blocks is called a tackle (pronounced " taykle ") ; a
more powerful combination is ^purchase. Fig. 9 shows
•he smallest and least powerful kind of tackle, sufficient,
however, for the sheet of a small boat. It consists of
two blocks, c and D : the lower one (shown in section)
usually slides across the boat, as the sail changes sides,
 along an iron bar, B, called a horse or hawse. When
•-here is no bar and the sail has no boom, the lower
block is hooked to a ring on the lee side of the boat,
 and shifted across by hand as required. The rope in
 every tackle, Sec, is divided into the standing part (E
 m Fig. 9), between the fixed end and the first pulley it
 passes through; the running part (F), included between
 the first and last pulleys in the series ; and the fall, G,
 the part outside the pulleys altogether. The parts of
 in ordinary halyard are named in the same way. A is                      b~
 the clew of the sail.                                                fig 9-
    The sheet must never be made fast: keep it always in your hand.
 If a squall strikes the boat when the sheet is made fast, she must upset, for
 you have no time then to lower the sail or brail it up; but let go the sheet,
 and the sail yields directly. Keep the end in a neat coil, free of all obstacles!
and ready to run through the blocks in a moment, lest in running out at the
 critical moment it may "kink" or curl round athwart, another rope, or some
one's foot, and lead to the same misfortune. The sheets of smaller sails may
be made fast, but the main-sheet never. Hauling in or "easing off" the
main-sheet is the only means of regulating the angle at which the main-sail
is set.
   Too large a sprit-sail is difficult to hoist. The spreet cannot be got into its
place without practice, and the beginner's only chance of doing it is with the
boat's head to the wind. A sprit-sail boat should be under 20 ft. long for an
 amateur.
   The fore-sail, a, usually, though not always, acts the part of a.fore-stay, for
which purpose a stout rope is sewn along its fore-leach to strengthen it. The
"tack" of the fore-sail hooks or fastens to a ring on the stem, or else to the
bowsprit, and the peak to a single block (one of a pair arranged on the same
pnnciple as those in Fig. 9), through which the fore-halyard, q, passes. The
upper block of the pair is attached to the mast. Sometimes the upper block is
replaced by a sheave in the mast, when the standing part of the rope is fast
ened to the mast, instead of to the upper block. The fall of the rope is
secured somewhere below, and its loose end neatly coiled up.
   The fore-sail has two sheets, O O, both, for convenience, carried right aft
 (through rings fastened to the side of the boat), one sheet coming aft on each

342                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
side. By easing off the port fore-sheet, and hauling in the starboard one,
the foresail can be set over to starboard, and vice versd. Two blocks (one
for each sheet) are generally fastened to the clew of the sail.
   It is usual, with short boats, to add a small iron bowsprit, F, called a
bumkin, held down by the bob-stay, U. Pieces of wood or metal, called cleats,
are fastened to different parts of the boat, to attach the ends of halyards and
other " running rigging " to, when they are hauled taut (tight).
   The main-sail must be fitted with a brail, t, a rope for suddenly gathering
up the sail in a squall. One end is fastened to the mast near the throat of
the sail ; the other end passes through a block close by, but on the other side
of the sail (which is thus enclosed in a kind of loop). When the fall or free
end is pulled, and the sheet loosened, the sail is gathered up. The brail
should not enclose the spreet as well as the sail.
   The mizzen, c, and its mast, E, require no stays or halyards, and give no
trouble at all. When the boat goes about, the sail swings over just as far as
the mizzen sheet will let it, and thus takes care of itself. A miniature sprit-
sail is shown in Fig. 7. A " lug " is perhaps more general, but the kind is no
great matter. With a mizzen you do not want so large and heavy a main-sail ;
besides which, it is like the flat part of a weathercock, always tending to bring
the boat's head to the wind—an important matter, as we shall see further on.
The chief difficulty is in arranging the sheet. In short boats, the sail must
overhang the stern ; it is therefore usual to put out a fixed boom or bum-
kin, K ; the sheet, P, is led in through a block at the end of this. Sometimes
the boom swings with the sail : the sheet is then fastened half-way out on the
swinging boom, and led in, as before, by means of a short fixed one (as in
Fig. 20). The mast is stepped "right aft" (quite at the stern). If the stern
rises straight, as in Fig. 7, the mast must be hxed rather to one side, to allow
the tiller to work, or it may be in the centre if a curved iron tiller be used.
A good plan is to fix it outside the stern, a little to one side of the rudder-
head. If the stern overhangs beyond the rudder, the mast is stepped on the
overhanging part, out of the way: this is the best arrangement.
   The rudder, L, is a flat piece of wood, hinged to the stern-posts by long
hooks called pintles, which admit of its being removed (mind that it never
                  comes unshipped, though, when out cruising). To the top, or
                  head, is fastened a long wood or iron handle called the tiller
                  ox helm, M, by which it can be turned to either side. Remem
                  ber that the " helm" is the tiller, not the rudder itself: since
                  the boat's head turns to the same side as the rudder, and since
                  pushing the helm to the right sends the rudder to the left, re
                  member that to turn the boat to the right, you put the helm
                  a-port, or to the left ; to turn it to the left, put the helm a-
                  starboard. In Fig. 10 the helm and rudder are in their natural
                  positions amidships — i.e., in the middle; in Fig. 11 the helm
                  is " a-port," and the boat's head, therefore, going to the right ;
                  in Fig. 12 it is " hard a-starboard," and the boat's head flying
                  fast to the left.
                     When running exactly before the wind the boat is " on an
                  even keel;" but at other times the wind must be on one side
                  or the other. With wind from the starboard side the boat
                  " has a list," or " heels," or leans over to port. To put the
                  helm-a-port is therefore to put it down or a-lee, since the port

                                    SAILING.                                   343
 side is then the lowest ; and to put it a-starboard is to put it up, or a-weather.
 The side the wind comes from is always the highest ; to put the helm down
 is therefore to put it away from the wind ; this we know will bring the boat's
 head towards the wind. These terms, " up " and " down," are very important
 to be remembered.
    HulL, or body of the boat.— A sturdy little sailing-skiff, like that in Fig. 7,
 should be 15 or 16 ft. long by 5 or 6 wide. The depth may be moderate—1\
 to 3 ft.—as the press of sail is not great. The draught of water will be about
 14 ft. Cutters and racing-boats, intended to sail very close to the wind and
 to carry much canvas, are built deep in the water, with plenty of keel to give
 them a grip or hold upon it ; this prevents their driving to leeward when on
 a wind, as flatter-bottomed boats will do. The ends of a boat, being made
 sharp for speed, are the parts with most hold on the water ; w is the fore-foot,
 X the dead-wood. The tapering part which ends in the dead-wood is called
 the run. A fine or sharp run is as important for speed as a fine entrance
 or bow. y Y is the keel, connected with which, but along the inside of the
 bottom, is a timber called the keelson, to which the ribs are fastened. The
 upright supporting the stern is the stern-post. The one at the bow is the stem,
 and its front edge is the cutwater, v. The rounded sides of the boat, on which
 it would rest if aground, are called the bilges, z z.
    To sail well a boat must be in proper trim, so as to " sit " the water rightly.
 The bows must be well out, to keep her dry ; they should also " flare outwards "
 a little. The hull must be weighted artificially with ballast to prevent it over
 turning ; but the best of all ballast is CAUTION. Too much ballast is better
 than too little (and so is too much care if there can be too much). Place it
 amidships, but rather aft than forward : weight in the bows is always objec
 tionable. Above all, see that it cannot shift or break loose. If it goes tumbling
 into the lee bilge when the boat is already heeling over to the limit of safety,
 then it 's all up—or rather all down—with the good ship and her crew. Iron
 " pigs," or bars of 56 lbs. each, laid crosswise on the bottom, are convenient.
 The boat in Fig. 7 should have four or five of these. But it is nearly useless
 to give directions as to quantity: the opinion of one practical boatman who
has sailed the boat is worth that of a dozen advisers who have never seen her.
 Lead is the best ballast, but expensive ; like the precious metals, however, it
always fetches its price when sold. Bags or boxes of shingle, and even kegs
 of water, are used ; but they are not so good as metal.
    Never use " shifting ballast," i.e., ballast which has to be heaped up to port
when on the port tack, and to starboard when on the starboard tack, to increase
 its effect. Be content to carry enough to keep your boat steady, without
moving it from its proper place in the centre. Shifting ballast will bring you
to grief some day, by shifting of its own accord once too often. Its use is
now forbidden by all good yacht clubs, as unsailorlike.
    Another kind of "trim" has to be seen to. If you had no sail set but the
mizzen, of course the stern would fly round away from the wind directly ; so
would the bow if only the fore-sail were set. Now, in proper trim, these two
sails should be so balanced in point of size that if the boat, with only these
two set, be placed broadside to the wind, the stern shall gradually and slowly
fall away and bring up the head to the wind. The same thing should happen
when all three are set. This is called carrying a weather-helm, which every
boat should do. It means that when on a wind the helm must be kept slightly
up or a-weather (to windward), to prevent the head from coming up in the

344                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS. #
wind or " luffing " of itself. The safest of all positions for a boat is head to
wind ; the wind cannot then capsize her by its pressure on the sails, which
flap harmlessly like flags in the breeze, while the buoyant bows " lift " easily to
waves which, if received on the stern, would very likely break over and sink
the boat. Whenever anything goes wrong, or any change requires a tem
porary stoppage—when a squall strikes you, or any emergency arises—then
down with the helm and luff directly. If the occasion be a squall, of course
lyou will let go the sheet as well. With a weather-helm the boat does this for
herself, and even with a disabled rudder she puts herself out of mischief by
uffing spontaneously in a moment.
                                      Fig. 13.
   We next take that ancient favourite and most perfect sailing boat, the
Cutter (Fig. 1 3). A half-decked cutter of from 7 to 10 tons is a capital
boat for two hands. Smaller boats are often rigged as cutters, but without the
top-mast or gaff-topsail.
   Cutters and all small boats intended to carry much sail should be " half-
decked," i.e., should have a deck from the bow to the mast, and a narrow deck
called a waterway, about a foot wide, running along each side to the stem,
which is also decked over. The crew occupv the " well," as the undecked
part is called. The boat in Fig. 13 is about' 21 ft. long by 7 ft. wide. The

                                    SAILING.                                345
deck has no bulwarks, but a guard or coaming round the well, a few inches
high, which keeps out the water. The rudder rises through a hole in the
overhanging stern. Under the half-deck is a kind of store cabin called the
cuddy.
   The cutter's mast is a fixture, strongly secured to the " bulkhead," or divi
sion which separates the little store cabin from the well, and firmly supported
by two or three shrouds on each side, and a back-stay (a in Fig. 13), and the
fore-stay, b. The latter is fastened to the stem ; at the top it divides in two,
so as not to interfere with the top-mast (see also Fig. 14). The top-mast, D, is
held up by the two caps of wood or metal, c C, through which it slides up and
down. It is raised by the top-rope, E, a rope fastened to the upper cap, and
passed through a sheave or pulley let into the heel of the top-mast, and then
through a block at the upper cap. When the fall of this rope is eased off, the
top-mast descends by its own weight. It can be raised again directly by merely
hauling on the rope. The top-mast is steadied by the top-mast shrouds, G G,
which, to make them act with greater effect, are held out by the crosstree, H,
a piece of wood or iron secured transversely to the lower cap. Sometimes
two crosstrees are employed, a few inches apart. The top-mast fore-stay, F,
passes through a block at the end of the bowsprit, so that, like the top-mast
 shrouds, its length can be adjusted when the topmast is lowered.
    The running-bowsprit, K, is secured on much the same principle as the top
 mast, so as to slide in and out through a ring at the stem called the gammon,
 and between two pieces of wood called the bits, half-way to the mast. The
 bob-stay is adjustable so as to shorten easily. The bowsprit has often a total
 length of about two-thirds the length of the boat ; the lower mast, from heel
 to cap, the same length as the boat.
    The head of the main-sail is laced to the gaff,
 L, while the clew is held out by the boom, M,
 which enables the sail to be kept flatter than the
 sprit-sail. The, Americans lace the sail to the
 boom, which keeps it flatter still. When the
 sails are furled, the boom i« supported by the
boom-rest, a portable iron like a rowlock, placed
near the stern. Both gaff and boom end in a
kind of fork (called the jaws) which fits loosely
to the mast, with free play sideways and up and
down. The jaws are held to the mast by a piece ,
of rope passed behind it, connecting the two
points of the fork.
    The luff ox fore-leach of the main -sail is held
to the mast by wooden hoops, which slip up and .
down. The gaff is raised by the throat-halyards,
N, and the peak-halyards, O, which must be
hauled upon alternately when hoisting sail. The
main-tack is sometimes gathered up, when you
wish to reduce sail a little, by hauling a rope
called the trice-rope, and easing the tack-tackle
(which holds down the tack). The weight of the
boom is taken off the sail by the topping-lift, p.
The main-sheet does not differ from that of a
sprit-sail, except that it is fastened to the boom,
                                                              F1g. 14.

346                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
and not to the clew itself, and that it consists of a more powerful tackle, with
at least one double block or pulley. It is also secured in the middle of the
stern, and does not run upon a hawse.
   The fore-sail {fore-stay-sail, more correctly) is connected with the fore-stay
by rings called hanks; otherwise it resembles the fore-sail already described.
S, fore-sail-halyards.
   The jib, Q, is a sail requiring careful management. Better have it too small
than too large. If too large, it destroys the weather-helm and is for ever
blowing the boat's head into mischief. The tack is hooked to an iron ring
called a traveller, which is drawn in and out along the bowsprit by a rope
called the out-haul. The jib-sheets are treated much as the fore-sheets are.
The jib-halyards, t, with a very heavy sail, become the jib-purchase (a more
powerful arrangement) by pulling on the other end of the rope in a manner
which we have not space to explain.
   The square gaff-top-sail, R, is only suited to light winds or when running
free. It is raised by its appropriate halyard, and its lower corners are extended
by the top-sad-sheel, which is always kept rove through a block at the end of
the gaff, and by a rope called the tack. A triangular top-sail without a yard
is often used, especially by fishing and trading-boats.
    Large cutters carry a great square sail and yard for running before the wind,
and other fancy sails, such as the ringtail, a kind of extension of the main
sail farther aft ; but little boats have no business with such gear. Racing
yachts hoist immense "balloon jibs," which draw very powerfully, but which
must be well managed to be of much use in beating to windward. He who
wants to win a race must risk many dangers which our young friends will do
well to avoid, and having the boat's head blown round by the balloon jib is
one of them.
                            III.— Practical Lessons.
    Having thus described the most important rigs, we proceed to such practical
directions as this little treatise gives space for. We can but point out prin
ciples; practice must be learnt from very different teachers. Much nonsense,
nevertheless, is written about the absolute need of long experience and the
uselessness of written description, by which some authors escape from ex
plaining what they doubtless know little about. Too much homage is paid
to the " professionals," the old boatmen, whose skill, through great in its way,
is far from b.'ing of a high order. From them must be learnt the arts of
splicing ropes, making many mysterious and useful knots, deftly furling, reefing,
and stowing away sails, trimming the ballast, and the thousand and one little
points which make the difference between handincss and unhandiness. But
the broad principles of sailing, which a clever boy may learn in a day, are
beyond the old boatman's comprehension; and if in practice he gets on well
enough without them, it is only after long years of apprenticeship, from which
a better education might have saved him.
    In Running before the Wind, all but the smallest boats require back
stays to relieve the forward strain on the mast ; the back-stay on the lee side
should be loosened and the main-sheet eased out, to let the main-sail place
itself a^nuch as possible at right angles to the boat; boom out the fore-sail
on the opposite side to the main-sail by sticking the boat-hook into the eye
at the clew, and resting its end against some object inboard. Set the fore-
sheets so as to keep it in this position ; ease out the jib-sheets, to give that

                                    SAILING.                                    347
sail a chance of catching some of the wind escaping past the other two. The
gaff-top-sail takes care of itself. Running before the wind is simple, but not
without peril. With a gusty wind or a lively sea the main-sail is apt suddenly
to gybe or change sides. A heavy sail may go over with a jerk sufficient to
carry away mast, stays, and everything, besides sweeping the crew overboard
with its boom as it flaps across the vessel. Watch for the least suspicious
movement of the sail. If it threatens to come over, down with the helm,
so as to get the wind more upon the beam : this will probably check it ; if
not, seize the sheet and haul in what you can, to be let out again gradually
when the sail has partly gone over.
    Wearing, or bearing up from the wind, is the opposite of luffing. The
boat in Fig. 1 5, from sailing with the wind on the port
bow, bears up until it is on her port beam, port quarter,          I            I
and at last on her starboard quarter. Between a and b                ^^.
the main-sail has to gybe or change sides, as is evident         /$j>^ ^Cjv
by noting the direction of the arrows. If the sail has
brails, brail it up, and you may gybe without danger ;
otherwise, haul in the sheet discreetly, and let it out
gently as the sail goes over ; besides which you may
loose the peak-halyards. With wind before the beam                        1 7
you can relieve the sail from pressure by letting go the
 sheet, when of course it puts itself edge to the wind ;                 ^
but remember that with too much wind abaft no such                      £f~
 relief can be given : reducing sail is the only resource.              FlG „
 Haul up the main-tack, lower the peak, then reef the
 main-sail and take in the jib. If the wind still rises, sail under fore-sail and
 mizzen only, if you only have one ; if nor, under close-reefed fore and main
 sails. At length the boat will refuse to answer the helm, owing to the violent
 pitching. Choose another course : run for any port you can reach, close-
 hauled ; if that will not do, then heave to. Watch for a smooth interval to
 luff in, such as is known generally to follow after three large waves.
    Sailing with the Wind a-beam, or "on a bowline," is the pleasantest
way of any. Long boats with two or three masts, where the sails do not rob
each other of wind, are particularly in their glory on a bowline. See that
your sails are at the proper angle for drawing powerfully, and keep the sheet
in one hand and the tiller in the other— which is about all the counsel we can
offer. Look out for squalls, and luff when you see them. If that won't do,
let go the sheet as well. With plenty of well-secured ballast, don't be nervous
at heeling over— it is half the fun. But though brave, be cautious, and be
ready to luff in a moment when the pressure is too great.
    The theory of Beating to Windward has been already explained else
where. Sailing close-hauled is similar to sailing with the wind a-beam, except
that the sails {i.e., the clews of the sails) are hauled close in, so as to be more
 nearly in a line with the keel ; hence the term " close-hauled." The angle to
 which the sails are set must also be adjusted with greater nicety, and the
 steering must be your very best. The great art is to keep the sails always full
 of wind, without going farther from the wind than is necessary, or to keep as
 close to the wind as you can without allowing the sails to flap. Watch the
 fore-leach of the main-sail. If it quivers, up with the helm, and ease her off
a bit ; but never cease your effort to edge up as close to the wind as possible.
 Many people steer by a flag or vane at the mast-head; but the luff of the

 348                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
 main-sail is a better guide. The worst plan of all is to keep straight for any
 fixed object, because the wind is never quite steady, and you can edge up
 closer in one gust than you can, perhaps, in the next.
    Sailing close-hauled, or " on a wind," is the safest of all positions for a boat,
 because she keeps, as it were, her face to the danger, or at least can face it in
 a moment by putting the helm down. If a squall comes, or a heavy wave
 bears down from the weather bow, luff at once ; but try to get on your course
 again as soon as possible, as it does not do to lose " steerage way," i.e., suffi
 cient movement through the water to enable the rudder to take effect.
    Putting ABOUt, Going about, or changing from one tack to another, is
a neat manoeuvre, requiring some judgment. Suppose your boat close-hauled
on the port tack, that is, with the wind on your port or left side— say on the
line B C in Fig. 6. On reaching c you think it time to go about, so as not
to get too far from your proper course (from A to h). All your sails are over
to starboard, the main-sail kept there by the wind only (being otherwise free
to swing to either side as far as the sheet will let it). The fore-sail and jib,
however, are kept in position by their respective sheets on the starboard side
               Fig i 6.                                     Fig. 17.
being hauled in and made fast (somewhere aft, as before explained). At the
selected moment you put down the helm, not suddenly or impatiently, but
rather gradually. At the same instant, or just before, loosen the jib-sheet on
the starboard side, so that as the boat's head turns to port the jib may flutter in
the wind. The main-sail is now in the same state, its boom hanging fore and
aft. The boat is said to be " in stays,"— a critical moment if she has not suffi
cient way upon her. But if she has way enough, her head still goes round to
port, to which side the main-sail swings just as far as it formerly was to star
board ; meantime the port jib-sheet has been hauled in, and the boat springs
forward on the starboard tack. The gaff top-sail, of course, swings with the
main-sail.
   Hitherto no mention has been made of the fore-sail (fore-stay-sail). Unlike
the others, it is not allowed to swing over when the boat is brought head to
wind, but is "kept a-weather to pay her head off," as shown by the dark line
in Fig. 16. It scarcely needs the dotted lines to show that by this "dodge"
the boat's head is pressed over to port, and the action of the rudder much
assisted, for with. light winds or a heavy sea, a boat, especially a long one,
may not have way enough to get round under the rudder alone. Directly
the head is well over, and there is no longer any chance of " missing stays,"
as failure in this turning movement is called, shift the fore-sail to port at once,
or it will merely check the boat's way. This is also called "keeping the fore-
sheet to windward" just long enough to make sure that the boat will come
round.
   The position of the sails in changing from port to sUrboard tack is shown

                                   SAILING                                   349
in Fig. 17. The same description applies to changing from starboard to port,
transposing those words throughout. If there be no jib, merely omit the part
relating to that sail. The mizzen, if there be one, takes care of itself. If the
boat has but one sail, you must trust to the rudder alone for going about.
   Be not in too great a hurry to put the helm amidships again after going
about, or you may miss stays after all ; neither keep it over so long as to get
your head blown right round by an over-large jib or fore-sail.
   In a heavy sea, choose the quietest moment you can for putting about. It
is a simple operation after all, but young sailors must not superintend it in
bad weather without cool heads and previous experience.
   Missing Stays in smooth water is easily corrected by keeping the fore
sail to windward ; but should the boat be struck by a squall in this position,
the consequences may be very serious, and can only be met by promptly
releasing sheets and even halyards.
   Lying to or Hove to. —A boat is hove to, i.e., kept stationary, by hauling
in the main-sheet as much as possible, and setting the fore-sail a-weather.
As the head " pays off" under the latter, it is brought up again by the vane
like action of the main-sail, and this is repeated ad infinitum.
   When heavy waves make it difficult to lie head to wind, and to prevent
the boat from broaching to—i.e., turning broadside to the waves—it is good
to lash a few spars together, throw them overboard, and make fast to them by
a short rope at the bow, using them, in fact, as a floating anchor, which not
only holds up the head to the wind, but also acts as a breakwater, breaking
the force of the heaviest waves in a wonderful manner.
   SQUALLS are dangerous to boats in proportion to the inexperience of their
managers. If you can see their approach, brail up the sail, or lower the peak,
as the case may be. Luff a little, if on a wind, but not so as to lose way.
If off the wind or running free, put down the helm and ease off the sheets.
Look sharp after squalls in land-locked waters, where sudden gusts rush down
the openings between hills ; also when emerging from a large vessel's lee,
with little way on. If, from newness of the rope or mismanagement, the
sheet sticks, your only chance is to cut it away with a knife. And do not, from
sheer nervousness, hold on tight to the main-sheet just when you ought to let
go of it: this has been done before now. Don't expect to arrange the sheet
in a neat coil, once for all, and so get rid of further bother : you must keep
constant guard over it, or it will catch in something or other. " Self-acting"
arrangements, in small boats, are not to be rashly encouraged : they always
act beautifully until the day of trial, " not, of course, that there is anything
wrong in them, but only because," &c, &c
   To sum up : keep your boat in trim both as regards ballast, sails, and pas
sengers. Have no skylarking, no lolling over the sides, and, above all, no
drinking. Lead sheets and halyards aft, so that you can work the sails with
out rising to go forward. Don't carry too much head or any other sail ; reef
at once when danger threatens. Have your rigging strong and well looked
after, but don't have masts or spars too heavy: it is better that the squall
should carry away the mast than upset the boat. Remember that the safest
sports are dangerous to the reckless man ; while the most perilous are almost
safe to the cautious. Happily, sailing is far from being the most perilous of
sports.
   Reducing Sail.—The gaff top-sail is the first sacrifice ; then the jib, for
which a smaller one must be substituted. A little relief is given (if off the

350                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
wind) by raising the tack and lowering the peak of the mainsail. But the
chief resource is reefing, which should be done betimes, and with the boat
hove to. Lower the gaff as much as necessary ; remove the main tack from
the lower hoop, and adjust the tack-tackle ; tie the lowest reef-cringle (very
securely) to the boom with the reef-earring, or, if there be no boom, make a
corresponding change in the attachment of the sheet. Now gather up the
loose canvas below the first line of reef-points ; tie each pair together with a
" reef knot " (to be learnt of the " old boatman "). If necessary, take in a
second or third reef, but without undoing the previous work, by which plan
the reefs can afterwards be let out one by one, as required. The fore-sail is
reefed in the same way. Reefing must be carefully practised. The brails of
small boats which have no boom give the very desirable power of reducing
sail instantaneously. A well-found cutter should have a try-sail on board
(a strong small main-sail), to substitute for that sail in heavy weather.
   Getting under way.— If the boat is moored as usual to a buoy, hoist
the main-sail, reefed or not as the wind requires ; lay out the fore-sail ready
for hoisting ; pull out the tack of the jib by the out-haul ; have fore and jib-
sheets in their places, and the sails hooked to their halyards. Run up the
fore-sail and let go the moorings. Haul the fore-sail a-weather, to pay off
the head in the direction you wish. If the wind is on or towards the shore,
let the head fall off only enough to fill the sails, which must be close-hauled,
unless you wish to run along shore. If the wind be off shore, let her go
quite round, if you wish to sail seawards. Sometimes you have small room
for manoeuvring, and have to turn sharp round at starting. To do this, put
both head-sails a-weather and ease off the main sheet. The head swings
round directly, and you can assist it by putting the helm up. Ordinarily you
do not hoist the jib till well under way. Small boats have often to start from
wharves, stairs, sides of ships, &c : in such cases use your wits ; shove off
with a boat-hook, " warp " out with a rope, or do anything else likely to answer.
    Picking up Moorings with grace and facility is an excellent test of the
young sailor's seamanship, but it can only be acquired by practice. Always,
by preference, pick up moorings to windward. Beat up to them, and at the
last moment luff, and run alongside them, head to wind. If approaching the
buoy before the wind, pass it, sweep round, and pick it up to windward,
making a nice calculation of the space required for the sweep, which depends
on your boat's power of turning. If, from want of room, you must bear down
 upon the buoy, go at it under the fore-sail only. Steer deftly, and hook the
buoy with a firm hand.
   As a general rule, when two boats approach one another, that on the port
tack gives way to the other, bearing up from the wind enough to pass the
 other on the port side. The one on the starboard tack holds on, or luffs if it
 seem necessary, and if he has wind enough to spare. On the other hand,
 the boat sailing free, or comparatively free, gives way to the boat sailing
 close, or comparatively close, to the wind, because the former can either luff
 or bear away, as required, without losing much ground, which the latter
 cannot. But in these matters the old boatman is the best guide. Local
 usages vary, and much is always left to discretion ; but it is a wholesome rule
 for little boats to get out of the way of big ones without stopping to argue
 the question of right. Give steamers a very wide berth, especially men-of

                                    SAILING.                                 351
                     IV.—Miscellaneous Rigs of Boats.
   It now only remains for us to describe a few more " rigs." We begin with
   The SLOOP, a name of varied application, but which, applied to a small
boat, means a kind of cutter with fore-sail and main-sail only. The fore-stay
is fixed to the end of a small " standing " {i.e., permament) bowsprit, which
may be lengthened by a movable jib-boom, if it is desired to add a jib. The
rig is a handy one, and a favourite with the Americans, who are good judges.
   The Schooner is a two-masted ves
sel. It is the favourite rig for large
yachts, but it is also good for long nar
row sailing-boats (not that that form of
boat is to be encouraged). Square-top
sail schooners have square sails on the
fore-mast ; they are mostly trading
vessels. " Fore-and-aft schooners " (see
Fig. 18) have main-sail, fore-sail or
"spencer," and fore-stay-sail or jib.
The American practice is now much
adopted, of carrying a gaff top-sail only
on the main-mast, or rather of having                      KlG '*•
no fore-top-sail at all. The fore-stay-sail
is sometimes laced to a boom at the foot, to keep it flat. A small fore-stay
sail with one or more jibs is still common ; but a jib-boom and flying jib can
be added in Fig. 18, if required. In putting about, keep the spencer or fore-sail
a-weather, to pay her head off, and treat the fore-stay-sail as you would the
jib in a cutter. The spencer is boomed out when running before the wind, and
in all respects takes the place of the cutter's fore-sail.
   A Dandy or Yawl is a cutter with a mizzen-mast. The main-sail is
therefore narrower, smaller, and more manageable ; the boom is dispensed
with, and the annoyance of its swinging backwards and forwards thus got
rid of. This is not perhaps the fastest, but it is certainly the handiest, of all
yacht rigs.
   The Sliding-GUNTER is a curious sail fitted to ships' boats, &c, which, for
convenience of " unstepping," require very short masts. Two are usually
carried. The yard or gaff, or rather top-mast— for it is a little of both— slides
up and down the mast by two iron rings; the sail, in fact, is a kind of shoulder-
of-mutton sail attached to a top-mast, which is let down by the run when it is
necessary to strike sail. It is a safe and rather pretty rig, but not common
for pleasure boats, or worth the space its description would occupy.
   The Shoulder-of- Mutton Sail is triangular, with neither gaff nor boom.
It is held to the mast by rings or lacing as far up as the fore-halyards. The
main-halyard is hooked to the peak of the sail, which is very lofty. The fore
sail may be made larger by using a bowsprit, if the boat is stiff enough to bear
much canvas. Brails must be fitted ; the sail can then be furled in an instant
 without lowering it. This rig is simple, cheap, and effective, but the great
height of the mast confines it mainly to smooth waters.
   The famous Bermudan Boats hoist a nearly triangular main-sail, with a
very small yard —not a gaff—at top. They are very wide and deep. The
 mast is close to the bow, and rakes, or leans aft, very much : it is twice the
total length of the boat. There is a bowsprit for the fore-sail, and a jib-boom

35*                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
and jib are added in light winds, together with other extra sails not easily
described. The great proportionate height of mast limits this rig to com
paratively small boats. They are marvellous sailers to windward, and have
been known to sail within one point of the wind.
   A somewhat similar rig js adopted for the Centre-board Boats on the
Thames. These are very broad in proportion to their length, and, for con
venience, draw very little water. To give the requisite steadiness and hold
upon the water when sailing with the wind a-beam, a plate of metal, or wood
shod at the lower edge with metal, is lowered down edgeways through a slit
in the bottom, amidships. The slit is about 3 ft. long, and a kind of well
with the sides only an inch or two apart is built up round it, water-tight, and
carried up level with the gunwale. The water fills the well, but of course does
no harm there. In shallow water, or when running before the wind, the
keel (which makes up in depth what it lacks in length) is hauled up into the
well or "box." The mast is close up to the stem, lofty, and raking (leaning
aft). A kind of cutter's main-sail, small at the top, is the only sail carried,
there being no bowsprit. The keel, or "centre-board," works on a pivot at
the fore-end. The finest boats of this class are built by Burgoine, of Kingston.
                                       hid. 19.
    The Lateen, a beautiful Mediterranean rig, is rather an exotic in this
 country, though it is a favourite pleasure rig on some of the Norfolk rivers.
 A lateen boat should either have two masts with a lateen on each, or a
 lateen and a lug on the mizzen. In Fig. 19 is one of each kind, the former
 sweeping down like a bird before the wind, with its sails boomed out, wing
 fashion, on each side. The boom— which is a great improvement to a lateen
 sail—must be connected with the yard by a joint, and held to the mast by a
 hook or ring, to prevent it from rising. Thus fitted, the sheet alone gives full
 command over it. The yard is generally left standing, and the sail brailed
 up to it. It is reefed along the top or fore-leach, though it would be better to
 reef it below. In the Mediterranean, the sailors climb along the yard to reef
 the sail. The lofty peak requires a wide steady boat, and a short, strong, well-
 stayed mast. The beauty of the lateen depends upon the curve taken by the
 yard when the sail fills with wind. It is not a rough-water rig, but is suited
 to rivers, from its power of going close to the wind and its quickness in putting
 about.

                                      SAILING.                             353
   The Settee is a lateen at top and lug at bottom, or rather a stumpy lug
with a long yard and lofty peak. It is pretty well extinct now.
   Last of all we take the Lug, the parent of all sails. Originally a mere
square piece of canvas suspended from a yard across the boat, it has gradually
edged away to one side until its yard has become something very much like a
gaff, while its "tack," formerly secured to the weather gunwale of the boat,
has at last come to an anchorage at the foot of the mast (see Figs. 19, 20,
and 22). In this form it is a convenient main-sail, and needs no boom. Being
neither laced nor hooped to the mast, it can be let down by the run when a
squall threatens.
   Formerly, when a large portion of the sail hung before the mast, it was
necessary, when putting about, to lower the sail. The tack was shifted from
one gunwale td the other (hence the expressions on the port tack, on the star
board tack, which still hold good with square sails), and the yard re-hung on
        FlG. 20.— A HASTINGS FISHING-BOAT.
the lee side of the mast. Where the practice is still maintained of " dipping
the lug " in going about, it is usual to hang one-third of the yard before the
mast. The halyard being slacked a little, the yard is caught by a man on the
look out for it, and rapidly shifted to the other side of the mast. This is a
smart manceuvre, but it is better dispensed with by keeping the sail always on
the same side, in which case one-fourth instead of one-third of the yard should
hang before the mast. With a tolerably high peak this makes it practically
a fore-and-aft sail.
   Luggers carry one, two, or three masts, according to size and fancy, and
with or without jib or fore-sail—and even top-sails in the larger craft. Fish
ing-boats are nearly always luggers. The case with which the sail can be
lowered makes it a favourite rig with pilots and others who have to run
quickly alongside ships, &c. To attempt to describe all the different kinds
of boats rigged wholly or in part as luggers would be impossible : the great
simplicity of the rigging required, and its rough-and-ready usefulness, make
the lug a favourite with beachmen of all sorts. We can but allude to the
Yarmouth Yawls, and the north-country Cobles : the former long, narrow,
open boats of immense speed, and the latter stumpy boats, with one large
lug and a fore-sail, and distinguished by having no keel aft and a rudder
projecting far below the bottom.
   The tiny canoes on the model of Mr. McGregor's famous " Rob Roy,''
                                                                  23

354                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
which voyaged through half the rivers and not a few of the seas of Europe,
generally carry a miniature lug-sail not much larger than a pocket-handker
chief. They have probably the distinction of setting the smallest sails ever
hoisted.
   A curious and elegant modification of the lug is shown in Fig. 21. The
sail is laced to a light boom, which is held to the mast by a ring. This sail
sets very flat, and is graceful and handy for a river boat, when no fore-sail is
carried.
                             tIG. 21.—A YAKMOUTH YAWL.
                                SWIMMING.
    We need scarcely say that every one ought to know how to swim. There
 is not a man, woman, or child in the kingdom that cannot learn, and ought
 not to learn how to swim. There is no absolute necessity for learning the
 various aquatic tricks which are performed by masters and mistresses of the
 art ; but there is a necessity that all should know how to support themselves
 in the water.
    There is, perhaps, no athletic exercise which is so easily learnt, which is sc
 well adapted to both sexes of all ages, and yet is so little known. There is
 really no art whatever in ordinary swimming—that is to say, in the ability tc
 keep the head above the water, and to propel the body in any given direction.
 Art certainly confers greater grace, gives more endurance, and ensures greater
 speed ; but in the mere support of the body, nothing is needed except confi
 dence, and very little even of that quality.
    As to the value of swimming, it is simply incalculable. How many most

                                SWIMMING.                                   355
precious lives might have been saved had the deceased persons only known
the least rudiments of swimming ! How many families have been thrown
suddenly into grief and distress because the father and bread-winner happened
to fall into a canal or a pond that a swimmer could cross at a single stroke !
How manv parents annually lament the loss of some beloved child, who has
been accidentally drowned by falling into a river, or by stepping into a hole
in the stream in which he is bathing !
   We have seen a fine young lad of sixteen drowned by simply stepping into
a hole not eighteen inches in width and barely seven in depth. Even when
standing at the bottom of the hole, he was tall enough for his nostrils to be
above the surface; but he was so frightened at the sudden slip that he lost his
presence of mind, opened his mouth to call for help, allowed the water to run
down his throat, began to cough, sank beneath the surface, and was swept
away by the tide long before we could descend from the top of the cliffs.
   Since seeing this lamentable accident, we have lost no opportunity of
impressing upon all whom we could influence the absolute necessity for learn
ing to swim—at all events, for learning the rudiments of the art, so that under
similar circumstances they would be able to sustain themselves until help
arrived. We have taught very many pupils to swim, and, although the attain
ment of any bodily exercise is not easily learnt from a book, we will try to
convey, in a few instructions, sufficient information for a beginner to teach
himself.
  Of course the instructions apply equally to both sexes, and I have generally
found that girls learn to swim much faster than boys.
                                                             23 o

356                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   The first care of the intending swimmer is, of course, to find a proper piece
of water in which to learn his first lessons. The very best water that can be
found is that of the sea, on account of its saltness and bitterness, whereby
two great advantages are obtained.
   The first advantage is, that, on account of the salt and other substances
which are dissolved in it, the sea-water is so much heavier than fresh that it
gives more support to the body, and enables the beginner to float much sooner
than he can expect to do in fresh water.
   The other advantage is, that the taste of the sea-water is so nauseous that
the learner takes very good care to keep his lips tightly shut, and so docs not
commit the common error of opening the mouth, which is fatal to all swim
ming, and is sure to dishearten a beginner by letting water get down his
throat and half-choke him.
   As to place, there is nothing better than a sloping sandy shore, where the
tide is not very strong. In some places the tide runs with such force, that if
the beginner is taken off his legs he will be carried away, or, at least, that he
will have great difficulty in regaining his feet.
   We strongly recommend him to walk over the spot at low water, and see
whether there are any stones, sticks, rocks, or holes, and if so, to remove all
the movable impediments and mark the position of the others.
   Take especial care of the holes, for there is nothing so treacherous. A hole
of some six or seven inches in depth and a yard in diameter looks so insigni
ficant when the water is out that few persons would take any notice of it ;
but, when a novice is in the water, these few inches may just make the difference
between safety and death.
   On sandy shores the most fertile source of holes is to be found in large
stones. They sink rather deeply into the sand and form miniature rocks,
round which the water courses as the tides ebb and flow, thus cutting a
channel completely round the stone. Even when the stone is removed, the
hole will remain unfilled throughout several tides.
   The next best place for learning to swim is a river with a fine sandy bed,
clear water, and no weeds. Since that extraordinary river-weed, the anacharis,
has swept throughout our canals and rivers, it is extremely difficult to find a
stream that is free from weeds. However, it will be easy enough to clear a suf
ficient space in which a learner can take his first lessons.
   When such a spot has been found, the next care is to examine the bed of
the river and to remove very carefully everything that might hurt the feet. If
bushes should grow on the banks, look out carefully for broken scraps of
boughs, which fall into the stream, become saturated with water, sink to the
bottom, and become fixed with one of the points upwards.
   If human habitations should be near, beware of broken glass and crockery,
fragments of which are generally flung into the river, and will inflict most
dangerous wounds if trodden on. If the bed of the stream should be in the
least muddy, look out for mussels, which lie imbedded almost to their sharp
edges, that project upwards and cut the feet nearly as badly as broken glass.
   Failing sea and river, a pond or canal is the only resource, and furnishes
the very worst kind of water. The bed of most ponds is studded with all
 kinds of cutting and piercing objects, which are thrown in by careless boys,
and remain where they fell. Then, the bottom is almost invariably muddy,
 and the water is seldom clean. Still, bad as is a pond, it is better than
 nothing, and the intending swimmer may console himself with the reflection

                                  SWIMMING.                                    357
 that he is doing his duty, and with the prospect of swimming in the sea some
time or other.
    Of course the large public baths possess some of the drawbacks of ponds ;
but they have, at all events, the advantage of a regulated depth, a firm bank,
and no mud.
    As the very essence of swimming lies in confidence, it is always better for
the learner to feel secure that he can leave the water whenever he likes.
 Therefore, let him take a light rope of tolerable length, tie one end to some
firm object on the bank, and let the rest of the rope lie in the water.
 " Manilla " is the best kind of rope for this purpose, because it is so light that
 it floats on the surface instead of sinking, as is the case with an ordinary
 hempen rope.
    If there is only sand on the shore, the rope can be moored quite firmly by
 tying it to the middle of a stout stick, burying the stick a foot or so in the
 sand, and filling up the trench. You may pull till you break the rope, but you
 will never pull the stick out of its place. If you are very nervous, tie two
 sticks in the shape of a cross and bury them in like manner.
    The rope need not be a large one, as it will not have to sustain the whole
weight of your body, and it will be found that a cord as thick as. an ordinary
 washing-line will answer every purpose.
    On the side of a stream or pond, tie the rope to a tree, or hammer a staKe
 in the ground. A stake eighteen inches in length, and as thick as an ordinary
broomstick, is quite large enough. Hammer it rather more than two-thirds
into the ground, and let it lean boldly away from the water's edge. The best
way of fixing the rope to it is by the " clove hitch."
    Now, having your rope in your hand, go quietly into the water back-wards,
keeping your face towards the bank. As soon as you are fairly in the water,
duck completely beneath the surface. Be sure that you really do go fairly
under water, for there is nothing more deceptive than the feel of the water to
a novice. He dips his head, as he fancies, at least a foot beneath the surface ;
he feels the water in his nose, he hears it in his ears, and thinks he is almost
at the bottom, when, in reality, the back of his head is quite dry.
    The best way of " ducking " easily is to put the left hand on the back of the
head, hold to the rope with the right hand, and then duck until the left hand
is well under water.
    The learner should next accustom himself to the new element by moving
about as much as possible, walking as far as the rope will allow him, and
jumping up and down so as to learn by experience the buoyancy of the water.
    Perhaps the first day may be occupied by this preliminary process, and on
the second visit the real business may begin.
    In swimming, as in most other pursuits, a good beginning is invaluable.
    Let the learner bestow a little care on the preliminaries, and he will have
no bad habits to unteach himself afterwards. It is quite as easy to learn a
good style at first as a bad style, although the novice may just at the beginning
fancy that he could do better by following his own devices.
   The first great object is to feel a perfect confidence in the sustaining power
of the water, and, according to our ideas, the best method of doing so is by
learning to float on the back.
   We will give a separarate paragraph to this important point.

358                     ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
                          Floating on the Back.
   Take care that the cord is within easy reach, so that it may be grasped in
a moment, should the novice become nervous, as he is rather apt to do just
at first. Take it in both hands, and lay yourself very gently in the water,
arching the spine backwards as much as possible, and keeping the legs and
knees perfectly straight and stiff.
   Now press the head as far back as possibly can be done, and try to force
the back of the head between the shoulder-blades. You can practise this
attitude at home, by lying on two chairs and seeing whether your attitude
corresponds with that which is given in the illustration.
   When you have thus lain in the water you will find that you are almost
entirely upheld by its sustaining power, and that only a very little weight is
sustained by the rope. On reflection you will also discern that the only weight
which pulls on the rope is that of your hands and arms, which are out of water,
and which, therefore, act as dead weight.
   Indeed, you might just as well lay several iron weights of a pound each
upon your body, for the hands and arms arc much heavier than we generally
fancy. Just break an arm or a leg, and you will find out what heavy articles
they are.
   Now let your arms sink gradually into the water, and you will see that
exactly in proportion as they sink, so much weight is taken off the rope ; and
if you have only courage to put them entirely under water, and to loose the
rope, your body will be supported by the water alone.
   These are facts, but we may as well have reasons.
   Bulk for bulk, a human being weighs considerably less than water, i.e., at
the temperature of ordinary sea or river-water. Now, as the lighter substance
will float in the denser, it follows that the human body will float in water.
If a dead body be flung into the water, some part of it will float above the
surface until the lungs get choked up with water, and so the whole body is
much heavier than it ought to be.
   Now, supposing that a living person in a fainting condition, and therefore

                                 SWIMMING.                                    359
unable to struggle, were to fall into the water, some part of the body would
remain above the surface. But as the head, which is one solid mass of brain,
muscle, and bone, is much heavier than water, it follows that the head would
hang down in the water, and the shoulder-blades would appear above the
surface, being buoyed up by the air-filled lungs. The hands and arms, ol
 course, follow their natural inclination, and fall forward, thus turning the
body on its face.
   This, then, is the natural position of a living human being in the water,
provided that he does not attempt to struggle or alter his position. And the
knowledge of this fact is the key to all swimming on scientific principles.
   A considerable part of the body remains above the water, but it is the wrong
part, as far as the preservation of life is concerned. We want to breathe, and
it is very clear that we cannot breathe through our shoulders. Therefore
the first point in swimming is to reverse the natural order of things, and to
bring the nostrils above the surface of the water.
   The mouth may be set aside altogether, because there is no necessity for
that aperture in swimming. It is meant for eating and for talking, but was
never intended for breathing, which is the only function that a swimmer
regards.
   Swimming, therefore, resolves itself into the ability to keep the nostrils
above water ; and the difficulty lies in the fact that the nostrils are set in the
heaviest part of the whole body, and that which is absolutely certain to sink
below the surface unless continual efforts are made to keep it in its right
position.
   On looking at the illustration, it is evident that the simplest method of
attaining this object is to reverse the entire position of the body. Let, there
fore, the learner be on his back, let him arch the spine in directly the opposite
direction, and bend the head backwards instead of letting it hang forwards.
   The result of this change of posture will be at once apparent. The heaviest
part of the body, the back of the head, will be partly supported by the water,
and partly by the air which fills the lungs. . The nostrils will then become the
lightest part of the body, and will, of course, be above the surface when the
remainder is submerged.
   Practically, the bather will find this result. If he will assume the attitude
which has been described, and will be content to keep his lips tightly shut
and his limbs perfectly still, he will find that when he takes an inspiration
the face will rise almost entirely out of the water. At each expiration the face
will sink as far as the eyebrows and lower lip, but no farther, the nostrils
being always left free for the passage of air to the lungs.
   Any one who will give this plan a fair trial will gain more real knowledge
of swimming in an hour than can be obtained in a year by mere practical
teaching. So powerful, indeed, is the buoyancy of the water, that if any one,
whether he can swim or not, will only lie in the attitude that has been described
and will not stir hand or foot, he cannot sink if he tries. A cork will sink as
soon as he.
   So impressed are we with the extreme value of floating on the back, that we
recommend our readers to practise that and that alone until they feel perfectly
confident that, when they lie in the proper attitude, the water cannot fail to
support them.
   If the bather wishes to lie quite horizontally on the surface of the water, he
can do so by stretching his arms as far as possible over his head. Their weight

  360                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
 will counterbalance that of the legs, and will cause the toes to appear at the
 very surface. This position is sometimes called the Balance.
     The directions which we have given are intended for those who are obliged
 to bathe in fresh water. Those who are fortunate enough to bathe in the sea
  will find the lesson much easier. The water supports the body so much more
 perfectly that even during an expiration the face seldom sinks lower than the
 chin, while a fair inspiration raises the whole face out of the water.
                             Swimming on the Back.
     The next division of our subject will be swimming on the back.
     The power of floating on the back is invaluable to the beginner, but he soon
 begins to acquire something more. It is very well to be able to float like a
 cork, but a swimmer wants to direct his course as well as to float like an
  inanimate object.
     When the learner has learned to lie on his back without moving hands or
 feet, let him gently paddle with his hands, keeping the fingers together firmly,
 and scooping the water, as it were, towards his feet.
     He must be careful to keep the hands below the surface, and the head well
 back. Most persons, when beginning this movement, are tempted to raise
 the head so as to see whether they are moving, or, if so, in which direction.
 Consequently, the water no longer supports his head, its weight is thrown on
 the body, and down goes the swimmer.
    When the learner can propel himself at a moderate pace head first, he
 should turn his hands round and scoop the water towards his head, thus
 propelling himself with his feet first. It will be found that the course can
 easily be directed merely by using one hand rather more forcibly than the
 other.
    Having learnt this simple paddling process, the young swimmer now begins
 to use his legs.
    It is possible to paddle for a considerable distance by using the hands alone,
and there are sometimes circumstances when this process is invaluable. If,
for example, the swimmer should be seized with the cramp in his legs, he is
certain to be drowned if he does not have recourse to this expedient. Of the
cramp and other dangers we shall write presently.
    Still, although the swimmer can propel himself, it is a very slow process,
and he naturally would wish to get on at a faster rate. This is done by striking
out the legs, with the feet wide apart, and then bringing them together again.
    These directions are simple enough ; but something more must be men
tioned. People generally fancy that the progress of the swimmer is only
caused by the pressure of the soles of the feet against the water, and the
usual opinion is that the fastest swimmer is he who has the broadest and
the flattest feet. Of course, the pressure of the feet has something to do with
it, but the chief part of the work is done, not by the feet, but by the legs.
    When the legs are spread, they enclose between them a mass of water of a
wedge-like shape, and, as they are drawn together, the body is propelled for
wards on exactly the same principle that a vessel is propelled by a screw. In
fact, the principle of the inclined plane comes into operation, and the swimmer
urges his way onwards just as the sails of a windmill arc driven round by the
air, or the fan of a smoke-jack is turned by the ascending currents of the
chimney, and as a fish shoots through the water by the vibration of its tail.

                                  SWIMMING.                                   361
    Any one who wishes to see in action the real principle of swimming, cannot
 do better than go to the Zoological Gardens and look at the seals as they glide
 so swiftly and gracefully through the water. There is no direct action at all,
 no scooping of the water with the fore-paws, which are kept closely pressed
 against their sides. But the two hinder paws are pressed tightly together, and
 moved backwards and forwards with a steady sweep, this alternate action
 giving precisely the same sort of wedge, or inclined plane, that is formed by
 the simultaneous action of a man's legs while swimming on his back.
     Man, however, when he really can swim well, exhibits this principle very
 clearly. When a good swimmer is lying on his back and propelling himself
 as fast as he can, he always gives a kind of half turn to the body, so as to
 obtain a screw-like action of the legs, thus increasing his speed without
 increasing the force of his stroke.
    Steering the course is easily managed by means of the legs. If the left leg
is allowed to remain still, and the right leg is used, the body is driven to the
 left, and vice versd when the left leg is used and the right kept quiet. The
 young swimmer must remember that when he brings his legs together they
 must be kept quite straight and the knees stiff. The toe should also be
 pointed, so as to offer no resistance to the water.
    Swimming on the back is a most useful branch of the art, as it requires
 comparatively little exertion, and serves to rest the arms when they are tired
 with the ordinary mode of swimming. All swimmers who have to traverse a
considerable distance always turn occasionally on the back. They even in
this position allow the arms to lie by the sides until they are completely rested,
while at the same time the body is gently sent through the water by the legs.
    Let swimming on the back be perfectly learnt, and practised continually, so
that the young swimmer may always feel secure of himself when he is in that
position.
    The feet should be kept about twelve or fourteen inches below the surface
of the water, as, if they are kept too high, the stroke is apt to drive the upper
part of the head and eyes under the water.
    It must always be remarked that it is impossible to arch the spine too much,
or to press the head too far between the shoulders.
                           Swimming on the Chest.
    We now come to swimming on the chest, which is the mode adopted by
most persons, and which, together with swimming on the back, will enable the
learner to perform almost any aquatic feat.
    In order to begin with confidence, walk into the water until it is almost as
high as the chest, and then turn towards the land, so that every movement
may carry you from the deeper to the shallower water. Next place your hands
in front of the chest, the fingers stiff and pressed together, and the thumb
held tightly against the forefinger. Do not press the palms together, as too
many books enjoin, but hold the hands with the thumbs together, the palms
downwards and the backs upwards.
    Now lean gently forward in the water, pushing your hands out before you
until the arms are quite straight, and just before your feet leave the bottom
give a little push forwards. You will now propel yourself a foot or two towards
the land. Try how long you can float, and then gently drop the feet to the
ground. Be careful to keep the head well back and the spine arched.

362                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   Repeat this seven or eight times, until you have gained confidence that the
water will support you for a few seconds. The accompanying illustration
shows the proper attitude.
   Now go back to the spot whence you started, and try to make a stroke.
Lay yourself on the water as before, but when the feet leave the bottom draw
them up close to the body, and then kick them out quickly. When they have
reached their full extent, press them together firmly, keeping them quite
straight and the toes pointed.
   This movement will drive you onwards for a short distance, and when you
feel that you are likely to sink, drop the feet as before. Start again and make
another stroke, and so on until the water is too shallow.
   At first you will hardly gain more than an inch or two at each stroke ; but
after a little practice you will gain more and more until you can advance three
or four feet without putting the legs to the ground. It is a good plan to start
always from the same spot, and to try in how few strokes you can reach the
land. There is a great interest in having some definite object in view, and
one gets quite excited in trying to reduce the number of strokes.
   The action of the legs may be seen in the illustration.
    The next point is the movement of the arms.
    In reality the arms are more valuable in swimming than the legs, and for
 this simple reason : any one who has the use of his limbs at all is obliged to
 use his legs daily, and that to a considerable extent. However sedentary he
 may be, he must walk up and downstairs twice at least in the day. He must
 walk from one room to another. He must get into and out of his carriage,
 and walk a few paces to his office. And in all these little walks his legs have
 to carry the weight of his body, which, to set it at the least figure, weighs from
 seventy to ninety pounds.
    The legs, therefore, are strengthened and hardened by continual practice;
 but the arms have scarcely anything to do. They hang quietly by the side,
 they rest on the knee or on the table, and their average work is comprised in
 turning over the leaves of books or wielding a pen. They are unaccustomed
 to hard work of any kind, and therefore fail as soon as they are put to severe
 and novel labour. They soon become tired, the muscles refuse to obey the

                                 SWIMMING.                                  363
orders of the mind, and in a few hours the arms are so stiff that they can
hardly be used at all.
   In a swimming match of any length, we should always look at the arms of
the competitors rather than the legs, and we would invariably select as out
favourite the man with the broadest and deepest chest and the most wiry
arms.
   Now for the use of the arms.
   Place yourself with your face to the shore, as already directed, and make
the stroke according to the regulations.
   But, just before the force of the leg-stroke is exhausted, spread the arms as
widely as possible, turn the palms of the hands a little outwards, and bring
them towards the hips with a steady, regular sweep.
   This movement will have two effects. It will support the body, and it will
continue the propulsive force which was just given by the legs.
   Be very careful not to hurry this stroke, and especially not to shorten it.
Beginners generally make six or seven little strokes, keeping their arms bent
during the whole time; but in correct swimming the arms should be sent
forward to their utmost length, and the hands brought to the hips in a slow,
uniform sweep.
   Let this be practised over and over again, until it is perfectly learnt.
   Even at home and on dry land it can be practised with tolerable success, by
lying on a chair in front of a large mirror, and making the stroke repeatedly
until it looks quite exact. About eighteen or nineteen strokes to the minute is
quite fast enough for all ordinary purposes. In a short race of a hundred
yards or so the quickness is, of course, increased ; but if we were to swim a
 race of one or two miles, we should be content with eighteen, or at the most
twenty, strokes per minute. In ordinary swimming sixteen is our usual ave
rage. Still, we cover so much water at each stroke, that in the long run we
come in far ahead of more showy swimmers, who wear themselves out in the
first half-mile, and then are caught and passed with ease.
   A COMMON Fault.—When swimming on the chest, take particular care to
avoid an error into which the beginner almost invariably falls.
   Being extremely anxious to keep the nostrils well above the surface of the
water, the swimmer is apt to press downwards his hands, so as to raise his
head and neck, and often part of the chest, completely out of the water.
   Now, it is scarcely possible to make a worse mistake than this. By so doing
 the swimmer actually supports a considerable weight in the air, and might
just as well hang some four or five pounds' weight of lead round his neck. In
 the second place, he tires his arms most needlessly by forcing them to perform
 a totally unnecessary action. They will have quite enough work to do in
making the ordinary stroke, without adding to them the labour of supporting
 the head above water.
   The very principle on which all swimming is founded is that of making the
 water support the body, and, therefore, of supporting every part of the body
 by the water. If even a finger be lifted above the surface, the unsupported
 weight of that finger tends to press the body under water. A showy or " high "
 swimmer may look very well to an inexperienced eye, and may take the fancy
 like those lofty-actioned trotting horses, which are so appropriately called
 "flat-catchers."
    But there is no endurance about either one or the other ; and it may be
 assumed as a self-evident fact that if two persons of equal strength enter in a

 364                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
 match of any athletic exercise, and that one uses exertions which the other
 does not employ, the former will be tired sooner than the latter.
    So our advice to our readers is : first practise the stroke quietly and repeat
 edly, putting down the feet after each stroke is completed ; then try to manage
 two strokes without putting the feet to the ground ; then try three strokes, and
 so on, until you can make some four or five strokes without distressing your
 self.
     Having achieved thus much, make your mind easy : you have conquered
 the art of swimming. If you can make five strokes, you can make fifty,
 provided that you do not hurry them.
    Should you feel yourself getting tired, or if a feeling of nervousness should
 come over you, the remedy is easy enough. Turn on your back, and paddle
 along quietly until your arms are rested. Then turn over and proceed on your
 course. So important is this one rule that we repeat it again : DO NOT HURRY
 YOUR STROKE. It is hardly possible for the learner to be too slow.
    In connection with the ordinary breast-stroke we must mention one very
 important point, namely, the manner of taking breath. If the swimmer lies,
 as he should lie, as low as possible in the water, he will find that at each stroke
 the water reaches to his lips, and will sometimes curl even over his nostrils.
    If, therefore, he were to take an inspiration while he is making the stroke,
 he would immediately draw some water into his lungs, and the only result
 would be that he would begin to choke and to cough, and would probably
 sink.
    But if he makes a habit of expelling the air from his lungs as he makes the
 stroke, he need fear no danger of the kind, for the expelled air will drive away
 the water, and even if his nostrils should be covered, they would not take in one
slight drop. It naturally follows that the proper time to take breath is while
the arms are just beginning to make the stroke, and when the force of the leg-
 stroke is almost expended.
    Whilst we are on this point, we will just mention two cases in which it is
extremely difficult to manage the breath. One is when the swimmer is bathing
in the sea, and when the wind has suddenly chopped round, so as to knock up
 a cross sea.
    We know nothing so worrying as a cross sea. There is no possibility of
calculating upon it. All seems to be going on right, there is a nice smooth
piece of water which seems as if it would last at least three strokes ; suddenly,
up starts a watery hillock from the smooth green surface, its top becomes
whitened with foam like the neck of a champagne bottle, and the wind picks
off the foam and dashes it in the swimmer's face, stinging him as if every drop
of water were a birch twig.
    Then, just as the bather has revived from the sudden blows, and is trying
to get a quiet breath, one of the regular waves comes rolling up, dashes in a
solid mass over his head, and entirely disconcerts his projects.
   We have swum in many a sea both when the surface was as smooth as a
mirror, and when it was rolling in huge mountain masses. But we never felt
nervous about ourselves except on one occasion, when a nasty rough cross sea
was knocked up by a sudden change of wind. It was the first time we had
experienced a cross sea, and we did not like it—realizing, indeed, for the first
time, and we hope the last time, in our lives, that water was an element that
might be dreaded.
   Now we know better, and care very little for a cross sea. Under such cir-

                                 SWIMMING.                                  365
 cumstances we only use one hand at a time, and whenever we wish to take a
 breath, we hollow the other hand and place it over the nostrils. Quite enough
 air can be drawn between the fingers ; but the water can make no entrance.
 Of course, this is rather an awkward-looking method of swimming, but when
 we want air we care very little about looks.
    The second case is when the swimmer is descending a fresh-water rapid.
 Many a young man has been drowned by a rapid, when in reality he might
 have passed through the rushing waters without the least difficulty. We have
 often swum down rapids and cared nothing for them.
    The novice is apt to lose his head at the rapidity with which he is whirled
 along, and at the great foam masses that leap over and about him. He
 should not, however, allow fear to enter his mind, for in ninety-nine cases out
 of a hundred it is fear that drowns the man.
    Nothing is easier than going down a rapid. Do not try to swim at all, and
 never make a stroke unless you wish to alter your course; but keep one hand
 over the nostrils, as above mentioned, and with the other and the feet keep
 beating the water, so as to raise yourself as high as you can out of it. Keep
 your legs as high as is consistent with holding the head well out of water, so
 as to avoid the chance of being caught in one of the whirlpools which arc
 mightily prevalent in rapids, and which pull the swimmer under water as
 quickly as if his feet were tied to a weighted rope.
                               The Side-Stroke.
   We now come to that particular stroke which, in our opinion, and in that
 of most professional swimmers, is by far the most valuable.
   This is the celebrated side-stroke, so called because the swimmer lies on
his side.
   There is no stroke that enables the swimmer to last so long as this does,
and for this reason : instead of employing both arms and legs simultaneously
in the same manner, the side-stroke employs them simultaneously but in dif
ferent manners ; so that when the swimmer is tired of exercising one side he
can just turn over and proceed with the other, the change of action resting
the limbs almost as much as actual repose would do. Mr. Beckwith, the ex-

366                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
champion of England, who held the belt for so many years, always employed
the side-stroke when swimming his matches, and the present champion follows
his example. Indeed, out of all the professionals, there is now scarcely one
in twenty who adopts the old-fashioned breast-stroke.
   The side-stroke is thus managed : the swimmer lies on his right side, stretch
 ing his right arm out as far as he can reach, keeping the fingers of the right
hand quite straight and the hand itself held edgewise, so as to cut the water
like a shark's fin. The left hand is placed across the chest, with the back
against the right breast, and the swimmer is then ready to begin.
   He commences by making the usual stroke with his legs, and the right leg,
being undermost, doing the greater share of the work. Before the impetus
gained by the stroke is quite expended, the right arm is brought round with a
broad sweep, until the palm of the hand almost touches the right thigh. At
the same moment, the left hand makes a similar sweep, but is carried back
wards as far as it can go.
   The reader will see that the hands act directly upon the water like the blades
of a pair of oars, and do not waste any of their power by oblique action.
   In ordinary swimming we seldom use the left arm, but allow it to hang quietly
in the water, so that it may be perfectly ready for work when wanted. Then,
after some little time, we turn -ound, swim on the other side, and give the left
arm its fair share of labour.
   There is a modification of swimming on the side, which is sometimes called
thrusting, and sometimes the Indian STROKE, because the North American
 Indians generally employ it.
   These terms are rather vaguely employed, but the former is generally used
when the swimmer thrusts his arm forward, and the latter when he swings it.
   In performing this stroke the swimmer starts upon his right side, and sweeps
his right hand through the water as above mentioned. While that arm is
Cassing through the water, the left arm is swung just above the surface with a
  old sweep, the hand dipping into the water when the arm is stretched to its
utmost. This movement brings the body over to the left side, when the two
hands change duties, the left being swept under the body while the right is
swung forward.
   This is rather a showy style of swimming, but we do not think very much
of it. It certainly propels the swimmer with great rapidity for a time, but it
requires so much exertion that he is sure to tire before very long. We recol
lect seeing a race for a silver cup, in which the merits and defects of this stroke
were well shown. The swimmer shot ahead of all his competitors with ease,
and if the course had been a short one he would quickly have won.
   But the course was a tolerably long one, and the consequence was that when
he had traversed almost half the distance his exertions began to tell on him,
and his strokes got rather wild and irregular. Before very long some of the
steadier swimmers began to creep up to him, and before two-thirds of the
distance was traversed he was passed by two of them. The result of the race
was, although he was well ahead half-way, he did not even get a place at the
finish.
                           Variations in Swimming.
   We now come to a few of the most useful variations in ordinary swimming.
   The first of these is the stroke which is called Treading Water. This
is employed when the swimmer wishes to raise his head as high out of the

                                  SWIMMINGt                                    367
water as possible, and is particularly useful if he is reconnoitring, or if he is
trying to save a drowning person, or if he wishes to grasp a bough or a rope
above his head. The illustration shows the attitude that is assumed, and the
best method of making the stroke is as follows : Keep the body perpendicular,
and make precisely the same stroke with the legs as is done in ordinary swim
ming. This action will keep the head freely out of the water, and if assisted
by the hands the body will rise as far as the shoulders.
   Some persons literally " tread " the water, striking each foot alternately as if
they were ascending a staircase. We have thoroughly tried both methods, and
much prefer the former.
                             SWIMMING LIKE A DOG.
   The name of this method explains itself. The swimmer lies on his chest,
and moves his hands and legs alternately, exactly as a dog does when swim
ming.
   The chief use of this stroke is that it affords a change of action to the
muscles, and if the swimmer has to traverse any considerable distance, say a
mile or two, he will find that a few occasional minutes employed in swimming
like a dog will be very useful in relieving the strain on the muscles of both
legs and arms.
    Having become tolerably expert at these exercises, the young swimmer
should now learn to support and propel himself, first without his hands, and
next without his legs.
   He should therefore place the hands along the sides of the body, sink the
legs much deeper than in ordinary swimming, and make a succession of strokes
with the legs. These strokes should be much shorter and quicker than are
used when the hands are at liberty.
    Next suppose that the hands are tied at the wrists, and that the swimmer
is a manacled captive trying to escape across a moat. Press the hands tightly
together, with the fingers close to each other, and the whole hand made as flat
as possible. Turn slightly on the left side, making the ordinary stroke with
the legs, and bring the hands towards the left hip with a quick sweep, taking
care to part them from it as soon as the stroke is made.
   Then try to swim without the legs. Allow the feet to hang as low as they
like, keep the head well back, and make the ordinary stroke with the hands.
But, instead of merely bringing them back, press them down at every stroke,
so as to lift the chin well out of the water. This is a very slow business, but
still it should be practised, as the swimmer may happen to disable his legs, and
ought to know how to manage without them.
   Lastly, he should learn to swim when both hands and feet are tied together.
This feat is a very superior one, and always elicits much applause from spec
tators, being what is technically named a "gallery" stroke. Yet it is really
very easy, and can be performed by any one who has practised the two former
exercises.
   Hold the hands together, as already mentioned, and press the feet together
at the ankles. Then give short, sharp strokes, the hands and feet working
nearly but not quite simultaneously.
   If you are performing this feat before spectators, add to the effect by tying
the hands and feet with handkerchiefs. Swimming is not made more difficult
by the ligatures, while the appearance of difficulty is very much increased.

368                        ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
                                       Diving.
   Having now tolerably mastered the surface of the water, the learner must
proceed to explore its depth. It is, of course, a great thing to be able to sup
port the body in the water ; but the swimmer's education is only half completed
until he knows how to dive. Many lives have been saved by the ability to
dive ; many have been lost from its absence.
   Many a man has saved his own life when escaping from enemies by diving
and swimming under water to some place of refuge, or by passing along out
of sight of his enemies, merely allowing his nostrils to appear above the sur
face at intervals. Many a man —and woman too— has saved the life of another
by diving after the sunken body and bringing it to the surface before life was
extinct. Therefore, our counsel is that the young swimmer learn to dive
without delay.
   The first object is to keep the eyes open while under water. In order to do
this, sink yourself well under the surface, hold your hand before your face,
and try to look at it. Don't be afraid of water getting into the eyes. A chance
drop of fresh water flirted into the eyes will make them smart, but you may
keep your eyes open even in salt water as long as you like without the least
irritation.
   Some persons recommend that the first experiment be made with a basin of
water, in which the head is to be plunged. We specially recommend that this
should not be done, and that the first experiment should be made while
bathing.
   When the young swimmer has learnt that he really can keep his eyes open
under water, he should drop to the bed of the sea or river, where it is about
four feet in depth, some white object—one of the well-known alabaster eggs
used for deluding sitting hens is as good an object as can be found. Still, a
lump of chalk, a thick gallipot, or anything of a like nature, will do very well.
   Now try to stoop and lift the egg, and you will find two results. The first
is that the egg will look as large as a hat, and the second is that you will find
very great difficulty in getting to it.
   Now try another way of getting to the egg. Drop it as before, spring up as
high as the waist, bend your body well forward, throw the feet in the air, and
try to reach the egg, head foremost. At first you will find this rather difficult,
but after a little practice it will come easy enough. Be careful to stand at
some little distance from the egg, or you will overshoot it.
   Next drop the egg, go back some eight or ten yards, swim towards the object,
and dive for the egg from the swimming posture. This is not very easy at first
on account of the difficulty in getting the chest below the surface. If, however,
the legs are thrown well up in the air, the weight forces the body under water.
   The next object is to try how far the swimmer can proceed under water.
   Swimming under water is managed in nearly the same manner as swimming
on the surface. But, in order to counteract the continual tendency upwards,
the swimmer must always keep his feet considerably higher than his head, so
that each stroke serves to send him downwards as well as forwards.
   One of the chief difficulties in diving is to keep a straight course, because
there is seldom anything under water by which to steer. In a river, when the
water is clear, it is generally easy to look upwards and watch the trees, posts,
or other objects on the banks ; but in the sea it is a very different business,

                                   SWIMMING.                                   369
 and the swimmer must have learnt to make his stroke with great regularity
 before he can dive in a straight line.
     It is hardly possible to give too much time to diving. The learner should
 first take nothing but easy diving, such as have been mentioned, and then try
 to achieve more difficult feats. He should learn to dive at a considerable
 distance from any object, swim towards it by guess, and try to bring it to the
 surface. He should throw two, three, or more eggs into the water, and try
 how many he can recover at a single dive. When he has attained a sufficient
 mastery over the water, he should stand on the bank, or in a boat, throw an
 egg into the water, dive after it and catch it before it reaches the bottom.
    This is a favourite feat of ours, and when we were yet in the jacketed state
 of humanity, we used to secure many a penny and occasional sixpences by
 thus diving after them, the copper coins being wrapped in white paper to make
 them more visible. Sixpences were easy enough to see, but not so easy to
 catch, because their flat form and light weight made them move backwards
 and forwards instead of descending steadily through the water.
                                    THE HEADER.
    Now the young swimmer must learn how to enter the water in a proper and
 graceful manner. It is as easy to enter the water gracefully as clumsily, and
 only requires a little care at first.
    Most beginners are dreadfully alarmed when they are told to jump into the
 water first. They cannot rid themselves of the instinctive idea that their heads
 will be dashed to pieces. Consequently, when they try the " header," they only
 come flat on the water with a flop and a great splash, and hurt themselves
 considerably, the blow against the water having almost as stinging an effect
 as a stroke from a birch rod.
    Therefore, let not the beginner try too much at first. He should go to the
 bank of a river where the water is only a few inches below him, and there
make his first attempt at a header. He should stoop down until he is nearly
double, put his hands together over his head, lean over until they nearly touch
the surface, and so quietly glide, rather than fall, into the water. At first he
will be sure to lose the proper attitude, but in a little time he will manage
without difficulty. This should be done over and over again, and each time
from an increased height.
   Next, the learner should take a short run, and leap head first into the water
from the place where he took his first lesson at plunging, so that the water is
no great distance from him.
   He should then remain quite stiff, straight, and still, and see how far his
impetus will carry him. This is technically termed " shooting." At last he
should accustom himself to leap from a considerable height, say from ten to
twenty feet, and to do so either running or standing.
   It is our firm belief that when the young swimmer has once ventured to
jump from a height of ten feet, he will not be in the least alarmed at thirty or
forty feet. At first there is a curious sensation as if all the internal machinery
of the body were left in the air ; but the feeling very soon goes off, and the
diver quite enjoys the rapid rush through the air. The oddest thing is that
he does not seem to be falling, but the water appears to rise up and meet
him.
   Also he should practise leaping into the water at a distance from the bank,
                                                                      21

  370                     ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
 and also should try to leap over obstacles, such as reeds, branches, or similar
 obstructions. Very good practice may be gained by fixing a couple of upright
 sticks in the ground close to the bank, tying a string across them, and going
 head foremost over it. Of course, the string should be set low at first, and
 its height increased by degrees. The height over which an experienced person
 can leap is really astonishing. The great difficulty is to avoid catching the
 string with the knee, and this brings us to an axiom in all diving from a
 height.
    Keep the body, arms, and legs perfectly stiff, and all in the
 same right line.
    Any one who will do this can leap from extraordinary heights without the
 least fear of danger. The hands, joined over the head, form a kind of wedge,
 which cuts its way into the water and opens a passage into which the body
 passes. The head is so bent over the chest, that even the slight shock which
 ensues when the water is reached only affects the crown of the head, which is
the part which is best able to bear it.
    Those who wish to see the attitude of the body in perfection, cannot do better
than watch the ex-champion of England, Mr. Beckwith, while performing his
well-known series of aquatic feats. As he passes through the air from the
elevated leaping-board, his body and limbs become as straight as a dart, and
as stiff as if he were a statue carved out of wood.
   When he reaches the water there is not the least alteration of attitude, and
he shoots through the water like a fish, traversing a wonderful space by the
impetus of a single spring.
   In jumping out of a boat, the best way is to go to the stem and leap over,
as there is more resistance to the feet than is obtained by leaping over the
side ; and in getting into the boat again always come to the stem, never to the
side. Swim towards the boat with the feet high. Grasp the stem in both
hands and kick the feet on the surface of the water, so as to keep them up ;
otherwise, the legs will be sucked under the boat
   Then give a vigorous kick with the feet and a spring with the hands, and
you will be lying on your breast over the stem, and to crawl fairly into the
boat is then easy enough.
   We have bathed from a boat in rivers, lakes, and the sea, in calm and rough
weather ; also we are not inexperienced in the lore of the gymnasium, and can
make the best use of both arms and legs ; yet we do not like getting into an
ordinary boat after a swim. It is at the best a worrying process, and is a kind
of incubus on the mind, destroying greatly the pleasure of the swim. There
fore, we always like to have a short ladder, of four steps, hung over the stern by
hooks and staples, and having a couple of iron braces, which make it project at
an angle from the boat, and allow the bather to get on board without the danger
to his shins which is usually caused by a perpendicular or a loose ladder.
   If, however, there should be no ladder, we employ another plan.
   We take an oar, or, in preference, a boat-hook, and pass it under the after-
thwart, so that it projects well over the stem. This can be grasped by the
hand, and is of wonderful assistance in getting into the boat.
                       Miscellaneous Instructions.
   In this, the concluding section, we give our readers some instructions which
will be found of great practical use.

                                 SWIMMING.                                   371
   In the first place, practise every possible method of keeping afloat under
disadvantageous circumstances, so that, if any accident should happen, you
may always know instinctively what to do, and may do it without having to
think about it.
   In the first place, when a boat is upset, or when an accidental fall into the
water takes place, the clothes are always found to be a serious impediment.
It is true that they are partly supported by the water ; but they are always
heavy and most troublesome to the wearer, especially the coat and boots.
   So, take an old and worn-out suit to the water-side, put them on when you
•enter the water, and try how long you can swim in them. There is no great
difficulty in swimming a short distance when thus encumbered ; but for a long
distance they are almost unbearable.
   Practise, therefore, to take them off while in the water. First take off the
coat, by treading water, and releasing one arm at a time. Fling the coat well
away, so as to be clear of it, and then set to work at the boots.
   These are very troublesome articles of apparel to remove. Lie on the back,
bend the right leg, get the foot in front, and with one hand losen all laces or
buttons. Then, with the heel of the other foot, get the boot half off, but no
more. Go through the same process with the left foot, and you will find that
both boots can be taken off without much difficulty.
   If the trousers are heavy remove them also. This is done by lying on the
back and giving little short strokes with the feet, while the hands are employed
in unfastening the buttons and slipping the garment as low as the knees. Then
paddle with the hands, giving a shake every now and then with the feet, and
the trousers will generally slip off of their own accord. If they do not, a hand
judiciously employed will soon complete the operation.
   We will now mention that terrible swimmer's bane, the Cramp. Perhaps
 more good swimmers have been drowned by cramp than by anything else, and
only those who have suffered from it can conceive its fatal power. Strong
men and good swimmers, when seized with the cramp, have been known to
sink instantly, overcome with the sudden pain; and nothing can save the
victim but the greatest presence of mind.
   The usual spot where the cramp is felt is the calf of the leg, just below the
knee ; and it sometimes comes with such violence that the muscles are gathered
up into knots.
   There is only one method of proceeding under such circumstances. Turn
on the back at once, kick out the leg in the air, disregarding the pain, and rub
the spot smartly with one hand, while the other is employed in paddling
towards shore. Draw the toes forcibly upwards towards the knee.
   These directions are easy enough to give, but most difficult to be obeyed :
¦cramp seems to deprive the sufferer of all reason for the time, and to over
 power him with mingled pain and terror. Still there is no other hope of
reaching shore than that which is here given.
   The causes of cramp are generally twofold. The principal cause lies in
 indigestion, for it is seldom that a person in really good health is attacked by
this malady. The second reason is over-exertion of muscles that have been
little used, and therefore too strong a leg-stroke should always be avoided
   Another thing which demands great practice is the method of saving a
drowning person. The chief difficulty lies in the fact that a person who can
 not swim feels, in deep water, much as if he were falling through air, and
consequently clutches instinctively at the nearest object. And if he succeeds
                                                                2t—2

372                         ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
in fixing a grasp upon the person who is trying to save him, both will probably
sink together.
    Therefore, every precaution should be taken to prevent such a misfortune,
and the drowning man should always be seized from behind, and pushed as
it were in front. Should he succeed in fixing his grasp, the only remedy is to
dive, when it will be found that he will loosen his hold on finding himself below
the surface, and will allow his rescuer to take a better position. We used to-
practise this art, each in turn enacting the part of a drowning person, and
trying to grasp our companion, who was trying to bring us ashore. It was
capital practice, and one that is much to be recommended.
                    SKATING AND                  SLIDING.
    There is none of the athletic sports which is so difficult to leam from books-
as is Skating ; and all that can be reasonably expected from a book is that
instructions shall be given in the position of the feet, the carrying of the body,
and the avoiding of faults which often mar the appearance of an otherwise
good skater.
    In the first place, let the skates be exactly the length of the foot, neither
more nor less, and rounded (not turned up) at both ends. By far the best
skates are those which are permanently affixed to the boots ; but as this plan
sacrifices a pair of boots for the amusement of only a few days in each year,
and is moreover a very costly one, the beginner had better procure a pair that
can be put on and removed at will.
    The mode of fastening the skates should be well considered. Avoid those
which have the strap crossing over the instep, and choose those which have a
very broad strap just over the toes, and one to hold up the skate at the heel.
Pegs or screws at the heel are matters of choice.
    When you are about to start for the ice, fit the skates carefully to your boots,
and with a small gimlet bore a hole in each heel for the reception of the screw.
This will save you much time and trouble at the ice's edge, as you will then
only have to clean out the hole, instead of going through the process of boring
the hole with half-frozen fingers.
    Having got the holes so that the irons are exactly in a line with the centre
of the boot, put the pegs or screws into the hole, and press the foot down
sharply, so as to drive the three little front spikes well into the sole. Then
buckle the straps moderately, but not very, tight, and you are ready for your
 first essay.
    If you have a friend who can skate, get him to take you into the middle of
the ice. The best way is to place both feet together, and get him to push you
gently along without your attempting to move either foot. This will also give
you confidence in the supporting power of your skates. Should you feel your
self falling, do not attempt to save yourself, but drop down gently. Struggling
is quite useless, and it is much better to sink down gently without a struggle
than to fall heavily in consequence of it.
    The best plan that can now be pursued is, that you should be left alone in
the midst of the ice, and get on as you best can without the aid of an arm or
even a chair.

                       SKATING AND SLIDING.                                      373.
    Begin by putting out of your mind the notion of walking. Skaters place
their feet flat on the ice, so as to slide along it, but do not rise on the toe as
 if they were walking.
    The best way to learn to advance on skates is as follows : stand as if in
the "third position" in dancing, as in diagram, Fig. I, but with the heel of
the right foot a few inches away from the hollow of the left. Then, with the
edge of the left foot press against the ice, so as to push the right forward.
Bring up the left foot parallel with the right and slide along until the im
petus is exhausted. Do this with both feet alternately for some little time, and
you will then begin to " feel your skates," as the saying is.
    After you have practised these movements for some time, gradually in
creasing the length of each stroke, you will begin to find yourself skating on
the "inside edge," a movement to which nine out of ten skaters restrict
themselves. It is, however, an ungraceful plan and is of little use, except in
racing, and, moreover, tires the ankle sooner than the " outside edge " skating,
which is the only mode worth practising.
    The mode of learning this is very simple. Put a stone or stick on the ice,
to act as a centre for the circle which you are about to describe.
    Now stand about three or four yards from the stone, with your right side
towards it, and your head looking over your right shoulder at the stone. Press
the outside edge of your right skate as firmly as you can into the ice, and with
your left skate propel yourself round the stone, leaning as much inwards as
you can.
   After a short time you will be able to lift the left foot off the ice for a short

374                         ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
time, and as soon as you can do this, try how long you can keep the left foot
in the air. Practise these movements with both feet alternately until you feel
that you can confidently trust yourself to the outside edge.
   As soon as you are firm on the edge, try to describe a complete circle, taking
care to keep the right knee quite straight and the left foot the least particle in
advance of the right (see Fig. 2.) When you can get completely round on
either foot, combine the two circles, as in the figure, and you have the 8, which
with the 3 is at the bottom of all figure-skating.
   Now for the 3. Start forwards, as before, on the outside edge of the right
foot, but leave the left foot well behind the right, the toe slightly behind the
heel, as in Fig. 3. Do not change the position of your feet, and you will find
                                                                         ng.3.
        0 J I UFT F00T f^ ^
                                  CHANGE
                               RIGHT   FOOT
                        01
 that when you have rather more than half completed your circle, you will spin
 round on the right foot and make half another circle backwards, as in the
 figure.
    The books on skating say that, in order to turn round, the skater ought to-
 rise on his toe a little. I consider this advice as totally wrong. True, the
 rising on the toe does bring the body round, but it gives an appearance of
 effort, which a good skater never shows. If you will only keep the off foot
 well behind the other, you must come round at the proper spot, and without
 effort of any kind.
    In fact, in all outside edge skating you steer yourself by the foot which is-
 off the ice, and on no consideration ought any of the work to be done by the
 foot which is on the ice.
    When you can cut the figure 3 equally well with either foot, combine them,
 as in Fig. 4, passing from one foot to the other without jerking yourself. Prac
 tise this until you do it without any effort, the mere swing of the body at the
 Ume supplying just enough impetus to carry you round.
    The next thing to be done is to get on the outside edge backwards. This-
 feat, difficult as it looks, and indeed is at the first attempt, in reality is easy

                           SKATING AND SLIDING.                                     375
    enough. It all depends on the position of the feet. If you have kept your
    feet precisely in the attitude which has been described, the outside edge back
    wards is a necessary corollary of the figure 3.
       After you have turned on your right foot and got partly round the lower half
    of the 3, simply put your left foot on the ice and lift your right foot. Don't be
    afraid of it Press the outer edge of the left foot well into the ice, and you
   must complete the circle. Provided that you do not alter the position of your
   head, body, or limbs, it is the easiest thing in the world. Only dare to do it,
   and it will be done.
      When you have learnt to shift in this way from one foot to the other with
   ease, you will soon attain to the summit of a skating ambition, the quadrille.
                                                        ..-••¦* — .         Fig. 5.
                                                                      ';
                                                                *
                                                      • **
              Fig. 4-                             :                    !
                                                   t                  r
                                                  V......J
    This is skated by four persons, who describe the course shown at Fig. 5.
 They take their positions at the spots shown by the asterisks, and, at a given
 signal, all start at once. The first figure is shown by the diagram. The skater
 starts off on the right foot, as at a, and completes half the large circle. He
 proceeds to d, where he changes feet, and on the left foot, or at b, goes half
 round the small circle as far as V. Here he shifts to the right foot, on which
he goes completely round the upper circle to V, where he shifts to the left foot,
changes to the right again at a, and so on continually
   It will be found that if four skaters perform this manoeuvre in exact time,
they never interfere with each other, but that they diverge from and converge
to the centre with absolute accuracy.
   This is the simplest mode of doing the quadrille figure, but it has many
varieties. For example, instead of simply going round the outer circles, the
skaters spin round at the * and come backwards to the central circle, as in
the figure 3 ; then they shift to the outside edge backwards, and so on. Prac
tice will soon make perfect.
   We will end with a few cautions.

376                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   Keep the knee of the acting leg perfectly rigid : a knee ever so slightly bent
ruins the effect of the best skating.
   Never carry a stick.
   Never raise, bend, or fold your arms ; but let them hang easily by your side,
and keep your hands out of your pockets.
   Keep the toe of the off foot within an inch of the ice, and the heel rather
up.
                                    SLIDING.
   The only remark that need be made about sliding is that the feet should
always be kept close together and parallel with the line of the slide. The
sideways sliding adopted by many boys is altogether wrong, and is sure to
lead to a nasty fall some time or other.
   Accustom yourself to put your weight on each foot alternately, so as to be
able to lift the other off the slide, and with the off foot give a double stamp
on the ice. This is called the " postman's knock." Keep the arms close to
the body, and, as in skating, if you find yourself likely to fall, slip down and
roll aside, so as to be out of the way of those who are following you.

               PEDESTRIANJSM AND TRAINING.                                   377
                         PEDESTRIANISM
                             AND TRAINING.
   By Pedestrianism we understand, in racing parlance, the contest between
two or more men, or between a man and time, in walking or running, or
between two or more men in jumping.
   In Quick Walking, which is the only kind useful in racing, the body should
be kept upright, with the shoulders well back, and the arms across the chest,
swinging with the loins at each stride. The outside of the back of the heel
should be the first part of the foot to touch the ground, and should be well
dug into the earth, the body being brought forward over the heel, almost
before the toe touches the ground. The ball of the foot and the toe should
hardly remain on the ground for a perceptible space of time, but the progres
sion should consist as much as possible of a series of quick, firm stepsfrom
heel to heel. Dwelling long on the foot, and especially on the ball or toe of
it, developes a tendency to bend the knee, by putting an immense strain on
the toe, which is unable to bear it. The right arm should go well over the
left shoulder, in unison with the right leg, and the left arm similarly over the
right shoulder.
   One foot should always be on the ground in fair walking, which thus consists
of a succession of steps, not of leaps. " Lifting"—the usual term for unfair
walking—is accomplished by bending the knee too much, or by leaning too
much forward with the body ; as in either case the steps become shorter, and
gradually lapse into a trot. I shall not give any of the fastest times that have
been accomplished in walking, as doubts often exist as to whether the "going"
was fair or not.
   The conditions of walking matches are, that they shall be fair " toe-and-
heel;" and a referee is appointed to see that this rule is not infringed. One
or more cautions are generally given by this official (according to the con
ditions of the match), before a competitor is disqualified, in which case he
entirely loses his chance. In professional matches, articles are drawn up
stating the method of starting, the distance of ground to be walked over, and
number of cautions to be given.
   Running may be divided into three heads—viz : " Sprinting," which includes
all distances from ioo to 400 yards ; " Quarter and Half-Mile Running ;" and
"Long-distance Running,"—i.e., one mile and upwards. The best time for
100 yards is 9^ seconds. One hundred and twenty yards has been done in 1 1 J
seconds. A " quarter " has been covered in 48J seconds, and half a mile in
1 minute 55^ seconds. The quickest time for a level mile is 4 minutes 17J
seconds ; and for two miles, 9 minutes 1 1 seconds. In running matches the
only conditions necessary are those naming the ground, distance, method of
starting, and referee, whose duty it is to see that no jostling or cannoning
takes place, and who generally acts as judge.
   Timing Men.—This is a most difficult operation, especially in sprint races,
and can only be done accurately with a good stop-watch, which should be
started directly the competitors' bodies bend, and stopped instantly the first
man's chest breasts the tape.

378                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
   Hurdle Racing is a sport which has become very prevalent amongst
amateurs during the last few years. The distance in vogue is 120. yards, with
10 nights of hurdles 3 ft. 6 in. high and 10 yards apart, which leaves a start
and finish of 1 5 yards at each end. By far the quickest way of surmounting
the hurdles is to take them in stride or "buck" them. "Topping" them will
nearly always ensure a mishap, and an attempt to jump them puts the com
petitor out of his stride. "Bucking," however, requires long and constant
practice. The best amateur time for the usual 120 yards hurdle race is i6J
seconds.
   Leaping is effected by a sudden contraction of the legs, followed by a still
more sudden and jerking extension of all the joints, by which the body is pro
jected into the air clear of the ground. It may be either from a standing
position or with a run ; and both may be over a height or across a width.
The greatest authenticated height ever jumped, without a spring-board or
any artificial take-off, is 5 ft. 10$ in. In leaping, besides those of the lower
limbs, the whole of the muscles of the body are violently in action, and espe
cially those of the abdomen and back.
   In the Standing Leap over a Height the legs are brought close together,
the knees are considerably bent, the hips are thrown back and the shoulders
forward, with the head well up. The arms are slightly and slowly swung
backwards and forwards, the body sinks till the calves touch the back of the
thighs, and then by a rapid extension of all parts in unison with the swing of
the arms, the body is projected over the height to be cleared, and descends
upon the toes and ball of the foot, with the legs ben* in order to form a spring
to break the fall.
   The Standing Leap over a Width is effected in the same way, but
with less contraction of the limbs, and more swinging of the arms.
   The Running Leap over a Height requires a start of about from nine
to twelve paces. The take-off should be at the distance of half the height of
the object to be cleared, and the legs should be well drawn up in front of the
belly during the spring.
   The Running Leap over a Width will be better managed with a run
of about twenty paces, and the steps should be very quick and short, increas
ing in these points up to the moment of springing, which is from the very
edge of the space to be cleared. The jumper comes down either upon his
heels in a very wide leap, or upon his toes in one where his whole powers are
not exerted. The longest authenticated jum" without any artificial take-off is
21 ft. 4 in.
   Hop, Step, AND Jump is a very common kind of contest in leaping, and is
conducted as follows : A line is drawn at scratch from which the competitor's
take a flying start, and the one who can cover the most ground by one long
hop, one long step, and a similar jump, is the winner.
   Vaulting is rather a gymnastic exercise than pedestrianism, as theyir/ arc
not used in it.
   The Leaping-Pole is either of fir or ash, about two, three, or even five feet
higher than the height of the party using it, and becoming stronger towards
the bottom. This kind of contest is generally over a height It is necessary
to fix the attention on the bar or other object to be cleared, and endeavour to
surmount it by an effort of the legs, at the same time raising the weight by the
arms while in the air, and reversing the face from the side to which the body
springs to that from which it sprung. When the leap is to be a very high one

                PEDESTRIANISM AND TRAINING.                                    379
indeed, the leaper leaves his pole on the taking-off side, quitting hold of it just
before it touches the bar.
                          Preparatory Treatment.
    It is an indisputable fact that no animal is so much improved by training
as man—none stands such long and severe preparation with advantage—and
none displays the difference between condition and its absence in so great a
degree. But it is not only that man may be enabled to do certain feats of
activity and strength that training is desirable, but that he may do them with
pleasure to himself, and even with advantage to his general health ; and this
marks the grand principle which every man who values health should con
stantly keep in view, namely, that no one should attempt to compete in any
contest requiring agility or strength, unless he has had such a preparation as
shall enable him to perform his task without feeling any ill effect from it. For
instance, the man in condition can row through a race of three or four miles,
in which his whole powers are taxed to their very utmost, and shall, at the end
of it, be almost blind from the exertions he has made; and yet before he gets
out of the boat he is "all right," and could go through the same in half an
hour without injury ; whilst the man out of condition lies nearly fainting, or
perhaps quite insensible, for many minutes, or even still longer, and is only
revived by stimuli to an extent which will not allow any further liberty to be
taken with his naturally strong constitution. Pluck will do much in place of
condition ; but numberless are the instances of ruined health from the excessive
drafts which have been made upon this valuable quality, whilst a little care
and abstinence would have prevented any such irreparable misfortune. To
enable the man who is of sound constitution—but, from mismanagement, out
of health—to restore himself to such a state as will allow him to go into train
ing without mischief, is rather a difficult task in most cases, because it not only
requires some skill to know what to do, but also great self-command to avoid
that which ought not to be done. In the vast majority of instances the health
has been impaired by excess of some kind, and in many by every variety of
excess which human ingenuity can suggest. But it is wonderful how com
pletely the anticipation of an Oxford and Cambridge match at Putney, a
pedestrian or any similar contest, will enable a"' fast man "to throw all tempta
tion on one side, and adhere to all the rules laid down for his guidance with
the rigidity of an anchorite. His reply to all tempting offers is, "No, that is
bad training." Such is not always the case, but it is true to a great extent ;
and more pluck is frequently shown in abstaining from temptation, than in
sustaining the prolonged efforts which such a race demands.
           Actual Training—General Management and Diet.
    Training for Walking.—Whether the object is to compete in running
or walking, an easy walk before breakfast for half an hour will just empty the
small intestines of their last meal, and prepare the stomach for the breakfast ;
more than half an hour, however, I am confident, is too long to wait, especially
if, as always ought to be the case, the supper has been a mere apology for that
meal.
    For an hour after breakfast, that is, till near eleven o'clock, the pedestrian
should amuse himself as he likes best, with billiards or any other game ; but
at eleven he should be ready dressed in his walking costume. The best dress

 380                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
 is what is usually called " University costume," which consists of a pair of
 drawers, made of coloured merino or silk, reaching to the knee-cap only, and
 secured round the waist by a single elastic band over the hip-bones. For
upper clothing a thin jersey is worn. The shoes should be large enough to
give the feet free play, be laced nearly down to the toe, with a sole about a
quarter of an inch thick and a slipper heel, with a few "sparrow-bill" nails in
it. If socks are worn they should be of the best chamois leather, merel-
covering the toes and not showing above the shoe.
    From eleven till two or half-past two, his first walk should be kept up with
out stopping for a moment, that is to say, after the first week, during which
iime he has been gradually increasing the time from an hour and a half to
the above lengthened period. In any case the pedestrian should be accom
panied, by his trainer, who should amuse him as much as possible by anecdote
or other mode of conversation. After dinner, one or two hours should be
allotted to rest, in the recumbent position, on a hard mattress or horse-hair
sofa; and then a short distance according to the length of the race should be
gone over at top speed. It should be borne in mind that according to the
intention of the pedestrian must be the distance over which he is trained;
thus, if he is only preparing for a short race, either running or walking, he
need only get himself into good health, and keep in that state by the means
I have already described, and, in addition, take two or three hours' walking
and running exercise per day. More than this has a tendency to diminish
the speed, though, if the intention is to train for a long distance, that quality
must, to a certain extent, be sacrificed. There is no question that speed is,
to a great extent, lost, if the work is kept up more than three or four hours a
day, that is to say, speed for one hundred or two hundred yards. But if the
object is to attain the highest speed for ten or fifteen miles, then the powers of
endurance are to be tested, and the training must be not so much at a top
speed for that distance, as at a less pace with occasional spirts for five miles
farther at the least.
   The trainer should be a good walker himself, and should draw out the
powers of his pupil by walking against him, taking care not to dishearten
him, even if he has the power, by walking ahead ; but just stimulating him
by competition, and yet keeping up his spirits by allowing him to beat him
in the amicable contest. Everything in many cases depends upon mental
treatment, and many races are lost by the anxiety which is felt for many days
and nights prior to the day of trial. In other animals there is not this know
ledge of what is to come ; but this is the worst difficulty met with in training
men, many of whom will lie awake night after night from a nervousness as to
the result. Hence, the trainer should by all means encourage his man, and
endeavour to do away with this fear of losing by inspiring confidence in his
powers on all occasions.
   Training for Running is conducted on similar principles to that for
walking, except that it is necessary to avoid too much running work in short
matches. Here walking must be made the means of improving the general
health, and running only adopted for about the length which is to be run.
Beyond this, long-continued running makes a man slow, and he is apt to get
his hands down, a habit which is fatal to running spirts. The trainer will,
in preparing his man for these short matches, make him run daily two or
three times over the distance intended ; and either run against him with a
start of a few yards in advance, which gives him confidence, or time him

                PEDESTRIANISM AND TRAINING.
exactly, keeping the result to himself. When the distance is a longer one,
it must not be done more than once every other day, according to its length,
but at a good speed, and with all the encouragement and excitement of com
petition with the trainer.
    In all cases of training for long distances, at least five or six hours a day
must be spent in walking and running, changing from one to the other as a
relief during the early part of training. Two golden rules to be observed are,
never to let a man do his utmost until the actual race itself, and always to give
him immediate rest for a few days if he appears jaded, as by this means his
spirits will be revived and elasticity of body restored. Man, however, bears
severe work in a wonderful manner; and if the appetite continues good and
the sleep is sound, without dreaming or starting, the trainer need not be appre
hensive that his man is doing too much.
   Reduction of Fat.—It will, I think, generally be advisable, before com
mencing strict training, to take an ordinary dose of aperient medicine. This
may be either castor oil or Epsom salts and senna, commonly known as black
draught, or the compound rhubarb pills will answer very well in some persons.
For any other purpose aperient medicine is to be avoided, and it will gene
rally be found that, beyond the first dose, which I think good as clearing off
all undigested food, it will seldom be wanted. Some men have such an
abundance of fat that they weigh two or even three stone more than they
ought to do. The consequence is that not only is all that weight a dead loss,
but the fat itself actually interferes with the due action of the muscles, and
especially of the heart. Two modes of sweating may be adopted—one natural,
the other artificial : the former is by far the best and healthiest ; but either
should be used the first thing in the morning, rising from bed a little earlier
for the express purpose.
    Natural Sweating is managed by putting on extra clothing over those
parts more particularly which are loaded with fat. Thus, if the legs are very
fat, two or three pair of trousers should be drawn on ; if the abdomen is full,
then a double apron of flannel should be suspended from the neck under the
trousers ; and if the arms and neck are loaded, one, two, or three thick jerseys
may be pulled on, and a woollen shawl wrapped round the neck. When
thus clothed, a brisk walk, or slow run of a few miles, brings on a profuse
perspiration, which may be kept up for an hour or so, either by being covered
 up with horse-rugs or a feather bed, or by lying in front of a good fire. At
 the expiration of this time the whole of the clothes should be stripped off,
 beginnning with the upper part of the body, and sponging each limb with hot
 salt and water before drying it with a coarse towel, after which Dinneford's
 gloves should be used freely, and the dressing may be as usual, taking care
 to expose each limb as short a time as possible. Such is the natural mode.
    Artificial Sweating can be accomplished by a Turkish bath, or the
plan first proposed by Priessnitz, and since then so much used in this country
by other practitioners. It is as follows: The whole body should be stripped,
and immediately wrapped in a sheet wrung out of cold water, but not so as to
get rid of all the water. Then, rolling the patient in a thick blanket, and
including the arms, like a mummy, he is to be placed beneath a feather bed,
covering all up to the chin. In a quarter of an hour, or rather more, reaction
 comes on, and a most profuse perspiration breaks out over the face, and, in
 fact, over the whole body. Among the hydropathists it is usual to supply the
 patient liberally with cold water, by small draughts at a time, during the

382                      ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
sweat ; but for our purpose this is not desirable, because it causes too great
an action on the kidneys, thereby weakening the frame considerably. When
this sweating has continued for an hour to an hour and a half, everything
should be taken off, and cold water poured over the whole body, either by
means of a shower-bath or a common watering-pot ; then rub dry, and clothe.
This artificial mode of sweating is not so likely to give cold as the natural
one, and it does not exhaust and tire the frame nearly so much. It also
produces great buoyancy of spirits, and it may be graduated much more
exactly. It has, however, the disadvantage of producing a liability to boils,
which in the rower are sufficiently annoying without this sweating process.
Wherever there is an unusual collection of fat, on that part must, in either
mode, be heaped a greater amount of clothing, and especially if the shoulders
should be clogged and loaded. No one can reach well over his toes if his
shoulder-blades are confined, or if his abdomen is too bulky ; and the first
thing to be done is to sweat down the fat as I have described. Either of the
above processes may be repeated two or three times a week, and they are far
better than night-sweating by Dover's powder or any of the sweating liquors
which formerly were so much recommended. Their use is most objectionable,
and should never be resorted to if possible.
   The following DIET will, I think, be found the best for all training purposes,
except the reduction of weight for riding, where a great restriction must gene
rally be put upon the appetite.
   Breakfast.—There is no doubt that the very best food for this meal is oat
meal porridge, with the addition of a certain allowance of beef or mutton, and
a little bread ; but many have the greatest objection to this diet, and never eat
it without loathing. For them, I believe, the next best beverage is a pint of
table beer, home-made, and not too strong, and giving with it a larger allow
ance of bread. It is not desirable to stint the appetite unless very enormous,
or unless there is a great superabundance of fat ; but I believe it will, in most
cases, be found more advantageous to reduce the weight by work and sweat
ing, than by starvation. The best mode of dressing the meat is to broil it ;
and here I must say a word about the degree of cookery to which it should
be subjected. It is generally directed that the steak or chop should be quite
underdone; this, I am sure, is a fallacy. In broiling, very little nutriment is
lost, after the outside is once caught by the fire. Now, if nothing is lost,
there is much gained by keeping the steak on the gridiron till properly done
through ; for the food is rendered much more palatable to most, and certainly
more digestible to all. I have known many who were thoroughly disgusted
by their " red rags " as they have called their underdone steaks, and from
their dislike to such food quite unable to digest them. Tea and coffee are
not good for training purposes, though I do not think them so bad as is
generally supposed, if not taken too strong ; cocoa is too greasy, and not so
good as tea—which, if taken, should not be green. I am inclined to think
that in those cases where tea or coffee is habitually taken, and porridge or
beer is much disliked, it is better to allow them than to attempt too great an
alteration in diet. Butter, sauces, and spices should be carefully avoided,
and nothing but salt, and a very slight dash of black pepper, used as a con
diment.
   Dinner.—This important meal should consist of roast beef or mutton, or
occasionally a boiled leg of mutton may be allowed as a change ; but veal,
pork, and salt beef or bacon should be avoided ; also goose, duck, and wild

               PEDESTRTANISM AND TRAINING.                                   383
fowl generally. Roast fowls, or partridges, or pheasants, are very good food.
Hare is too apt to be accompanied by high-seasoned stuffing, without which
it is scarcely palatable. Nothing is better than venison, when comeatable;
but it should be eaten without seasoned sauce or currant jelly. As to vege
tables, potatoes should be eaten sparingly— not more than one or two at a
meal; cauliflower or broccoli, or any vegetable in season, except cucumber or
any hard root, is allowable as a digestive. Bread may be given ad libitum,
and about a pint to a pint and a half of good sound home-made beer. If this
does not agree, a little sherry and water, or claret and water, may be allowed
with the meal ; and a glass or two of the former wine, or of good sound port,
after dinner. When the training is continued for any length of time, and the
previous habits of the party have accustomed the stomach to it, I have found
the occasional use of white fish—such as cod or soles—a very useful change.
Nothing disorders the stomach of man more than keeping to one diet ; " tou
jours perdrix" is enough to tire any one even of so good a fare; and this
must be constantly borne in mind by the trainer. The round he can make
is not very extensive, but let him by all means stretch it to the utmost limits
of which it is capable. It is even desirable to give an occasional pudding, but
it should always have bread for its foundation. A good cook will easily make
a very palatable pudding of bread, with a little milk and an egg or two ; and
this, served up with fresh green gooseberries boiled, or any common preserve,
is by no means disagreeable to the palate or unwholesome to the stomach ;
but let it be only as a change, not as otherwise useful. The grand articles of
diet are beef and mutton, with bread or porridge; and, if the stomach and
palate would accept them gratefully, no ctiange would be necessary ; but, as
they seldom will, the best plan is not to attempt too much.
    Supper. —Many trainers object to this meal ; but I am satisfied, from ex
perience, that unless the training is of so long a duration as to thoroughly
accustom the stomach to the long fast from dinner to the next morning, it is
much better to allow a light meal at eight o'clock. Oatmeal porridge is for
this purpose the best ; and no one will be the worse for a pint of it, with some
dry toast to eat with it, or soaked in the porridge itself. I do not believe that
meat is ever necessary at night, except for very delicate constitutions, which
require unusual support. For such cases I have found a chop at night, with
a glass of port wine, or even of egg and sherry, a very valuable means of keep
ing up the strength. Indeed, it will be found that no absolute rule can be
laid down for all cases. Hence, as I have before remarked, some will require
much more liberal and generous diet than others. If, for instance, the habit
 is gross and the appetite good, it will be needful to allow only the plainest
diet, and to vary it very little. By this precaution, enough, and not too
much, is sure to be taken, and the amount of work will insure its digestion.
 If, on the other hand, the constitution is delicate, with a want of appetite,
want of digestion, and tendency to too great a loss of flesh, then it is de
 sirable to allow considerable change from day to day, and, as far as is pru
 dent, to comply with the particular fancies of the palate. Many stomachs
 bear port wine well; and in those who have a tendency to diarrhoea it is
 often indispensable. Others, again, are purged by oatmeal, and this is a
 sufficient reason for avoiding porridge. In some all the bread should be
 toasted, to prevent diarrhoea, whilst in others, when constipation is present,
coarse brown bread made from the genuine undressed flour is a good remedy
 for that troublesome evil. Whatever bread is eaten should be two days old,

  384                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
  and the beef and mutton hung as long as the weather will permit. The best
  part of the sheep for chops is the leg of a two or three-year-old wether ; and
  for steaks, a well-hung rump or the inside of the sirloin. In the early days of
  practice, and in the race itself, great distress sometimes occurs ; there is con
  siderable blueness of the face from congestion, and the breathing is laboured
  and difficult. The best remedy for this state is a glass of warm brandy and
  water, and plenty of hard friction on the feet, legs, and thighs; or, if it still
  persists, a warm bath at 98 degrees.
             Treatment of Accidents occurring in Training.
     Blisters of the Hands and Feet. —These troublesome little companions
  occur either on the hands from rowing, or on the feet from walking ; in both
  cases without due preparation. They also occur in a still more troublesome
  situation, either from the thwart in rowing, or from the saddle in riding; but
  in the latter case only in the very raw and young equestrian. Should they
  arise on the hands, they should be pricked with a fine needle, if this can be
  done before they have burst. The needle should be inserted obliquely, and
 the watery fluid contained in the blister should then be pressed out ; and this
  should be repeated as soon as the blister has filled a second or third time. In
 this way the contact of the air is avoided, and in two days the true skin becomes
  protected by a new cuticle or scarf-skin. If, unfortunately, the blister is broken,
 the best plan is to apply some collodion with a brush ; but it gives considerable
 pain, and seldom remains on more than six hours, after which time it requires
 renewal. If the pain of this is objected to, then apply either finely-carded
 (medicated) cotton in a thin layer under a kid glove, or finely-powdered gum
 arabic ; but, in either case, the hands must be kept from water carefully until
 the expiration of twenty-four hours. If possible, three days should elapse
 before the oar is again taken in hand ; but if the oarsman cannot be spared,
 a kid glove should be put on over the collodion. When the feet are the seat
 of the mischief, there is the same necessity for the preservation of the cuticle,
 and the needle should be used in the same way ; if, however, this protection
 is removed, a piece of fine kid should be spread with soap plaster, and applied
 over the skin, extending for at least half an inch beyond the blister in every
direction. This treatment answers on feet, while on the hands it is wholly
useless, because the friction of the oar soon rubs off the plaster, while under
the shoe it remains tolerably well, if smoothly applied. Where the blister
exists on the seat of honour, in consequence of the friction of the thwart, it
is very difficult to manage, and I have seen hundreds of men with their flannel
trousers extensively stained with blood from this cause. Collodion is the best
remedy, but even that is of little use, and the only plan that I have ever known
at all effectual is to wear a pair of tight wash-leather drawers, extending only
a few inches down the thighs. If these are made to fit very nicely, and are
well oiled with neatsfoot oil, they will afford astonishing relief, and enable a
man with extensive " raws " to row in tolerable ease and comfort ; they require,
however, to be carefully cleaned and oiled each time they are worn, without
which attention they are worse than useless.
    Corns and Bunions.—Blisters are troublesome enough to the pedestrian,
but corns are a thousand times worse. The former are only temporary evils,
whilst the latter are a perpetual cause of discomfort and misery. Corns are of
two kinds, hard and soft; and this distinction is not only dependent upon

                  PEDESTRIANISM AND TRAINING.                                    385
  situation, as some people imagine, for the essence and even the cause of a
  soft corn are entirely different and distinct from those producing the hard
  variety. The soft corn occurs only between the toes, and partakes more of a
  warty character than of that of the true corn.
     Bunions are different in appearance and character from either hard or soft
  corns. In all cases they are soft, pulpy, bag-like projections, often, though
  not always, without hardness or roughness of skin. They are attended with
  great pain and tenderness, and cause considerable lameness. The treatment
  of soft corns should be as follows : With the nail, pick off as much of the
  cheesy matter as can be removed ; then, if the next day can be given up,
  apply a piece of lunar caustic to the surface, rubbing it pretty well in, but
  avoiding contact with the adjoining skin. After this, keep a piece of carded
  cotton between the toes night and day, and it will be found that after twenty-
  four hours' rest all pain will have disappeared, the surface will have lost its
  moisture, and will have become hard, black, and dry. If the cotton is renewed
  daily, this state of ease will be maintained for a week or ten days: but then
  it is necessary to pick off the blackened surface and re-apply the caustic,
  again using the carded cotton. This second application will probably last a
 fortnight, but by that time the edges of the blackened cuticle become loose,
 and the application should be repeated, but not, in all probability, till three
 weeks have elapsed. In this way, by three or four applications, the most
 obstinate and painful soft corns yield to treatment and become permanently
 cured ; but the skin between the toes should be kept constantly washed and
 rubbed with a soft towel, so as to remove every particle of secretion daily.
     With regard to hard corns, nothing will be effectual as a cure unless the
 pressure which caused them is discontinued. In that case they require very
 little treatment ; but if it is continued, as it must be when they occur on the
 sole of the foot, the only remedies are palliative, and require constant and
 careful repetition.
    Any one who has the use of his hands may readily treat his own corns, if
 he will attend to the following directions : In the first place, the cuticle should
 never be allowed to grow to such a degree as to occasion pain ; it should be
 carefully removed before that time, and the best instrument for its removal is
a pair of nail-scissors ; with these a small piece of the thickened cuticle should
be caught hold of and raised from its bed at the same time, then gradually
closing the blades, it is removed without any great pain ; for if much is given,
it is only necessary to raise the scissors still more, and, as it were, drag the
corn out of its bed, when the pain ceases, and the excision of that portion is
effected. After removing this small slice, another adjoining slice is to be
taken hold of and removed in the same way, till all vestige of the hardened
cuticle is gone ; after which the part may be either covered with a piece of
wash-leather spread with soap plaster, or left to its fate. The former is of
course the better plan; but, if the corn is removed as often and as fast as it
grows, there is no necessity for adopting it. On the sole of the foot the
scissors cannot be used, and this is the most unmanageable situation by far.
It is almost impossible for the sufferer to cut these himself, either with a knife
or scissors; and he should remove them either, when dry, with a piece of
coarse sand-paper fixed on a rounded surface, or, when soaked, with a piece
of pumice-stone. This treatment will suffice for corns which are trouble
some while training; but when rest can be given they should be removed,
»ither with caustic, as described for the soft corn, or with tincture of iodine
                                                                     25

 386                       ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
 applied with a paint-brush. In either case the cuticle should be first pared
 down, and then one or other of the above remedies should be applied ; but the
 inflammation, especially after the second application, is considerable, and rest
 must generally be given. They are both, therefore, inadmissible in training.
 Bunions should have two or three leeches applied to them every other day
 for a week, after which they may be left alone till the bites are well, and then
 they should be brushed with tincture of iodine every third day. This treat
 ment will generally suffice, but not in very obstinate cases.
   Boils.—The only remedy is either the application of some stimulating
greasy application, such as a linseed poultice, or the division by means of the
knife. Either of these remedies more or less speedily puts an end to the in
active condition, and then a healthy suppuration goes on to remove the cell,
and by throwing up fresh granulations, as they are called, to restore what has
 been removed. Such is the nature and ordinary treatment of a boil ; but in
training it is almost impossible to bear the use of the knife if the boil is on
any part which is subjected to much friction. In other situations it may be
used ; but if a boil occurs on the seat of the rower, as is so often the case, if
the knife is used, at least a week or ten days must be lost before the patient
can expose the raw surface to the friction of the thwart. Here^ therefore, the
best plan is to apply a plaster, spread on leather, and composed of equal parts
of mercurial and opiate ointment. This stimulates and relaxes the inflamed
vessels, and the opiate relieves the pain to a great degree ; but even this is
only a partial remedy, as without rest it is impossible entirely to relieve boils.
To those who are known to be subject to boils I would recommend, as a
prevention, the use of a wash of nitrate of silver of the strength of fifteen to
twenty grains to the ounce. This should be painted over the part every night,
and will, of course, turn it more or less black ; but it seems to give tone to the
vessels, and to prevent that low and congestive state which precedes the death
of the cellular membrane ; at all events it prevents the formation of boils.
   Chapped Hands.— In cold weather rowers are sometimes terribly annoyed
by their hands and arms becoming chapped, often to such a degree as to
cause them to bleed ; and pedestrians often suffer in the same way about the
hands, wrists, arms, and behind the knees. For this state there is no remedy
to be compared with glycerine, which should be freely smeared over the whole
surface which is chapped, by means of a brush or feather. The application
may be made night and morning.


JHE YOUNG WORKMAN.
                         Cbe Jtoung SHorhmair.
                           CARPENTERING.
   Carpentering is a useful and healthy employment, and every boy will do well
to give some of his time to learn the use of the tools required in this branch
of mechanical art.
   Fig. i is a perspective view of a carpenter's working-bench. A is a "jaw" for
holding wood when planing the edges; B is a square block of wood, or rest,
called a slop or bench-dog, which can be shifted up or down to any required
distance above the surface of the table, to keep the wood firm when being
planed. An improved kind of bench-dog is made by Bailey & Co. (See Fig. 20.)
   A very good size for a bench is 5 ft. long by 2 ft. 6 in. broad, and 2 ft. 6 in.
above the ground, that is, 2 ft. 6 in. cubes. A second-hand bench can generally
be obtained from a carpenter for about ioj-.
   Do not buy a box of tools, but go to some respectable maker and buy them
separately.
   In describing each tool and the way to use it, it will be best to begin with
the hand-saw (Fig. 2), which is used for cutting wood from the plank : it should
be about 20 in. long, with teeth about eight to the inch. This saw will cut cross-
ways, as well as lengthways, of the wood. When buying it, say it is required for
                                                                25—2

 38S                   THE YOUNG WORKMAN
cutting soft wood. The price of this tool is y. gd. Always mark out the wood
that is to be cut, with pencil and rule. When cutting, look on both sides of the
                                      Figs, i and 2.
saw at once; this will ensure a straight cut. The saw is held at an angle of
about 450. If it should bend or not work easily, put a little common tallow
on the blade. On no account try to set or sharpen the saw, or the result will
be more harm done than good. This can be done properly for about 3^. at a
tool-shop.
   The tenon-saw (Fig. 3) is made to cut across the grain of the wood, so as
to leave the ends neat ; it is also used for cutting "dovetails." It hasten to fifteen
teeth to the inch. It has a stiff brass rib to hold the blade straight when cut
ting. A good length is about 1 2 in. Price about 6s.
                  Fig.
   Fig. 4 represents a smoothing-plane. This tool is used for smoothing the
wood to a nice flat and even surface ; it is also used for finishing up the ends
of the wood. The size required is about 8 in. long by 2]/z in. broad. When
buying it, specify that it shall have double irons. In all probability it will have
a pretty good edge when purchased, and will only require a rub on the hone to
make it fit for use. To a boy who has a limited amount of pocket-money it is
advisable not to buy a hone, but to obtain a good piece of writing slate, which
makes a first-rate hone when used with a little oil.
   To sharpen the iron, unscrew the pinching-screw, a, Fig. 5, and you can

                                  CARPENTERING.                                 389
then take off the break-iron, B. Fig. 6 shows the position and the angle, and
also the way to hold the iron when it is on the hone. Fig. 5 shows the irons
when ready to be put into the stock. To disengage the irons from the stock,
strike a couple of moderate blows on the stock at A, Fig. 4, with the mallet
(Fig. 7) ; if this do not loosen them, tap the wedge on either side alternately,
and, when sufficiently slack, it can be withdrawn by the fingers.
                  Fig. 5.
   In putting the wedge into its place, one or two slight taps with the mallet
will fix it ; if much force be used, most likely the stock will split, or be other
wise distorted. The cutting edge of the iron should project through the base of
the stock only sufficient to be noticeable when looking along the plane. The
price of the plane will be about y. 6d. to 4s., or perhaps less. A tool-maker
will grind this for a penny. Do not buy a second-hand plane, or it will be
found on inspection that all the cutting edge has been ground away, and the
plane useless.
                  Fig. 7.                                 Fig. 8.
   The joiner's hammer (Fig 8) is a tool which every boy knows when he sees
it; it will, therefore, be unnecessary to give a lengthy description of it.
   The face should be about three-quarters of an inch diameter. In holding
the hammer, the hand should be very near the end of the handle. When
driving in a nail, two or three light strokes will effectively start it, and it can
then be driven home with greater force.
   A two-feet rule (Fig. 9) is most handy for general use, marked off to inches
and eighths. The price is is. yi-, made of box-wood.
                          Fig. 9.                               Fig. 10.
   The set-square is represented in Fig. 10. This tool is for marking off a
line at right angles to the edge of a plank, or any other place where a line is

39o                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
required at right angles. A 12-in. blade is the best size. Price y. 6d. The
blade, A, is made of steel ; the frame, B, of ebony-wood. There are three brass
pins to hold the blade in its place.
    The two chisels, Figs. 1 1 and 12, are required for ordinary carpentering : one.
                                      Fig.
                                      Fig. 1a.
                       '-
one-eighth of an inch broad, for cutting dovetails, the other about three-quarters
of an inch. An edge is given to these in the same way as the plane. Price
6d. and lod.
   The screw-driver is for putting screws into wood. The breadth of the tool
where it enters the screw's head should be three-eighths of an inch broad. This
tool has not a sharp edge. Price gd.
   The marking-gauge, Fig. 13, is for marking parallel lines from the edge of
a plank or other piece of wood. A is a pencil or scriber, B is a set-screw to
adjust the gauge. Price, in pear-wood, about Sd.
   The gimlet, Fig. 14, is a tool for boring holes, but, as it is very apt to split
the wood when used near the edge, great care is necessary. It is generally
best to use the brace and bit anywhere near the edge of the wood. The gimlet
is more liable to split hard wood than soft. 3d. is about the price of a gimlet.
   The brace and bits, Fig. 15, is another boring tool : it is used for boring holes
from one-eighth of an inch to three-quarters of an inch in diameter. This tool
cuts a very neat and clean hole. The bit, A, Fig. 15, fits into a square socket
 in the brace. The left hand is placed on the top of the brace, and the right
hand on the crank, B, by which a circular motion is given to the bit. The top
 figure is a rose-bit, and is used for sinking the heads of nails or screws. The
 price of a brace as shown in the drawing is about 2s. 3d.          Black bits, \d.
 each ; bright bits, t>d. each. The bright bits are recommended.
    The "bench-dog," Fig. 16, is an improved arrangement of the bench-stop
 (b, Fig. 1). There is a screw for raising the stop. Price y. each.

                              CARPENTERING.                                    391
   The gouge is a very similar tool to the chisel ; instead of cutting a flat sur
face, it cuts a semicircular groove. It is not a very easy tool to handle, but
it is a very useful one.
   There are many other tools than those described and illustrated, which
an experienced carpenter would require. These few pages teach but the first
lesson to the young carpenter in his apprenticeship. There is the Jack-plane,
for bringing the rough wood to a level surface ; the lock-saw, for cutting
circular work, and various other planes and saws ; the spoke-shave, &c.
    Let all the materials you use in carpentry be good. Durable work cannot be
made with green timber. The best work will be worthless if you do not get
well-seasoned wood. For different purposes, different woods are chosen. Oak
will stand all weathers without being much affected. Elm will endure in wet
situations better than other woods. Ash is a very tough and also a very flex
ible wood : it is, perhaps, the best if wanted to stand a sudden strain. Pine
or deal is more largely used in carpentry than any other wood, on account of
its cheapness.       For cabinet-work the beech is much used; for ornamental
turning, box-wood, coromandel, and other hard woods are used.
                           HOW TO MAKE A TOOL-BOX.
   A handy and convenient size for a tool-box is 2 ft. long, 21 in. broad, and
10^ in. deep. The material required for this will be enumerated below.
  12 ft. of Yi-vd. pine-wood 1 1 in. broad. The price of this will be id. per foot
   1 pair of hinges (or iron butts as they are called by the trade) ; price id. per
      pair.
  12 screws for ditto, yi in. long ; id. per dozen.
   1 pennyworth of brads. (See Fig. 17.)
   1 pennyworth of glue.                                            Fig. 17.
   1 lock and key (iron).
   When buying the wood, ask for "insides." The first thing to be done is to
cut the wood into proper lengths and dimensions. The pieces required will be
                  For the sides of the box, 2 pieces 24>£ in. long.
                      „   two ends „        2   „    21^      „
                      „   lid          „    2    ,.  24)4     „
                      „   bottom       „    2    „   24       „
   These dimensions should be marked off on the plank before cutting with a
rule and pencil. The two sides and the two ends should now be planed on
both sides, and the top and bottom edges planed true and square. The
breadth of the wood will now be io)£ in.
   The best joint for a box is the "dovetail joint." Fig. 18 shows the side with
the "dovetail" cut. Fig. 19 the end with the "points" cut. Fig. 20 shows
the dovetail joint finished.
   To make the dovetail joint, proceed as follows: On one of the sides of the
box mark off lines with the square 2 ft. apart, also mark off lines 23 in. apart,
call these lines a and b (Fig. 21). Mark on the line a points every inch and
half-inch alternately ; on the line b mark off a point seven eighths of an inch
from b, and then points for every six-eighths of an inch.
   Now draw lines from the points on line a to the points on line b (Fig. 22).
Cut with a tenon-saw from c to d, and from e to /, treating each dovetail in
the same way. With a chisel cut the piece out so as to form a dovetail, as in

 392                      THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
      Fig. 18.           Fig. 19.     Fig.                               Fig. as.
 Fig. 18. The pins are now to be drawn to correspond with the dovetails,
which can be done by placing the dovetails just made over the end of the short
 sides, or ends, and marking them with a pencil. When this is done, make lines
 20 in. apart ; cut the pins down to this line with the tenon-saw. In cutting the
pins, cut outside the pencil lines. The space between can now be cut out with
a chisel.
    When all the pieces have been done in this manner they should be coated
with thin glue, and then hammered well together. When dry, the projecting
ends of the pins and dovetails may be trimmed off with a chisel. This is
called the "carcase" of the box.
   The bottom of the box is to be put in next. Plane up the two pieces 24 in.
long by 1 1 in. broad, and fit them neatly in the " carcase." They should be
nailed from outside the box (Fig. 23).
               Fig. 23.                                    Fig. 24.
   The lid pieces are planed up next, so as to fit outside the "carcase." Fig.
24 is the box when finished ; A is a piece of wood 2 in. deep nailed on the lid
to keep it square on the box; B B is a beading of wood nailed on the box to
make a strong base, and also to protect the edges from chipping.
                       A DOG-KENNEL, AND HOW TO MAKE IT.
   A dog-kennel, as everybody knows, may be almost any size and any shape
— as of course the kennel that suits Master Pup, the terrier, will not suit Sir
Growler, the Newfoundland. However, suppose Master Pup requires a new
house: it must not be made too small or too large, for if made the former,

                                  CARPENTERING.                                  393
poor doggy will get the cramp in his legs, or if it be made the latter, he will
feel cold and uncomfortable, and will want a whole truss of straw to keep him
warm.
    Fig. 25 is about a nice roomy kennel for a terrier. If the kennel be required
for a larger or smaller dog, the size can be altered to suit it, by increasing or
reducing all the dimensions in proportion to the required size. It has a hole
                                            Jig. 15.
 I in. in diameter over the doorway in front, and also one of the same size at
the back : this will establish a draught, to carry off any bad air, which always
accumulates at the highest point. If the kennel be made this size, ,^-in. pine-
wood will be sufficient, but, if made larger, i-in. wood may be used.
    Materials required:
                    38 ft. %-m. pine-wood, 11 in. broad. 2d. per ft.
 «         if*.     » 4 doz. 2-in. brads (Fig. 27.) <--      -     - e in.           >
 it              = 3 doz. 1 in. „ (Fig. 26.) |y                                      ¦
                         2 doz. ^"-in. screws.                       Fig. 37.
    The floor of the kennel is the first thing to be made, because the whole after
work is erected from it. Cut two pieces from the plank with the tenon-saw,
 2 ft. 1 1 yz in. long ; plane this on one side and the edges. Also cut two pieces
 20 in. long by $% in. broad ; plane these up nicely on all sides. The two
pieces for the bottom are now to be placed as in Fig. 28.
                                                      ift. afo.         x_^_Jft_6j^J
                 Fig. 28.                                      Fig. 29.
    The pieces 20 in. by 5 % in., are screwed on with J^-in. screws ; this holds
 the two bottom pieces firmly together. Cut a piece off the plank 3 ft. 9 in. long,
 and plane it up to io'/i in. broad ; then cut it diagonally across, as Fig. 29.
 This forms the back of the kennel, and should be nailed on the bottom with

394                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
2-in. brads (Fig. 30). Make a hole in the wood with a brad-awl before putting
in a nail.
   The front is made in the same way, but requires a hole cut for the doorway
before it is nailed on. The curve at the top is cut with the compass-saw.
The edges of the doorway should be rounded off; this will protect Master Pup
from cutting his ribs when he runs out in a hurry. For the sides, cut six pieces
18. in. long, plane these to \ol/i in. broad. Also cut pieces 18 in. long and 5 in.
broad, and plane them down to 4>£ in. broad. The edges of these boards
must all be square and straight, so as to fit neatly together. Nail on these
boards as in Fig. 31.
                                                             A
                    no. 30.                               Fig. 31.
   The holes to receive the nails should be made with a brad-awl. The cross
bar, Fig. 31, A, running from the front to back, is 1 in. square, and is screwed
on from the outside of the front and back. The top is now to be made. Cut
eight pieces 18 in. long and plane them to 10^ in. broad. The surface that
goes outside should be planed smooth. The top is put on as in Fig. 32;
B is a piece of wood half an inch square nailed on after the top is on. A
skilled carpenter would "mitre" the edges together, and thus dispense with this
extra piece.
                          *• 1G. 32.                          Fig. 33.
   With a couple of coats of paint the kennel will be finished. The kennel
should not be painted inside. Three pounds of paint will be required. If
Master Pup is to be chained up it is advisable not to chain him to the kennel,
or perhaps some fine day he may imagine himself a horse, and cut capers with
his wheelless carriage at his tail.
   Fig 33 is a peg to be driven into the ground to fasten the chain to : B is a
staple to be driven into the peg.

                                    TURNING.                                   395
             PLAIN TURNING IN WOOD AND IVORY.
   To those of our young readers who have a mechanical turn there are few,
if any, of the various indoor amusements which can be compared with Turn
ing, and there are none, we are convinced, from which such truly satisfactory
results will follow.
   Very little real instruction, however, can be imparted by any written
directions, however clearly and concisely they may be given, unless they are
accompanied by practical demonstration and the actual manipulation of the
lathe
whichby       practised
        area capable  of performer.  Thevinendless
                         being produced            variety
                                            the lathe           with alland
                                                           of patterns
                                                      does away             figures
                                                                         monotony,
and when once the rudiments of the art are acquired the pupil will find him
self amply repaid for all the trouble he may have bestowed upon it. He must,
however, possess taste in the arrangement of his patterns, in their proportions
and in their designs : in the absence of these, all his labour will be fruitless,
however great may be the proficiency to which he may attain in the actual
working of his lathe.
   The first step to be taken is to secure a good lathe ; that is, as soon as the
pupil finds, by working at the lathe of some professional turner, that he really
likes it and can handle the ordinary tools in a tolerably workmanlike manner.
   We will suppose that the beginner has obtained the advantage of watching
a professional turner at work, and has learned practically the use of the
different sized " gouges," and can turn some rude patterns, such as the leg of
a chair, with a tolerable amount of finish and without chipping the wood or
notching the tools. Let him then be taught and practise the use of the different
sized chisels and the point-tools, and this learned properly and their mani
pulation well understood, the groundwork of plain turning may be said to be
overcome. The next step we would recommend being taken is that of making
a small urn or egg-cup. To do this, proceed as follows:
   Having fixed the piece of wood in the chuck (the receptacle, whether of
brass or wood, which screws on to the mandril of the lathe), commence turn
ing it with a moderate sized gouge into the rough shape you require ; then,
with a small " side-tool," hollow out the inside of the requisite size, and finish
off with sand-paper. When the inside is completed, turn down the outside to
the desired shape, and finish off with sand-paper. After a little practice this
will be found to be tolerably easy of accomplishment, and another step in
advance may now be taken, viz., that of making an ordinary box. Having
selected a piece of wood of the size you require, and fixed it, as before, in the
chuck, " rough " it out to the shape you wish, and very carefully turn down the
projection to receive the lid of the proper size, and, having finished off this
part of the box, hollow it out by means of the side-tool, as before ; then chuck
the piece of wood intended for the lid, and proceed in precisely the same way,
taking care to fit the two very nicely ; and, having shut one within the other,
finish them off together ; then, in order to complete the bottom and top, chuck
them the reverse way, removing them, of course, from the original chuck and
fitting them to a fresh one.
   Then, we would point out the absolute necessity of learning to " chuck " well,

396                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
i.e., to fix the wood or other material you are about to turn firmly and properly
in the chuck. This is a most material and, indeed, indispensable ingredient
in the art of turning, and more disappointment and annoyance proceeds from
a neglect of this precaution than from any other cause.
    The making of a set of chessmen affords most excellent practice to the
beginner in more ways than one ; it teaches the use of the gouges of various
sizes, and of the point-tool and chisels, and, what is of equal importance,
turning to measurement, for there must be sixteen pawns all exactly alike and
of the same size, four castles, four bishops, two kings, and two queens, and
the bases of the knights (the heads, of course, cannot be made in the lathe).
    Turning in soft wood is but little practised by the amateur turner, as there
is but small scope for the exercise of his ingenuity and taste, besides which
the method of turning it is entirely different, the level of the rest upon which
the tool is held being fixed far above the centre of the wood which is being
turned ; while in hard wood and ivory turning it is fixed as much below it, soft
wood requiring to revolve directly against the edge of the tool, hard wood at
an angle. Besides which, soft wood is not capable of being ornamented by
means of the slide-rest and overhead motion, while hard wood and ivory are
the best materials for receiving the most delicate patterns.
    The best and, indeed, the only woods that will repay the trouble of turning
are box-wood, crocus, and the African black-wood. Ebony should under all
citcumstances be avoided, for, although it is susceptible of taking the most
beautiful polish, it is very treacherous, for after, perhaps, hours of trouble and
work have been bestowed upon it, it will be found they have been entirely
thrown away, a crack appearing and branching in various directions. No
material with which we are acquainted can be compared with ivory, the only
drawback being its cost ; and, on this account, in hollowing it, in making a box,
 the inside, instead of being cut out in shavings, should always be taken out in
 rings, by means of a bent-tool and fine parting-tool; and thus much of the
material is saved, which is always useful for making rims for pedestals,
candlesticks, &c.
     It will scarcely be believed by those unacquainted with the working of the
 lathe that there is no regular shape that is not capable of being produced by
 means of it, and it is perfectly marvellous what may be performed by common
 or hand turning. We remember seeing what we consider to have been the
 most wonderful piece of work ever produced. It was in the Exhibition in
 Hyde Park in 185 1. It was the size and shape of an ordinary hen's egg, and
 the whole of the inside had been turned out through an opening at one end
 of only one-tenth of an inch in diameter! It was performed by a journeyman
 turner in an ordinary lathe. It should be added that the shell thus produced
 weighed less by some grains than an ordinary egg-shell of the same size.
     Tedious as the operation is, nothing in the art of turning repays the trouble
 and time bestowed upon it more than constantly sharpening the tools and
 keeping a sharp edge continually upon them, for without this precaution an
 even surface on the work can never be produced.
     Nothing gives so delightful a finish to the smooth surface of the wood as
  French polish, which may be applied in the lathe. Simple as it may appear,
 it is by no means an easy matter, and requires a great deal of practice. A
 piece of hard wood must be turned, and made as smooth as possible with sand-
  pap, r, then take a piece of flannel about four or five inches square, and double
  it, then apply it to the neck of the bottle of French polish, which must be

                                   TURNING.                                   397
inverted two or three times until a piece of the surface of the flannel, about
the size of a shilling! is saturated with the polish, then apply a few drops of
salad oil and rub it over it with the finger; the lathe should then be set in
motion rather quickly, and as the work revolves the polish should be applied
to it evenly and with a very slight pressure, which should be gradually increased
as the polish hardens. A second and even a third coat may be given ; but
great care should be taken not to press too hard against the work, or the
friction will burn it and cause dark dull streaks to appear on the face of it.
This kind of polish should never be applied to ivory, the best way of polishing
which is as follows:
   Having finished the work with very sharp tools and the finest " glass-cloth "
or sand-paper, mix about a couple of table-spoonsful of common whitening,
reduced to a fine powder, with water, until it is of the consistency of cream,
and thoroughly saturating a piece of flannel with it, apply it as described above
to the work as it revolves, taking care to keep it perfectly wet. When the
requisite polish is obtained, a soft brush with dry powdered whitening should
be used, and then a piece of flannel soaked in a little salad oil, and, lastly, a
silk handkerchief.
   In making boxes of hard wood, it is better to rough them out and keep them
in a dry place for some weeks before they are used, as sometimes the wood will
crack if it happens to be at all damp, which is often the case if it be used
directly it is purchased. If hard wood be purchased in any quantity, it is a
good plan to glue pieces of brown paper over each end of the log : this will
prevent its cracking. Oiling it is also a good plan.
   Rhinoceros horn makes a most beautiful material when turned and polished;
but the operation is most tedious, for, with every care, it dulls the edges of the
tools directly they are applied to it, and the hone must be kept in constant use.
After being turned and made perfectly smooth with the finest glass-cloth, it
must be polished with a mixture of rotten-stone and oil while revolving in the
lathe, as before described.
   A few hours' occasional instruction at the hands of a professional turner
will do more for a beginner than reading volumes of printed directions ; at the
same time we feel assured that the few hints we have given will be of essential
service. •
                         ORNAMENTAL TURNING.
   We now come to the most difficult part of our subject, viz.. Ornamental
Turning— so called to distinguish it from Common or Hand Turning, as
described in our previous article ; for by it the most delicate and intricate
patterns may be cut on hard wood and ivory with the most delightful accuracy
and with mathematical truth, which could not by any possibility be produced
without its aid ; and as the apparatus necessary for its accomplishment is
only an addition to the ordinary lathe, its different parts may be purchased
by degrees as the learner gradually attains proficiency.
   We will first, then, describe the lathe itself as shown in the annexed wood
cut.
   A A is a framework of wood, generally mahogany, very strongly and sub
stantially made, on which the other parts of the lathe are put on and taken off
as required. In some lathes the " bed " (the horizontal cross-piece at the top
and front) is entirely of iron ; but this we object to, for we have found by
experience that there is much more vibration than there is if it be made only

398                   THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
partly of that material : and for this reason we recommend that the lower
part of it be made of the best mahogany, having two bars of planed cast iron
exactly parallel to each other on its top, and half ai inch thick, which can be

                                     TURNING.          ,                         399
easily added to any lathe having its " bed " formed entirely of wood, which is
the case with all low-priced ones.
    b is the driving-wheel, which is set in motion by the treadle, c. This should
be of cast iron, and the heavier the better. The smaller wheel attached to it
(as shown in the drawing) is used in metal turning only, as very much less
 speed is required than in turning wood or ivory.
    D is the " pulley," as it is called, over which the catgut band from the driv
ing-wheel passes and sets it in motion.
    E is the mandril, having a screw at its end which fits all the chucks, and on
which they are screwed as required. It should fit the " head " of the lathe
with the most scrupulous accuracy, and should be hollow from end to end
{i.e., if the lathe has a screw-cutting apparatus belonging to it), as it enables
the performer to chuck long pieces of thin wood, ivory, &c, and to turn their
ends by passing them through it as well as through the chuck.
    F is what is called the " back poppit," and is a movable contrivance attached
to the lathe, having a piece of pointed steel, which is capable of being ad
vanced or withdrawn by means of the screw at its rear. It is used when
turning any long piece of wood, or other material, in order to keep it steady.
 It slides between the two iron bearers on the bed of the lathe as before des
 cribed, and can be fixed at any spot upon them by its binding-screw, as shown
 in the drawing : the pointed piece of steel which is pressed against the material
 should be exactly opposite the centre of the end of the mandril.
    C is a most ingenious and useful addition to the lathe, as it enables the
turner to make screws, whether of the coarser or finer threads, with the most
unerring accuracy. It is a plate of brass, three-eighths of an inch in thick
ness, attached to the end of the head of the lathe, immediately below the end
of the mandril, which projects about two and a half inches; and moving on an
eccentric, so that it is capable of the very
finest adjustment, in order to fit a coarse
or fine thread. It is in the shape shown
in the engraving.
    Six segments of a circle are cut out from
its edge. In No. I is cut a coarse thread ;
in No. 2, a finer one, and so on to No. 6,
corresponding with and fitting the six dif
ferent sized screw-tools. The end of the
mandril has a steel cap fitted to it, which
is kept in its place by a screw at one end,
while the other meets the head of the lathe,
and keeps the mandril from advancing
when the lathe is at work. There are also
six blocks of steel, an inch and a half in
diameter and an inch thick, and round               FlG a, SCEEW^UTTINC apparatus.
these are cut threads Nos. I and 6, as
before described ; these are called " screw guides," and are used in this way :
when it is desired to cut a screw (whether coarse or fine), the number is se
lected, the screw at the end of the mandril must be taken out, the cap removed,
and one of the guides put in its place (the guides have holes through them,
fitting the end of the mandril), and fixed by the screw. The brass plate
must then be moved up and down by means of the eccentric attached to
it until the corresponding screw fits into the thread of the guide, and allows

40o                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
it to run freely and evenly upon it. The screw-tool must then be selected
which fits the guide. And now, then, for the method of cutting the required
screw. Advance the screw-guide on the screw in the edge of the brass plate
below it about half its length, having previously, of course, turned'the piece
of wood or ivory on which the screw is to be cut, and attached it in its chuck
to the mandril. Then place the screw-tool on the rest M, allowing its end to
come in contact with the work, when it must be held perfectly steady. The
large driving-wheel must then be moved with the treadle about half-way round,
and reversed. It will be readily seen that the mandril as it revolves moves
forwards and backwards by the motion thus given to it, and of course in exact
proportion to the "pitch" of the thread employed; and after a few turns the
screw is complete. The inside screw is cut in precisely a similar way, substi-
stuting the inside screw-tool. For making " working " screws, i.e., those which
in boxes, &c, are intended to be opened and shut, this apparatus is invaluable,
as the screws thus made fit most accurately. Where a joint is made, not in
tended to be disturbed, the screws may be cut well enough by hand ; but when
time is no object, we would advise all screws to be made by this apparatus.
Care should be taken that the screw-tool be placed on the rest so that its side
comes exactly against the "shoulder" of the work, where the bottom of the
screw finishes. A groove should always be cut round the work at this spot,
rather deeper than the intended thread, which glides nicely into it without leav
ing a ragged edge.                             We will next attempt to describe the
                                            " universal chuck," so called from its
                                            being capable of holding in the lathe
                                            any sized piece of wood or ivory from
                                            half an inch up to four or five inches.
                                            This chuck is not absolutely necessary,
                                            although a very useful tool. It is a plate
                                            of brass, a, about half an inch thick,
                                           having a screw in its centre at the back
                                            to fit the nose of the mandril (which
                                           all chucks must do), and having three
                                            steel screws, n, 8, n, passing through
                                            slots and converging to the centre, as
                                            shown in the engraving. The holes
                                            which appear in the plate are of no other
                                            use than that of lessening the weight of
                                            the chuck. It is as well to have ten
                                            or twelve concentric circles cut on the
                  Fig. 3.                   face of the plate, as it enables the turner
                                            to adjust his work in it with greater
facility as regards the centre of the chuck. In order to fix the work in this
chuck, the screws should be turned, with a key made to fit them, until the
jaws, or " dogs," as they are called, are drawn sufficiently far from the centre
to admit of its being inserted ; they must then be screwed tight against it, and
it is thus held quite firmly. Some of these chucks are made so that by turning
one screw all three of these jaws move equally towards the centre ; but this is
practically a disadvantage, and for this reason : that it requires the work to
be exactly circular, in order to grip it firmly, which is not the case if the screws
act independently of each other In the latter case the turner is able to chuck
work of almost any shape, and this is a great consideration in preparing the

                                   TUJiX/XG.                                    401
material, particularly rVory, for the lathe, in which it is. of course, desirable to
avoid cutting, as much as possible, to waste.
   Another very useful tool is the " boring collar," which is attached to the
lathe in the same way as the " back poppit," F. It is composed of a circular
plate of cast iron, A, having eight circular
holes bored through it, as shown in the
drawing, varying in size from half an inch
up to two inches, or even more, and slight
ly tapered.
   It is for the purpose of supporting any-
long piece of work while boring it, in order
to get rid of the vibration. It is used in
this way : the " back poppit " must be taken
from the bed of the lathe, and the " boring
collar " put in its place, with its standard
next to the mandril ; the distance from
which must, of course, be regulated by the
length of the work required to be bored.
One end of the work being fixed in the
chuck, the "boring collar" must be pushed
forward, and the plate turned round, until
the hole in the plate, fitting the work is at
the top, when it will be found to be ex
actly opposite the end of the mandril, and
concentric with it ; the plate must then be
made fast by means of the nut in the cen
tre, by the binding-screw beneath, and the
boring collar itself fixed in its place. The
lathe must then be worked in the ordinary-
way, and the end of the work can then be
easily bored or hollowed as required with                       Fig. 4.
out fear of its giving way.
   We have, we trust, described the lathe itself sufficiently so far as common
or hand turning is concerned ; and we will now proceed to describe the various
additions to it which are necessary for the accomplishment of Ornamental
Turning.
                            The Overhead Motion.
   This is a bar of wrought iron, H (p. 398), fitting movably into two stout rings of
the same material, attached to the left-hand bearer of the lathe, as shown in
the drawing, and having a screw, L, beneath it, and working in a third ring to
enable it to be raised or depressed about three inches at pleasure by means
of a screw, for the purpose of tightening or loosening the band which passes
over the pulley, hereafter described. The upper end of this bar is bent, as
shown in the engraving, and carries a frame and spindle, I, on which are two
pulleys about three inches in diameter.
    In common or hand turning the work revolves in the lathe, and the tools are
held against it ; but in ornamental turning it is just the reverse, for while the
tools revolve, the work remains stationary. The band connecting the driving-
wheel with the pulley is removed, and a long band connecting the driving-
wheel with the small pulleys on the overhead motion is substituted, and a
                                                                        26

402                   THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
second band, connecting the other pulley on the spindle with the wheels on
different parts of the apparatus connected with the slide-rest (presently
described), causes the different tools to revolve.
   The above description will, we trust, be sufficiently clear to enable our young
readers at once to comprehend this part of the apparatus ; and we will, there
fore, at once proceed to describe the slide-rest, an indispensable adjunct to
the lathe, and without which no attempt can be made in this branch of our
subject.
                                The Slide-rest,
so called from the cradle connected with it, which carries several slides, in
which the various tools are fixed. When in use it is attached to the lathe
by removing the rest, M, described in Fig. I, and placing the slide-rest in its
place. We will now attempt to describe it as correctly as we can.
   a is a piece of cast iron, most accurately planed and finished, of the shape
shown in the engraving, having a slot cut through it nearly its entire length,
through which a flat threaded screw works and carries the slide is, which, by
means of this screw, can be moved from one end of a to the other, so that the
tool can be brought to bear on any part of the work ; and as the small wheel, D,
attached to the end of the screw is graduated with twenty divisions, and the
" pitch " of the screw is twenty turns to the inch, it will be seen at once that the
very finest adjustments may be arrived at. The upper part of the rest is fastened
to the lower part by means of a stout standard fixed to it exactly at right angles,
which falls into a reccptable made for it, and the upper part can be secured at
any angle with the lower by means of the binding-screw, F, and can be raised
or depressed by turning a ring of brass working on a screw which is placed be
tween them. E is a key which turns the screw carrying the cradle, B ; C is the slide
which fits into the cradle, B, and which carries the "eccentric cutting-frame."
the " universal cutting-frame," and the " vertical cutting-frame," all of which
will be described in their turn. G G are two binding-screws, which keep them
 firmly in their places. H is the binding-screw for attaching it to the lathe ;
 and I I are two small standards, one attached to the slide C, and the other to

                                    TURNING.                                   4°3
the cradle B, by means of which and the two levers, A and B, Figs. 6 and 7,
Xhey are advanced or withdrawn to and from the work, by placing the hole at
                                    Figs. 6 axd 7.
the end of the lever over the standard on the slide, and the slot over that on
the cradle, the straight one, a, being used for the tool-slide (Fig. 8), and the
drill-slide (Fig. 9) and the bent one, B, for the slides carrying the eccentric
cutting-frame, universal cutting-frame, and vertical cutting-frame.
                                 The Tool-slide.
   This slide is used almost exclusively with what are called the slide-rest tools,
which need no further description than that they are straight tools about two
and a quarter inches long, with round, square, pointed, or grooved ends, ac
cording to the pattern required to be produced. They fit into the boss C on
the slide A, and are kept in their place by the binding-screw D. B is the standard
before described, E being a small stud or handle for withdrawing the slide.
F and G are two screws, F regulating the depth of the cut in the work, and c;,
by being turned slowly, allowing the tool to advance gradually to it, thus di
minishing the risk of the very delicate points of the tools being broken, and
                                         Fie. 8.
avoiding the chance of a ragged gash or scratch being made on the work,
which would be the case if the tools were pushed suddenly against it. These
screws, it will be observed, are attached to all the slides used in the slide-rest.
   The slide (Fig. 8), although it enables the turner to produce very beautiful
patterns in connection with the eccentric chuck, hereafter described, is com
paratively very little used for ornamental purposes, excepting as it is indis
pensably necessary in ensuring a perfectly true and even surface on the wood
                                                                26—2

404                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
or ivory, preparatory to the introduction upon it of the various and innumerable
patterns which are capable of being produced by the other tools. The method
of using this slide will be described and treated of in the concluding remarks
and instructions of this article.
                   The Drilling-frame, or Drill-slide.
   This instrument is one of the most useful of all these slides, as by its use
such a great variety of patterns may be produced. It fits, like all the other
slides, in the cradle, B, on the slide-rest. A is the slide itself ; B, the spindle,
having a steel wheel at its lower end (by which motion is given to it by passing.
                                       Fig. 9.
the band from the overhead motion over it), and a receptacle, E, into which
the various tools are inserted, c is the standard before described ; g, the
regulating-screws, and F a small piece of steel attached to the slide, which (the
head of the screw being graduated) enables the turner to alter the depth of
the cut by equal degrees.
                       The Eccentric Cutting-frame.
                                                        This instrument, as its.
                                                     name implies, is used in
                                                     cutting eccentric patterns
                                                     on the prepared surface of
                                                     wood or ivory, and the di
                                                     versity of work which may
                                                     be accomplished by it is al
                                                     most incalculable.
                                                        A is a steel shaft, which
                                                     also fits into the slide on the
                                                     cradle, b, of the slide-rest,
                                                     having a spindle working
                                                     through its entire length,
                                                     which, like the drilling-
                                                     frame, has a steel wheel, E,
                                                     at its lower end, moved in
                      Fig. 10.                       the same way. At the upper
                                                     end is a steel frame, B, hav
                                                     ing a four-threaded steel

                                    TURNING.                                      405
•screw working through its entire
 length, with a graduated head, C
 D is a binding-screw connected with
 a socket, which holds the various
 tools, of six of which we here give
 drawings, which may be made, of
 course, of any shape that may be de
 sired. This instrument enables the
 turner to describe circles of any size
 within its compass, by simply turn
 ing the screw, c, at the end of the
 frame, which moves the socket                              Fig. 11.
 nearer to or farther from the centre.
                         The Vertical Cutting-frame.
                                               This tool, like the two preceding
                                            ones, is attached to the slide in the
                                            cradle, B, on the slide-rest by its shaft,
                                            A. B is the end of a steel spindle,
                                            passing through its upper end, and at
                                            exactly right angles with the shaft,
                                            having a slot and binding-screw for
                                            holding one of the sm ill tools (seo
                                            Fig. 1 1), at one end, and a similar
                                            small steel wheel to that in Fig. 10
                                            at the other, and worked in exactly
                                            the same way. This tool, as its name
                                            signifies, only cuts vertically.
   We now come to a far more complicated but most useful tool, called
                        The Universal Cutting-frame,
which, like all the preceding ones, fits into the slide of the slide-rest, and is
worked by means of the overhead motion. As its name implies, its action is
universal, i.e., it enables the turner to make cuts in his work at any angle and
direction.
   A is its shaft, having a spindle passing through its entire length, attached
to the apparatus to be presently described at its upper end, and a finely-
graduated index, c, with a binding-screw, f, at the other. This index has its
zero or starting-point on its upper side, and the degrees marked upon it extend
to its right and left. The instrument, as shown in the engraving, is set at this
point, and the cut made by it in this position would be exactly horizontal, li
is the small wheel similar to that in Fig. 12. H is the end of the small spindle,
having a slot cut through it, and a binding-screw for the purpose of holding
any of the small tools in Fig. 11. E is the head of the instrument, and below
it is the binding-screw for the purpose of holding the small frame, D, which
carries the two small additional or guide-wheels. It is obvious that if the band
from the overhead motion came direct from it to the small wheel B in the posi
tion in the drawing, it could not act, as that wheel is in an horizontal one ;
but, with the aid of the additional or guide-wheels on the frame D, the band

406                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
can be brought to bear upon it at any angle. We will suppose, then, that a
cut is required to be made at fifteen degrees from zero on the right: the bind
ing-screw, F, must be loosened, and the instrument turned in its shaft until the
mark on the small fixed stud is exactly opposite that number on the index,
when the binding-screw, F, must be tightened and the cut made. If a corre
sponding cut is required, all that is necessary is to again loosen the binding-
screw, F, turn the instrument in its shaft until the same number on the other
                                      Fig. 13.
side of the index is opposite the mark on the small stud, when the cut made
will be exactly in a corresponding direction on the other side. The frame, u,
is made to shift from one side to the other, so as to accommodate it to the
shape or position of the work ; and this is done by simply loosening the bind
ing-screw at E, withdrawing the frame, and putting it through the same hole
on the other side, and again tightening the screw ; the small brass additional
or guide-wheels on the frame must then be transferred to the other end of the
bar on which they work, or they will not be opposite trie small driving-wheel
on the spindle, and would not, therefore, be " in gear " with it.
   This brief description, with the drawing before him, will, we think, be amply
sufficient to enable the pupil to comprehend the great use of this instrument.
All further knowledge of it can only be acquired by practice on the instrument
itself.
   We next proceed to give a description of
                           Thf. Eccentric Chuck.
Fig. 14 being the front part of it, showing the cog-wheel, B, on which the
common chuck carrying the work is screwed, with its ratchet and spring, C
and ri ; and Fig. 15 showing the back of the chuck, with the screw, F, by which
it is attached to the mandril of the lathe, E being the head of the screw, to be

                                   TURNING.                                  407
hereafter described. This chuck is nothing more than a slide for moving the
work in an eccentric position, or " out of the centre," which enables the turner
                        Fig. 14.                    Fig. 15.
to operate upon the surface of it at any given point. We here give an engraving
of the chuck with the slide thrown out. A is the brass slide ; B is the cogged
wheel on which the common chuck is fixed, which is graduated round its edge
with ninety-six divisions or cogs, into which the ratchet, C, having a powerful
spring, D, works, and holds it in any position. It will be seen, therefore,
that a lateral or a circular movement, or both, can be given to the work
attached to it, and thus any part of it so placed that the tool in the slide-rest
can be brought to bear upon it. A slot the whole length of the chuck is cut
                                                                                  -

408                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
both in the slide, A, and in the brass plate below it, and a steel block is firmly
brazed to the lower part of the slide a, through which the screw, E, works.
The slide A can thus be moved any distance from the centre by turning this
screw. When the slide A is screwed "home," it is exactly concentric with the
mandril of the lathe. It may be well to remark here that any work intended
to be ornamented by the aid of this chuck in conjunction with the slide-rest
should always be turned upon it in this position in the plain lathe, and "faced"
by means of the slide-rest tools in the slide (Fig. 8) without moving it from,
or disturbing it in, the chuck. Attention to hints like this, trifling as they may
appear until put in practice, will often save the turner much time, much annoy
ance, and, what is perhaps of more importance, much temper ; for it fre
quently, indeed nearly always, happens that, after much labour devoted to the
preparation of a piece of work to receive eccentric patterns, &c, and it is
found necessary to remove it from one chuck to another, or to move it in its
own chuck from the lathe (even although you immediately replace it), a great
want of accuracy will be discovered, which will take probably hours to set to
rights. Let it be a golden rule therefore never, after a piece of work is in a
sufficient state offorwardness to receive the pattern intended to be placed upon
it, allow it to be removedfront the mandril or moved in its chuck.
   An instrument not in anything like general use amongst amateur turners,
although it enables them to place ornamental patterns on work of certain
peculiar shapes and forms, which they could not perform without its aid, is
deserving of a description here ; and we can assure our young friends that,
when they have attained a certain amount of proficiency in this delightful
amusement, it will be well worth their attention, and a most useful addition to
their stock of ornamental apparatus. It is a very simple, though very ingenious,
piece of mechanism, and we will now attempt to describe it. It is called
                               The Dome Chuck,
and is so named from its enabling the turner to ornament the sides of a dome
or half-sphere on its convex surface, which will be noticed in the instructions
hereafter given.
   A is a stout piece of brass or gun metal, about half an inch thick and four
                                             and a half inches long, with a nozzle
                                             at one end cut at right angles to fit
                                             the mandril of the lathe ; and at the
                                             other is a graduated nut, B, attached
                                             to a screw, which passes along a slot
                                             (longer than appears by the engrav
                                             ing) and through a block on the
                                             lower side of the slide, which can
                                             thus be moved to or from the centre.
                                             To an arm extending from this slide
                                             is fixed the graduated wheel (ninety-
                                             six divisions), E, which is moved
                                             round by the endless screw, D, by
                                             means of a key, and G is a screw of
                                             the same size as that cut on the nose
                   Fig. 17.                  of the mandril, which receives the
                                             chuck containing the work, C being
a binding-screw to fix the slide in its place The slide referred to is composed

                                    TURNING.                                    409
  of two plates of brass, and the slot and binding-screw, f, admits of the upper
  one being turned on the other by its centre, which, giving a different position
  to the work, enables an elliptical shape to be operated upon. It must not be
  imagined that anything can be done with the ctiuck -without the assistance of
  the slide-rest and overhead motion. It merely holds the work in its proper
  position, and regulates its adjustment and the requisite movements as the
  work proceeds.
     We now come to a description of the very ingenious and indispensable
  instrument for sharpening the small tools used in this branch of turning
  (shown in Fig. 11), on which the accuracy and uniformity of the work very
  materially depends, and without which it would be impossible to preserve that
  exactness in the angles of the tools, which is so essential to good work, and
  to produce and retain the necessary oolish upon them.
     It is composed almost entirely of "brass, the upper part, G, being attached
  to the lower one, C, by a hinge, and having graduations on its upper surface,
  commencing at its centre and extend
  ing right and left. From just above
  the hinge is an index, moving on a
  pin just below the binding-screw, is,
  and extending to the graduations on
 the brass plate, and upon it are two
 sockets, A A, into which the holder
 containing the tool to be sharpened
 is placed, and held tight by the bind
 ing-screw, B. F is a semicircular piece
 of steel, also graduated, fastened to
 the lower plate and passing through
 the upper one, which is kept in its
 place by the binding-screw, d. At
 •each end of the lower plate is a small
 stud or foot. It will be seen that by
 this arrangement the index carrying
 the tool can be placed at any angle
 by moving it to the right or left, and
 any degree of bevil can be obtained
 by moving the upper plate, o, up or
 down the perpendicular index, F.
 When in use, i.e., when a tool is being
 sharpened, the two studs or feet and                      Fig. 18.
 the tool itself form a tripod upon any
 even surface on which they may be placed.
    In order to sharpen a tool, proceed as follows (all these tools, if procured
 from Messrs. Holtzappfel and Co., of Charing Cross, bear a number) : first
ascertain the number engraved upon it, and then move the index to the corre
sponding number on the plate, having of course fixed the tool in the sockets;
then, being prepared with a piece of perfectly smooth and even sheet of brass,
place upon it a small quantity of crocus powder (to be had at Messrs. Holt
zappfel and Co.'s) and a little salad oil ; then let the two feet of the instrument
and the bevil of the tool rest on this plate, the tool being placed, of course,
on the crocus : by simply moving the tool round and round and to the right
and left, the keenest edge will be obtained, and at the same time the most

4io                     THE YOUNG U'CRAMAX.
exquisite polish. If a tool requires grinding, fine emery powder must first be
used, to be followed by oil-stone powder, finishing off with crocus.
   No one but those who have had experience can form any idea of the diffe
rence in appearance between work when finished with a blunt tool and with a
sharp one ; and the time and labour spent in getting up a brilliant polish on
                                              the tool is compensated for tenfold
                                              by the beauty and lustre of the
                                              work it produces.
                                                 This (Fig. 19) will be found to
                                              be a most useful instrument when
                                              perfect truth in the boring the in
                                              side of a cylinder, &c, is required.
                                                 A is a steel shaft, fitting into the
                                              slide which carries the eccentric
                                              cutting-frame, &c, in the slide-
                                              rest, with a slot cut through its
                                              head exactly at right angles, to
                                              admit of the tool B being inserted,
                                              which is kept firmly in its place
                               1 1
                                              by two binding-screws, as shown
                                              in the engraving. C is a movable
                    Fig. 19.                  cutter, having a sharp bevillcd
                                              edge on its end and side. By the
aid of the slide-rest it moves in an exact straight line, and therefore cuts the
inside of a tube, cylinder, &c, with perfect accuracy.
                  THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.
                How to Make a Horizontal Steam-Engine.
    In these advanced days of science and civilization I doubt whether any boy
 could possibly be ignorant of the fact that steam is simply water in a state of
 vapour, produced at a temperature of 21 2°, and upwards, " Fahrenheit." In
 these pages it is not my intention to enter into a detailed account of the
 discover)', or rather the invention, of the steam-engine (on which subject
 volumes have been and still might easily be filled), which may be traced as
 far back as B.C. 1 30 years, when Hiero of Alexandria invented a species of
 engine, which has been so extensively modified and altered that it is now
 almost a difficulty to ascertain which was the precise form devised by the
 inventor. Small glass and metal constructions, which are frequently called
 "Hiero's engines," may be purchased at many opticians', and are used for
 diffusing perfumes. Neither do I intend writing a long dry essay on the
 properties and quality of steam. I shall only write sufficient to enable the
 reader to become somewhat acquainted with the properties and power of this
 great motive agent, and to understand what he is about before attempting the
  construction of a model engine. I shall only attempt to supply, in generally
  intelligible language, an explanation of the facts and principles on which the
  structure of the steam-engine depends.

                           THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                                    411
     The first thing necessary for the production of steam is a " Boiler," i.e., a
 vessel sufficiently strong to be capable of resisting a certain pressure, and
 furnished with a valve (called a safety-valve) for relieving the boiler of the
 superabundant pressure, which valve is regulated by a weight placed on a
 lever, or else by means of a strong spiral spring.
     Boilers are now usually made in the style known as " Cornish," that is,
 longitudinal, with one or more tubes or flues running through them, containing
 the fire; or else vertical or upright, with a number of tubes inside, conveying
 the heat from the furnace below to the chimney on the top of the boiler.
     A most striking peculiarity of steam is that it increases most enormously in
 bulk compared with the water from which it is generated. One cubic inch of
 water will produce one cubic foot of steam, and as a cubic foot contains 1,728
 cubic inches, it follows that the space occupied by the steam would be over
 1,700 times greater than that required for the water.
     I fancy I can hear some of my readers say, " If that is the case, what an
 immense boiler would be required ! " Very true, but the difficulty is solved thus:
 steam is remarkably clastic and compressible, so much so that hundreds of
 cubic feet can be packed into the space originally occupied by one foot, pro
 vided that the vessel containing it is sufficiently strong to resist the great in
 crease of pressure. This is called "high pressure." For instance, a boiler
 capable of containing only three cubic feet of steam, the pressure of which is
 20 lbs. to the square inch, has another three feet of the same pressure added,
then the pressure on the boiler would be doubled, or, as a " pressure gauge "
would show, would equal 40 lbs. to a square inch, and so on till the boiler is
burst by undue pressure. This clearly shows that it is absolutely necessary to
provide ample means of escape for the steam generated in boilers, as most
frightful accidents are constantly taking place from the neglect of this condition.
    We will now proceed to the machanism required for developing the force of
 steam, so as to render it available for any purpose to which we may feel inclined
 to apply it.
    There are several different classes of engines, viz. : locomotives, marine,
 screw, paddle, and trunk; vertical, horizontal, oscillating, beam, and Cornish.
These different styles are mostly modifications of the arrangements of the
horizontal and vertical engines. Locomotives and the ordinary arrangements
of horizontal and vertical engines are what are termed " high pressure," whilst
marine engines are " low pressure condensing," and the beam and Cornish
engines frequently high and low pressure condensing combined.
    Before going further, I think it advisable to describe as shortly as practicable
what is meant by "condensing." The exhausted steam which has done its duty
in the cylinder is conducted into a vessel in which a quantity of cold water i?
continuously injected in the form of a jet; this has the effect of turning the
steam again into water, which is afterwards partly made use of for feeding the
boiler, and, as the water is warm, there is necessarily a saving of fuel.* This
   * This vessel is immersed in a tank of cold water and is supplemented with a pump, by means of which
the water supplied by the injection and the condensed steam are constantly being pumped out. This U
called the air-pump.
   The water surrounding the condenser, unless it were changed, would in time become warm, and fail
to effect the condensation. This is remedied by the application of a pump and waste-pipe to the cold
cistern in which the condenser is submerged : the pump continually supplies cold water, which, by its
comparative weight, has a tendency to sink to the bottom, and the waste-pipe, placed near the surface,
lets the warm water escape, which, by its comparative lightness, ascends. Thus, by these arrangements,
the method of condensation becomes complete. —Dr. Lardner on the Steam-Engine.

 4i2               , THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
class of engine is not always available, on account of the large quantity of
water required for condensing the steam.
   I shall direct your attention in the following pages to the Horizontal and
Oscillating engines. For the benefit of such of my readers as may not be
acquainted with the names of the various parts of the steam-engine, I will
enumerate them and explain, their various uses.
   The engine first claiming attention is that known as the " Horizontal." This
is one of the simplest forms of engine, and is most generally used. Figs. I
and 2 show an elevation and plan of a horizontal engine, drawn to 3-in. scale,
or a quarter the size which it is intended to be built. The various parts are
distinguished by letters corresponding with the following list :
   A. Bed-plate. This is a frame or plate, made of cast iron, to which the
cylinder, plummer-blocks, guide, &c, are firmly bolted. (In our model I should
advise it being made of brass, as it is more easily worked.)
   ii. Cylinder. A description of this important part of an engine will be given
hereafter.
   c. Cylinder-covers. These are discs of cast metal, bolted to flanges cast
on the ends of the cylinder ; one is made with a projection, called a stuffing-
box, through which the piston-rod works. The stuffing-box is a recess turned
on a boss cast on the cover for the purpose of receiving some " packing," such
as hemp, or tow, or gasket, well soaked in tallow, which is pressed tightly
against the piston-rod by means of the
   D. Gland, which is usually made of brass or gun-metal, although in many
large engines it is made of cast iron, " bushed," or lined with brass. It is
tightened down to the packing by means of screws or studs and nuts.
   E. Steam-jacket. A cast iron case or box bolted to, and sometimes cast on.
the cylinder face, in which the slide-valve works, and into which the steam is
admitted before it enters the cylinder.
   F. Piston (sec Figs. 14 and 15). A solid disc or plug, fitting the interior of
the cylinder with sufficient accuracy to prevent the steam from passing from
one side to the other.
   G. Piston-rod. A round rod, usually made of steel, firmly screwed or keyed
in the centre of the piston, and passing through the stuffing-box and gland,
through which it must move so closely as not to allow any steam to escape.
   h. Cross-head. A species of boss or crossbar, fixed on the piston-rod, to
which the connecting-rod is jointed.
   I. Fork Connecting-rod. A rod somewhat similar in shape to a tuning-fork,
forged out of wrought iron, connected at one end with the cross-head, and
at the other end with the crank disc-pin. The ends of the connecting-rods
that arc used for practical purposes are fitted with gun-metal bearings, termed
brasses, to prevent undue friction.
   J. Guide. This is a block or bracket to keep the piston-rod in a straight
line with the centre of the shaft, and to prevent it from getting buckled or bent.
   K. Dise. A circular metal plate fixed to the end of the shaft, and earning a
pin to which the connecting-rod is attached. The disc is usually cast heavier
on the side opposite to the crank-pin, to carry the connecting-rod over the
" centres."
   l. Fly-wheel Shaft. This is a stout wrought iron shaft, to which the disc
is keyed. It carries the disc, eccentric, fly-wheel, and pulley (m) for trans
mitting motion to whatever machinery the engine is intended to work. (In
the engraving the fly-wheel is omitted for want of space. Its use is that, by

                    THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                   4i3
                                                                      $w\
                                             oT
                           «c
                                             Qt
                                             #
                                  Fi 05. I AND 2.
means of its impetus, it carries the crank over the "centres'' or dead
points.)
   N. Pedestals or Plummer-blocks. Cast iron blocks fitted with brasses, on
which the shaft revolves. These blocks are provided with caps, and bolts and
nuts, for tightening down the brasses as they may be worn away. This is
called " taking up the wear."
   O. Eccentric. A circular plate of metal keyed on the shaft at a point at
some certain distance from its true centre, giving by this means a reciprocating
motion, similar to that of the crank or disc itself.
   v. Eccentric Straps. Rings of metal, usually made in halves and bolted to
gether, in which the eccentric revolves. A groove is generally turned in the
rim of the eccentric sheave, to keep the straps in their places.
   Q. Eccentric-rod. An iron rod fixed to the eccentric straps at one end, and
connected with the valve-spindle at the other end.
   R. Slide-valve. (Figs. 14 and 16.) An iron or brass block, working over
the "ports" of the cylinder-face, to regulate the admission of steam. The
centre is hollowed out to allow the exit of the exhaust steam. The valve
must be "faced" to ensure a perfect fit against the cylinder-face.
   s. The Valve-spindle is a short steel rod, working through a stuffing-box
and gland on the steam-jacket, connecting the eccentric-rod with the slide-
valve.
  T. Holding-down Bolts are used for bolting the bed-plate down to its proper
foundation.
   Having now described the various component parts of the engine, I shall
go on to show how any boy possessed of a moderate amount of intelligence

4'4                   THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
and perseverance may, with the aid of a few tools and a few shillings, con
struct for himself a working model of a horizontal steam-engine.
   For the benefit of my readers who do not possess the necessary tools, I will
commence by giving a list of those required, with the approximate prices, and
information as to their various uses. If, however, they can be borrowed, so
much the better.
                                                          <—h
                                      F;g. 3.
   The first and foremost among tools is the lathe (Fig. 3). This is a machine
for turning metal or wood by causing the material to revolve on " centres," and
to be cut by a tool, either held by the hand of the operator or else fixed in a
"slide-rest." In the ordinary form of foot-lathe shown in the engraving, the
tool is held in the hand. The spindle, A, is called the mandril, and is caused
to revolve by means of speed pulleys, S s, which are connected by a stout
cord or gut. C is the bed to which the fast headstock, d, the loose head-
stock, or poppet-head, E, and rest, F, are secured by means of bolts. G G arc
the standards or gantries, to which the bed, C, is firmly bolted. The speed
pulleys, s s, which act also as a fly-wheel, are made to revolve by the crank,
 H, on pressure being applied to the treadle, I. The work to be turned is fixed
between the points or " centres," K K, and is made to revolve with the man
dril by means of a stud or pin fixed in the face-plate, L, which forces round a
 clamp or carrier fastened on to the work. The price of a lathe varies accord
 ing to size. They may be bought from £2 to ,£100. The amateur who does
 not possess one, or who cannot afford to purchase one, can always get his
 turning done by a turner for a very moderate sum.
   A 3-in. bench-vice (Fig. 4) will be found quite large enough. It is used for
 holding or gripping any piece of work that is to be fitted, chipped, or filed.
 Fig. 4 a shows a vice and portable vice-bench. A vice similar to Fig. 4 a,
 without bench, new, is 15-f. ; secondhand, about gs.
    Files: one each 8-in. bastard, smooth half-round, smooth flat, taper square,
 and one 6-in. round smooth, will be found ample. These will cost about 3.1.
  The rough or bastard are used for reducing work to a proper form, when it is
 finished and polished with the smooth files.

                     THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                   4>5
            Fie.
                                                         Fie. 4 a.
   Centre-punch. This is used for marking the centres of holes, &c, and in
"lining." Price (xi.
   Callipers. One pair of inside and one pair of outside (Fig. 5) will be re
quired. Their use is to measure accurately the diameter of holes and rods.
Price from \od. to is. Cxi. per pair, according to size
  Fig. 5.                  Fig. s a.                             Fig. 6.
   A carrier (Fig. 5 a) is a species of clamp, used for causing work to revolve
in the lathe ; the screw is used for pressing the work close against the sides of
the carrier. Price from 2s. upwards.
   Compasses or dividers (Fig. 6) are for marking circles and measuring dis
tances. Price from is. per pair.
  A 2-ft. rule is absolutely necessary. Its use is obvious. Price from iorf.
  A scriber is a piece of steel wire sharpened to a point, and is used for mark
ing lines, &c.
  Steel straight-edge is used for testing surfaces as to whether they are suffi
ciently flat or not. Price, 1 2 in. long, 2s.
  Square (Fig. 7) is used for squaring up a surface that must be at perfectly
right angles with another surface. This is called the "engineer's square," in
contradistinction to that used by the carpenter. Price 2s. Fig. 7 a represents

4i&                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
a shifting square, by means of which the blade may be lengthened or short
ened at pleasure. These, however, are more expensive, costing Js. (xi.
                     Fig. 7.                               Fig. 7 a.
   Pliers.   These are too well known to need any comment.           Price per pair.
from 6d.
                                 Fig. 9.                                 Fig. 11.
   Archimcdian drill-stock and drills (Fig. 8). These will be found very useful
for drilling small holes. Price with six drills, from 4s., according to size.
   Screw-plate and taps (Fig. 9). The plate is used for cutting outside or male
threads, and the taps for making corresponding inside or female screws. Price
of plate and taps for making six different sized screws, -jr. 6d.
   Hack-saw for cutting metal will be found extremely useful. Price for a useful
size, 2s. oV. (Fig. 10.)
   Scribing-block» (Fig. 1 1) is required for marking off the centre of the cylinder,
crank-shaft, guide, &c, when erecting the engine. This can very easily be
made with a square block of hard wood, with a piece of flat steel, sharpened
to a point at one end, screwed to it.
   Clamps. Pieces of lead hammered to fit the jaws of the vice, to protect
finished work from being marked by the teeth cut in the jaws of the vice.
These can easily be made by the amateur himself.
   Hammer of moderate size, with shaft, will cost about is. 3</.
   Surface-plate. This is used for testing the faces of valves and other pieces
of work that require a " dead true" bearing surface. For the amateur's pur
pose I should propose the use of a piece of hard wood, such as oak or birch,
about 7 in. by 5 in., planed dead true on one face, and the edges squared up.
    Milling tools are used for cutting a rough surface on the edge of a screw-
head, for facility in fastening them up tight in their proper places. (Fig. 12).
    A grindstone (Fig. 13) will be found very useful, although not essential.
    We shall complete our outfit by the addition of a small oil-feeder, price &*"..

                    THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                     417
                                                            Fig. 13.
and a few sheets of fine emery-cloth, which costs id. per sheet, or is. gd. per
quire of 24 sheets.
   The first thing to set about before commencing the engine is to make a
working drawing, full size if practicable, with all the details, &c This being
done, patterns of the various parts which are to be cast should be made. It
should be remembered that in pattern-making the parts which are bedded
most deeply in the sand ought to be slightly tapered, to allow of their being
easily withdrawn ; allowance should also be made for turning and fitting, and
also for contraction of metal, which is about three thirty-seconds of an inch
to the foot. It is advisable to make as much of the brass-work as possible
out of metal in sheet and stick—which latter may be purchased either cir
cular, square, or flat—in order to save pattern-making. In an engineering
establishment pattern-making is a very heavy item.
   Having treated of the drawings and patterns, I will now proceed to give
directions for making a small horizontal engine. (The engravings are all
made to scale, the details being 6-in. scale, or half size, so that in making the
drawing the dimensions can for the most part be taken from them.)
   The bed-plate, A, is to be 14J in. long, and 6 in. wide, and ^ in. thick, with
a slot 2 in. by i£ in., to enable the disc and pin to work clear. The simplest
way of making the bed-plate will be to procure a piece of iron plate fg in. thick,
and cut it to the foregoing dimensions.
   Fig. 15 is a section of the cylinder. It is 2 J in. between the faces of the
flanges, to which the covers are secured by nuts and bolts or screws. The
covers are 2j in. diameter, with a shoulder on one side i in. thick, and
1 \ in. diameter. The thickness of the covers to be $ in. The bore of the
cylinder is 15 in. and thickness of metal -J- in. all round, making altogether an
external diameter of if in. The top cover is provided with a stuffing-box,
into which the gland fits. This stuffing-box is partially filled with hemp
soaked in tallow, on which the gland is screwed down tightly to prevent any
escape of steam. The piston (Fig. 15) is a flat disc or plug of brass ij in.
diameter and j in. thick, accurately turned to fit the bore of the cylinder ; two
small grooves must be turned in its edge, in which is wound a small piece of
                                                                     27

4i8                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
                                                    Fig. 15.
cotton-wick or hemp soaked in tallow, to make it steam-tight. Fig. 14 is a
plan of the cylinder, showing the steam-ports.
   It will not be considered a digression, I trust, to give here just a short ex
planation of the cylinder and its appendages. The slide-valve (Figs. 15 and
16), being moved by means of the eccentric to the lower end of the jacket,
uncovers the port or passage A; the steam then enters the cylinder above the
piston, and, driving that downwards, the steam beneath makes its escape by
the port B into the recess in the slide-valve, and finds exit through the exhaust-
port C into the open air. For the greater facility in the escape of steam, the
exhaust-port is always made larger than either of the other ports.
                                 The slide-valve may be made out of a block of
                              brass I in. square and -fy in. thick. The width of
                              the recess must be the same as the length and
                              width of the ports on the cylinder-face. In Fig.
                              16 a perspective view of the back of the valve is
                              shown ; the two projections are intended to receive
                              the end of the valve-spindle between them. The
                              piston-rod is to be 7 in. long and £ in. diameter : a
                              piece of drawn steel wire will be found \nost suit
                              able for the purpose. One end is to be screwed
                              into the piston. The steam-jacket is simply a rect-
           1 . ,,p ,,         angular case of brass ij in. long, I in. wide, and
                              J in. deep, internal measurement. It is fitted with
a stuffing-box for the valve-spindle, similar to that for the piston-rod. A flange,

                     THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                  419
 \ in. thick, is formed on the two sides, through which screws pass to hold it
 down to the cylinder face. These flanges are to be made the same size across
 as the cylinder-face. If the covers and jacket are well fitted, a thin layer of
 red lead ought to be ample to render the joints steam-tight. The lugs on the
 cylinder, which hold it down to the bed-plate, must be exactly at right angles
 with the face, else the jacket will not be plumb when it is bolted on.
   The plummer-blocks or pedestals (Fig. 17) may be made either of cast iron
 or brass. Their thickness must be half an inch,
 and they should be in two pieces, viz., the block
 and cap. The simplest plan will be to cast the
                        Fig. 17.
 two parts together solid, then bore the hole for
 the shaft, saw the pedestal across through the
 shaft-centre, and secure the cap thus made with
 screws. The centre of the holes must exactly co
 incide with the centre of the cylinder, viz., 1^ in.
   The shaft and disc (Fig. 18) are now to be
attended to. The shaft will be best turned out
of steel, I in. diameter finished size, and may be
made any length convenient, providing it be not
less than 4 in. The crank-pin is $ in. diameter
at the part on which the connecting-rod cross-
head works. The end which fits into the disc is
\ in. diameter. The disc itself is a circular iron
plate, turned, 2f in. diameter and \ in. thick ; the
hole for the end of the shaft J in., and that for the
crank-pin \ in. The distance between the cen
tres of these holes must be exactly half the stroke
of the engine, viz., 1 in. The simplest plan for
securing the crank-disc on the shaft will be to
rum down the end of the shaft for a distance of
three-eighths of an inch to half an inch diameter,
drive the disc on to the shaft, and rivet the end
neatly over. 'The same will apply to the crank-
pin. The guide (Fig. 19) is a bracket, having a
hole drilled through it the same size as the piston-
rod. Its centre must coincide with the centres
of the cylinder and plummer-blocks, i.e., i\ in.
Fig. 20 is the piston-rod cross-head.                          Fig. t8.
                                                      27   2

420                       THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
                                                                 Fig
   We must next turn our attention to the connecting-rod (Fig. 21). My readers
will observe that it is constructed in the shape of a fork, and, for that reason, this
style of rod is termed a fork connecting-rod. The proper way of making it will
be to get a pieceof iron forged down to as near the size as possible, and then
finish it by turning and filing. Avoid brass, as it looks too much like the toy-
        €
                                        Fig.
shop style. The distance between the centre of the piston cross-head-pin and
that of the crank-pin should be 6 in. The arms are to be 3*- in. long, taking
the measurement from the top of the radius of the inside of the fork to the
centre of the hole for the cross-head-pin. The object of this kind of connecting-
rod, in our case, is to allow the rod to work clear of the guide for the piston-rod.
                 Fig. 22.                                   Fig. 23.
    The next consideration will be the eccentric-sheave (Fig. 22) and strap (Fir
 23). In theory the eccentric is really only a modification of the crank, and

                     THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                      421
 like the crank, always imparts twice the motion of its own throw. The eccentric
 is used for working the slide-valve, regulating the admission of steam into the
 ports on the cylinder face. Now, supposing we wish to give a valve a travel
 of four inches, we should first find the geometrical or real centre of the sheave,
from that we should mark off two inches, which would be the centre for the
hole for the shaft. This is a very nice operation and requires a great deal of
care, else the eccentric may give the valve either too much or not sufficient
travel. The travel of the slide-valve, as a general rule, is twice the width of
 one of the steam-ports, so that if the width of one of the steam-ports be taken
for the throw of the eccentric, the required travel of the slide-valve will be
found. If the slide-valve were placed exactly in the centre of the cylinder-face,
 it would be found to extend slightly beyond the edges of the ports in the
forward direction : this is termed the " lap " of the valve, its object being to
ensure the perfect covering of the steam-ports when the valve is in a central
position. The eccentric is keyed on to the shaft, similar ta the fly-wheel.
When the right position of the eccentric on the shaft has been found, it is a
good plan to make a centre punch-mark on the sheave, as also on the shaft.
 For the eccentric we shall require a piece of brass or wrought iron 2 in. dia
meter and \ in. thick ; a groove \ in. wide and \ in. deep must be turned in
its periphery to hold the strap ; a hole must then be bored for the shaft at a
proper distance from the real centre of the sheave- The strap is very simple,
and should be readily understood on reference to the woodcut, it being simply
a ring, made in halves, with lugs or ears to bolt them together, and a boss to
take the eccentric-rod. The width of the strap must be the same as that of
the groove in the sheave, and its internal diameter should correspond with the
external diameter of the groove.
    Fig. 24 represents the valve-spindle : one of the ends is filed to a flat on
opposite sides, leaving shoulders which butt against projections on the back
of the valve, and between which the flat end is placed. Another method
would be to cast a small boss on the back of the valve, and screw the spindle
into it. I am almost inclined to think that the latter plan is the more preferable.
The other end of the spindle is fitted with a joint for connecting it with the
eccentric-rod. The length of the spindle is 2f in. from, the end to the centre
of the pin in the joint, and its diameter about \ in.
    A few words as regards the fly-wheel. I should advise that it be made as
large as convenient (in order to carry the disc over the dead centres), the
moving force or inertia of which maintains continuous rotary motion.
    The next process will be to erect the engine. The first thing to be done
will be to line or mark out the bed-plate, x x is the centre-line of the cylinder
and piston-rod, &c ; Y V, centre-line through sole of guide ; Z Z, centre of
shaft and plummer-blocks. Centre-lines must also be scribed on the cylinder
and pedestals themselves. Particular attention must be paid to the fact that
the cross centre-lines must be at exactly right angles with the longitudinal
lines. First fix the cylinder, then the bearings, and then the guide.
   Setting the slide-valve is by far the most difficult part in erecting ; and, as
I suppose few of my readers could do it properly themselves, l should advise

422                   THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
them to secure the services of some mechanic, who would quickly do it for a
small trifle.
                                      Fig. 25.
                                     Boiler.
   Lastly, but not least, the boiler (Fig. 25), requires our consideration. The
easiest way that I can suggest of making it is to procure a piece of copper or brass
tube, 8 in. external diameter and 16 in. long ; this will form the shell, A. . B is
the fire-box, and should be made out of a piece of sheet copper, brazed up with
a piece of 2-in. brass pipe, E, fixed into the top of it, terminating in a bell or
trumpet-shaped mouth ; the length of this pipe may be about 20 in., and it
will form the chimney. C is a brass plate, \ in. thick, soldered into one end
of the boiler, having through the centre of it a hole to allow the chimney to
 pass through ; this should be soldered in the first of all. The fire-box must
 next be fixed in, and the chimney soldered or brazed into it, after being passed

                       THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                423
 through the hole in the top, a small bit of solder being run round the joint to
 make it tight. D is a short piece of brass tube, 8 in. internal diameter and
 2\ in. long, soldered round the bottom of the boiler to form the lamp space.
 The safety-valve, F, lever, G, and weight, H, can easily be made on reference
 to the illustration, which is drawn to scale. K K are gauge-cocks, to try the
 quantity of water in the boiler ; the top one should be screwed at 2J in.
 below the top of the boiler, and the lower one 8 in. from the bottom of the
 water space in the boiler. L is a blow-off cock, fixed quite at the bottom of
 the water space, for the purpose of emptying the boiler. The gauge-cocks K K
 are so arranged that when the boiler has its proper quantity of water in it,
 steam will issue from the upper and water. from the lower cock. M is the
 steam-pipe leading to the engine. To fill the boiler, unscrew the safety-valve,
 and pour in the water by means of a funnel until it reaches to about 3J in.
 from the top. The steam can be got up by means of either a spirit-lamp or
 gas-jets ; the latter are preferable on account of the much larger amount of
 heat which is given off. The steam-pipe may be J in. or § in. diameter.
                              Oscillating Engine.
    For the benefit of my readers who might not be able to make the foregoing
 engine, I append directions how to make the simplest kind of engine that can
                    Fig. 26.                         Kig. 27.
possibly be made. It is a simple modification of the high pressure engine,
usually known as " direct-acting," in which the cylinders (a single one in our
case) oscillate ; at the same time it is the weakest. As an oscillating this is
but one of a class, as many of our largest marine engines are built on the
oscillating principle, the recommendation being the small compass in which
they can be stowed.

 424                        THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
     The term "oscillating" is obtained from the fact that the engine while
 working rocks or vibrates from side to side, which motion is imperative, on
 account of its possessing no connecting-rod. This will be seen better on re
 ference to the drawings Figs. 26 and 27, which represent a front and side ele
vation of a single-acting engine. A represents the crank-shaft, to which are
 attached the fly-wheel, B, a driving pulley, C, and the crank, D, which com
municates with the piston-rod, E, by means of the cross-head, F. G is the
 cylinder ; H, the standards or supports for the shaft, A ; I, the boiler ; K, space
under boiler for spirit-lamp or gas-jet ; L, set-screw for keeping the cylinder
 close against the boss, M ; N, an opening in the fire-box, to admit air necessary
for the proper combustion of the gas or spirit-lamp flame ; o, a safety-valve ;
P, the blow-off cock, for drawing the water out of the boiler ; Q, an inlet or
plug for feeding the boiler ; and R, a small bracket for carrying the set-screw, L.*
                      ]     1
                               j         ]
                            r '          is
             OOO
             K   K
                                                                           Fig. 29.
    Of course the cylinder should be our first consideration. On reference to
the detail drawings (Figs. 28 and 29), it will be seen that the body, A, is to be
I in. diameter, with a flange, B, on the top end, \\ in. diameter and | in. thick,
while the flange, C (if I may so call it,), on the other end, is to be \ in. deep
and li diameter, the entire length being lj in. The cylinder is to be bored
out from end to end with a f-in. half-round boring-bit, and should be perfectly
smooth. After this has been done, turn the top surface of the flange B per
fectly true and square with the bore. This being a very important item, care
 should be taken to have it nicely done. Then one side of the lower flange
must be filed away perfectly level and parallel with the bore. Exactly in the
centre of this, drill a small hole and screw in a short piece of fine steel wire, F.
This must project about one-eighth of an inch from the flat surface. On either
side of this pin, drill an J-in. hole, E E, through to the bore. The cylinder will
be completed by soldering or brazing (soldering is the easiest, but brazing is
the strongest method) into the bottom of it an end made of |-in. brass. If
a pattern be made for the cylinder-cover (Fig. 30), a great deal of trouble will
            be saved, as well as time and trouble, which latter is no small con
            sideration. It may, however, be made in the following manner: pro-
    Pcurc a piece of brass, if in. diameter and \ in. thick ; in the centre
            of this solder a smaller piece, % in. diameter and j| in. thick. A hole
            must now be bored the exact size of our piston-rod, viz., \ in. ; drive
            the metal disc on a mandril and turn it up to the size shown in the
 Fie: 30.
            drawing, with a shoulder accurately fitting the inside of the cylinder
             and yV in. thick.
   • The plan and elevation are drawn to 3-in. scale, or quarter size, and the details to 6-in scale, or
 half size. Fig. 34 showing steam-ports in standard is engraved full size.

                       THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                         425
   Our attention is now claimed by the piston and piston-rod (Fig. 31). For
the piston procure a piece of brass, \ in. diameter and J in. thick, and turn it
on a mandril down to \ in. by \ in., with a groove about
\ in. square on the edge, to hold a small piece of lamp-
cotton or tow, soaked in oil, to make it steam-tight. The 151 mC-) 0
piston-rod may be made out of a piece of drawn steel wire,
£ in. in diameter and about \% in. long ; one end must be
screwed, so as to fit into the piston, which must be tapped               fig. 31.
to receive it.
   You will now want four small bolts and nuts, or four set-screws, for fastening
the cover on with. They had better be bought at some tool-maker's or opti
cian's shop, and as they only cost twopence each, it will never answer the
amateur's purpose to make them. Suppose we use screws : they must be $ in.
long from under the head to the point, and the diameter slightly under \ in. ;
across the head there must be a nick for a screwdriver. Four clearing-holes
must now be drilled in the cover, for the screws to pass through ; and four
holes, a shade smaller, in the top flange, which must be tapped to receive the
screws.
   The piston-rod will not be complete without a cross-head or cap to connect
it with the crank-pin. This will easily be made from a small block of brass
about \ in. square and \ in. thick, with an \-\x\. hole through the centre of the
face for the crank-pin to work in ; on one of the sides a small hole is to be
drilled to receive the free end of the piston-rod, which should be screwed into
the cross-head.
   A lug or bracket to hold the set-screw, L, to keep the cylinder close up to
the face of the steam-boss, must now be made. Take a piece of brass             »s
and file it to f in. long, f in. wide, and \ in. thick ; round off the top thus :
This will be soldered endways on the top of the boiler. The set-screw
is tapped into this, and its point rests in a centre punch-mark on the
cylinder. The screw is to be \ in. diameter and \ in. long, with a milled
                                                                                :0
head for convenience in tightening it up. A screw similar to those u ed for
the cylinder will answer equally well.
   The standards (Fig. 32) should be made now. It will be found
that the easiest way of making these will be in the form of two pillars
or columns, which can easily be turned out of a piece of brass or iron
rod I in. square. The base should be fy in. square, with a smaller
end or stud projecting, % in. diameter and \ in. long (tnese are to be
fastened into the top of the boiler) ; the square part must extend
1 in. up the pillar, when it may be turned down to a short distance
from the head, which must be $ in. square. These columns must
each be 2| in. from the under side of the shoulder to the centre of
the hole for the crank-shaft. Care must be taken to make the faces
of the square part exactly at right angles with the hole in the head.
Now divide one of the faces of one of these pillars into two equal
parts by means of a centre-line running through the middle
of the column (Fig. 34). At a distance of | in. from the
shoulder drill a small hole, A, which will just admit of the in
sertion of the pin F, which was fixed in the cylinder-face.
Then draw another line at right angles ^ in. above this Fie 33.
                                                                       o           ~~"
hole, and on this line \ in. from the centre mark two holes,
right and left respectively, each of which is to be drilled as far as the centre

426                         THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
of the pillar. Then from the bottom end of the pillar drill an |-in. hole
straight up till it meets the hole C, and another hole at D, meeting the hole B :
by this means a passage is formed between the face of the pillar and the
boiler, by means of which the steam will enter the cylinder and another com
munication between the cylinder and the outer air. A small piece of pipe
should be screwed into the hole D, to carry away the exhaust steam.
         Fig. 34. (Full size.)                 Fie. 35-                  Fig. 36.
   The bed-plate (Fig. 35) is in reality only the top of the boiler. It is a circular
plate of brass, 3J in. in diameter and \ in. thick, turned or filed quite flat on
one side, which I will call the face. A line must now be " scribed," or marked,
on this face exactly through the centre from one side of the plate to the other
(see Fig. 35). In the centre drill a J-in. tapping-hole, A,' and another of the
same size at B, \\ in. between centre of A; again, at a distance of if in. from
the centre, on the far side from B, solder on the bracket, R, containing the set-
screw, L ; holes should also be drilled at D and E for the plug and safety-valve.
The pillars may now be fixed in their places— or "erected," as the technical
term is —either by being screwed or soldered in. Great care must be taken
that they stand quite upright, and that the two holes in the heads are exactly
parallel and opposite one another. The ultimate efficiency of the engine will
principally depend upon attention to minute details like these. The crank and
shaft (Fig. 36) is very easily made. It is simply a piece of steel wire, the same
size as the holes in the heads of the columns, bent into the form as shown in
the sketch. Care should be taken that the crank, R, is exactly at right angles
with the shaft, T, and the pin, S, must be parallel with T. The distance be
tween the centres of S and T is three-eighths of an inch, thus giving our piston
a stroke or travel of three-fourths of an inch.
   The fly-wheel had better be bought. It can be procured at any castings shop
in Clcrkenwell for about sixpence or eightpence : a 4-in. clock-wheel will do.
Having secured one with a tolerably heavy rim, bore a hole through the centre
of it, so that the crank-shaft will fit tightly into it. It will be very much im
proved in appearance by being turned up bright all over.
   The engine proper is now complete, but it yet lacks the boiler for generating
the motive power, steam. Take a piece of brass pipe 3i in. internal diameter
and 5 in. long ; in one end solder or braze the bed-plate. Brazing is by far

                     THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                    427
the best : it will well repay the young mechanic to send it to a gasfitter's to be
done. Then, 3^ in. from the top, fix in the bottom, which must also be a
circular plate, 3! in. diameter and \ in. thick: this will allow i\ in. for lamp
space. A doorway, N, fig. 27, must now be cut to give the admission of air to
the lamp. This doorway must, of course, be regulated by the size of the lamp
which it is proposed to use. The most important consideration respecting the
lamp is that the flame should all but touch the bottom of the boiler. A small
tap, P, for the purpose of emptying the boiler, should be fixed close to the
bottom ; a small plug, Q, is also to be provided on the top of the boiler, for
the purpose of feeding it. A safety-valve, O, will be found very essential. I
should advise my readers to purchase this, as a very effective one can be
bought for eighteenpence ; but in case they would prefer making it for them
selves, l will give directions for its manufacture. First obtain a piece of brass
tube J in. outside diameter, and stop one end by soldering in a piece of brass.
Then turn up a small piston (without a groove) to fit the pipe, and in the
centre of this screw a short piece of lVin. stee^ wire, which is to pass through
a hole in the top ; a short piece of spiral brass spring is now to be placed
between the piston and the cap, having one of its ends soldered to the piston
and the other to the cap, to prevent the piston falling into the boiler. The
whole may now be soldered into the top of the boiler. Now, at a distance of
two-thirds the length of the spring from the top, drill two or three small holes
in the pipe to allow the steam to escape, and, to! your valve is complete. Its
action is as follows : when the steam exceeds a certain pressure it will drive
the piston above the holes, where it will make its escape : were it not for this
there would be a great liability of the boiler bursting.
   The capacity of the boiler is about a little over half a pint ; but it must not
be fed more than two-thirds full. Steam ought to be got up from cold water,
with a good spirit-lamp, in about ten minutes ; but hot water is half the bar
gain. The engine should not be allowed to work for more than half an hour
at a stretch, as by that time the water would all be evaporated, and there
would be danger of burning the bottom of the boiler out. If nicely fitted, this
engine will work at such a speed as to appear like a little cloud of steam.
   This is called a single-acting engine, because the steam is brought to bear
on one side of the piston only. Although this plan answers very well in a
model, yet in a large engine it would not be practicable, on account of the
difficulty in getting over the dead centres.
   I hope my readers who attempt it will be able to construct this simple style
of engine for themselves. If they are unable to do so, the engines can be
purchased at the philosophical toy-shops at prices varying from four to twenty-
one shillings, according to the finish and size.
   Some of the dimensions of this engine are taken from an article which ap
peared in the " Boys' Journal," Vol. III.
   Since writing the above, it has occurred to me that by making the pin, F, on
the cylinder-face long enough to go through the standard, a nut might be
screwed on it from the opposite side of the column, to keep the cylinder up to
the face on which the steam-ports are, and so obviate the use of the lug and
 set-screw on the opposite side. A disc might also be used instead of the crank,
 which would certainly give a more finished appearance. I almost incline to
the idea that these last methods are preferable.
   Should my readers be successful in making either of these models, and
should feel inclined for further trials of their skill, I can recommend a little

428                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
book, containing directions for several models, entitled " The Model Dockyard
Handy Book," published at a shilling, by Mr. Bell, of 31 Fleet Street, who will
also be happy to supply anything connected with models of any description.
          Fir. 37.               Fig. 33.                         Fig. 39.
                                       Pumps.
    I very much doubt whether any boy is ignorant of the very common and
 simple philosophical experiment, viz., if one end of a straw or tube of any de
 scription (it matters not what, so long as its sides are air-tight) be dipped into
a vessel containing water, or any other fluid, and the other end be sucked by
 the mouth, the liquid will rise through the tube into the mouth. The action
 of the common squirt or garden syringe is familiar to every boy. What boy
 is there that does not possess one of those leaden squirts, costing about four-
 pence, which are held in such terror by their respected parents, because they
 will be always squirting water all over the place? Well, this squirt consists
 simply of a cylinder or tube, ending in a smaller tube, called the suction-pipe,
 the interior being closely fitted with a piston or sucker. On dipping the end

                    THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                      429
of the small pipe into water and lifting up the piston by means of the wire
handle, the liquid is drawn into the barrel by means of atmospheric pressure,
and is then ejected in a continuous stream by the descent of the piston. This
syringe is in reality a pump, but on a very primitive scale.
    Pumps, then, are pieces of machinery by means of which water is drawn
from various depths to the surface of the earth, or to any required height.
    Pumps ordinarily are of two classes, viz., the common suction, or lifting, and
the force-pump. The first of these two machines consists of a long tube, A,
called the barrel. (Fig. 37 shows an elevation or outside, and Fig. 38 a sec
tional or inside view of a lift-pump.) At B is a valve, opening upwards, enclosed
in what is called the valve-box. This valve is always closed when the pump
is not in action. The piston or, as its correct name is, the bucket, c, has an
opening in it, which is also furnished with a valve, opening upwards.
   A few words may now be not out of place respecting the action or the work
ing of the pump. Supposing the bucket, C, is down to B, then on lowering
the arm or lever, D, a vacuum is formed between C and B. Then, on lifting D,
the valve closes, on account of the water being forced upon it consequent on
the descent of the bucket ; at the same time the valve in the bucket opens,
and the water, which was unable to descend, now passes through and above
the valve. Then, on lifting up the bucket, by means of the arm or lever D,
this water is raised to the space G, and is discharged by the spout, F, while
another body of water rushes up through the valve B to take the place of what
has just been discharged. After working a few strokes of the handle, the
space from the bucket to the spout is filled with water, whence it is discharged
in a continuous stream on continuing to work the handle.
    Of course all my readers are acquainted with the ordinary house or force-
pump. Still, however familiar this style of pump may be to us, there are many
who would be somewhat puzzled if they were called upon to explain its prin
ciple. I will therefore at once proceed to describe the mechanical construction
of this kind of pump, the theory being almost identical with the pump already
described.
    Fig. 39 is an illustration of a house pump which not only lifts water from
a certain depth, but will also force it a considerable height into a tank or cis
tern, &c. A is the barrel. The handle, B, works upon a pin or stud at C,
 which is called the fulcrum, and the short arm of B is connected by a joint, D,
to the connecting-rod, E, which has a joint at F, working on the cross-head G,
to which the end of the bucket-rod, H, is secured. As it is absolutely neces
sary that the bucket-rod work up and down in a perfectly straight line, a guide
is provided at K. L is the position of the bucket (which, of course, cannot be
seen), being inside the barrel, A ; M, the suction-pipe ; and N, the delivery to
the tank, &c. The connecting-rod resembles two prongs of a fork, and, on
that account, is frequently called a fork connecting-rod. There is a difference
between the bucket of a force-pump and that of a lift-pump : in the former
case the bucket is solid, as no water is required to pass through it.
    In explanation of the modus operandi of the force-pump, suppose the piston,
 L, to be at the bottom of the barrel, A, and then to be raised by means of the
 handle, B ; the tendency to form a vacuum in the barrel will draw the water up
through the suction-pipe, M, through the foot or suction-valve at P (which is
similar to that of the lift-pump), by means of atmospheric pressure. Again,
on lowering the bucket, the lower valve will be closed, and the water, not
 finding a passage through the pipe from which it came, is forced into the pipe

43°                       THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
N, opening on its way the upper or delivery-valve, which is enclosed in the
valve-box, O ; therefore it is assumed that the water is raised to the barrel by
atmospheric pressure, and is then ejected or discharged by the force acting
on the bucket or piston, as applied by means of the lever B.
   There is, so to speak, a species of condition attached to this pump, which
is, that the bucket, in theory, must not rise more than thirty-two feet above
the surface of the water ; but in practice twenty-eight feet is usually found to
be the maximum.
   When the well is more than thirty feet deep (unless a deep-well pump be
                                      used), it is necessary to have detached bar
                                      rels, which are placed down the well within
                                      from fifteen to twenty feet of the water ;
                                      "rising main-pipes" are then placed between
                                      the detached barrel in the well and the
                                      pump-head at the surface, which must be
                                      large enough to allow the bucket to pass
                                      freely down to the detached working barrel.
                                      This is a very good arrangement of pumps
                                      for wells "not exceeding seventy feet in depth.
                                          It is obvious that the height to which the
                                      water is thrown will depend upon the amount
                                      of power applied to the lever, or pump-brake,
                                      as it is sometimes called. In small pumps
                                      employed for domestic or household pur
                                      poses, the strength of a man as the motive
                                      power is ordinarily exerted ; but in raising
                                      water from great depths, such as from the
                                      bottoms of mines, &c, a steam-engine be
                                      comes absolutely necessary. In steam-
                                      pumps the arrangement is usually what is
                                      known among practical men as the bucket
                                      and plunger principle, or else double-acting,
                                      i.e., throwing a stream of water both in the
                                      up and down stroke. A feed-pump, with a
                                      plunger in lieu of a bucket, for feeding steam-
                                      boilers, is shown by Fig. 40. This is usually
                  Fig. 40.            worked off an eccentric fixed on the engine-
                                      shaft.
                                The Fire-Engine.
    One of the most useful modifications of the force-pump is the machine
 known familiarly enough to us as the fire-engine. It is in reality only an ar
 rangement of two or more force-pumps (the number varying proportionately
 according to the size of the engine), mounted on a carriage or framing, and
 whose buckets are worked by a long rod passing through the ends of a lever
 with equal arms, each lever having a common fulcrum. The engine is fitted
 with one or more suction-pipes common to both pumps, and possessing one
 or more delivery-pipes (the number varying with the size of the pumps), which
 discharge the jet of water through the hoses which are attached to them. An
 air-vessel is indispensable for this class of pumping machinery, in order to keep
 up the continuous stream of water so necessary for its efficient working.

                     THE AMATEUR ENGINEER.                                          43i
   Fig. 41 is a diagram which will be found amply sufficient to give the reader
a general idea of the action of one of the most invaluable inventions—socially
speaking—in hydraulic machinery. I will give a brief description of the dia
gram. A, buckets ; B, barrels ; C, fulcrum of lever, D ; E, air-vessel ; F, suc
tion-pipe ; g, delivery-pipe or hose ; H, suction-valves ; I, delivery-valves.
                                                                                ZED
                                                                     .,-- ZEE
                                                    a
                                                         Fig. 42.
   A great improvement has taken place within the last few years in the manu
facture of this class of machinery, steam power being now very extensively
used in lieu of the hard labour involved by manual power. Soon the hand
fire-engines will be things of the past, and only to be seen in small towns or
factories. In the steam fire-engines steam is frequently got up while proceed
ing from the engine station to the fire, and may be got up from cold water in
very little over ten minutes.
   Fig. 42 shows some of the various forms of valves used in pumps, a is
called the flap ; b, rising and falling ; c, ball-clack ; d, clack ; e, circular India-
rubber valve for air-pumps, &c
                            The Centrifugal Pump.
   This is a very powerful and ingenious machine, and was invented by the
late Mr. Appold. Its capabilities were very severely tested at the Great Ex
hibition of 1 85 1, where it obtained the council medal, a silver medal in 1855
at Paris, and prize medal at the International Exhibition of 1862. It is now
 used in most places where large quantities of water or other fluids are required
to be raised to a moderate height. It is also most admirably adapted for
 drainage purposes, several very large pumps having been recently erected for
 that purpose, both here and abroad. The speed at which each pump is driven
 varies with the lift and also with each size of pump. On referring to Fig. 43
 (showing a front and side elevation), it will be seen that the pump-case and
 water-passages are cast in one piece, so that by taking off the cover, C, and

432                   THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
the blank flange, D, all the working parts may be removed in a few minutes.
The principle of this pump is as follows : a hollow fan or disc, E (somewhat
similar to a small water-wheel), revolves at a high speed inside the case. This
                                        Fig. 4>
has the effect of sucking up the water into the top part of the case, whence it
is discharged in a considerable stream. This pump will pass anything that
is small enough to go through, there being no small valves ; in fact, there is
only the foot-valve, which is a large flap-valve. A quantity of nut-galls have
been thrown into a medium size pump all at once, when it was running at a
high speed, and they passed out of the delivery-pipe without a single one being
broken.
                 The Hydraulic Ram or Water-Engine.
   In building a house, or buying a farm, the first consideration is a good sup
ply of water. This may be obtained with comparative ease by aid of this
engine.
   There are numbers of important places, such as private estates, mansions,
railway stations, public institutions, and the like, where, instead of depending
on servants—who invariably dislike the job—for pumping a supply of water
for the establishment, and in many cases going to great expense in sinking
wells and providing pumping-gcar, it is quite practicable, by simply making
use of a small stream in the immediate vicinity, to obtain an abundant and
constant supply, sufficient for the house, garden, or stables, &c. The height
to which this machine will raise the water is proportionate to the fall that can
be obtained in the length of injection-pipe leading from the stream to the ram ;
but it may be taken as a rule that the water will be driven up twelve times the
height of the head ; e.g., a fall of three feet in the induction-pipe will maintain

                     THE AMA1ELR ENGINEER.                                   433
a percussive action on the ram sufficient to force the water in moderate quan
tities to the height of thirty-six feet, and so on. Many of these engines havo
been in operation for several years with great success, and have invariably
given great satisfaction. They will raise from 1,000 to 3,000 gallons per day
of twenty-four hours from 50 ft. to 250 ft. high, according to size.
                                        Fig. 44.
    The essential parts of the machine are as follows : the water enters by the
 incline injection-pipe, A, and acquires sufficient impetus to force a portion
 through a valve in valve-box, B (the surplus running to waste through the
 overflow or relief-valve, e) into the air-vessel, c. The condensed air in the
 upper part of C causes the water to rise in the delivery-pipe, D, as long as the
 effect of the water on a E continues.
                                                                   23

434                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
             SHIP-BUILDING AND RIGGING.
   To cut out a model of a ship from a block of wood may seem at first signt
an easy affair. To one who knows how to do it the task is, of course, not diffi
cult, though for its proper execution a considerable amount of care and nicety
is required. A rough specimen of a ship—one that will float, at all events—
may be hewn out of a block by any one having an accurate eye and a ready
hand ; but little good can be done by guess-work, which such sort of work
must necessarily be, and certainly no preconceived design can be executed by
its aid. It is the object of this article to furnish the means by which not only
can a model be cut out of a block of wood, but be also actually built, dock
yard fashion, in exact accordance with the design which we will suppose the
amateur to have formed for himself.
   The modeller, having decided in his own mind upon the form of the vessel
he intends to build or cut out, must then draw out the design on paper. He
must fix not only the character and class of vessel, as ship, brig, schooner, or
whatnot ; he must also settle with himself as to the " lines " upon which she
shall be constructed ; that is to say, he must decide upon the precise shape
she shall have. Let us suppose that he intends to make a schooner yacht.
The side elevation, or, as it is called, the " sheer plan," is drawn as in the
annexed engraving (Fig. 1), and is divided into as many divisions as it is pro
posed to have variations in the external form of the hull. The line at the
place where the greatest breadth of beam is to be is marked with *, and is
called the "dead flat;" the lines marked respectively A, B, C, D, show the
places at which the external form of the hull forward is meant to be altered ;
the lines marked 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, show the places at which the external shape of
the hull aft is to be modified. The second figure in the engraving shows the
design of half the deck, and has the divisions also marked upon it. At the
bottom of the plate is a drawing showing the form of the ship's side and
bottom, from the deck to the keel, and this drawing is part of the design
which must be decided on beforehand. The outermost form corresponds with
the plan of the half-deck sketched out above ; and the other forms show the
intended shape at the lower sections. The drawing is, in fact, a drawing of
half the vessel bottom upwards.
   Upon a copy (on paper or wood) of the sheer plan are drawn horizontal
lines parallel with the keel, the number of them agreeing with the number of
different water-lines or shapes in the design. On another piece of paper are
drawn a similar set of parallel lines ; a perpendicular line being drawn upon
the bottom one, is taken to represent the centre of the transverse section of
the ship. The object now is to get an elevation of the forms of the bow and
stern. On the topmost of this set of lines (see figures at top and bottom of the
engraving) mark off, to the left of the central perpendicular, the half-breadths
of each of the forward divisions, as given in the half-breadth section at the
bottom of the engraving ; and on to the top line, to the right of the central
line, the half-breadths of the after divisions. On the line corresponding to
the number or letter of the half-breadth plan mark off the distance between
 the centre and the outer edge'of each line of form as there displayed, and

  SHIP-BUILDING AND RIGGING.                                                 435
SECTION MOULD
    AT 4        isection mould j section mould sectign mould! section mould
                1    at.2       :    at.*
       SECTION MOULD   SCCTIOH HOULO  SECTION MOULD    SECTION MOULD
            AT.S           AT. I           A" A            AT.C
                                                                         28-

436                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
connect the mark on the top line with these individual distinguishing marks,
and the stem for the bow, and the stern-post for the stern, and then the design
will be complete. Carefully ascertain these lines, and having done so, cut
out moulds in wood (see the figures in the middle of the engraving) to assist
in shaping the model, or rather to enable you to know that you have shaped
it according to design.
   We will now suppose that an oblong piece of wood, perfectly rectangular, is
the block from which the model is to be cut or built. Upon the top surface
draw the whole plan of the deck, merely turning over the half-deck plan, which
has been already prepared, and repeating it. Mark the divisions shown on
the sheer plan on each side of the block, and, after cutting away by means of
plane knife all such part of the block as is not comprehended in the area of
the deck, mark the sheer plan with the divisions on either side of the block ;
strike a centre-line for the keel on the bottom of the piece, and a centre-line
on either of the transverse sections, to mark stem and stern. Cut out the
remainder of the model according to the divisions, taking care not to cut more
deeply or less deeply than is warranted by the moulds, which should be con
stantly used to gauge the work.
   If the object be merely to cut out a block execution of the design, all that
is required, after due care taken to have all the distances and measurements
properly ascertained, is to cut out in strict accordance with the moulds as
prepared from the design, and to affix keel, false keel, stem, cutwater, and
stern-post. If, however, the object be to build s. model, it may be attained in
one of two ways. The first is by following the above-mentioned rules, and,
having arrived at the stage where the shape of the vessel has been ascertained,
to cut out planks for the building of the ship, by simply sawing through the
horizontal lines at each transverse division, and then cutting away the inside
portion till it assumes the thickness and consistency of the required planks.
These planks, having already the bend and curve required, can then be
fastened together again, and secured inside by iron or copper bands running
across them. They may also be affixed to beams or crutches running across
and between the sides. This, however, is a lazy way of building, and one not
to be encouraged ; the block system is better than it. But the plan most
deserving of encouragement is that by which, the design of sides, bow, and
stern having been agreed upon and expressed in the manner described above,
the execution is done by a regular legitimate system of ship-building—a plan
requiring, no doubt, much skill and tact, and not suitable, perhaps, to quite
small models ; but one which is not only better adapted to the construction of
models of the larger sort, but also more commendable and more interesting.
   Lay down the keel, with uprights inserted in it, at each of the spots indicated
by the division-lines in the sheer plan. Fix also a stem and a stern-post.
Secure by dovetailing, rabbiting, or even by means of needle-points, to each
ol the uprights a transverse beam of the same length as is shown to be the
breadth intended by the design for the ship's beam at the several divisions.
Connect these with each other and with the stem and stern by means of slight
batlens or veneers fastened on with needle-points, taking care that each needle
point is sent well home, and that each cross-beam and the connecting-batten
are close together. Instead of making moulds in the manner directed above,
make stout ribs broad enough to allow of two sets of planks being fastened
into them in accordance with the same directions ; fix these into the keel, and
connect them firmly with the cross-beams and their connecting-batten. You

                  SHIP-BUILDING AND RIGGING.                                      437
have then the skeleton or frame of the ship. Upon it fasten by such means
as are available the previously prepared planks or thin pieces of wood, taking
care that each plank is well secured and strictly in accordance with the mould
of the ship, as shown by the design. Hot water will be found a ready means
of making the wood bend : steep the wood in the water till it becomes pliable,
and fasten it on while warm. Particular care must be taken to fix the leading
head-planks into the stem, and they should be connected by means of rivets,
which may be of wire only, running through the stem and clenched on either
side. It will be better to build the stern in separate pieces, apart from the side
timbers, which in that, case will end at the stern-frame. Too great care can
not betaken in cutting the planks to the exact sue required. Any carelessness
in this respect may cause difficulty in fitting on the timbers, especially below.
In addition to the. support derived from the frame, there should be connecting-
girders of wood, or, better still, of tin plate cut into strips, running up and down
the inner face of the timbers, to which they should be bolted. If these directions
be carefully attended to there will be no difficulty in actually building the hull.
That having been done, a false keel, which is as well if made of lead, must be
fitted, together with a cutwater, carved in accordance with the design, and a
rudder-post. Each of these parts must be carefully and securely fixed with
the stoutest material the parts will bear, and then the model will be complete
so far as shipwright work can make her so. She must now be caulked, and
the readiest mode of doing this, in all but extremely large models, is as follows :
Stop the seams externally with soft wax and white lead, or with a strong
infusion of shellac in naphtha—the former is better— and over the whole of the
 inner surface pour molten tar. The tar will find its way into all the crevices
and wil' pay itself over all the scams, rendering the craft water-tight.
   Decks can be laid down in planks, or in one or two whole pieces. The
latter plan is better, as not only will it be found difficult to caulk the deck seams
enough to make them water-tight, but the cross-beams of the frame on which
the planks must be nailed will not, unless they be bulky and in the way, bear
the insertion of so many fastenings. Holes must be cut in the deck for the
masts, and before the deck is laid a bed should be prepared in the hold on the
top of the keel, in which the foot of the mast may rest. In the case of the
model cut out in one piece from the block, the interior may be hollowed out
with a sharp chisel or gouge, care being taken not to pierce the sides. A
pocket-knife will serve the purpose in the event of a chisel being wanting ;
but the work will take longer and will not be so cleanly done. A passage
must also be cut in the deck and after-timber for the rudder-head to come
through.
   The bulwarks may consist only of brass or iron stanchions, with chain or
rope connecting them, just sufficient to keep the crew from falling overboard ;
or they may consist of timber-built defences against the ingress of the sea.
If the latter, gangways must be cut in them on either side.
   Deck furnishings will consist of skylights, covered companion, and gratings,
with covers for the hatchways. The capstan should be set up forward, just
abaft and clear of the bowsprit. On the fore and after quarters should be
fitted davits, or curved irons having the bend outwards, from which should be
suspended the quarter boats. The long boat will be inboard between the
fore-mast and the main-mast ; and sometimes from davits hanging over the
stern a small dingy is suspended. On either side, immediately below the
gangway, wooden steps should be fastened at short intervals down to the

4?8                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
water's edge, to allow of the feet resting when the visitor has to get on board
by means of the man-ropes.
   At the foot of each mast, and enclosing it within its square, should be four
sets of belaying-pins let into bulks of wood, which should be firmly connected
with each other. At all convenient places inside the bulwarks belaying-pin-
racks should also be set up.
                          Masts, Spars, and Rigging.
   The sizes and shapes of these will, of course, depend upon the character of
the vessel to be fitted, whether ship, barque, brig, brigantine, cr schooner.
Annexed are tables showing the dimensions usually assigned to the masts
and spars of the vessels mentioned. (See pp. 439, 440.)
   From these tables some idea can be formed as to the size of the masts and
spars to be fitted in the miniature copies of ship, barque, &c
   The annexed engraving shows better than could be described verbally the
whole of the standing rigging and some of the running gear of a KULL-RIgGED
Ship. The gear connected with the sails, some of which only is given here,
may be briefly described as follows:
   Spanker, on the mizzen-mast. The gaff is secured to either side of the
taffrail by two Tangs. The topping-lift. No. 19, running from the throat of
the gaff to the end of the boom, is for the purpose of lifting the boom. The
sheet is the rope between the two vangs, and holds the boom in its place.
The tack fastens the inner lower corner of the spanker to the boom. From
the top outer corner of the sail a rope runs through a block on the mast and
so down to the deck, and is called the down-haul, being used to assist in taking
in the sail.
   From the outer edge of the sail, about half-way down, and again one yet
lower down, run ropes across the sail through blocks on the mast, which are
called brails, their use being to aid in brailing up or taking in the spanker.
The out-haul is fast to the outer lower corner of the sail, and running through
a sheave in the end of the boom, enables the sail to be pulled out.
    Try-sail, sometimes fitted on to the main-mast, resembles a spanker in every
respect except that it has no boom.
                            square sails and yards.
   The halyards, running through fixed blocks on the masts, serve to hoist the
yards. Lifts, No. 11, are of chain or rope, and are fast to either yard-arm;
they run through blocks on the top above, and so reach the deck : they keep
the yard in its place, and are used for topping it up or down. Braces, No. 14,
 are fast to the ends of the yard, and meeting in a block secured to the opposite
mast, come down upon deck, and are used to pull the yard nearer, or otherwise,
 to the ship. Foot-lines arc lines secured to the yards, and arc for the sailors
 to stand on when reefing, or lying out on the yard. Stirrups are stout lines
 made fast to the yard and holding the foot-lines at intervals. Bunt-lines (there
 are four on each side of the lower sails) are lines fast to the bottom of the sail
 and running up in two triangles to the yard ; they run through a block about
 half-way down it, and through a block on the mast : they are used to trip up
 the sail when furling. Leech-lines (these and the bunt-lir.es are on the fore
 side of the sail) are single lines running from either side of the sail, about
 two-thirds down, through a block on each end of the yard, and so down to the
                                   (Continued on f. 44.'.)

             SHIP-BUILDING AND RIGGING.                                                   439
TABLES SHOWING THE USUAL DIMENSIONS OF
                          MASTS AND SPARS.
                                SHIP OF 600 TONS.
                                                        Dimensions of Ship:
                                              Length, 125 ft, ; Breadth, 28 ft. 6 in.
                                           Masts or Booms.                  Yards.
   Names of the Masts and
              Yards,
                                                  isa -1.
                                       U
                                      Ft. In.    Ft. In.     In.   Ft.  In.   Ft. In  In.
 Main-mast and yard                    69 o       10      6         60   o     3 o    .4!
   Top-mast and yard                   41 o         6     6         48   o            12
   Topgallant- mast and yard                                        36   o             8
   Royal-mast and yard                 16                           24   6             «i
 Fore-mast and yard                    <<,          9 «             57   °            14
   Top-mast and yard                   yi           6 o             45   o            II
   Topgallant -mast and yard           21                           33   o             74
   Royal-mast and yard                 '5                           23   o             6
 Mizzen-mast and yard                  61           S 6             47   o
   Top-mast and yard                   3t           4 6             34   o
   Topgallant -ma st and yard          >7                     k     25
                                                                    19
                                                                         o
                                                                         o
   Royal-mast and yard                 to                     4
 Bowsprit                              45
 Jib-boom                              40
 Flying iib-boom                       4.                     Si
 Driver-boom                           42
 Gaff                                  3'
                                BRIG OF 200 TONS.
                                          Masts or Booms.                   Yards.
   Names of the Masts and
              Yards.
                                                  fcj
                                      Ft. In, Ft. In.        In.   Ft. In.   Ft. In.
 Main-mast and yard                    56 o I 8             '7J     40   o    *   9
   Top-mast and yard                   3l o I 4                     32   o
   Topgallant -mast and yard .         15 o                         24   o
   Royal-mast and yard                                              18   o
 Fore-mast and yard                    54    0 1                    40   o
   Top-mast and yard                   3v    0    4   6          1 32    o
   Topgallant -mast and yard           15    0 1                    24   o
   Royal-mast and yard                 10    0 1
 Bowsprit                              34    0|
 Jib-boom                              V     O '
 Main-boom
   Gaff
                                       *,
                                       28
                                             O
                                             O
 Housing of fore-mast                  13    6
      „      main-mast        ,        13    0

440                      THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
  TABLES SHOWING THE USUAL DIMENSIONS OF MASTS AND SPARS-
                                     (continued).
                                BARQUE OF 300 TONS.
                                                        Dimensions of Ship:
                                                 Length, 100 ft.; Breadth, 27 ft.
                                            Masts or Booms.                Yards.
       Names of the Masts and
                  Yards.
                                                                                 =
                                                                                •5
                                        wJ         -J               «J
                                        Ft.  In.  Ft. In     In.   Ft. In.   Ft. In  In.
     Main-mas. and yard                 62     o   9 o      18 S   50   o     3 o    19
       Top-mast and yard                 34    o   5 0             40   o     3 i,    Oi
       Topgallant-mast and yard          ,7    6                   30   o             61
                                                   Pole.
       Royal-mast and yard                         6 o
     Fore-mast and yard                 60 o       9   0    tS!    50
       Top-mast and yard                34 o       5 o             4°
       Topgallant- mast and yard        17 6                        30
                                                   Pole.
       Royal-mast and yard              12     o   6 o
     Mizzen-mast                        60     o
       Top-mast                         47    o
       Pole                             to    o
     Bowsprit                           34    o
     Jib-boom                           34    o             K.J
     Flying jib-boom                    38    o
     Mizzen-boom                        36    o               8
       Gaff                             30    o               74
     Main-gaff                                                8
                              SCHOONER OF 143 TONS.
                                            Masts or Booms.                Yards.
       Names of the Masts and
                  Yards.
                                         U                    8
                                                              8     e4                3
                                                              S
                                                   x3                           <
                                                             (5                      a
                                       Ft.   In.  Ft. In.   In.   Ft. In.    Ft. In. In.
     Mainmast                           58    0    7  0
       Top-mast and pole                33    0    8  0     'tI
     Fore-mast and yard .,              57    0    7  0     '3     41   0     2 0    8
       Topmast and yard                 18    0               7J   32   0     1 10
       Topgallant -mast and yard                                                     7»
                                        it    0                    22   0     1    6 5i
     Bowsprit                           27    0             12*
     Jib-boom                           32    0               7*
     Pole                                 6   0
     Main-boom                          40    0             IO
       Gaff...,                         28    0               7t
     Fore-boom ...                      24    0               «t
       Gaff                             21    O               6

                       SHIP-BUILDING AND RIGGING.                                                  441
A  The foremast            Z   Main channel wales    t t     Stay tackles         9 Foretop-mast-stay
B  Foretop-mast                                      uu      Fore and main-      10 Forestay
C  Fore top-gall ant -mast a   Cutwater and figure           yard tackles        11 11 11 Lifts of the
D  Fore top-gallant -yard        head                v v v Fore, main, and             fore, main, and
E  Foretop-sail-yard       b Fore-shrouds and rat            mizze ntops(rou n d       miiien yards
F  Fore-yard                     lines                        tops)              12 12 12 Ditto ditto
G  Mainmast                c Ditto topmast ditto     w w w Fore, main, and             topsail yards
H  Maintopmast             d Top-gallant shrouds             mizzen cross-trees  13 13 13 Ditto ditto
I  Maintop-gallant-mast    e Top-gallant backstay    xxx Fore, main, and               top-gallant-yards
J  Maintop-gallant -yard   f Top-mast backstay                mizzen trucks      14 14 Fore, main, and
K  Maintop-sail-yard       g g g Topsail ties        yy Stun-sail, or stud             miznlp. -gallant -
I, Mainyard                h Main shrouds, &C, or             ding-sail booms,         braces
M  Mizzen-mast                   main rigging                 on the fore and    15 15 Ditto ditto ditto
N  M izzentop-mast         1 Ditto topmast ditto             main yards                topsail-braces
O  Mizntp. -gallant-mast   j Ditlo top-gallant ditto                             16 16 Fore-braces
P  Mizntp. -gallant-yard   k Ditto ditto backstay                                17 17 Main-braces
Q  M iznt p. -sail-yard    1 Ditto topmast ditto                                 18 18 Cross-jack -yard -
R  Cross -jack -yard       m Mizzen shrouds          i   The jib-boom                  braces
S  The gaff                n Ditto topmast ditto     2   Bowsprit                19 Topping-lift
T  The spanker-boom        o Ditto top-gallant ditto 3   Sprit sail -yard        20 Vangs
U  Theforechain.orchan-    p Ditto ditto backstay    4   Dolphin-strikers        21 Signal halyards
V  The main ditto [nels    q Ditto topmast ditto     5   Bnbstays                22 Peakorgaff halyards
W  The mizzen ditto        rrr Mizzen, mizzen-top,   6   Jib-boom, guys, and 23 Foot-ropes
X  The quarter galleries          and mizzen-top-             stays              24 Fore, main, and
Y  The chain or channel           ga I Ian t- stays  7   Foret op-gallant -stay        mizzen royals
     wales                 s s s Main ditto ditto    8 Jib-stay

442                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
deck : they are used for the same purpose as the bunt-lines. Clew-garnets
on the upper square sails are called clew-lines) are lines made fast to the
corners of the lower sails, on the after side, and run to a block, on the yard
and mast, and so to the deck : they serve, in conjunction with the bunt-lines
and leech-lines, to clew up the sail.
    Bow-lines are sets of lines (each having an earring) on either side of the
sail. Bow-line bridles are lines passed through the earrings, and serve to keep
the sail bowed when the wind is full. The main-tack and fore-tack are lines
which secure the lower corners of the main and fore-sails on the windward
side. The sheets secure the corners on the leeward side. Sheets and tacks
are convertible terms, according to the side on which the wind is ; they are
applicable only to the lower sails ; on all other sails these lines are called port
and starboard-sheets.
    All the lines enumerated above are to be secured to belaying-pins at the foot
of the mast, or at the inner top side of the bulwarks.
    Studding-sails, or, as they were anciently called, " wind-wooers," are sails set
on booms that are run out through hoops rigged to the several yard-arms.
They are bent into a small spar to which halyards are fastened, and the hal
yards are passed through a block on the boom. They have also a sheet on
the inside and a tack on the outside. They have also a tripping-line, which
is fast to the outer lower corner of the sail, and joins the tack. The other
end of it is rove through a block on the inner upper end of the yard, and so to
the dock. It serves to trip up the sail when taking it in. On such an occasion,
the tack is let go and runs through the boom, a haul is taken on the tripping-
line, and the halyards are let go ; the sail is then let down to the top, and
 secured there.
    Stay-sails are a kind of large jib. There are commonly two between the
 fore-mast and the main-mast. These are the main-top-mast stay-sail and the
 main-topgallant stay-sail. The fore-stay-sail runs to the head of the vessel
 inside the standing-jib.
    A Barque is in all respects rigged like a ship, excepting that the mizzen-
 mast is schooner-rigged, as shown in the annexed drawing.
     It may be as well to follow out the plan suggested by the model which was
 taken for the purpose of showing the construction of the hull, and to describe
 particularly the way in which a schooner, such as the model hull, is to be
 rigged. The size of masts and spars may be ascertained by reference to the
 tables already given ; but it must be observed that the bowsprit, instead of
 being stepped at an angle, as in ships, is generally placed horizontally, and
 consists of two pieces only, joined by a cap not unlike the top-mast caps of
  schooners, except that it has no hounds, or halyard-hooks.
     Schooners are rigged in two fashions, and are called, according to the rig
  adopted, Top-sail Schooners, or Fore-and-aft Schooners. It is intended in this
  place to describe particularly only the rig of a fore-and-aft schooner, because
  such a rig will be found more suitable to craft of the model size, looks better,
  and is moreover that most commonly adopted for schooner yachts and plea
  sure craft. Top-sail schooners are used for the fruit trade and as colliers, and
  sometimes, but seldom, as yachts. In general terms they may be thus de
  scribed : they have two masts, whereof the main-mast has not any square sails
  on it, but is furnished with a spanker and gaff-top-sail, like any other schooner,
  while the fore-mast has, in addition to a try-sail, a fore-yard, a top-sail-yard,
   a topgallant-yard, and sometimes a royal. The fore-yard does not, however,

                  SHIPBUILDING AND RIGGING.                                   443
carry a sail, and is only u^ed for the purpose of making a home for the lower
part of the top-sail. If it should be wished to rig a model as a top-sail
schooner, all that will be necessar) will be to rig the main-mast according
to the directions given below, and taking heed to what has been said as to the
quantity of square sails allowed to rig the top-sail, topgallant, and royal-yards
in the same way as was directed for like sails in a ship.
   Fore-and-aft schooners have both masts rigged alike (see annexed figure),
with the exception of a boom which belongs to the spanker, but is not allowed
to the fore-sail. If she be meant for a yacht, or if she be deep, and long, and
rather narrow than broad in the beam, the lower masts should be of consider
able height. No exact dimensions can be given : the matter must be left to
the taste and judgment of the owner ; but see table above. The lower masts
having been stepped in such a way that the middle line of the deck is divided
between the stem and stern into— say three— equal spaces, it is necessary to fit
and run up the top-masts, and set up their standing rigging.
   There are not any tops in these schooners; but the top mast is rigged in
two caps, which secure the end of it firmly in a double grip, as shown in Fig. 1.
   The caps are best made out of lead or bone, which can easily be worked
with a pen-knife ; wood is not so strong, and it is very liable to break when the
mast-holes are being cut.
   Dead eyes, or fixed blocks shaped thus— f°\ being fastened into liie
outside of the bulwarks, parallel with the ( o o ) main and fore-masts, the
shrouds, which arc passed over and across      v. *s the lower cap,are led down
to and secured in them, and the ratlines must be fastened across the shrouds.

444                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
The small puttock-shrouds for the top-masts arc secured, through the ends of
crosstrees, to a necklace of iron under the lower cap. They are. however, very
slight. The main-stay is a rope leading to the head of the fore-mast ; and
there is a sort of back-stay which leads to the foot of the fore-mast. The fore-
stay runs from the head of the fore-mast to the head of the vessel, and serves
as a medium for carrying the fore-stay-sail where one is carried. The gear
for the sails is the same as already described under the head of spanker and
               try-sail gear. Through the eyes, shown in the figure (Fig. 2), as
               secured to the mast-head, are passed the peak and throat-hal
     c         yards, for hauling up or lowering the peak. Through a block half
     c         way down the peak, and another at the throat of the gaff, are run
     c         the peak and throat-brails ; and through a block on the mast,
     c         about two-thirds down, run the foot-brails. Brails are used for
               the purpose of taking in the sail ; they are all fast to bclaying-
     FlG. 2.   pins at the foot of the mast. Two or three sets of reef-points are
               on both main and fore-sail. Out-hauls and down-hauls are also
provided, as in the case of a spanker.
   The fore and main-gaff-top-sails have each one set of halyards, no reef, and
a single rope-sheet running through a block on the mast and communicating
with the deck.
   On the mast-head are placed five hoops : the lower hoop, a, is made with
 a wide collar, to receive the shoulder of an iron outrigger, with an eye formed
 for the throat-halyards ; this hoop is put on from two feet to two feet six

                  SHIP-BUILDING AND RIGGING.                                  445
inches above the under side of the lower cap. The upper
hoop is placed six inches below the upper cap, and three
others art spaced at equal distances between the upper and
lower hoops. These hoops, h h h, have all eye-bolts drove                 SECTION
through them from the after side of the mast, and clenched
on the fore side for the peak-halyards ; their eyes lie hori
zontally; they are placed on the head for the upper and lower             AT HEAD
ones to be in the middle line on the after side of the mast,
and the two between these an inch and a half on each side
of the middle line. A hoop is also driven on the heel of the
mast, about six inches above the shoulder of the tenon.
There is a sheeve, s, in the mast-head for the top-rope ; g,
is the iron cap ; d, the lower cap ; <?, the hounds-piece. The
after side .of the mast is coppered in the wear of the gaff
and boom.
                          HEAD SAILS.
   Fore-stay-sail, standing jib, and flying jib : these run on
their respective stays, of which the first runs to the lower
mast-head, and the other two to the top-mast-head, where
their halyard-blocks must be placed. The down-haul blocks
must be fastened to the outer lower corner of each, and the
down-haul itself, being secured to the top of the sail and
rove through its block, is to be belayed to a pin inboard.
The jib-halyards and sheets, the only other gear on the head
sails, are to be fitted as described under the head " sails of
ships."
                           KNOTS AND SPLICES.
   The mode of forming ropes and cables is shown in Fig. I. A number of
fibres, a, are spun right-handed (with the sun, or from left to right) into the
yarn, b. A number of yarns, varying according to the size and quality of the
strand required (ropes made of small fine yarn are the strongest and best) are
then twisted, left-handed, into the strand, c. Three strands laid together.
right-handed, form the rope, d. (At e is the vacant space caused by the
strand c being "unlaid" to show its structure.) This three-strand right-
handed rope is the rope used for general purposes and for the " running rig
ging" of ships. For " standing rigging "¦—shrouds and stays—it is customary
to use right-handed rope, composed of four strands laid round a fifth smaller
strand, called the heart, which passes straight up the middle. Left-handed
rope is sometimes met with, but not often. Ropes are built up in this way foi
the sake of getting the twist right and left alternately, which is the only way
of preventing them from untwisting under strain. Without the twist the fibres
would tail to pieces.
  Three ropes like d, laid together left-handed, form the cable,/, the largest
kind of rope. All left-handed rope is called cable-laid; but, strictly speaking,
only nine-stranded rope like/ should be so called. Formerly, ordinary right-
handed rope was called hawser-laid, but that term is obsolete or has come tc
mean the same as "cable-laid."

446                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
   There are many kinds of cord, such as window-sash lines, &c, which are
not " laid," but " plaited," and are therefore in no sense rope. The^e cannot
be spliced or made into the more complicated knots. Miniature rope, called
humbcr-linc, is about the smallest genuine laid rope, and is good for practising
knots upon. The smallest rope so called by sailors is inch-rope, i.e., I in. in
circumference, not diameter. Rope exposed to the wet should be made of
yarns soaked in tar. This makes the neatest knots and splices, the fibres
sticking together better, but it makes the fingers in a sad mess. Untarred
rope is nearly as good for practising on.
   String is composed of two or three yarns laid either way.
   Spun-yarn is a kind of soft string, made by twisting, right-handed, two or
three yarns from old rope.
    Worming is filling up the channels between the strands of a rope, either to
improve its appearance or to fit it for serving or parcelling (a, Fig. 2).
   Parcelling is covering the rope with strips of old canvas soaked in tar to
keep out the wet. Follow the "lay" of the strands from left to right (d. Fig.
2) ; then cover over or serve the parcelling with spun-yarn (b, Fig. 2), going
against the lay, or from right to left. " Service " is also put on without par
celling, over a plain rope or over worming.
   Marling is used instead of service to keep parcelling in its place. It is a
 kind of " chain-stitch " as known to ladies (c. Fig. 2). Work it towards you.
   Any bend or loop in a rcp^ is called a bight, as a or b in Fig. 3. The stand
 ing part is that which is not bent about in forming the knot ; the base, in fact,
 upon which the end—the part being manipulated— is worked. If you seize
 one of the bends of a coil of rope, and draw it out without finding the ends,
 you have hold of the " bight " of it.
    The plain Overhand Knot (Fig. 4) is the simplest of all. It is made at
 the end of a rope, to prevent it passing through a hole (as in sewing) or to
 prevent the strands from separating too far.

                         KNOTS AND SPLICES.                                   447
   The Figure of Eight Knot (Fig. 5) is better than the overhand, as it
does not "jam" under strain and is easy to undo.
   The Boat Knot or Marlingspike Hitch (Fig. 6) is simply an overhand
knot, with the end held by a piece of wood instead of being taken through the
bight. On withdrawing this the knot falls to pieces.
   The Bowline is the best of all knots. It forms a loop which neither jams
nor slips, and is easy to undo. Two ropes may be joined by a bowline at the
end of each. It may be thrown over or made fast round a post, it forms a
sling for a cask, and fifty other things. Having formed a bight as in Fig. 7,
hold the crossing b in the right finger and thumb ; with the left hand take the
bight at a, and draw it over the end as in Fig. 8 : being twisted by this opera
tion, it tends to take the shape shown in Fig. 9; let it do so, but still keep the
crossing in order between the finger and thumb ; now draw out the end a little,
and work it in as in Fig. 10; adjust the loop to the size required, and pull it
tight.
   A Running Bowline is begun as in Fig. 1 1, taking <ras the crossing and
</asthe bight described above. Fig. 12 shows it finished,—the best slip-knot
known, free from any risk of jamming.
    One merit of the bowline is that it can be made on a rope with one end
 fixed and out of reach ; but it can even be made in the middle of a rope when
 there is no time to look for the ends. This is a bowline on a bight. When a
 sailor hears the cry, " Man overboard !" he seizes a bight in the first coil of
 rope he meets with, forms a bowline on it, and throws it to the drowning man
 in less time than it takes to describe it, because he is not detained looking for
 the end. Figs. 13 and 14, corresponding to 7 and 9, show that it is commenced
 as a common bowline, only with a double instead of a single rope; but instead
 of treating the looped end, e, like the end in Fig. 10, open it out and pass it
 round or behind the whole thing (see the dotted lines) ; then draw tight
 again, as in Fig. 15.
    A Bowline with Four Bights is made with two double ropes. It has
 four large loops, instead of the two in Fig. 15, and maybe used, for instance,
 to support the different parts of a man's body while being drawn out of the
 water insensible.
    Figs. 16 and 17 show two ways of slinging a cask, &c, in the loop of a single
 bowline. In Fig. 17 the rope must be arranged before the bowline is made.
    Fig. 18 is a simple running knot, but inferior to the bowline. It is often
 used for tying up parcels, when an overhand knot at a is made to prevent the
 end slipping through.
    The Hangman's Knot is useful for the same and other purposes, and does

44»                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
not jam so much, besides being more ornamental. Form bights as in Fig. 19;
work the end round and round, as many times as you like, towards the loop a,
Fig. 20; pass it through a; pull b so as to nip the end tightly in a (Fig. 21).
When made with care this is a pretty knot.
                              Fig. 18.
                                                                        Fig. 20.
                              Fig. 19.                                  Fig. ai.
   A rope may be secured to a post or spar by a bowline, as to the cask in Fig.
16, or by
   The Clove Hitch or Builder's Knot, Figs. 22 and 23, which holds very
tight, especially if the end is "seized" or "stoppered" down with spun-yarn,
or secured to the standing part by a "half-hitch," as at a in the latter figure.
You can form this knot either by twisting the end of the rope round the post,
in the manner shown in Fig. 23, or by forming a double-loop as in Fig. 22,
and passing the post or spar through the opening a, and then drawing tight.
In either case the result is the same.
                                      Fig. 24.
                                                                       Fig. 25.
 Fig. 23.
 Fig. 22.                                                              Fig. 26.
                                          Fig. 27.
   The Timber Hitch (Fig. 24) holds tight while the strain is on, but not
otherwise. It is useful in a hurry, and easily made.
   The Rolling Hitch (Fig. 25) holds so securely that a weight maybe sus
pended by it from a perpendicular pole, or the pole may be slung by it in the
same position. At a it is shown drawn tight. In Fig. 26 an extra turn is
taken, which adds to the strength. There is also another more complicated
form of the rolling hitch.
   In all these figures the knot is drawn loose to show the stiucture.
   The Cat's-paw (Fig. 27) is used for hitching the bight or any part of a rope

                           KNOTS AND SPLICES.                                    449
to a hook, &c Form two bights, twist them in opposite directions, and pass
 the hook through the loops. A weight may now be hung to either part of
 the rope. There are several cat's-paws, but this is the commonest.
    The Sheepshank or Doc-shank (Fig. 28) explains itself. It is used for
shortening ropes when it is undesirable to cut them to the length required. It
 comes apart again when the strain is removed.
                          Fig. 37.
    A Blackwall Hitch (Fig. 29), simple as it is, is a safe way of hanging a
weight from a hook. The greater the weight the tighter the end is jammed
against the hook, though there is no knot in it.
    The neatest join for two ropes is the Reef Knot, or RIGHT or True knot.
Twist the ends as in Fig. 30, then make an overhand knot as in Fig. 31. If
the latter is twisted in the right direction, the ends will lie close as in Fig. 32;
if not, they will stick out sideways. When this happens the knot is useless,
and is called a "granny knot," or false knot. Neat as the true reef knot is, it
is only suited for small ropes with no great strain on them: under much strain
it jams and is difficult to undo. To join large ropes, hold one in the left hand
as at a in Fig. 33 ; then work the other through in the direction of the arrow.
This is the Common or Sheet Bend, or Weaver's Knot. The reef knot
is that used to join the ends of each pair of " reef points " in reefing a sail. Of
course joining the two ends of a rope together is the same as joining two
separate ropes. The weaver's knot is easy to undo, especially if made as in
Fig. 34.
   Fig. 35 is a Carrick Bend, for joining two cables for towing ships, &c ;
but a bowline bend is more general.
   A permanent junction between two ropes should always be made by splicing.
Fig. 36 shows the commencement of a
   Short Splice.— Open out or unlay the strands, and " crutch " or inter-lock
the ends (tightly, not loosely as in the drawing) ; take any strand, a, pass it
                                                                     29

450                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
over the opposing strand next before it,/; and stick it in between that and
the next, c (which must be lifted up by a pointed piece of wood or iron called
a marlingspikc). Pass it under e and up between c and d. Treat all six
strands in a similar manner. If great strength is required, pass them all a
second time. When the ends reappear, untwist each into yarns ; cut out half
of each yarn ; twist up the yarns again ; then pass the six reduced strands
once more, and cut off the ends. This is to taper the splice, to make it more
sightly (Fig. 37). If the description seems obscure, try it as you read: the
principle is to embed or burrow each strand of A into the substance of B, and
vice versd. Splicing large rope is very hard work.
   An Eye Splice (Fig. 38) is easily made by any one who has mastered the
short splice, the difference being that you have only the strands of one rope to
work in amongst the strands of its own " standing part." Both these splices
should be parcelled and served if exposed to wet.
                                                               Fig. 39.
                    Fig. 38.                                Fig. 40.
    The Long Splice is stronger and more elegant than the short splice, and
must be used if the rope has to run through pulleys, &c, as it does not increase
its thickness. Unlay a much greater length of each rope than is shown in
 Fig. 36; inter-lock or "crutch" the strands as before. Now untwist a still
further—for several whole turns along its own rope A, which will then consist,
 so to speak, of two strands and a vacancy. Into the vacant space left by the
removal of a lay the corresponding strand, f, of the opposite rope (Fig. 36) ;
 twisty tighter as you lay it in A, for part of its length is now composed of two
 strands of its own, b and c, and one of its neighbour's,/ At the point where
 the untwisting of a ceases—and where, of course, the laying in of/ceases also
 —join a and/; cut off all but a few inches of each; untwist them, and cut
 off about one-fourth of the yarns from each. Tie the reduced strands with an
 overhand knot (as in Fig. 39), which must be coaxed into the vacant place as
 neatly as possible; beyond the knot reduce a and /by another fourth; pass
 the end of a over /and the end of/ over a, and each under the two next
  strands (Fig. 40) : when you have well stretched the rope, cut off the ends
 where they appear. Sometimes the two are reduced by half before knotting ;
  sometimes the extreme end is reduced to a fourth, and "stuck" once more.
  In the same way work one of a's strands —say b—into the rope B, untwisting
 d to make room for it, and joining them like a and /. You will now have e
  and c to dispose of. Reduce them, and tie their ends together like the others,
  but at the original point of junction, without laying them into either rope :
  your three pair of strands will now be united at three different points in the
  rope, some distance apart, and there will be no material increase of thickness.
     A Grommet— (see engraving in the article on Sailing)— is a rope ring made

                                   GARDENING.                                   451
 by unlaying one strand from a rope. Form a bight of the required size at one
 end, and work the loose end twice round it, following the natural crevices of
 the strand. You will now have a solid three-strand rope in the form of a ring,
 and a pair of ends to join. Join them by an overhand knot, first tapering
 them, and "stick" the ends just as in a long splice.
    Sailors have many ornamental knots for finishing the ends of ropes, to pre
 vent the strands from separating : amongst others are the Matthew Walker,
 the Single Wall, the Single Wall Crowned, the Double Wall, the Double Wall
 Double Crowned, the Single Diamond, the Double Diamond, the Stopper
 Knot, and others, which space does not admit of our describing. All the knots
 and splices in common use we have given, and the reader may be sure that
 few pieces of stray information repay the trouble of learning—and practising
 —better than a knowledge of the Art of Cordage.
                                 GARDENING.
                            Tools that must be had.
      1 pair of soft leather gloves,         1 draw-hoe,
      1 spade,                               1 dibble,
      1 small hand-fork,                     1 rake,
      1 trowel,                              1 small pair of shears,
      1 Dutch hoe,                           1 3-foot rod,
      1 gallon water-pot,                    1 pair pruning-scissors,
      1 garden line,                         1 garden-knife,
      1 peck rubbish-basket,                 1 wooden basket for seeds, &c,
      l hammer,                              1 wooden mallet,
 and an apron with a pocket in front, for carrying bass or any small article.
 If the tools can be kept in a sheltered spot near the garden during the summer
months, it would be an advantage ; in the winter, when not required, thej
should be taken indoors, and, after being cleaned, the parts liable to rust should
be oiled with a brush and marked, for sake of distinction, with the initials. It
would be well to be provided with a good deal box, divided into compartments,
for containing the small tools and other sundries, as flower-sticks, labels, pegs,
bass, string, nails, shreds, tallies, and seeds, which should be properly arranged,
so as to allow of ready access to them in the busy season.
   Having had a plot of ground allotted to you, the next thing is to consider
how you shall form your garden ; and the gratification of your taste must be
determined by the space at your disposal.
   The edgings on each side of your main walks should be of such a kind that,
in case of heavy rain, they would prevent the soil being washed into the walks.
Box edgings are not desirable, as, from frequent raking and brushing, they
are apt to decay ; thus gaps are left here and there, which can only be properly
replaced by planting the whole afresh. Bricks or burrs are to be discarded.
A rustic edge formed of round pieces of wood, cut in equal lengths, and fas
tened in close together with a mallet, is good and easily repaired. Ivy and
all kinds of growing edges harbour slugs, snails, and other varieties of de-
                                                                   29—2

452                     THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
structive vermin. If you can afford it, buy some of the ornamental tile-border
ing for flower-gardens ; it can be had at the principal potteries. With care it
will last for years.
    If you have sufficient space for flower-beds, let them be of the oval and circle
shape. A raised bed or mound in the centre of the garden for growing flowers
would be a relief to the fla't surface. The size and number of the beds must
accord with the extent of your garden. With flower-beds you can better
harmonize the colours by massing them ; that is, supposing you to have a
piece of ground each side of the centre plot, these portions could be devoted
to the culture of the chrysanthemum, herbaceous plants, &c. If you have not
this advantage, it would be better to dispense with beds, and plant on the
mixed system, practising as much method as possible in the arrangements of
colour, height, season of flowering, &c, so as to have few blank spots through
out the year. If you design beds, there will be no need to employ the same
labour and materials in making the walks that encircle the beds as in the
case of the divisions. A slight coat of gravel to distinguish them would
suffice, as it is possible that in the following season you may alter your plan.
This can be more readily accomplished if the walks are not made for perma
nent use. The edgings round the beds could be made of a very hardy plant,
viz., Cerastcmum tomentosum, which can be propagated in the spring by-
division, and planted two inches apart. It will increase and spread very
fast. Do not let it flower, but keep it evenly clipped with the shears both
in width and height. You need not afterwards disturb it, except for the
purpose of reducing it.
    Should there be a fence, wall, or similar shelter in the rear of your garden,
you might construct a rustic arbour ; in the absence of such an advantage,
you could form a back with little difficulty of upright stakes well secured in
the ground ; the sides the same ; but the roof should be willow or ash stakes,
 if you can procure them, as they bend to any shape. If the ends of the stakes
 which are inserted in the ground could be dipped in tar previously, it would pre
 serve them for a greater length of time. In splicing the stakes, notch the parts
 where you tie them together ; the same with the stiff rods used as cross sup
 ports to the upright. Having erected the arbour, you should make a seat
 inside, where in the hot days of summer you might read and study. The floor
 ing can be made of small stones, collected at your convenience, and may
 be formed into some device.
    You have now to consider what species of climbing plant you will select for
 covering the arbour. Hops are very pretty and rpaid in growth ; but they often
become so infested in the autumn with green fly, as to make them very unplea
 sant to handle. As annuals, nasturtiums, Convolvulus major, and scarlet
 runner are suitable. For permanent growth, the white clematis planted on
 one side and an Ayrshire rose on the other would have a pleasing effect. The
 latter is very thorny, but its flowers are very fragrant ; and, after it has covered
 the intended space, you can bud choice varieties on it with success.
    Fernery.—Each side of the arbour you can raise a mound of earth. The
 under portion could be composed of any rubbish which makes a good drain
 age; over this you may form a rockwork, cither with stones, blocks of wood,
 stumps of trees, or any similar material that can be obtained. On this, when
 finished, you could plant a collection of ferns. They do not require a great
 depth of soil, but like their roots screened from the scorching rays of the sun ;
 their fronds develope themselves luxuriantly in shady nooks ; though fond of

                                GARDENING.                                    453
moisture, they dislike being saturated. Syringing or watering them with a fine
rose at the close of a warm summer day is what they delight in. The ferns
in the following list are perfectly hardy ; they require but ordinary attention,
and are well adapted for a beginner :
      Asplenium (Adiantum nigrum).              Polypodium vulgare.
      Blcchnum spicans.                         Polystichum angulare.
      Lastrea dilatata.                         Scolopcndrium vulgare.
    Snowdrops may be planted along the edge of the fernery, and a few British
primroses intermixed among the ferns ; these would flower early, and be quite
in character with the situation. The subjoined plan is a sketch and ground
plan of the kind of garden we have been treating of. Of course situation and
other circumstances so far vary that you might not be able to adopt this style,
still you may derive such lessons from it as will assist you in carrying out a
different design.
   Having executed your plans in the formation of the garden, and quite pre
pared it for the reception of plants, you must now consider how you shall
furnish it with those kind of plants that will make it attractive and interesting,
not only at the present but at all seasons, and that you may do so we will begin
with the year, and say something of what is to be done in every month of it.
   January is a month in which very little can be done out of doors, unless
you can on favourable days benefit the soil by digging in any leaves or other

 454                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
 nutritious substances you may have collected in a heap during the autumn in
 some out-of-the-way corner. If not sufficiently decayed, you had better turn
                                            it over three or four times with your
               WALL OR FENCE                fork before you use it. In digging, the
                                           rougher you leave the soil for the pre
                                            sent, the more will it be benefited in the
     FERNERY       ARBOR       FERNERY      future. Be careful not to disturb cro
                                            cuses, snowdrops, or any other bulbous
                                            roots you may have planted, as they are
      <f/ W,                                fast pushing upwards, especially the
                                            snowdrops. It is to be hoped that you
  m o
        g
        ^
                  o             5 m3D 3
                                S 00 30
                                       a
                                       m    have marked their positions by care
                                            fully-written labels. If you have any
                                            plants whose roots are likely to be in
  C 3        1/?T~^
             iii           ill     o
                                       _
                                       a:
                                           jured by the frost, as hardy fuchsias or
                                            tea-scented roses, cover them with some
  o 1a 5
  c 5
  to 5 *
             ii
             \v\\\        j i      m >:;
                         / / / 5A Cu, £2v coal-ashes.
                        J/J
  ¦" m        ^<c"       J/        s5 beYour         leisure time in the house should
                                                employed in making pegs with sharp
                  CD               is
                                   Pi      points from old birch brooms, making
                                      to   and painting flower-sticks, and pre
                                           paring labels, as in a few weeks you
                                           will be requiring them. During the
                                           summer months you will have kept a
          GROUND PLAN OF GARDEN.
                                           memorandum of any improvements
                                           that may have been suggested to you :
now is the period to prepare for carrying them out. Do not clear away the
decayed fronds or leaves that may be deposited on the surface of the fernery,
as they are a protection to the future fronds. A little earth sifted over them
will prevent them being scattered by the wind. If you have a small frame for
keeping calceolarias, stocks, &c, it would be a great help. Protect them by
coverings from severe frost, but on all fine days admit air and pick off
withered leaves.
    February.—Let your spare moments be employed in the same way as
recommended last month. Any bulbs, such as tulips, &c, that are not planted,
should be during the first fortnight of this month.
   March.—You may now divide any perennial and herbaceous plants which
you may wish to lessen or increase. Never let any of this kind of plants get
too large, because they rob the soil of its nutritious properties. No garden is
complete without that beautiful autumnal flower, the chrysanthemum. Now is
the season to propagate it. The dwarf or pompone varieties are most desirable
for small gardens, because they flower early and in more profusion than the
larger varieties. Three or four rooted pieces will make a good patch ; but, if
you cannot obtain that number, one will do, as, by stopping the shoots at in
tervals till the beginning of July, it will make a nice plant. They are fond of
plenty of water, and rich manure applied to their roots during the growing
season. The following list includes a few good sorts :
                 Name.                                  Colour.
        Bijou d'Horticultur      .      .     .    Sulphur white.
        Capella                                    Red chestnut.
        Cedo nulli                                 White tipped with blush.

                                GARDENING.                                    455
               Nam-.                                   Colour.
         Drini-Drini .                            Clear yellow.
         Edith .                                  Light rosy salmon.
         General Canrobert                        Pure yellow.
    If you can do so, you might grow one of each in a pot. They should be
managed thus : as soon as the stem has made five or six eyes, pinch off the
top. It will then push out shoots from each eye, which train and tie to neat
sticks as they grow. When they have made four joints, stop them again. Thus
treated, by the autumn you will have good bushy plants, either for decorating
your window or presenting to your friends.
    You should now stir the soil with the Dutch hoe and level it with your rake
preparatory to the sowing of seeds. If you possess a frame, sow asters, stocks,
and sweet peas in pots. In doing so put plenty of drainage in the pots and
fill them with soil to within an inch of the edge ; then with a rose give the soil
a good soaking of water. Then you may sow the seed, covering it with some
fine mould, intermixed with a little silver sand. Keep fhem shaded till they
begin to grow. This will prevent them from requiring water till they have
vegetated, as frequent waterings previously are apt to rot the seed.
    You should now think of purchasing any seeds you may require, as all
annuals do better if sown not later than the first week in next month. The
following is a selection of pretty and effective annuals :
                Name.                        Colour.                He ght.
        Candytuft                      . Purple                   I ft . oin
              „      alba              . White                    I      o
         Collinsia bicolor .           . White and purple        I       o
        Campanula lorei .             . Purple . .                I      o
        Dwarf nasturtium              . Various .                o       6
        Escholtzia crocea .           . Yellow       .           i       o
        Erysimum perofskianuni        . Orange                    i      o
        Gillia tricolor               . Three colours .          I       o
        Kaulfussia amelloides         . Blue .                   o       6
        Lupinus nanus                 . Blue and white           o       9
        Larkspur                      . Various                  2       o
        Mignonette .                  . Fragrant .               I       o
        Nemophila insignis            . Blue.                    o       6
        Saponaria Calabrica            . Red .                   o       6
        Virginia stock                . Various                  o       9
Of course you can add to or reduce the number, but don't forget to sow plenty
of mignonette.
    The present is the proper season to prune rose trees. Cut the strong shoots
back, leaving three of the dormant buds.
    April. —The garden is fast becoming cheerful. Polyanthuses and wall
flowers are now beginning to bloom freely. You must give all your spare time
to the cultivation of your garden. The annuals must be sown without delay.
 Use a small hand-fork for loosening the soil after you have sown the seeds.
Pat them in the earth with the back of the fork. As soon as they have grown
so that you can handle them with your thumb and finger, pull up the weakest
and leave the remainder an inch or more apart ; after which, if the days
are warm, you may, towards evening, sprinkle them with a fine rose. If the
earth is rich with manure, they will grow strong and weedy, in which case

456                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
they will exceed their usual height. As they progress, it would be advisable
to stick a few pieces of birch or brushwood among the weakest growers, to
enable them to withstand heavy rains and wind.
   May.—Get some of the bedding varieties of plants. Do not select strong
growers, as they often yield the least flowers. The dwarf sorts of scarlet
geraniums, calceolarias, and verbenas are in general the most abundant
bloomers. There is a dwarf white flowering dahlia, named Alba nana, that
needs no sticks to support it, and will continue to produce a great quantity of
flowers till the frost destroys them. It is useful to cut from for bouquets.
   Subjoined is a list of bedding plants :
     GERANIUMS.               CALCEOLARIAS.                MISCELLANEOUS.
Trentham rose.              Aura floribunda.            Lobelia speciosa.
Tom Thumb.                  Yellow gem.                     „   Paxtoni.
Baron Hugel.                                            White petunia.
Christine pink.        •         verbenas.              Argentum Mexicanum.
Variegated geranium.                                    Tropaeolum elegans.
Flower of the day.          Lord Raglan (scarlet).
Alma.                       Purple king (purple).
Brilliant.                  Mrs. Holford (white).
   When planting any of the above plants not in masses, let it then be done so
that they will fill up any of the vacancies caused by the annuals when past
flowering, and strive to arrange your colours that they may harmonize as
they grow. Keep the ground free from weeds by the use of the Dutch hoc
Do not give your young plants too much water, but a gentle sprinkling over
their foliage of an evening : such practice refreshes them very much, besides
cleansing their leaves of any dust that may accumulate. Tulips will be in
bloom this month. If you wish to prolong their beauty, you must contrive
some kind of covering to protect them from the rays of the midday sun and
heavy showers.
   June. —The summer roses will be in full bloom this month. Keep the buds
clear of green fly, for which purpose use a soft brush or feather ; look also for
the maggot. The curling of the leaf is a certain sign ; examine it, and you
will be sure to find the insect. It destroys the bud by piercing a hole in it,
therefore the leaves must be constantly watched. Pinks will now be in perfec
tion. Keep them tied to neat stakes, and if you want large flowers you must
pick off some of the smaller buds where there are more than two or three on
the same stalk. The white variety is easily propagated, and much grown on
account of its scent. For increasing them by cuttings, cover the soil about an
inch deep in silver sand, then put a propagating-glass over them, and shade
them till rooted, which you will observe by their commencing to grow. Then
gradually admit air till you entirely remove the glass. Attend to the training
of your climbers, put sticks to your sweet peas. You may by the end of this
month dig up the tulip or any other bulbs you may desire, dry them, after
which, clean and put them in bags till required for planting.
   July.— If you wish to bud any rose with other varieties this is a favourable
month for the operation. Remove decayed flowers and seed-pods from your
annuals and other plants ; it will extend their time of flowering. Your gera
niums will be fast coming into bloom. If very hot weather, give them a liberal
supply of water. Endeavour and keep your garden in good trim ; tie and
peg all plants that may require it. If by accident you should break a gera

                                GARDENING.                                   457
nium shoot, dib it in the ground—it will root. You must discontinue to syringe
or sprinkle plants in flower, as it damages the bloom and causes them to lose
their flower. When using the Dutch hoe, don't let it go in too deep, or it will
injure the roots. Uproot all annuals that have done flowering ; attend to the
training of the shoots of your chrysanthemums. If they and the dahlias get
attacked with earwigs, have a thumb-pot, put some dry moss in it, and lodge
it in the plant or on the stake that supports it ; every morning take the pot
out, remove the moss, and empty the contents into water or crush them with
your feet. Cloves and carnations may now be increased by laying : the opera
tion is simple : loosen the earth about the plant with the hand-fcrk, then make
a cut half-way across the third joint of a shoot, then peg it into the soil.
   AUGUST. — Bedding plants may be said to be at their best during this
month. If the weather is very dry, continue to water freely. If you have,
or can obtain, convenience for wintering geraniums or such-like plants, you
should commence propagating them during the early part of this month : they
will root in the open ground or in pots out of doors. You may increase the
number of your violets by division. Choose the time when we are likely to
have warm showers, as they will assist them to root at once. Select a shady
spot on which to plant them. Proceed to note in your memorandum such
alterations or arrangements as you may wish for another year.
   September is a very humid month; plants grow very fast; less water is
needed. French and German asters will be in perfection. When they have
attained their full size, cut them for bouquets ; that will increase the size of
the after-blooms. Supply the roots of dahlias with plenty of water ; cut out
all weak shoots ; gather the seeds of plants you may wish to save, as they are
now ripe (you can clean them indoors at your leisure).          Plant wallflower,
sweet William, &c.
   October.—Although many plants are yet gay, still the beauty of the greater
number is on the decline. Towards the middle or latter part of this-month
you may expect a few rather sharp frosts : any plants that you have struck,
or others that need protection, let them be so conveniently placed that, should
there be signs of a frost, you can immediately protect them. Many plants,
such as fuchsias, scarlet geraniums, &c, will exist in a room during the winter,
where they can be properly secured from the admission of frost, and you
must keep them from growing till the spring, by not giving them more water
than will just keep them alive. Cuttings of yellow calceolarias will now root
quickly in coarse sand. They need no other protection than a cold frame for
preserving them during the winter. Chrysanthemum buds will be swelling
fast. Towards evening search for and destroy earwigs. If you want fine
flowers, pick off all small buds, leaving one to each shoot. In tying them out,
afford all the room you can for each stem.
   November.—As leaves fall, collect them together in a tidy heap, and by
turning them over often during the winter, they will become excellent manure
for your garden in the spring. This is the best month in the year for planting
tulips, crocuses, hyacinths, and other bulbs. Tulips and hyacinths should be
planted six inches deep; the smaller bulbs three inches. If you have a spot
that you could plant a line of crocuses in three rows of distinct colours, say
yellow, white or striped, and blue, the effect when in flower would be dazzling.
Dig up your dahlia roots, and after allowing the water to drain out of the
flower-stalk, hang them up in a cupboard or cellar where the frost cannot

458                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
penetrate. If you have not that convenience, put them in a box, and cover
them with dry sand.
   December.—Any stalks or refuse of plants can be consumed by fire : the
ashes will improve the soil if mixed with it. Now the trees have shed their
leaves, clean up and put your garden in tidy order.
                                  TRAPS.
    From time immemorial and amongst every nation of the world, we believe,
the art of trapping has been more or less practised : by some as a means of
supplving their wants in the shape of daily food, and by others for the purposes
of merchandise and profit. In this country, however, almost the only object
in view is that of the destruction of vermin, for the protection of our poultry-
yards, our granaries, and our game. It is to this kind of trapping to which
we shall more particularly direct our attention, and we do not doubt that,
independently of the good they will effect, our young readers will derive a
sufficient amount of gratification for the trouble they may take in following
the few rules and directions we shall lay down for their guidance.
    To be a clever and successful trapper, a vast deal more is required than is
generally supposed : the mere fact of a person being able to set a trap cleverly
and judiciously forms but part of his proficiency. He must know more than
 this : he must at least have some knowledge of the nature and habits of the
animal he endeavours to catch; without it he will meet with but indifferent
 success.
    It may be thought possibly by some of our readers that vermin-trapping is
 the sole province of the keeper, and is therefore beneath their notice. Such,
however, we can assure them, is not the case. If they have but the time and
 opportunity at their disposal, they will be amply repaid for the trouble they
 may bestow upon it, and, moreover, derive an amount of information which
 will enable them thereafter to satisfy themselves whether or no their coverts,
 &C-, are properly cared for. There is, moreover, an amount of excitement in
 the art itself, which our young readers will most certainly find if they will fol
 low us practically through the simple directions which we shall here lay down.
    All things must have a beginning, and trapping is no exception to the rule ;
 and as we have vivid recollections of our schoolboy days and of our Christmas
                                      holidays, and " Brick and Tile " traps, we
                                      shall take this method of trapping small
                                      birds as the starting-point of our present
                                      article. It is as well known to most of our
                                      readers, we doubt not, as to ourselves ; but
                                      it ought not, we consider, to be omitted
                                      from our list. It is formed, as shown in
                                      the cut, of three bricks and a tile. The
                                      bricks should be placed on their edges,
                                      i.e., on their thinnest sides, and the two
  side ones put wide enough apart to allow the tile to fall easily as soon as the
  trigger is touched. A peg must be driven in the ground, flattened at the top,
  and bevelled off on two opposite sides. The trigger should be formed of the
  joint of a hazel twig, having a branch on each side as shown, and, besides

                                                TRAPS.                                              459
this, there must be a straight piece about three inches long. To set the trap,
raise the tile, place the butt of the trigger upon the top of the peg, and upon
it place one end of the straight piece, and upon the other let the tile rest.
Some bread-crumbs or seeds must be placed on the ground under the trigger.
Directly a bird hops upon the trigger to get at the bait, the tile loses its support,
and of course falls, the bird beifig made prisoner. Care must be taken in re
moving the bird from the trap, or, the moment you raise the tile, he will escape.
The peg, trigger, and straight piece, marked a, are shown on the right-hand
side of the engraving.
    Another capital trap for almost every bird which frequents our shubbcries,
gardens, &c, is made in the following manner : Make a square frame of four
pieces of wood, f in. thick, 2 in. wide, and 18 in. long, nailed together at the
corners ; and across the frame, from corner to corner, tie two pieces of stout
cord of such a length as, when the middle of them is raised, they will form
with the frame the shape of a pyramid, as shown in the engraving. Having
thus fastened the string, procure a number of straight hazel twigs, as thick as
an ordinary cane, and place two of them under the string upon the frame
parallel with its sides, and about an inch from its inner side ; then place two
more transversely, their ends resting on the first two; then two more, and so
 on, each two approaching the centre by an inch, so that when about eight
                                             TRAP WHEN SET.
 A, the trap ; Bt the forked stick : c, the piece of bcut briar supporting the trap ; D, the semicircular
                                piece of cane or briar which is the trigger.
sticks have been laid on each side, the pyramidal shape will have been
acquired. Then take a short piece of stick, and placing it under the loops of
the transverse piece of string, and above the sticks which have been built up,
screw it round and round until the pressure which you thus exert upon them
secures them in their places ; this piece of stick is then made fast : having seen
that the twigs are properly arranged, the superfluous ends should be cut off
with a tenon saw or sharp knife; then take a long briar or thin cane, and put
each end of it under the lower bar and above the frame on the same side of
the trap, so as to form a half-circle that will be inside the frame when placed
on the ground. A stick having a fork at one end of it, and a piece of briar cut
to the proper length, and bent at about two inches from one end to an angle,
forms the whole apparatus. To set the trap, let one side of it rest on the
ground, and raise the other side about a foot from it ; then place the forked
stick (fork uppermost) on the ground, and place the fork flat against the frame
of the trap ; then place the bent end of the piece of briar in the fork, and allow
the frame of the trap to rest upon it. The other end of the briar (but quite
the extreme end) must be placed inside the circular piece. It will be seen that
directly a bird perches upon the circular piece (which, of course, must be raised

 460                          THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
about two inches from the ground), it falls with his weight, the bent piece is
released, and the trap having no support, of course falls, securing the bird
beneath it.
    The Clap-Net is the trap by which most if not all the song birds, sparrows
for shooting, &c, are caught by bird-fanciers. It is made in this way: Two
nets, 1 5 ft. long and 5 ft. wide, must be made of very strong thread, such as is
used by tailors, and of a very small mesh. Then make four rods of deal with
out any knots in them, each 5 ft. long, and about the thickness of an ordinary
walking-stick, one of which must be laced to each end of the two nets. One
end of each of the rods must have a small brass ring screwed into it, and the
other must have a hole bored through it. Then procure four pieces of elm
board, 8 in. long, 1 in. thick, and 3 in. wide, cut to a point at o
one end, and having an opening 2 in. long and 1 in. wide, _[_
with a hole bored through them edgeways, for the purpose
of forming a hinge, by means of a piece of thick wire, for
the poles or rods to work in. They should be made thus :              £
   When the net is to be set, an even piece of ground should be chosen, and
all sticks, stones, high tufts of grass, &c, should be removed, and one of these
" cheeks," as they are called, should be driven into the ground. One of the
nets should then be unfolded, and the end of the pole having the hole through
it should be placed in the " cheek," and the wire run through it. It will be
seen that the pole will work upon the wire from side to side. The net must
then be drawn out to its full length, the "cheek" put in its place, and the
pole fixed as before : the other net must be set exactly in the same manner.
There should be an interval of 6 ft. between the nets, and they should be
parallel to each other. A stout cord must, be fastened to the ring at the end
of each pole, and laid through the edge of the net its whole length, leaving 8
                                or 9 ft. to spare. It is as well, when the proper length
                                is found, to tie a knot in the cord on each side of the
                                brass ring, so that the end of the pole will always be
                                kept in its place. The ends of the cord are left to
                                be attached to stout pegs driven into the ground, as
                                shown in the engraving.
                                   The net shown in the engraving is supposed to be
                                set ready for use. Great care should be taken that the
                                pegs, D D D D,- are so placed that they will exert an
                                even pressure on the ends of the poles as they are
                                turned over from one side to the other, and this should
                                be done several times, until the exact proper position
                                of the pegs is ascertained ; for unless the net turns
                                quickly and evenly all attempts at success are in vain.
                                It will be seen that the "drawing-line," E, is not
                                attached evenly to the poles. The reason is, that it
                                is necessary that one net should turn over a little in
                                advance of the other; for, unless it did so, it would
                                " foul " the other net, whereas, by being drawn as de
                                scribed, the two nets fall clear of each other.
  A a, the nets ;bbbb, the         It is usual in catching song birds, such as linnets,
poles ; c c c c. the cheeks ; D goldfinches, &c, to place " call birds " in small cages
D d d, the pegs to which the
guide-cords are fastened ; E, near the nets, and also to have what is called a " slur
the drawing-line.               bird," which is a living bird, having a " brace " made

                                      TRAPS.                                   461
of bobbin placed across the back and
in front of and behind the wings, and
secured at the lower part of the chest.
The "slur" is merely a stout peg of
 wood, having a mortice in it, into which
a thin rod about 15 in. long is placed,
 with a wire run through it, so that it will
 move up and down when the string
 attached to it is pulled.
    Directly any birds are seen near the net, the "slur" line is pulled, and the
 " slur bird " is drawn up, and naturally flutters, and thus attracts them to the
 net. The " slur bird " should be placed between the nets, and round him
 seeds, berries, thistles, &c It is most difficult to convey on paper an exact
 description of this most excellent trap ; but at most places, particularly in the
 immediate neighbourhood of London, bird-catchers are always to be found,
 who, for a trifling remuneration, would gladly give a practical description of it.
    The common Sieve TraP, well known to almost every schoolboy, must
 not be omitted, nor should it be despised. Many and many an hour during
 the Christmas holidays, and on a piercing cold day,
 have we sat anxiously watching a trap of this descrip
 tion, and have been amply rewarded for our pains.
 Sparrows, blackbirds, thrushes, fieldfares, greenfinches,
 chaffinches have fallen victims to this simple contri
 vance ; a common garden sieve, a stick about a foot
 long, and about thirty yards of fine string being all the
 apparatus required. The accompanying engraving will fully explain itself.
    Some bait, such as grain, berries, bread, &c, must be laid on the ground
 under the sieve, and the moment a bird is attracted sufficiently under it, the
 line must be suddenly pulled ; the sieve, having no support, of course falls, and
the bird is secured.
    The same trap may be made on a larger scale by covering a hurdle with a
piece of fine net, which answers admirably in a farmyard for catching sparrows.
 It is, however, cold and tedious work, as it can only be practised with success
during frost, or when the ground is covered with snow.
    A very simple way of taking rooks, which are as shy and cunning as any
bird, has been most successfully practised, although rooks, when they have
once left their nest and begun the world on their own account, and are
independent of their papas and mammas, arc quite unfit for food, it is done
more for the fun of the thing than for any use arising from it. When these
birds follow the plough in search of worms, grubs, &c, is the most favourable
time for this fun—we will not call it sport. Make up some cones of stiff brown
paper— similar in shape to those in which grocers pack small quantities of
sugar — then smear the inside of the larger end with bird-lime, and at the
bottom place a grub, a bean, or piece of meat, and thrust the pointed end
into the soft ground that has just been turned up by the plough. The rook,
seeing the bait, pecks at it ; his head coming in contact with the bird-lime
adheres firmly to the paper, and he is instantly hoodwinked, deprived of sight,
and almost of the power of breathing. The poor bird is in a sad plight, and
usually takes to flying upwards, and then darting in different directions, so
exhausts himself that he soon comes to the ground, and is, of course, easily
caught.

 462                   THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
   Another most excellent trap for birds, such as fieldfares, blackbirds, &c, is
 made as follows : Take a hazel stick about 18 in. long, and pointed at
both ends, and having fixed upon the spot for setting it (there is no better
place than a few feet from a high hedgerow), thrust each end in the ground,
so that it forms an arch of about one-third of a circle ; then take a stout hazel
stick, about 3j ft. in length, and having pointed the thicker end, thrust it
upright into the ground at a spot at right angles with your arch, and at such
a distance from it as, when its point is bent down to within 18 in. of the
ground, it will be exactly over the arch. To the end of this stick must be
tied about a yard of whipcord, having a running noose at its end ; then take
a piece of a thick bramble—for this is most easy to bend without breaking—
and bending it until the two ends meet and cross one another. Tie them to
gether; it will then be exactly the shape of a hors>collar. In the upper one
of the two ends cut a notch, then, holding the notch against the upper part of
the arch, drive a stout peg into the ground, and over it place the round end of
the trigger just described. To set the trap, bend down the hazel stick (having
                                         tied a knot in the string, which should
                                         oe previously passed through a small
                                         flat piece of wood about 2 in. long,
                                         bevelled at one end), pass the running
                                         noose under the arch ; the bevelled end
                                         must be placed in the notch cut in the
                                         trigger, and the other end must rest
                                         against the arch. The noose must be
                                         made larger in circumference than the
                                         trigger, and must be spread round it.
                                         It will be seen that immediately a bird
                                         perches on the trigger he disengages
                                         the small piece of wood ; the hazel stick
springing up, the noose catches the bird by the neck or legs. Bait should, of
course, be placed in the centre of the noose.
   Immense numbers of larks arc caught in horse-hair nooses, which are
set in the following manner : Having found a place on the snow frequented by
these birds, take about fifty yards of stout string, and stretching it to its full
length, peg it down at each end, and at intervals of 18 in. attach the nooses,
which should be spread out about the size of the top of a tumbler. Then
place all along each side of the line a thin layer of black oats and very small
seeds. The larks, attracted by the seeds, and running (for larks do not hop,
as most small birds do) amongst it, are at once caught in the nooses. It is as
well to be concealed near the spot, so that the birds may be taken out as soon
as may be : although in doing so the birds not caught will, of course, be
scared, they will soon return after the nooses are reset.
  A very successful method of catching small birds is by means of the Bat
fowling Net, and the most vivid recollections of our Christmas holidays in
years long since gone by are conjured up before us as we call to mind the
piercing cold nights we have braved in following this sport. As the bat-fowling
net is procurable at most of the large net and twine shops in London, it is
needless to give a more minute description of it than to say that it is a small-
meshed net, about 7 ft. long and 4 ft. 6 in. wide, attached to two light ash
poles, the tops of which are bent and hinged together with leather, the
bottom of the net being turned up about nine inches, so as to form a bag.

                                     TRAPS.                                    463
The method of using this net is as follows: there must be three persons
engaged—one to hold the net, another to carry a lantern, and a third to " bash "
or beat the bushes, ivy, corn-ricks, &c The darkest nights should be chosen,
and if a stiff breeze is blowing so much the better, for the birds theji roost
low and are not able to hear so well. The net should be held about a foot
from the bush, &c, and the lantern so held that the light be thrown evenly all
over the back of the net. The bush should then be slightly beaten, and the
birds, on being disturbed, will fly against the net, which should be instantly
closed and brought to the ground, and the birds secured. In working ivy or
the side and eaves of a corn-rick, two persons will generally be found suffi
cient, as the birds may be roused from their slumbers by rubbing one of the
poles of the net against it. We have known as many as
eighteen or twenty sparrows, chaffinches, greenfinches, &c,
taken at a single haul, and eight and nine dozen in the
course of an evening.
   This mode of bird-catching cannot be too quietly per
formed, and the lantern should be covered in walking from
one place to another, and, indeed, at all times when not
actually in use, provided it be not too dark to see one's way.
Thick bushes, such as laurel, holly, fir, &c, are the favour
ite resort of small birds, as also is ivy and the sides and
caves of corn and hay-stacks. In sheds thatched with
straw sparrows are easily taken by throwing the light from
the lantern up the corners of them, and then beating the
thatch. The birds will fly to the light and gradually flutter
down the wall, when they may be taken with the hand.
Care should be taken never to remove the candle from
the lantern, for two reasons: firstly, on account of the
danger that may arise from straw, &c, being set on fire,
and secondly, because the light may be extinguished by
the birds fluttering against it.
    Having described what we consider to be the best kinds
of traps for the taking of birds alive, we will now proceed A a a a, the net ; b b,
to give directions for the construction of those which are ttetag;ccltwovtrinsv,
best adapted for the destruction of vermin, and in doing bem in tS propeuw-
so we are indebted to the kindness of Captain Darwin, sition; e, the leathern
the author of " The Game Preserver's Manual," by whose hlnsc-
special permission we are enabled to give our readers the
benefit of his experience. The first on the list is the " Dead FalL," which
 is intended for such vermin as rats, stoats, weasels, &c, and is described in
his own words as follows :
    " No. 1.—The body of the trap must be 3 ft. long, 1 1 in. high, and 4 in. wide
(inside), and the wood of which the treadle is made must be of oak, the body
of the trap being deal. The treadle is 1 ft. long and $ in. thick. It works in
the floor of the trap in an open space left for it. It must not, however, be
flush with the floor, but rather below it, or the weight of the drop will most
probably break the pins on which the treadle works. These latter must be of
 brass and about as thick as a quill. They must be driven into each side of
the treadle exactly at the centre.
    "The holes in the trap on which these pins work should be burnt with a
 red-hot round iron after boring, or the wet weather will swell the wood and

464                    THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
make the pins bind. On one of these pins the iron point, A, must be riveted.
This pin must be made with a square end where riveted, or the point A will
turn round on it. When put into the treadle the point A ought to stand away
from the body of the trap about one inch, and be perfectly upright.
   " B is a piece of bell-spring about 6 in. long (or, better still, a piece of
truss-spring), and pointed at one end to meet the point A. This spring must
be fastened with a couple of screws to the side of the trap directly over A, and
should project so far downwards that the end of A has about £ in. hold on it.
   " C is a piece of brass or iron plate, about -,\ in. thick, with a hole in it, to
tie the string to, that suspends the weight. DD are two strong screws stand
ing out about 2 in. When screwed in and the grooves in their heads hori
zontal, file away the under half of the heads as deep as the groove. A piece
of i-in. bar iron, flat at one end to allow of two screws, must be fixed in the
position shown in the full drawing of the trap.
                                               ne.i.                 xrq. 2.
                                      No. 2.
    " It must be made in an arched form at the top to stand over the centre, and
 a small pulley must be fixed at that end.
    " The weight consists of a piece of wood, E, about 3 in. square, and 2 ft. 2 in.
 long. A staple is driven exactly into the centre, and a string goes from c to
 this staple.
    " To set the trap, press down the spring B, and put it just under the point A ;
 then pass the string over the pulley, and let C catch across the half-grooves in
 the two screws, D d. The weight ought to hang with its top edge about even
 with the top of the trap. A weasel running over the treadle at either end dis
 engages the two points, and the spring flying up, strikes c out of the two
 catches, and the weight drops.

                                         TRAPS.                                    465
    " A, B, C, and D are drawn the proper size for use. The reason why the weight
is made 2 in. shorter than the trap is to allow of a peg or two being run into
the ground at each end, to keep rabbits, &c out, and if the weight were the
full length, it might catch on these pegs. Rub the spring occasionally with
mercurial-ointment to resist the wet, and it will last any length of time. The
string, however, being liable to decay, will, of course, require to be renewed
occasionally. The point of the spring when the trap has gone off need not fly
up more than half an inch beyond the two screw-heads.
    " This trap is better adapted for a stone wall country than for any other,
though it may be placed with effect against a wall among farm buildings, and
may be used also in ditches. It requires no bait ; though it is as well, perhaps,
to rub the floor of the trap with the entrails of a rabbit, which are an especial
attraction to stoats, weasels, &c
    " No. II.—This will be found to be a most excellent trap. It should be made
of the very commonest outside boards of deal, and be stained (and not painted)
so that it may not be at all conspicuous.
    " Fig. 1 is the floor of the trap, 22 in. long, 14 in. wide, and f in. thick. It
must be made in two pieces, so as to admit of the trigger being screwed on to
the edge of one of the boards, which must then be nailed together with two
battens 2 in. wide and 5 in. thick. A strip is cut out, 6 in. long and \ in. wide,
at a.
    " Fig. 2 is the lid, which may be made either solid or in two pieces like Fig. 1,
 but 2 in. shorter; b is a staple to receive the end of the lever ; c is a hole to
allow the iron stanchion to pass through without grazing ; d is a hole 3 in. in
 diameter, with its centre 43 in. from the hinge end of the lid. An oblong piece
 is cut out from this hole to the hinge end :j in. wide, so as to allow the neck
 of the trigger to work. The hinges may be made of pieces of old stirrup
 leather.
    " Fig. 3 is an iron stanchion made of i in. round iron, flattened at the foot,
 and having two holes for screws. It must be bent to a radius of 15 in. Halt"
 an inch from the other end, it must have a pin riveted in, about the thickness
 of a quill, standing out at right angles, and about 2 in. long. The stanchion
 is screwed on to the floor at e.
     " Fig. 4 is the trigger and plate. From notch to/ is 4?. in. ; from/to g 3 in.
 The plate is a piece of round sheet iron, 3i in. in diameter, with a hole punched
 in, by which it is riveted to the trigger.
     " Fig. 5 is a wooden lever, -J in. wide and -J- in. thick, to reach from the top of
 the trigger when set to the staple b in Fig. 2. Two inches from the end, as at
 /;, is a hole for it to slip on to the pin in the top of the stanchion, and at the
 other end, a lath nail to catch the notch in Fig. 4.
     " Fig. 6 is the trap when set.
     " Fig. 7 is a round piece of sheet iron, 4 in. in diameter, with four holes
 punched in it to tie the bait on.
     " To set this trap, put the lever on to the iron stanchion, raise the lid till the
 end of the lever catches under the staple, press the other end down, and let
 the nail catch the notch in the top of the trigger. Weight the lid with stones.
  Having tied the bait on Fig. 7, merely place it on the hole d. \vi;h the bait
 downwards, but not too low. The vermin reaching up to smell at it, lets the
 trap off by setting its feet on the trigger-plate.
     "No. 3. The Figure-of-Four Trap.— This is an equally good trap, and
  is made as follows: Fig. 1 is 13 in. long; from notch to notch 4A in. The
                                                                          80 "

466                       THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
reason why one notch is cut rather slanting is to prevent the binding of two
Voad surfaces. It must be \ in. wide and [} in. thick. The notches need
only be about ,V in. deep.
               __
              pv^t^
    " Fig. 2 is 6.} in. long, I in. wide at the notch end, and % in. at the other, and
ij in. thick. The notch must be from I in. to \ in. distant from the end, ac
cording to the weight of the stone. If a heavy stone, you must have a short
notch, and vice versa.
    " To cut the slant off the proper side, you must hold the piece of wood rest
ing on its point and the notch underneath, then cut the slant from the right
side.
    " Fig. 3 is 7 in. long (calculating 3 in. from foot to notch, and 4 in. from notch
to the other end), 1 in. wide, and \ in. thick. The notch itself is \ in. deep.
To cut this piece of wood properly, hold it on lis edge with the fork end from
you, and the notch uppermost ; then cut the slant (to bring the notch to a
sharp edge) from the right. The long slant may begin at \ in. from the foot.
    " It will be apparent that if these various parts of the ' Figure-of-four' are
not cut as directed, they will not come properly together. The forked end of
Fig. 3 is to prevent its being turned round when the trap is set.
    "To complete this trap, you require a flat stone or slate about 18 inches
square, or a board or boards will, of course, answer the purpose; and having
placed a small bit of flat stone under or about the place where the outside
edge of the slate will rest, you must put the piece of wood (Fig. 3) with the
forked end resting on this small piece of stone, which latter is meant to pre
vent the weight of the slate forcing the trap into the ground. Be sure to
keep the proper side to the front as marked in the drawing; then put the
notch in Fig. 2 on the top of Fig. 3, with the end beyond the notch only put
under the edge of the slate when propped up on it. Now put the point of
 Fig. 2 into or.c of the notches of Fig. 1, and bring up the other slanting notch
in Fig. I till it holds against the sharp notch in Fig. 3, and the trap is set.
    " The bait should be tied on to the end of Fig. 1, but you must be careful not
to bait with anything very hard, such as the head of a young rabbit, or it will
keep the slate from hurting any weasel that lets it off.
    "With the ordinary make of this trap, it was very common to find the stretcher
(Fig. 1) slipped down till it rested on the ground, or the upright (Fig. 3) twisted
round and out of harm if the trap had gone off. With the plan adopted here,
 \t is next to an impossibility that cither can happen, as the stretcher must fall

                                     TRAPS.                                   467
clear on being touched never so lightly ; the notch being placed in an entirely
different position to that in the old-fashioned plan.
   " Be careful that the ground close in front of the trap is a trifle lower than
that occupied by the trap itself, or the stretcher will be broken when the slate
falls."
   The old-fashioned steel trap no doubt stands prominent for the trapping of
all vermin, and needs no description ; but though excellent as it undoubtedly
is, it requires more skill in its use than is likely to be acquired by our young
readers. By this remark, the actual setting of the trap is not meant, but the
 situation, the times, &c
   Before dismissing this subject we must repeat what we said at the opening,
viz., that the method of making the various traps is perhaps the least important
part of the business. Trapping — i.e., successful trapping— is only to be
acquired by an intimate acquaintance with the habits of the different animals,
their haunts, &c, which cannot be learned but by long experience ; and al
though this, by some people, may be considered a branch of knowledge only
worthy of a gamekeeper, we can assure our readers that there is an immense
amount of,amusement to be derived from it ; and we feel assured that they
will be amply repaid for their trouble, and will never regret the loss of such of
their leisure time as they will have devoted to it.
                                                                30—2

                                       j&pcris.
                                     FISHING.
    The " gentle art " has been a great favourite, with our countrymen especi
ally, from time immemorial, and among all classes of the community, from
the peasant to the peer.
    Of all branches of the art of which we are about to treat there is not the
remotest doubt that the plan of taking the denizens of the waters with the
artificial fly is the most difficult, the most skilful, and at the same time the most
enjoyable method. To become really an adept at the art requires the practice
and experience of a lifetime ; and although proficiency may without doubt be
attained without opening a book on the subject, yet, on the other hand, many
 useful hints may be given and many suggestions made which may materially
 assist the beginner ; and as example, as in most things, is generally more valu
 able and useful than precept, it is especially so in this, and an hour or two's
 careful attention to the instructions of a good fisherman will do more than
.days of study, if those instructions be practically given at the river-side.
    As we must all learn to walk before we can expect to mn, we think it
 advisable to defer further allusion to the art of fly-fishing until we have given
 some little instruction in that of the more common method of angling called
 " bottom fishing," and to this we shall now beg our young readers' attention.
 It consists, as its name implies, in taking fish under or at the bottom of the
 water with a baited hook ; and although it bears no comparison with the art
 of fly-fishing, yet it requires no little skill, practice, perseverance, and patience
 in order to become a really good hand.
    We will now proceed to give our young friends a list of a few necessary
 articles, in order to enable them to commence their sport, and then, as we pro
 ceed, point out in as clear a manner as possible what we consider the best
 methods of taking the different kinds of fish which may be found in most of
 our English rivers, and as we proceed in the different modes of fishing, also
 point out what further articles are requisite.
    There are various methods in use among anglers of joining lines, gut, &c,
 together. The common kind of knot known as the Fisherman's Knot is the
 most generally in use (Fig. 1). When the two ends are drawn tight, it is per
 fectly secure though easily undone, and this is its greatest recommendation.
 It maybe nicely bound with waxed silk, and if the meshes are left about one-
 eighth or one-sixteenth of an inch apart, in case of a sudden strain by a heavy
 fish, the silk between the meshes acts as a kind of buffer, and the line, there
 fore, is less likely to break. The Sailor's Knot (Fig. 2) is also very useful,
 though perhaps not quite so neat as the other. It is made in this way : Cross
 the two ends between the left forefinger and thumb, the end pointing to the
 left lying at the top of the other ; it must be then bent backwards to the other
 end towards the body, until both ends meet in opposite directions underneath.
 The Weaver's Knot (Fig. 3) is a more secure knot than the above, though

SPORTS.

                                   FISHING.                                469
not so neat. It is made in this way: The ends must be crossed between the
thumb and forefinger of the left hand, but the end pointing to the right must
lie at the top in this case ; the piece belonging to the opposite end is then
carried over the thumb at the back of the left end, and brought between the
two ends until it can be held between the finger and thumb ; the right end is
pushed through the loop, and the knot stands as shown in the engraving.
                                                      Fig
                                  Fig. 3.
   A good Rod for bottom fishing, not less than 14 feet long, having one or
two extra tops.
   A plaited Silk Running-Line about 40 yards long.
   Three or four twisted Hair and Gut Lines, about 4 yards long, to attach
to the running-line.
   Hooks of various sizes, up to No. 12, tied on the best gut.
   A quantity of Split Shot, of various sizes, for sinking the bait.
   A pair of small Pliers for putting on the shot.
   Some extra Caps, made of quill, for fastening the float to the line.
   A piece of India-rubber (which never be without), the use of which will
be described hereafter.
                     MODERN REEL.                         NOTTINGHAM REEL.
   The Reel or Winch is an indispensable article for an angler : it should

47°                                 SPORTS.
be light, strong, and plain. By some anglers the multiplying winch is con
sidered the best; it may be so in theory, but practically it is worthless. It
certainly enables the angler to draw out his line quicker, and also to " reel
up" in less time; but with a heavy fish at the end of the line it is next to im
possible to do so. The best winch, be assured, is that of a large diameter,
but having its plates not more than I \ inches apart, and, instead of a crank,
having a friction-plate with a handle at its extreme edge, as shown in the
engraving.
   For pike and perch fishing perhaps the Nottingham reel is as good as any,
the reel itself being turned out of one solid piece of hard wood.
   Three or four Cork, and Quill Floats, of various sizes, which may be
purchased at the tackle shops. The small cork floats are the best for jack,
perch, and chub fishing ; but for carp, roach, dace, gudgeon fishing, &c, the
quill floats (numbered 4 and 5 in the engraving) or the small cork float (num
bered 6) will be found the most useful.
                                                             Fig. 9.
                                                           A Fig.
        Fig. 4. Fig.    Fig. 6.        Fig. 7.
    The Plummet is another most useful and almost indispensable article. It
 is used to ascertain the depth of the water when bottom fishing. There are
 two kinds in ordinary use, perhaps equally good; but the folding plummet
 (Fig. 9) is perhaps the most simple, as it is only necessary to unfold a small
 portion of it, insert the line, and fold it up again. In the other, the hook is
 passed through the brass ring at the top (a, Fig. 9), and its point stuck into
 the piece of cork which is inserted in.to the bottom of the plummet at B.
    The Pannier or Creel (Fig. 10) is made of wickerwork, and may be had
 of all sizes at the tackle shops ; the French, perhaps, being the best, as they

                                  FISHING.                               47i
are so much better shaped, and are much lighter. The engraving, however,
is of one of the ordinary kind
made in this country. If fitted
with a staple top and brass
plate, so as to admit of a small
padlock being used, they are
handy things to put odds and
ends in, such as fishing-book,
reel, floats, &c. Some anglers
prefer a bag or havresack made
of waterproof cloth (Fig. 11).
It is certainly a most useful
article. It should be about 20
or 21 in. long and 12 in. deep,
fitted with a flap and two but
tons (as shown in Fig. II.) It
is a good plan to have a divi-                       Ftc. 10.
sion or second bag in the in
side, as so many requisites may be carried in it, even to a change of linen
on an emergency.       It should be fitted with rings or buckles, so that the
shoulder-straps may be taken on or off at pleasure.
    The Drag-hook (Fig. 12) is sometimes used (but it is an awkward instru
 ment) for clearing the line from
 weeds, boughs of trees, &c.
 The Clearing-ring (Fig. 13)
 is much handier, and for that
 reason is more generally adopt
 ed. A piece of cord is fastened
 to the upper end; it is then
 slipped over the line, which
 guides it to the obstruction ;
 and by pulling the cord, the                                 Fin.
 hook, line, &c, m?y be dislodged.

472                                SPORTS.
   The DlSGORGER (Fig. 14) is another useful article, its object being to dis
lodge a hook from a fish's mouth : it may be made of metal or ivory. The
forked end is placed against the bend of the hook, and then pressed until the
hook is released from its hold.
   The Gaff is simply a large fish-hook made to fit into the handle of your
landing-net. or, if preferred, having a handle for itself. Its use is to land a
large fish by simply plunging it into the fish and dragging him bodily ashore.
   The Landing-Net (Fig. 15) must be included in the list of an angler's
necessaries. The ring should be made of jointed brass, as it is then more
 easily packed A Fly-retriever (Fig. 16) should be fitted to the handle.
 This instrument is made sharp on the inner edge, in order to cut twigs, weeds,
 &c, in which your hooks may get entangled. The net itself should be made
 in small meshes, sufficiently so to enable you to catch minnows with it, and it
 thus serves a double purpose.
                                       Fig. 17.
    The Angler's Pocket-Book (Fig. 17) contains various small articles
  which are in constant use, such as pliers, scissors, knife, floats, wax, gut, hair,

                                   FISHING.                                    473
thread, string, spare hooks, traces, &c. There are various patterns which
may be had in all sizes at the tackle shops.
   The Minnow or Live-bait Kettle (Fig. 18) should be of tin, and fitted
with straps to go over the shoulder. It should have a second lid, and a smaU
                                       Fig. 18.
hand-net should be used to take out the bait, as nothing is so injurious to
them as putting a warm hand amongst them. This, too, may be purchased
of any size at the tackle shops.
   A tin Bait-Box for gentles, worms, &c.
                           ON RODS, LINES, &c.
   No workman, you are aware, can work well without good tools, no matter
what his trade may be ; and on the same principle good tackle is essential to
good sport in fishing. In choosing a rod, see that it is perfectly straight when
all the joints are put together, and that it is not too pliable, or many a good
fish may be lost in striking ; let it also be perfectly taper from the butt to the
point.
   The running-line should be of plaited silk, and in choosing one, see that it
is perfectly round and even, which may be proved by passing it between the
finger and thumb, allowing the thumb-nail to rest on its surface ; and discard
any line which has any uneven places or bumps in it, as it is apt, if it have
them, to catch in the rings on the rod, and may cost you the loss of a fish and
perhaps of the line itself and the point of your rod.
   In choosing gut, see that it is perfectly round, of an equal thickness, trans
parent, and smooth. If tried with the teeth, it should feel almost like wire.
   The kind of hook we prefer is certainly the Kirby for general fishing.

474                                  SPOUTS.
   We will now suppose that one of our young friends has arrived at the river
side and is about to commence a day's sport. First let him fasten his reel to
the butt of his rod, and draw the line through the two rings fixed upon it ;
then attach the second joint, and draw the line through the rings in the same
manner, and so on to the top joint. This is a far better plan than the ordinary
way generally adopted of putting the'rod together first and drawing the line
through the rings afterwards, as the rod is so very apt to be strained. A few
yards of the running-line must then be drawn from the reel, and put carefully
through the rings until about 2 feet of it are through the ring at the extreme
point of the rod, taking care that in passing it through the rings the line has
not been twisted round the rod, which would, of course, prevent its running
freely. The gut or hair line must then be fastened to the running-line, which
should have a loop for the purpose. When this is done, the float should be
attached by first passing the line through the cap of the float and then through
the ring at the bottom of it, so that when the float is moved up the line to give
the depth required, the cap may be placed over the top of the float, and i,t of
course remains fixed in that position; the gut length, with sufficient shot to
sink the bait and cause the float to stand in the water in an upright position,
must then be attached to the end of the line. We may here remark that it
is a good plan to test the floats as to the number of shot they require at home
in a tub of water, or in a pond should one be at hand, so that this may not
have to be done at the river-side before commencing fishing ; and it is as well
to mark each float with the number of shot it requires to keep it in its right
position. The next step is to plumb the depth accurately by fastening the
plummet to the hook and letting it sink in the water as gently as possible,
avoiding letting it fall suddenly and splashing. If the float has been placed
too high upon the line, as soon as the plummet has reached the bottom the
float will fall on its side and remain on the water ; if, on the contrary, it has
been placed too low on the line, the plummet will, of course, sink it beneath
the surface, so that in cither case it can be easily regulated. If the line be
allowed to remain with the plummet attached a few minutes in the water
before the hook is baited it is all the better, as it then becomes soft and straight,
instead of being in coils.
   The foregoing remarks apply to fishing for every kind of fish, and we now
propose to offer a few hints as regards each sort of fish, with its description,
haunts, season, &c, and the most approved methods of taking it, in, we hope,
such a clear and concise manner as cannot fail to be perfectly understood by
our young friends.
   We do not propose to give any directions about the salmon, as that noble
fish is an inhabitant of comparatively few of our rivers, and requires far more
skill and knowledge of the art of angling than our young friends could hope
to aspire to. We shall, therefore, commence with a fish which is almost as
much sought after, and for its size is quite as "game," and affords as much
sport as its larger neighbour— we allude to
                                     The Trout.
   This is one of the most beautiful of fresh-water fish, and is most justly
esteemed for the table when in season. The whole of the lower part of the
 body is of a silvery brightness, gradually assuming a dark greenish-brown
 colour on the sides and back, and covered with bright pink spots irregularly
 scattered over its whole length. The trout sometimes reaches the weight of

                                    FISHING.                                     475
10 lbs. or II lbs.; but they are only to be found of this size in such rivers as
the Thames, and even there only occasionally ; a trout, however, of j lb. will
afford most excellent sport, as he is a very strong fish, and when hooked
struggles most desperately, darting in every direction, and often jumping a
long way out of the water, and trying every means of disengaging himself
from the hook. It is at this time that the greatest skill and coolness is re
quired ; for if too sudden a check is put upon his exertions, he will assuredly
break away; and if the line is allowed to be too slack, there is every chance
of the hook drawing from its hold. If any of our young friends should be
fortunate enough to hook a fine trout, he must not be disheartened if he should
lose his fish from either of the above causes, if not from the breaking of his
line and the loss of his rod as well, for these arc occurrences which frequently
happen to expert fishermen, and must therefore be expected to happen to the
novice. Patience and a determination to bear up against and conquer diffi
culties in fishing, as in every undertaking in life, is the only certain method of
commanding success.
   Although it is in but very few rivers that bottom fishing (excepting with the
natural or artificial minnow, which will be hereafter described) for trout is
allowed, yet we think we ought to describe it, in case any of our readers may
happen to be near a river which is not preserved, and in which some trout
may be found.
   Use a long, strong rod, with winch and running-tackle, without a float, and
a No. 7 hook tied on the best gut, shotted about 8 inches above it, and bait
with a well-scoured middling-sized lob-worm, and cast in the bait up-stream,
and allow it to carry the bait down, tripping on the bottom. It is advisable to
keep as far from the water as possible, to avoid being seen by the fish, for
trout—the large ones especially—are very shy.
   One of the most successful ways of angling for trout, and more particularly
for the large ones, is by spinning with a minnow; and perhaps a great deal of
time and trouble may be spared by using artificial ones, which are now made
so exactly like the natural fish as to be scarcely distinguishable from it; and
as a trout will not notice a bait if at all mutilated or disfigured, we are inclined

476                              SPORTS.
               Fig. 19.
                                     t
to recommend the artificial bait for this mode of fishing. The bait should be
cast across the stream, and drawn by gentle jerks against it, so as to cause it
                                     Fig
 to spin in its passage through the water.   These baits are so well provided

                                   FISHING.                                   477
with hooks that the instant a trout seizes it he cannot avoid being hooked, and
as the tackle is strong, with ordinary care he may be easily taken.
   The mode of baiting with a natural minnow is shown in the accompanying
cut. (Fig. a1.)
   In the far North minnows are captured by the following ingenious con
trivance : A clean glass bottle is obtained,
of the shape shown in Fig. 22. A fine
meshed net is tied over the mouth, A, and
a few crumbs of bread are placed inside.
It is then placed with its mouth to the
current, in a stream frequented by min
nows ; the water agitates the crumbs ; the
little gentry assemble to see the fun, and
quickly find their way through the aper                         Fig.
ture B into the bottle, where they are
joined by their companions by the dozen. This bottle is invaluable, though
awkward to carry about.
                               The Jack or Pike
is one of our most well-known fish, and so remarkable for its voracity as to
have acquired the title of the "fresh-water shark." He affords some of the
best sport obtainable by the British angler, as he grows to a large size :ind
fights desperately when hooked. One great advantage in pike fishing is that
it may be pursued in winter, the best season being from September to February,
at which latter time they get so full of spawn that a true sportsman will let
them alone. They may be caught in several ways.
    1. With a live bait and float.
    2. By the gorge-hook.
    3. By spinning (natural and artificial bait).
   4. By the artificial fly.
    For each of these methods special merit is claimed. Live-bait fishing is
certainly less trouble than the others, and in the early part of the season (from

478                                SPORTS.
June to September) a small live gudgeon on fine tackle will certainly succeed
better than any other bait, however used. It may, perhaps, be objected that
it is rather cruel to the bait. In fishing for jack with a live bait, use a rod
about 12 feet long, which must be very strong—as you will have to strike hard
—with large rings, fixed upright, about 40 or 50 yards of prepared silk line,
a tolerable-sized float (we prefer an ordinary wine-bottle cork), and a gimp
trace and swivel, as shown attached to the hook in the cut (Fig. 23).
   The set of hooks shown in the cut is a favourite with many anglers.
                                      Fig. 23.
   In using it, take a baiting-needle, fasten the hook at the end of it to the
loop of your hook-trace, and pass the gimp, with one or two stitches, under
the skin of your bait, so as to bring the small hook up in the manner shown
in the cut. Let your bait swim near weeds, sluices, roots of trees, &c, at a
depth of between two and three feet near the bank in rivers, and sonic dis
tance out in ponds. When you have a run, your float will suddenly go down.
Let the fish run a yard or two, and then strike pretty hard. When he is hooked.
kccD a tight hold of him, and don't let him get into mischief, giving no more

                                     FISHING.                                    479
time than absolutely necessary. In landing a pike a gaff is the best assistant,
and you must keep a sharp look-out for certain very sharp teeth which he
possesses. The best form of gaff is described at page 472. It should be
screwed into a strong wooden handle.
     Under the head of "Live-bait Fishing" we might, perhaps, include the utterly
unsportsmanlike practice of " trimmers," which are usually flat pieces of cork,
about 4 inches in diameter, having a groove round their edge, and a piece
of wood fixed through their centre having a slit at its lower end. The line is
firmly attached to the trimmer, about 5 or 6 yards of it is wound round the
cork, and a portion of it (according to the depth of water), with a live bait
 attached, is left loose, being firs; rr.ade fast in the slit at the lower end. The
 line is then placed and left in the water. As soon as a pike seizes the bait,
 the line slips out of the slit and allows him to run until he hooks himself;
 the trimmer keeps, of course, at the top of the water, and shows where the
 fish is. This method is generally adopted in large lakes, reservoirs, &c, to take
 pike by night
     Another common and at the same time a most successful method of landing
 pike with live bait is by simply using a large hook, and hooking the bait through
 the lip or under the back fin.
     And now for the gorge-hook. This method, though not so much in vogue
  as formerly, still enjoys a great measure of popularity. The cuts will, we think,
                                        Fig. 24.
  sufficiently explain the method qf baiting it. As for bait, a nice fresh gudgeon,
  from 4 to 5 J inches long, is best in summer and up to November, after which,
  and at times when the water is a little coloured by rain, a good- sized roach or
  dace is preferable. In fishing with the gorge-hook, try every inch of the water
  you arc fishing if possible : you may often have a run where you least expect
  it. Cast your bait close to the side of the water at first, and let it drop in
  quietly head foremost between weeds, &c. ; then cast a little farther out, and
  so on, till you have thrown to the full extent of your power, when, if you have
  not had a run, you may give up, and conclude that there are cither no fish or
  that they won't feed. When you have thrown in your bait, which should be
  done with as little sphish as possible, let it sink nearly to the bottom, and keep
  drawing it up by gentle snatches to the right and left alternately, and again

 48o                                SPORTS.
                        Fig. 25.                         Fig. 26.
letting it sink until you bring it close to you. Do not be in too great a hurry
to withdraw it from the water altogether, as jack will frequently follow the

                                    FISHING.                                   481
bait, and only take it at the last moment, when they think it is about to escape.
On perceiving a run (which you will have no difficulty in feeling, as the jack
takes a good pull at your line), let him go without check until he stops, and
give him ten minutes by your watch (unless he move off again before the ex
piration of that time), at the end of which strike smartly, and play your fish
carefully and steadily.
   The most fashionable and pleasant method of taking jack is by "spinning."
   The cut represents the best kind of spinning tackle known, and the mode
of baiting it. This should be attached to a trace of gimp with several swivels
and a lead, which may be procured at any tackle shop ready made up. In
casting with the spinning or trolling bait, draw a sufficient quantity of your
line from your reel, and, holding the line in your left hand, draw it up till the
bait is within a foot or two of the top ring; then, with a good swing (and a
little practice), you will find you will be able to cast the bait to any reasonable
distance in the direction desired. When spinning, you must not allow your
bait to sink so far as in trolling, and must keep constantly pulling it towards
you, as, if not drawn forwards against the water, it will lose its chief attraction,
the revolving motion. When you feel or see a bite, let the fish turn with the
bait, or you may draw it from his jaws, and then strike firmly. Spinning is
preferable to trolling in winter when the weeds are gone, but in waters full of
weeds, stumps, &c, you will lose your tackle so often that the latter is prefer
able on the score of economy, not to mention the benefit of one's temper. Pike
 fishing with the artificial fly (a gigantic absurdity sold at most tackle shops)
 will pay well in some lakes and clear ponds. We next come to
                                  PERCH AND GUDGEON.
                                     The Perch.
    The perch, beyond every fish which the fresh waters produce, affords by far
 the most sport to the young angler. It is to be found in nearly every river in
 England, and is a bold and ravenous fish. The small ones generally take a
 bait directly it is offered, and we have several times known a whole shoal of
 these fish, varying in weight from 2 oz. or 3 oz. up to 3 lb., taken one after
                                                                       31

482                                  SPORTS.
the other as fast as the bait was lowered into the water. The large ones afford
excellent sport, as from their great strength they are enabled to offer much
resistance, and they struggle most violently. The best way of angling for
them is with the same kind of rod as that recommended for trout, running-
line, cork float, and No. 7 hook, and bait with a well-scoured brandling, red
or marsh-worm. The perch generally takes the bait with a sudden jerk, and
the float therefore disappears at once. Let him run a yard or two, and then
strike smartly, and if a heavy fish, give him line, but keep a sufficiently tight
hand upon him to prevent his rushing into weeds, among roots, or round
posts, &c; and as, if you catch one perch, you may generally reckon upon
several more being in the same spot, keep as far from the water as you can,
and if the fish are not scared, it is more than likely that you may take the
whole shoal.
   Another very killing method of angling for perch in deep water is with the
"paternoster," which is fitted up in the following manner: Make a line of
about 9 feet long of the best twisted gut, and to the bottom of it attach a No. 6
hook; about 18 inches above this fix a good-sized shot on the line. Then
procure a leaden pellet, about \ an inch long and \ inch in diameter, having a
small groove all round the middle of it and a hole bored lengthwise completely
through it. Pass your line through it until the pellet reaches the shot on the
line, on which, of course, it will rest, and above it fix another shot, but not
too close to it, or the pellet will not revolve on the line, which it ought to do.
In the groove round the pellet whip a bristle about 4 or 5 inches long, having
previously tied on a No. 6 hook at the other end. We prefer bristle to gut, as
it retains its stiffness in the water, and keeps the bait away from the line.
About 18 inches above this place another pellet and hook in exactly the same
manner, and a third may be used in a precisely similar way, should the water
you fish in be sufficiently deep to admit of it. A good-sijed cork float should
be used, and your bait should be minnows hooked by the lips. Keep as quiet
and still as you can, and let your baited line sink gently into any deep water
you can find, which is usually at the bends of rivers, mill-heads, locks, &c
When you perceive a bite, let your fish have the bait a minute or two before
you check him, as before recommended, and then strike sharply but not vio
lently, and if you find you have hooked a heavy fish, give him line, and tow
him, if you can, out of the hole or deep water, that he may be less likely to
alarm other fish ; and having played him till he is quite exhausted, you may
safely make use of your landing-net. It frequently happens with perch, as
with other fish, that though apparently quite dead, the sight of the landing-
net serves to put new life into them, and just as you think your prize perfectly
safe, they will make a last desperate struggle to disengage themselves from
the hook. When about to land a fish, therefore, be at all times prepared for
this by never holding your rod in such a position as that the line will not run
freely, for, if otherwise, a heavy fish will most assuredly break away.
   When fishing with a worm, it is advisable to keep the bait occasionally in
motion, by moving it to the right and left now and then, drawing it up a few
inches and letting it sink, as when fish are not " strong on the feed," they may
frequently be tempted to take a bait which, if perfectly still, they would pro
bably not notice.
   Perch are usually to be be met with in sluggish rivers and in the deep holes
about bridges and piles; but if the river be at all rapid, choose the stillest
and deepest parts : they are rarely found in shallow or " sharp " water.

                                   FISHING.                                     483
                                  The Barbel.
   This fish, which abounds in the rivers Thames and Lea, and in most of
our large tidal rivers, though but of little use for the table, affords good sport
from the fact of its readily taking a bait, and, being very strong if of any size,
struggling most violently when hooked. Barbel are seldom fished for from
the bank, the usual mode of fishing for them being from a punt. The barbel
bites very sharply and draws the float down very suddenly, and therefore,
contrary to the directions given for perch fishing, you should strike the
moment you perceive a bite, and if you find you have hooked your fish, raise
the top of your rod, and allow him to run some yards before you attempt to
check or turn him ; then, by putting a gentle strain upon him, keep him away
from any obstacles that may be in the way, such as roots of trees, weeds,
piles, &c, and keep him in deep water. Play him till quite spent before you
attempt to land him ; and, if you are careful, there is little fear of your losing
your fish, for the mouth of the barbel is more like leather than flesh, and if a
hook is once firmly fixed in it, it will never draw.
   Having chosen the spot you mean to fish in overnight, your sport will be
much increased by using aliberal supply of ground-bait, for which there is none
better than a mixture of boiled greaves, bran, and clay ; and the same bait
may be thrown into the water very frequently whilst fishing with much advan
tage. Barbel fishing now-a-days is for the most part practised with the aid of
a boatman, and he, if a respectable man, as most of the Thames fishermen
are, will relieve you of much trouble by taking all that is necessary in this
respect. The best baits for barbel are red worms, gentles, and greaves.
   There is a mode of angling for these fish almost peculiar to them, which we
ought not to omit to describe. It is termed "ledger fishing," and is done as
follows : The hook is baited with a well-scoured lob-worm, a large marsh-
worm, or with greaves. You should place your ledger-lead (which can be had
at any of the tackle shops) on the line about 10 inches above the hook, with a
large shot under it to keep it in its place ; the bait is then cast into the water,
and the lead, of course, sinks to the bottom. The top of the rod should be
                                                                 31 —2

  4s4                                 SPORTS.
  held over the side of the boat, nearly touching the water, till a bite is felt (for
  no lloat is used), when a rather hard and sudden strike should be given.
  Having hooked vour fish, proceed as before directed.
                                    CHUB AND DACE.
                                     The Chub.
    This fish is found in most sluggish rivers, and although, like the barbel, but
 of little use for the table, he affords most excellent sport, as he feeds both at
 the top and bottom of the water. He will take gudgeons, minnows, worms,
 and paste, and in summer—particularly in the months of July and August —
 he will take both the natural and artificial fly most greedily. The chub, how
ever, is a shy fish, and great caution, therefore, is necessary in approaching
the water; for if he see you he will generally leave that part of the water so
long as you remain. The chub is not so game a fish as the barbel, and
although when first hooked he generally makes some desperate plunges in his
endeavours to escape, yet they soon subside, and he generally allows himself
to be landed without further trouble.
   Chub are generally found in deep, still holes, and in the height of summer
may be met with by the sides of rivers, under overhanging branches of alders,
willows, &c, feeding on moths, bees, flics, &c, and afford excellent sport with
the natural or artificial fly in such places during the summer months.
   In bottom fishing for chub, the best baits are greaves, gentles, paste, and
red worms. The paste should be made in the following manner: Take a piece
of the crust of a new loaf, about the size of a cricket ball, and soak it for a few
minutes in water; then take it out of the water, squeeze out all the moisture,
and knead it in the hands until it becomes a stiff paste or dough ; then take a
piece of the oldest cheese you can get (the more decayed it is the better), and
having rubbed it with the hands till it is quite smooth and free from lumps,
mix it with the bread paste. Put a piece of this paste about the size of a small
nut on a No. 6 hook, and use a large quill or small cork float.
   The chub appears to alter his tastes according to the season of the year.
Early in the year lob-worms and minnows will tempt him ; in the summer he

                                    FISHING.                                  485
will scarcely condescend to look at them : now is the time for insect baits,
natural and artificial. Of the former the cockchafer or May-bug, the humble
bee, and a small species of chafer with a green head and copper-coloured
body, which infests roses and apple trees about May or June, and is known
in Norfolk as the " chovy." Of the latter, the imitations of these insects and a
large red palmer (the hook should be tipped with a gentle, or bit of wash-leather
to look like one) are the most deadly ; after these try greaves, gentles, and
 plain paste (good-sized pieces, say as big as a small nut) ; and after this the
cheese comes in at the conclusion of his bill of fare. Always remember to
 keep out of his sight, and to give him a good-sized bait, for he is a greedy fish,
 though extremely timid. Some fishermen use a paste made of bread dipped
 in the water in which greaves have been soaked; and if a strong smell is of
 any use, it ought to do wonders ; but we believe plain paste to be quite as
 good. The humble bee, cockchafer, and cockroach may often be used in
 spring and summer by fishing in mid-stream or under boughs with a long line
 and a float at a depth of about 18 inches in strong runs of water.
    We now come to the most artful of all the finny tribe,
                                      The Carp.
    This fish is very common in ponds, few pieces of ornamental water being
  without it, and is also to be found in many of our livers. In ponds the small
  ones may be easily caught with a red worm or small piece of plain paste,
  made as recommended for chub fishing, without the addition of cheese, as
  also may be a kindred species, the Crucian Carp. But the fine old fellows
  whom you see lazily swimming round the pond on a hot summer's day are
  not to be so easily circumvented. They will swim up to your bait, look at it,
  even smell at it, and—pass on. Most people have some infallible dodge for
  catching them, which sometimes succeeds and as frequently fails. We have
  seen more caught with plain paste, and next to that with a red worm (these
  generally smaller fish), than with any other baits. Most careful baiting is
  requisite : don't let a bit of the hook be seen ; and yet we once caught a four-
  pounder with the head of a red worm that had been nibbled to pieces by some

486                                 SPOUTS.
small roach. Some very large ones have been caught with a lob-worm on
coarse tackle in fishing for barbel in the Thames, although as a rule they will
not look at one. The great secret of catching carp is to ground-bait a place
well for a day or two before you fish, begin operations as soon as you can see
your float, and use the finest tackle consistent with strength: hair will not do
for fish that may run to seven or eight pounds' weight, or even double that ;
and fish so that your bait may just touch the bottom. In a pond where the
bottom is hard use neither float nor shot, and as soon as you see your line
moving through the water, strike gently. The best of the fancy baits is a piece
of half-boiled potato, about the size of the top of your little finger, which, being
a tender bait, should be used on a triangular hook, the place being previously
baited for some days with potatoes roughly mashed. The best and cleanest
ground-bait in a general way, for this fish and the roach, is a simple paste of
bread and bran, made up into small balls. If used in a stream, a pebble must
be put in the middle of each ball, to sink it in the proper place. There are
numberless other baits, which have certainly all succeeded at times ; indeed,
we have heard of a carp, though perhaps the least carnivorous of any fish,
being taken with a minnow.
    There is a plan very much recommended by some authors for taking them
on hot days in summer. You will hear them sucking at the surface of the
water, among weeds, with a sort of " chop, chop, chop " sound. Take a green
caterpillar from an oak tree, a blow-fly, or a gentle, and drop it on a weed,
gradually rolling it off into the water just by the fish's nose. He will generally
take it. We have caught many small ones in this way ; but where the fish
are large it would be a simple act of folly to attempt it, as the carp would be
down in the weeds the instant he felt the hook, and good bye to the best of
tackle. In fishing for carp running tackle is indispensable. Use a fine gut
line of about three yards, a small—very small—float, and about 8 or 9 hook.
    Of all the Cyprinidce or Carp Tribe (the most numerous of our fresh-water
genera)
                                   The Roach
is the most common. There is another species very closely allied to it, and
said by many practical fishermen to be identical—although as naturalists deny
this, we will not presume to attempt to offer an opinion on the subject—called
the Rudd or Rond, which is very similar in its habits and appearance.
Several other species or varieties are found in some parts of the kingdom ;
but as none but a practised naturalist can distinguish them from the common
species, as they are rarely met with, and as their habits are almost the same,
we will not trouble our readers with a detailed history of them. Few of the
veriest tyros in angling have not caught or seen the roach. Old Izaak Walton
 says " he is called the water-sheep from his simplicity," and the poet describes
them as the " unwary roach," but this is a great mistake. True, small roach
 or rudd, and even large ones, are easily caught in well-stocked ponds with
almost any bait ; but even here fine tackle and well-scoured clean baits will
 tell their tale over the less careful angler's day's work. The really scientific
 way of catching them is in rivers, where they run large, and, though tolerably
 familiar, as far as not heeding the presence of the angler if he keep decently
 quiet, require the most tempting bait and finest tackle to produce anything
 like a heavy bag. The roach, which spawns early in May, is not worth fishing
 for till about July, at which time they are to be found in moderately shallow

                                  FISHING.                                  487
water (say up to 4 feet), and may be caught with the caddis or cockspur-worm,
small red worms, gentles, natural flies below and at the surface of the water,
and any small grub or caterpillar. But about the end of September or middle
of October, after the first autumn floods, when the weeds amongst which they
have lived during the summer have rotted and been swept away by the current,
they begin to retire to the deep parts of the river. Then these pretty fish are
in their finest condition and afford the best sport. Choose deep still holes
and eddies not too much frequented by perch or jack, on whom the effects of
a live bait should, if possible, be tried a few times before commencing roach
                                   JtUDD OR HOND.
fishing; plumb your depth accurately, take your finest gut line, with a single
horsehair next the hook (if you can manage to be tender enough of hand to
kill fish without breaking such slender tackle) ; select a spot where your float
will swim as far as you can reach each way without any change in the depth
of the water or the character of the bottom, which should be even, firm (you

488                             "   SPORTS.
can feel this with your plumb), and free from weeds. Use a porcupine quill
or "patent " float, and as much shot as will, when the hook is baited, bring
the upper cap of your float on a level with the water's edge. If you cannot
find a perfectly level bottom in say 8 or 9 feet of water (though some noted
" roach-holes " are much deeper or shallower than this), and are forced to
select a sloping one, choose one which grows gradually shallower, in order
that at the end of your swim your bait may drag the ground rather than float
above the heads of the fish. Now, having found the exact depth, which is
indicated by the top of your float being just under water when the line is held
upright and the plummet rests on the bottom, lay down your rod, and let the
line remain in the water to soften and stretch. Use the same ground -bait as
we recommend for carp fishing, and throw a number of balls of this in at the
top of your swim, or, if in still water, just round your float. In the latter case,
much less ground-bait will be needed, which should be made of a loose con
sistency, with more bran and less bread. Bait your hook (a very small one)
with two or three gentles, and commence operations. In the later months
paste (made as recommended for carp) is, as a rule, better than gentles, taking
heavier fish. A short-shanked hook, made for the purpose, and to be obtained
of any London tackle-maker, should be used with this bait, and the paste
should just cover the hook. Many anglers use this bait on a triangular hook,
and, if they can be obtained sufficiently small, such hooks are of immense
advantage. In a strong stream strike on the slightest motion of the float,
but in still water wait till you see that the float is held in a different position
to that which it previously occupied. Strike very gently—remember you have
delicate tackle. Manage a hooked fish carefully ; but you may remember that
all the carp tribe are what old Walton calls " leather-mouthed,'' and if your
tackle is all right they won't break away like a trout, perch, pike, or grayling,
whose mouths are all skin and bone. Use a short rod, about 10 feet long, if
fishing from a boat ; if from the bank, one about 18 or 20 feet should be used.
These last are made of white cane, and sold specially for the purpose of roach
fishing.
   The baits above mentioned are the best for roach, but they are also to be
 taken with greaves, " blood-worms " (the larvae of the gnat, which may be
 found in rain-water butts, stagnant puddles, &c), and sometimes, especially
 when the water is a trifle coloured, with the tail end of a small lob-worm.
 This last, when they will take it at all, is one of the most destructive baits that
 can be used for large roach. Wheat or malt boiled in milk till it is soft is
 also, at times, found very killing (but not in all rivers) both for roach and
                                   The Bream.
    This somewhat ungainly, flat-sided fish, of which there are four or five
 species in this country, partakes somewhat of the characteristics of the carp
 and the roach. He is found in deep sluggish rivers, and occasionally in ponds
 and lakes. The "broads" of Norfolk swarm with them, and two or three
 hundredweight arc sometimes taken in a day by a single rod.
    The bream is not so easy to catch as many people pretend, being decidedly
 a capricious fish in his feeding. When once you get amongst a shoal, and
 they are well on the feed, wholesale murder may be done. They will take the
 same baits as recommended for carp and roach, but the good old and most
 thoroughly killing method is that recommended so far back as the days of

                                  FISHING.                                    489
Walton. Boil about a peck of malt, or get half a bushel of grains from the
nearest brewery (these last should be perfectly sweet ; if sour they are utterly
useless), choose a place where you have seen bream swimming in shoals in
the middle of hot summer days, and from 6 to 9 feet deep, with an even bottom
about 3 or 4 yards from the bank. Go to the place about 8 p.m., and throw
in two-thirds of your ground-bait. At this time you should plumb the depth,
using a No. 7 or 8 hook and stoutish gut line, with a medium-sized cork float
and running tackle. Put on enough shot to sink your float, and then draw it
up the line until the shot entirely rests on the ground and the top of the float
stands well above water. This saves plumbing the depth in the morning, when
it would disturb the fish. As soon as daylight appears, go down to the place,
put in the rest of your ground-bait quietly, bait your hook with a small lob
or large red worm, and throw it out as far as you can, drawing it in till you
are pretty sure that the bait rests somewhere in the middle of your ground-
bait. The bream will begin to bite very slowly, the float, perhaps, lying flat
on the surface, then moving a little way and quivering with the slow nibbling
of the fish below. If this ceases altogether after a little time, your bait has
probably been sucked off altogether ; but never mind, bait afresh, and in with
it. Keep very still, and stand back as far as you can from the water without
losing sight of your float. The nibbling will soon end in the fish's rushing
straight out for the middle of the river ; then, as soon as the line is straight
out from the top of your rod, strike smartly. Give line for the first rush, as
he is a powerful fish, but as soon as you have turned him he will get " blown;"
bring him to the surface as quickly as you can, when he generally turns on
his side and gives all up for a bad job, and the landing-net makes him your
own.
   It is as well to use two or three rods when fishing in this way, and as the
ground-bait by attracting small fish also attracts jack and perch, if there are
any in the neighbourhood, a live bait may be used with advantage, as, while
the fish of prey are prowling about, the other fish will seldom feed. Indeed,
it is as well to begin by using a live bait on a night line, or setting a trimmer

490                                  SPORTS
or two at first starting. If you have plenty of time on your hands, ground-
bait your place two or three times before you fish, but take care that no one
else finds this out and avails himself of the fruit of your labours. A little
bullocks' blood from a slaughter-house is a most valuable, though extremely
nasty, addition to your ground-bait.
                                    The Tench
is almost exclusively a pond fish, though it has now been introduced into some
rivers, out of which it generally makes its way to the stagnant dykes in the
adjoining marshes, if there be any. When on the feed, it is by no means a
difficult fish to take. This is only early in the mornings and late in the even
ings, except on warm wet days in summer, when they will feed all day. A gut
line, cork or quill float, and No. 7 or 8 hook, baited with a red worm, which
should almost touch the bottom, will seldom fail to take them in April, May,
or June. In the later part of the season gentles will sometimes answer better
than worms. Ground-bait with a few hands-full of gentles mixed with wet
bran, and occasionally throw a few in close to your float while fishing. If
worms are to be used, a small quantity of grains and blood, as recommended
for bream, will work wonders if thrown in overnight at the spot where you in
tend to fish. They are generally associated with carp in ponds, and in fishing
for the<pne you will frequently take the other. It is as well to use a float that
will carry a good quantity of shot, so as to sink your bait at once out of the
reach of small roach and perch, especially when you bait with gentles.
                                     The Dace
is a fish which affords the angler no little sport. It is something like a min
iature chub in appearance, but much more game and a bolder biter. The
same baits as are used for the roach will take him, with the addition of greaves
and the artificial fly. In fishing for barbel in the Thames, they are often
taken with the former of these two baits, or with gentles. They will also take
a worm with more readiness than the roach, and the caddis-worm is a very
destructive bait in spring. The same tackle as used for roach will do, with a
trifle larger hook, say 9 or 10; but you need not be so particular as to the
 fineness of the gut, as, though rather shy fish, they are not so particular in
 their biting, which they do boldly, and should be struck immediately. They
 are found in more rapid streams and in shallower water than the roach, and a
 heavier ground-bait is consequently necessary. The best plan is to mix clay
 with the bread and bran recommended for roach, and, if you are baiting with
 gentles, put a few live gentles into the middle of each ball. This is also a
 great " dodge " in barbel fishing. Of flies they will take any natural one, and
 nearly any small artificial one ; but the point of the hook should be covered
 with a gentle, or, if this be not procurable, a small piece of wash-leather. This
 is advisable in using an artificial fly for any of the carp tribe, as they nearly
 always smell at the fly before taking it, unless in a very rapid stream. The
 whereabouts of the shoals of dace is generally to be discovered by their rising
 at flics, &c; but if they are not rising, and the water is not clear enough to
 enable you to see them, fish in moderately deep eddies by the side of rapid
 streams.
                                     The Bleak
 is a small fish, not unlike a sprat, of the most beautiful silvery lustre. He will
 take almost anv bait and rise to a very small artificial fly. In roach or dace

                                   FISHING.                                   491
fishing with gentles he is a perfect nuisance, taking your bait long before it
has time to sink to the bottom, where, however, he will not trouble you very
much. If you want to catch bleak, take a gut line about 3 yards long, put
about six hooks on it as directed for fastening flies to a collar, throw a few
crumbs of bread or a little bran on the surface where you see them rising, and
when they are in full rise (which they will be in about two minutes), having
attached this to your reel-line, cast this as you would flies, without either float
or shot : you will soon feel them tug ; in fact, you may see them bite, and may
pull three or four out at a time. We once caught nearly three hundred in
about a couple of hours in this way. The bleak is a very useful bait in spin
ning for jack or very large trout, owing to its silvery brightness.
                                  The Gudgeon.
    This well-known little fish, small as it is, affords much sport to the angler.
 Use a light rod, float suitable to the stream, fine line, and No. 10 to 12 hook,
baited with a blood-worm or small red worm. Take the depth exactly in
shallowish water, say from 2 to 4 feet, and let your bait drag the ground.
Do not strike so quickly as in roach fishing, but wait till the cap of your float
is under water. They will take gentles with tolerable freedom, and we have
caught them with the caddis when they absolutely refused the worm. Instead
of ground-baiting, get a rake to rake the bottom, or, in very shallow water,
stand in the water and stir up the mud or gravel with your feet, which is the
method most practised in the Trent. They are a valuable bait for the carni
vorous fish, both when used alive and dead,—in fact, the best live bait that
can be used, and also are excellent eating, almost equalling the smelt in deli
cacy.
    In fishing for the gudgeon, you may often catch the Pope or Ruff, a small
 sort of perch, but coloured somewhat like the gudgeon. It is not found in
 every river, but, in those where it is found, it may be caught without the least
 difficulty,—not that it is worth the trouble of fishing for. It will hardly ever
 refuse a small worm at the bottom of the water.
    Of the Minnow, Stickleback, Stoneback, and Bullhead one need
 scarcely speak, as, though useful as baits, they are not worth fishing for with
 a rod and line. To catch minnows for baits, use a small meshed net spread
 across a common hoop (an iron one), with four or five strings attached to the
 sides and tied to a piece of cord, which should be fastened to a pole about
 nine or ten feet long. Throw some crumbs of bread or red worms into the
 water over this net, which should be allowed to lie flat on the bottom, and
 when the shoal of minnows are feeding on them over the net, draw it up sud
 denly. In choosing minnows for baiting, do not take the largest: "the me
 dium size and the whitest are the best," says old Walton. Any minnows will,
 however, do for live bait for perch. The stoneback or loach is a capital bait
 for night lines, and may be used for spinning. Two of the finest jack we
 have seen caught were taken in the latter way by this bait. It is not unlike
 a gudgeon, but longer in proportion to its size, without scales, and has a
 profusion of barbs or wattles round its mouth.
    There is a fish in some rivers called
                           The Burbot or Eel-pout,
 which grows to two or three pounds' weight and is excellent eating, but is sel
 dom caught with a line, though occasionally with night lines. For this reason

492                                 SPORTS.
we will dismiss him, merely observing that he is an ugly-looking fish with a
big head, lots of barbs at his mouth, a thin tail, and of a sort of brownish
colour, with dark purplish spots. It is the only fresh-water fish of the cod
tribe in this country.
                                    The Eel
is also unworthy the consideration of the sportsman, and is best caught with
night lines ; but as, in fishing for other fish, our readers may often have the
misfortune to catch one, a piece of advice may here be given. Directly you
have got him out of the water, put your foot on him and cut through the back
of the neck, so as to sever the back-bone and render him helpless, when the
hook may be extracted without trouble.
                                     BAITS.
   There are endless varieties of baits, all good in their season, but the chief
of these is the worm. Of this there are several kinds :
   1. The Lob-worm, which may be found on lawns and garden-paths at
night after a shower of rain, or in a heavy dew. Some little adroitness, which
practice alone can give, is requisite in catching them, as they retire into their
holes in an instant when disturbed. This is beyond doubt the best worm for
fishing, but is almost equalled by
   2. The Red Worm, a smaller species, of a deep red colour, and good for
nearly all fish. Part of a red worm answers well for small fish which could
not take in even part of a lob.
   3. The Brandling, a striped worm, found in dung-hills and tan-heaps.
This requires much " scouring " before use.
   4. The Marsh-worm is the common earth-worm, with somewhat of a bluish
head, and is of less use than the others.
   We next come to an important class of so-called worms, viz., the larvae of
various insects. CATERPILLARS of all kinds are a deadly bait, more particularly
the smooth ones. The little green sort found on oak trees from April to July
are especially destructive.
   The Blood-worm is the larva of a species of gnat, and is found in stag
nant puddles, sometimes in such numbers as to appear as if the whole had
been converted into blood. It is about half an inch long and of a brilliant
red colour. Several of them must be used at once in baiting.
   The Caddis-worm of various kinds is almost too well known to need
description, and is a deadly bait in its season for trout, dace, and roach. We
once took a number of gudgeons out of a small stream with this bait when
they refused the red worm.
   In using all these worms, the angler should consider the state of the water
he is fishing in. In low bright water a small red worm is to be relied on ; but
in thick or heavy water a big lob is best.
   Be careful to scour your worms by keeping them in clean damp moss for
some days before using them. A well-scoured worm is tougher and livelier,
and a brighter-looking bait altogether, than one fresh from the earth.
   To keep worms in a tolerable condition for. fishing, a mixture of garden-
mould and tea-leaves is much used. This will not do well for the lob-worm.
   In dry weather, when the worms do not appear at night, a few pails of water
 thrown on the lawn will often bring them up in an hour or so.
   There are many other grubs, &c, all of which are good in their season ; but

                                   FISHING.                                     493
the best of all is the Gentle, or larva of the blow-fly. When scoured with
a little sand, or, if you can give a little longer time, bran, they are an almost
universal bait.
   Of natural FLIES we will say nothing here, as we verily believe there is no
insect that a fish will refuse, and have treated of the more special ones in
mentioning the different fish, with, we think, the omission of the grasshopper
only, a most deadly bait for trout, grayling, chub, and dace.
   Fish Baits we have already spoken of, but we may here add sprats as a
first-rate and cheap bait for spinning for pike in winter. Artificial Baits
had better not be used while the natural ones are attainable.
   The best Pastes have been mentioned in their places. Wheat and malt
boiled in milk until quite soft are a favourite bait for roach and bream with
many anglers.
   The green " silk weed," twisted up into little balls, has been lately recom
mended as a bait for roach, but we have much doubt as to its utility.
                                  FLY-FISHING.
   We will now proceed to give a few hints on this most delightful branch of
the gentle art.
   For trout it is not only one of the most successful, but also is the only
method permitted in most rivers. The grayling and the dace afford capital
sport to the fly-fisher, as also the chub. Salmon—of which we will not treat
here, as those of our readers who are fortunate enough to get the opportunity
of salmon fishing will not have any difficulty in procuring plenty of that ex
ample which is so far superior to precept—are caught with the artificial fly,
and even the pike is sometimes taken by a strange-looking half-fly half-bird.
    Firstly, of your rod. This should be much lighter and more pliable than a
bottom-fishing rod : about 1 2 feet is the most convenient length, and neither
 too stiff nor too " whippy." You had better get some old hand to choose one
 for you if possible, but if you cannot, endeavour to pick out one that plays
 truly when shaken in the hand, and appears to become gradually more flexible
 as it tapers. Do not take one beyond your strength : it is as bad as an over-
 heavy cricket-bat. You will require a winch, containing 30 yards of line of
 fine silk, or tapered silk and hair mixed (some prefer the one, some the other).
 At the end of this fasten by a loop in the ordinary way 3 yards of round, fine,
even gut, to which attach your fly. After you have attained some dexterity,
more than one fly may be used ; but the utility of this practice is questionable,
and we strongly dissuade a novice from attempting it, unless he wishes to
bring his tackle into utter grief every two or three casts.
    Now as to casting. We believe that all the written directions on the sub
ject would not be of half so much good as one hour with an experienced fly-
 fisher. Our directions are, therefore, get some one to show you—not by words,
 but by actual example.
   As regards a stock of flies, do not fill your book too full : an entomological
 museum is not wanted, though most of the tackle-makers will endeavour to
 persuade you to the contrary. The number of species of real use is not so large
as people pretend. We will merely give the names of the different sorts of
most utility, without directions for making them, as in these days, when the
best London makers will send the best flies by post to almost any part of the
globe, and these flies only cost two or three shillings a dozen, it is hardly worth

494                                  SPOUTS.
the trouble of making them oneself. The names here given will be known by
any good tackle-maker.
1. Hofland's fancy              8. The yellow dun          15. The May-fly
2. The Francis                  9. The coachman            16. The sedge-fly
3. The alder-fly               10. The coch y bondu        17. The brown moth
4. The cinnamon                11. The fern-fly            18. The white moth
5. The March brown             12. The governor            19. The hare's ear
6. The red spinner             13. The black gnat          20. The spider-fly
7. The blue dun                14. The stone-fly
   A few red and black palmers of various sizes, and a few large red palmers,
with double hooks for chub fishing, will be found very useful. It will be as
well to have Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, and 8 of several sizes and shades, as the
insects they are intended to represent vary much with the state of the weather
and period of the year.
   Trout begin to rise in some rivers about the middle of March, when the
March brown and the blue dun are the best flies. In fact, they are the best
flies to commence the season with in every river. At this time your only
chance of taking anything is in the middle of the day. Later on in the season
fish earlier and later, the middle of the day being now useless, unless wet or
windy, when the angler who has the pluck to venture out gets the pull of the
fine-weather fisherman. In a lake, in fact, it is next to useless to fish unless
a strong breeze be blowing or rain falling. The latter end of April and begin
ning of May are the most glorious time for the fly-fisher, except, perhaps, in
those rivers where the May-fly is found, where the fish will not rise freely till
it puts in an appearance. About this time the alder-fly in the moming, and
Hofland's fancy, the Francis, or the duns in the evening, will do much execu
tion. At the end of May or beginning of June the May-fly appears. The
artificial imitation will kill early in the morning and late in the evening.
Throughout May the stone-fly is an excellent fly, especially late in the evening.
The sedge-fly will also do well at this time. After the disappearance of the
May-fly the trout will not rise much in the daytime; but the sedge-fly, coach
man, and various moths will come in very usefully after sunset.
   Remember that, if you can see a trout, he can generally see you, and that
no whipping will induce him to rise. Look out carefully for big fish rising
under an overhanging tree, and sucking down every fly that passes over them.
If you can, let your fly fall a foot or two above them, so that the current may
bring it down over their noses ; but don't pitch it behind them or right on
their heads. Where a big stone or stump obstructs the stream and forms an
eddy, throw your fly so that the stream may bring it round the obstacle into
the comparatively still water, where a trout delights to lie in wait for what
floats down. You will soon know if he takes your fly.
   In playing a trout, remember never to let your line become slack. This,
indeed, should not be done with any fish, but a trout, unless very well hooked,
will almost invariably break his hold in such a case.
   The grayling, a fish not found in many rivers, will take most of the small
duns, and has the advantage of coming into season just as the trout leaves
off: the best month for fly-fishing for grayling being October. In fishing for
grayling, let your flies sink a little.
   Of fly-fishing for dace we have already spoken. The big double-hooked
palmers should be thrown under the boughs of trees about August and Sep
tember, when you will frequently be rewarded by hooking large chub.

                                 SEA FISHING.                                    495
    Remember to vary your flies according to the state of the weather and
•water : small light-coloured flies on bright days and in clear water ; large
dark ones on cold windy days or in a coloured water. Accustom yourself to
use the finest tackle you can : you will have far more real sport in killing a big
fish with tackle that would not lift half his weight, than if you dragged the
poor brute out " by the hair of his head." In the evening, when you cannot
tell what obstacles may be in the way, and you must hold a fish fast if you
want to kill him, then stronger tackle is certainly necessary ; and, having read
all this advice, remember one chief rule above all others, "Don't let the fish
see you /"
                                  SEA FISHING.
    Although it is beyond all doubt that the capture of fresh-water fish with the
 rod and line requires more skill and patience, and a greater knowledge of
 their habits, than is necessary to ensure success in salt water, yet there is
much to be learned and much practice is required before one can attain to
anything like proficiency ; and although in the far north the glorious salmon
 affords to those who have the good fortune to be able to enjoy it the most ex
 citing sport, and the trout in the more southern parts of this country is prized
 almost as much, yet there is something most enjoyable and fascinating in sea 1
 fishing, which amply repays one for the comparative discomfort it emails,
 although such a word is scarcely known in connection with sport by those
 who are its genuine votaries.
    We will now proceed to lay before our young readers a list of the various
 kinds of sea-fish which are generally caught with hand-lines, and also a few
 plain directions for making the best sort of tackle ; and while on this subject
 we may observe that although, generally speaking, the lines, &c, of our fish
 ermen at the various watering-places are of the roughest kind, and although
 they take abundance of fish, we are convinced from the experience of some
 years that he who takes the pains to make fine tackle—though of course of
 sufficient strength —will be fully repaid. We remember a gentleman who used
 neat twisted horsehair for his " snoods " (the short lines to which the hooks
 are attached), instead of the clumsy cord ones which two fishermen had in the
 same boat with him, on more than one occasion caught nearly double the
 number of whiting that they did.
    Much sport may be had at 'most of our watering-places in fishing for dabs,
 flounders, &c, and the same kind of tackle may be used for them, and, indeed,
 for nearly every kind of sea-fish. It is of the most simple construction, and
 is made as shown in the annexed engraving.
    A is a leaden plummet (regulated in size according to the strength of the tide,
 for it is desirable that the bait should be kept as near the bottom as possible),
 weighing about half a pound and of the shape shown in the drawing, having
 a hole bored through it capable of allowing a piece of whalebone, about 15 in.
 long and of the thickness of an ordinary lead pencil, to be passed through it
 and fixed by its middle. At each end of the piece of whalebone should be
 attached a " snood," made of twisted hair or the fine line sold for the purpose,
 about 15 in. long, to which the hooks are fastened. At the upper end of the
 plummet the hand-line must be attached, which should be carefully wetted and
 stretched before being used, in order to take all the " kink " out of it. It should

496                                  SPORTS.
be 40 or 50 yards long. This line is used as follows : the hooks being baited
with lug-worm, the soldier crab, mussels, &c, all of which are capital baits,
they are lowered over the side of a boat until the plummet reaches the bottom ;
it is then raised sufficiently to allow the baits to clear it, and the line should
be held between the finger and thumb of the right hand, which should rest on
the gunwale of the boat. Immediately a fish bites, which is known by a sudden
 and sharp tug at the line, it should be pulled sharply and suddenly upwards.
 If the fish is hooked, he should be hauled on board at once, unless it be a large
 one, in which case it is advisable to give him line and gradually bring him to
 the surface, when he should be secured by a gaff and hauled on board. Nearly
 every kind of fish which frequents our coast may be taken by this kind of tackle,
 and, indeed, we know of no better. Good sport may, however, be had by fish
 ing with a strong pike-rod and running-line and large cork float ; but we much
 question its being equal to the hand-line. Numbers ot fish of all kinds are
 caught by means of a long line called a " trot," the length of which may be
 optional—from 50 yards to 500, or even double or treble that length. At
 intervals of a fathom, snoods should be attached to it, each having a strong
 whiting-hook securely fastened. The hooks should be baited as before de
 scribed ; and just at the commencement of the flood tide the line, each end of
 which should be secured to a heavy stone or other weight, must be laid on the
 sand across the tide, viz., parallel with the shore", and care should be taken not'
 to lay the line on the dry sand : the best way is to walk into the water up to
  your knees before laying the line ; for if it be laid on the sand before the tide
  reaches it, there arc innumerable insects always at the extreme edge of the
  water, which will devour every atom of your bait before the fish find it.
     Simple as it may appear, there is a right and a wrong way of making this
  line, and we will now endeavour to put our young friends in the right way.
     if for in-shore fishing, procure 1 50 or 200 yards of cord, called at the fishing
  towns " marline." Get the " kink " out of it by soaking it for an hour or two
  in water, and stretching it out its full length. And now for the hooks and
  snoods (the proper twine for which is sold at all fishing towns).
     Take the extreme end of the snood line between the forefinger and thumb
  of the left hand, and draw the line between the finger and thumb of the right
  hand until the end reaches up the right arm just above the elbow : this will

                                SEA FISHING.                                   497
give you the proper length ; then with the finger and thumb of the right hand
make a " half-hitch," or loop, the line next the ball being undermost ; then
place the shank of your hook through the loop, and make another half-hitcb
the contrary way ; hold the hook with the left hand, hold the short end of the
line in your teeth and the line next the ball in your right hand, and draw the
knot tight on the hook ; then cut off the line next the ball about one-eighth of
an inch from the knot, and your hook is firmly tied, and will never draw. Never
tie a hook on the end of the line if you can avoid it, but always proceed as
above, and for this reason : when the hook is tied on in the way described, all
the strain of a fish is on the lower hitch ; but if the hook be tied on at the end
of the line, the strain will of course be on the upper one, and therefore more
likely to draw. Attention to trifling matters of this kind will always amply
repay you for the slight trouble they may occasion.
   At each end of the line should be a loop by means of which you can attach
a stone or other weight, then holding the end in
the left hand, stretch it out as far as you can to
the left ; then run the line through the right hand,
which must be held out in the same way to the
right: this will give you the proper distance;
then take one of the snoods, tie a knot in it at
the end, and fasten it to the line by two half-
hitches ; this will never slip, on account of the
knot at the end. This way would do equally
well for tying on a hook if a large one, but for
small ones it would be in the way.
   The best way of keeping this line is in a half
butter-tub, the large line being coiled round the
inside, and the snoods and hooks lying in the
centre. It is a good plan to loop up each hook
on its own snood, so that when you draw the line
out of the tub, the hooks, being reversed, will not
take hold of anything that may happen to come
in their way, and when they are wanted for use they can be easily undone.
   Those of our young friends who may be fortunate enough to visit Scotland,
particularly the west coast, will find a most amusing and successful mode
of fishing during the summer months. Four or five or more stout rods, about
6 or 7 ft. long, must be procured, and to the end of each must be attached a
strong line about the same length, and to the end of the line should be tied
a length of twisted horsehair about 3 ft. long, and to the end of this piece of
horsehair is fastened what is called a fly, though we certainly never saw any
living creature bearing the slightest resemblance to it. It is composed simply
of two white fowls' feathers tied to a No. 6 hook, which might be supposed to
represent wings. To use this very successful bait, you must procure a boat,
and a man, who must row you about very slowly. Your rods should be held
out from the sides of the boat, so that the flies and lines are clear of it. As
the boat is rowed forward, the flies, of course, trip on the surface of the water,
and are greedily taken by the voracious salmon really faster than you can take
them off the hooks. We have taken on one occasion more than a hundred
in the course of an hour and a half off Oban. We have also taken them in
great numbers in the Sound of Mull, also at Stornoway, and at the north end
of the Crinan Canal.
                                                                    32

498                                 SPORTS.
   Another mode of taking several kinds of sea-fish is by means of what is
called "whiffing." It is simply a long baited line, without any lead, towed
astern of a boat either under easy sail, or while being pulled by oars, or when
at anchor if the tide is strong. The line is held in the hand, and must be
struck sharply the moment a Dite is felt.
                                           The best method for keeping the lines
                                        for sea fishing is to have a frame made of
                                        wood about 9 in. square, as shown in the
                                        engraving. The line should be wound
                                        round it in both directions. It is then
                                        easily carried, and will not get entangled,
                                        and is easily "paid off" when wanted for
                                        use.
                                           Soon after the mackerel appear on our
                                        coasts, great sport may be had by fishing
                                        for them with a long line and a " spoon "
                                        bait, which may be had at any of the
                                        tackle-shops. This mode of fishing is
                                        practised from a boat under sail. There
                                        being two or more swivels on the line, the
                                        bait, by the action of the water, revolves
                                        and glistens as it passes through it, and
is a never-failing bait for these fish.
   Bass and grey mullet may also be taken in the same way.
                                SHOOTING.
   For many centuries, Shooting, either with the bow or gun, has been one of
the leading sports, and, comparatively speaking, almost peculiar to natives of
this country. Sport, in its legitimate sense, is nowhere else so well under
 stood, nor is it in any other country so thoroughly appreciated. On the
 Continent, what little game is found is slaughtered indiscriminately ; coveys
are fired into, and birds and hares are "potted" from behind hedgerows—
the sole object being to kill, and no matter how: so long as game is brought
to the bag, the means of doing so are neither questioned nor considered ; but
in this country, and amongst our countrymen abroad, any one having the
 slightest pretensions to being a sportsman would as soon think of shooting
the poultry in a farm-yard as of firing into a covey of birds.
    It is this feeling of fairness and consideration, even towards the very
 animals of which he is in pursuit, which, at all times, characterizes the English
 sportsman, and elevates him above the " pot-hunters " of other countries ;
 and it is a feeling which we would most earnestly desire to inculcate in the
 breasts of our young readers—a feeling they may profitably cultivate in all
 the relations of life, and one which will teach them to be above taking a mean
 advantage.
    We cannot do better than quote a few words on this subject from that
  charming work, " The Rifle and the Hound in Ceylon," by S. W. Baker, than
 whom a better sportsman never existed. He says :

                                   SHOOTING.                                 499
    " I would always encourage the love of sport in a lad. Guided by its true
 spirit of fair play, it is a feeling that will make him above doing a mean
 thing in every station of life, and will give real feelings of humanity. I have
 had great experience in the characters of thorough sportsmen ; and I can
 safely say that I never saw one that was not a straightforward, honourable
 man, who would scorn to take a dirty advantage of man or animal. In fact,
 all real sportsmen that I have met have been really tender-hearted men—
 men who shun cruelty to an animal, and who are easily moved by a tale of
 distress."
    These sentiments we endorse to the very letter, and maintain that the
 word " sportsman," in its truest sense, conveys far more than the fact of a
 man being fond of field sports. To be really a sportsman, he must possess
 qualities of a high class.
                              RIFLE SHOOTING.
   As Rifle Shooting has, within the last few years, become a national pastime,
 we will commence our article on this subject by giving a few hints which
 may possibly be of service to our young readers—many of whom, if they
 have not already done so, will sooner or later join the ranks of our citizen
 army.
                                  THE ENFIELD RIFLE.
   We here give a drawing of the Enfield Rifle— the weapon now in the hands
of our Volunteers, and with which all the prizes for Volunteers have been
shot for at the Great Annual Meeting at Wimbledon, and at other similar
gatherings throughout the country since they were established ; and, although
it has fully answered the purpose for which it was originally designed, yet—
just as the railway displaced our mail coaches, which had arrived almost at
perfection —so is the Enfield rifle doomed to be superseded in the first place
by the Snider (with which the greater part, if not all, of our regular troops
are already armed), and eventually by the Henry-Martini, or such other im
proved breech-loading rifle as may be fixed on by the Government.
   We deem it unnecessary to give any detailed description of this rifle—not
merely because it is all but out of date, but because it is, beyond a doubt,
well known to our young readers.
   The Snider Rifle, which, as we said before, is now the standing arm of our
troops, may not, however, be so well known, either as regards its principle or
                                                                 82—2

 500                                            SPORTS.
the requisite manipulation. We therefore give a detailed description of it,
which we trust will not fail to convey to our readers a thorough knowledge of
its mechanism and action.
             THE SNIDER RIFLE, WITH FLAP OPEN READY TO RECEIVE THE CARTRIDGE
   As regards the stock, lock, sight, and barrel (excepting at the breech), it is
exactly similar to the Enfield ; but at the breech there is a flap, A, opening
on a hinge from left to right, in order to admit of the insertion of the cart
ridge, which must be pushed sufficiently forward with the thumb of the right
hand into the barrel to allow of the flap being closed : when this is done the
rifle is loaded.
                  THE SNIDER RIFLE WITH FLAP CLOSED READY TO BE DISCHARGED.
   A, the flap ; B, the projection or nipple ; c, the piston or plunger ; d, the hinge ; e, the extractor.
   The flap itself is a solid piece of iron through which a long piston or plunger
works, and this, when struck by the hammer, is forced forward, and, coming
in contact with the percussion cap in the centre of the base of the cartridge,
ignites the charge.

                                             SHOOTING.                                                     50i
    At the lower end of the flap, a, and on its right side, is a projection or nipple,
R, and through this, and extending downwards and in an oblique direction—
terminating exactly in the centre of the upper end of the flap)—is a perforation
in which the piston or plunger, C, is fixed, which, as before mentioned, is
forced forward on being struck by the hammer, and is brought back, on the
hammer being raised, by a spiral spring. D is the hinge on which the flap
works, and on the upper end of the flap is the extractor, E. The flap is so
arranged that, when open, it can be drawn backwards on the hinge ; and
when so drawn back, the extractor, catching the rim at the base of the cart
ridge, withdraws it from the barrel after it has been discharged into the hollow
in which the flap rests when closed ; by turning the rifle sharply over to the
right, the empty case falls out and makes room for a fresh cartridge.
    We here give an engraving of the Central-fire Cartridge, manufactured by
Mr. Daw, of Threadneedle Street, for which he gained the prize of ^400,
                                      THE CENTRAL-FIRE CARTRIDGE,
                   APPLICABLE TO THE SNIDER AND OTHER BREECH-LOADING RIFLES.
i, cartridge; 2, base of same, showing the end of the percussion cap in ihe centre: 3, cartridge in
   section ; 4, cap and anvil ; 5, end view of anvil : 6, longitudinal ditto : 7, cap ; 8, plug at base of Dall ;
   9, the bullet ; 10, the powder ; it, capsule which contains the pereussion cap ; 12, the cap itself.
given by the Government as being the best cartridge. It is not, however, the
present service cartridge, although it bore off the palm. Why it was not
adopted we confess to being at a loss to understand, seeing that it was proved

 502                                  SPORTS.
to be more certain in its action, more impervious to damp, more neatly
manufactured, and, moreover, very much cheaper, than any other cartridge
hitherto produced.
   This cartridge is composed of a thin piece of brass foil, the two edges of which
overlap each other about a quarter of an inch, and are carefully soldered
together. This roll of brass is fitted into a cup or base of the same material
(No. 2), in the inside of which is a block of pulped paper, which secures the
capsule (No. 1 1) in its place, and this capsule is perforated at its upper end, so
that when the percussion cap is exploded, the flame passes into the gunpowder
above it. The anvil (Nos. 5 and 6) is made of a piece of brass wire of the
proper size to fit exactly the inside of the percussion cap, having one end of
a conical shape, so that it meets the oblique blow given to the cap by the
piston. It has four longitudinal grooves cut in it, so that when the fulminate
explodes, the flame passes along them and through the hole at the top of the
capsule, as before described.
   To make the matter even more intelligible, we will proceed to point out
how the component parts of the cartridge are put together.
   The anvil (No. 5) is first placed with its point resting against the fulmi
nate in the percussion cap. The cap itself (No. 12) is then pushed, mouth
first, into the capsule (No. 1 1), which it fits tightly. The powder (No. 10) is then
poured into the cartridge-case, and upon it the ball (No. 9) is placed. No. 8
is the wooden or clay plug which is placed in the cavity at the base of the
Minie" ball, which, when the explosion takes place, is driven forward and
expands the base of the ball into the grooves of the rifle.
   As with the ordinary shot gun, too much care cannot be observed in hand
ling a rifle. Never, on any occasion, or under any circumstances— even
although you know a gun to be unloaded—allow yourself to point it at any
one. No good can possibly accrue from such a thoughtless and useless act,
and in an unguarded moment, a gun may be taken up containing a charge ;
and how could our young readers forgive themselves if, by so foolish an act,
they should cause the death of a fellow-creature? The golden rule to be
observed in all cases is always to consider a gun loaded, and to treat it
accordingly.
   After the manipulation of a gun or rifle is thoroughly understood and. prac
tically learnt, one of the first steps towards becoming a good shot, more
particularly with a rifle, is to acquire nerve, and to get entirely rid of that
trepidation which, in a beginner, nearly always accompanies the act of draw
ing the trigger, commonly called " flinching." This is fatal to good shooting,
and must be overcome. A very simple method of determining whether or
not you are perfectly steady is to balance a penny piece on the end of the
barrel of an unloaded rifle, then take a steady aim at any small object, and
gradually press the trigger until the hammer falls, and if you can do so several
times successively without causing the penny piece to fall, you may be satis
fied that you are sufficiently steady. It is by no means a bad plan to prac
tise this very frequently even after you have commenced target practice.
   As all the minutiae of rifle shooting will be taught practically at the butts
by the musketry instructor, it is not our intention to enter more particularly
into the subject than to give a few hints that our young readers may profit
by in the competitions in which they may be engaged, and which it is more
than probable may never be imparted by the musketry instructor.
   However monotonous and tedious it undoubtedly is, it is equally certain

                                   SHOOTING.                                  503
 that more advantage is gained by " position drill " than is usually accorded to
 it. But in taking these drills, we would earnestly impress upon our young
 readers the necessity of not practising them carelessly : they should always
 be taken under the immediate supervision of the sergeant instructor, who will,
 of course, from his long experience, detect any little error of position, which
 might, if allowed to continue, materially interfere with a perfect acquisition of
 it afterwards. For bear in mind, that in rifle shooting, as in other things, it
 is far easier to acquire bad habits than to get rid of them.
    We here give an engraving of the Hythe position, as taught in the army,
and in which all prizes are shot for at Wimbledon and elsewhere at 500 and
600 yards. At 200 yards this position is not allowed ; the shooting at this
distance must be from the shoulder, standing.
    And now for a few words on the subject of the actual use of the rifle at the
butts. And first, as to loading the Enfield rifle. This, no doubt, is an opera
tion which everybody is acquainted with; but there are, nevertheless, some
little matters quite worth while bearing in mind, and which may possibly be
overlooked unless attention be drawn to them.
    It is always advisable, before commencing firing at the target, to fire a
"warmer" into the pit. Your rifle may be properly cleaned, oiled, &c, but
after lying by for a day or two it is quite possible that a small drop of oil
or a particle of dust or dirt may have inserted itself into the lower end of the
nipple, which will, most probably, cause a hang-fire ; and nothing that we
know of is more likely to cause nervousness in a beginner and make him
flinch than this.
    In loading, tear off the top of the cartridge gently and evenly, and in wet
ting the waxed end of the cartridge with the mouth round the ball, be careful
not to wet the end itself, for if this be done, when it is rammed home upon
the powder it will, of course, moisten a certain portion of it, and so much of
the powder will be lost—no slight consideration where every grain makes a
difference as regards elevation at the long ranges ; and while pouring the
powder into the barrel, if there be any wind, always stand with your back to
it, as, otherwise, much of the charge may be blown away. It not unfrequently

 504                                SPORTS.
happens that in cartridges which may have been made any length of time, a
portion of the powder will be found caked at the bottom of the cartridge next
the ball. The case should therefore always be examined, and well shaken
and pinched, which will disengage any powder which may adhere to it.
   The pressure exerted on the bullet by the ramrod should be but gentle—
only sufficient to ensure the base of the ball being well down on the powder.
After several shots have been fired, greater force is necessary, for the explosion
 of the powder will most likely have formed a slight deposit just above where
it takes place, and unless the ball is driven home beyond this a vacuum will,
of course, be formed, and the danger of the barrel bursting is incurred.
    Few, if any, of the Government caps can be forced down upon the end of
the nipple by the mere pressure of the thumb, and if the fulminate is not in
actual contact with it, it is most probable that a hang-fire will be the result.
The best and safest way of driving it home is by lowering the cock gently upon
it, and exerting a gradual pressure by placing the thumb against the back of
the comb of the cock ; but in doing so be most particular on all occasions to
place the butt of the rifle against the upper part of the thigh, and keep the
barrel pointed at as nearly a perpendicular position as possible ; and above all
things, guard against acquiring the habit (which, we have shuddered to see,
has become a common practice at the firing-points) of lowering the hammer
upon the cap, and then giving it a succession of gentle taps on the percussion
 cap : one of these taps given rather too violently might cause the loss of a life.
    As regards " practice " at the butts in the ordinary acceptation of the term,
we must admit that we are no advocates for its being carried to any great
extent after a beginner has acquired a knowledge of the use and manipulation
of his rifle. No amount of practice alone at a target, we are convinced from
long experience, will give a man that peculiar nerve and coolness which he
must be master of before he can hope to aspire to be a good and successful
match shot. It is match practice only in competitions and in the presence
of others which will ensure the possession of these indispensable qualities.
   A beginner should train himself to be proof against anticipating making a
bad score. He should learn to treat with the most perfect indifference all re
marks he may chance to hear as to the result of the match or of his own shoot
ing. He should learn, above all things, to trust to his own judgment of light
and wind, for the longer he depends upon information gained from others the
longer he will be unable to trust himself. It is perfectly marvellous with what
accuracy most of our leading shots will tell the necessary allowance to be
made at the long ranges on a strong wind blowing from the right or left, and
yet it is within the grasp of any one possessed of ordinary intelligence if he
will but accustom himself to remember the position of his shots and that of
his aim, and also the appearance of the flag at the butts. The distance in
feet from the centre of the target may easily be computed by bearing in mind
the breadth of the targets. This knowledge, however, is not to be acquired
in a day, but, on the contrary, is only to be gained by long experience and
the most patient attention, nor should failure be allowed to be accompanied
by any feeling of despair : like everything else in this life which is worth
gaining, a steady and determined perseverance will ensure success. Never
allow a bad score to dishearten, but rather to act as a stimulant to renewed
efforts, and you will find that the requisite knowledge will creep almost imper
ceptibly upon you.
   On no account ever allow yourself to get into the dangerous habit of carry

                                   SHOOTING.                                   505
 ing your rifle with the hammer down upon the cap. Always carry it with the
 hammer at half-cock, and in uncocking your rifle bear in mind the necessity
 of always allowing the scear to descend below the " bent " in the tumbler,
 and then draw the cock back until you hear the scear catch at the half-cock ;
 but never adopt the dangerous practice, too often followed, of letting the
 scear slip from the full to the half-cock : it may, and often will, catch on the
 edge of the bent, and the slightest jar will, to a certainty, cause it to fall on
 the cap, and the rifle will be, of course, discharged. This caution is also
 equally necessary with sporting guns, of which we shall speak hereafter.
     It will be found a most useful plan in shooting a match never to inquire
 about or care for the scores of other competitors ; let all your energy and
 attention be confined to your own.
     If shooting in a match with nine or ten other men, the judgment of all of
 whom you believe to be generally sound as to their knowledge of the strength
 of the wind which may be blowing from either side, and you should happen
 to be at nearly the bottom of the squad, it is no bad plan to carefully watch
 the position of their shots. If you find that the majority of them incline to
 the right or left of the target, make rather more or less allowance, as the case
 may be, with your first shot, and you will generally find that you have learnt
the secret, and act accordingly. Immediately before each shot, however, care
fully notice the effect of the wind on the flag at the butt. A sudden gust or
 lull will frequently take place, and your shot will, of course, be acted on
accordingly. The effect of light, too, is as difficult to contend with as that of
wind. A dark cloud suddenly passing over the sun on a bright day will as
suddenly alter the elevation ; but although this is an established fact, it is not
advisable for a beginner to pay much attention to it until he fairly under
stands the sighting of his rifle, and can implicitly depend on it for accuracy.
    Immediately before and during a match remain as quiet as possible ; do not
move about more than is necessary, nor talk more than you are obliged.
There may possibly be but little for or against this advice ; but where the
exercise of the faculties is required to be concentrated on one object, it is
most certainly advisable that others should be thought of as little as possible.
" Chaff" is at all times to be deprecated at a rifle match, however truly good-
natured it may be . do not chaff others, and if you should be chaffed yourself,
treat it in good temper and with as much indifference as you can command.
 If advice be given you, even if you know it to be erroneous, always at least
appear to be thankful for it.
    If in a corps competition you have a personal friend, there is no harm in
asking his opinion as to wind and elevation ; otherwise it is advisable not to
do so. It may cause unpleasantness to both of you, should his advice, how
ever genuine, prove to be wrong ; it is possible you may think it was purposely
given. There are men too who, lacking the courage to refuse to give it, will
purposely mislead ; but we are proud to say there are others, even if we
were shooting off a tie against them, on whose information and advice we
could implicitly rely—men who would tenfold rather sacrifice the prize they
were shooting for than purposely deceive. " Timeo Danaos et dona ferentes"
is, generally speaking, the best maxim to abide by.
    Opinions are divided as to the advisability of keeping a rifle constantly
wiped out: some of our leading shots invariably wipe out their rifle after
every shot ; others very rarely clean their rifle at all ; some, again, will wash
out their barrels with a copious supply of water ; while many will aver that, in

 506                                 SPORTS.
 spite of the virtues to be found in the mysteries of " Wishart " and of " Gould,"
there is nothing so effectual as saliva. Without wishing to disparage either of
the above-named compositions, we must honestly confess that, so far as we
have been able to judge from the experience of some years, they are in no way
superior to it ; and we are inclined to the belief that a vast deal more import
ance is attached to the fouling of a rifle than it deserves. It is true that after
repeated discharges a ridge is formed just where the base of the ball lodges
at the breech of the rifle; but if, as is the case, the force of the explosion ex
pands the ball and fits, as it were, its sides into the grooves of the rifle, it is
manifest that all fouling of the previous discharge must be carried away with
it. The only fouling that can affect theflight of the ball, whether it has been
discharged ten times or fifty, is that occasioned by the preceding explosion.
A great deal of the hard incrustation at the breech may be got rid of if, after
every discharge, the barrel of the rifle is held downwards and shaken by a
blow or two with the hand. To test the truth of this, hold the barrel over a
piece of white paper. Never in a match omit to use a cartridge-tester, for the
charges in cartridges vary a good deal, very often sufficiently to throw you off
the target.
    Since the above was written, much change has taken place in rifles. The
 breech-loader has superseded the muzzle-loader, the Martini-Henry the En
 field and Snider. Nevertheless the preceding recommendations will be found
 as useful as ever, for the main rules and principles of shooting alter not.
                               THE SHOT GUN.
   We must now turn our attention to another branch of our subject—the shot
gun or fowling-piece—and would remind our readers that all the precautions
we have hinted at under the head of rifle shooting are equally applicable to
the shot gun, and are quite as necessary to be observed.
   As no work can be properly done without good tools, so no one can expect
to become a successful shot unless he has a good gun. This is the first step
to be taken ; and in these days of perfection of workmanship, in which our
artizans are so nearly equal in proficiency, it would be invidious to name this
or that maker ; but, as the experience of the past five years with one of Daw's
central-fire guns and his inimitable cartridges leads us to the belief that it is
superior to every other kind, we can confidently recommend it. The central-
fire cartridges of other makers are far inferior to them, owing to the slovenly
make of the small anvil enclosed in the cap, which is flat, instead of being
cylindrical as in the Daw cartridge, and consequently liable to cause miss-
fires and accidental explosions by shifting its position, while the anvil in the
Daw cartridge, fitting, as it does, the inside of the cap to a nicety, cannot be
displaced, and such consequences are not likely to follow. We have fired
several thousands of these cartridges during the last five years, and have never
been annoyed by a single miss-fire. Another great recommendation is the
absence of all escape of gas, the whole of the explosion taking place within
the cartridge. In proof of this fact, it may be mentioned that we have fre
quently, after a hard day's shooting, passed a white handkerchief over the
parts of the barrels where the cartridges are inserted without its being soiled.
Safety in all matters connected with firearms is also a matter of great consi
deration ; and as the Daw cartridge requires an oblique blow of the piston to
explode it, it cannot by any possibility be ignited by a fall; and such an acci

                                  SHOOTING.                                   S°7
dent is rendered less likely to occur from the fact of the end of the cap con
taining the fulminate being countersunk, or, in other words, below the level of
the face of the base of the cartridge. In proof of the superiority of these
cartridges, we may add that they gained the first prize given by the Govern
ment, on the report of the Small Arms Committee, at the termination of the
competition at Woolwich last year. It may also be added that the cases,
after being used, are capable of being refilled and fired four or five times.
   Within the last few years breech-loading guns have come into almost general
use; and, although we are still wedded to the old-fashioned muzzle-loading
gun so far as its shooting powers are concerned, yet we must admit the vast
                              daw's CENTRAL-FIRE CiUN.
superiority of the breech-loader in every other particular. It is much safer,
as the sportsman's hand need never be at the muzzle under any circumstances.
It is far more expeditiously used, as powder, shot, cap, and wadding are all
inserted in the barrel at the same time ; and it is far more easily cleaned, as
all that is required is to draw a piece of flannel attached to a string through
the barrels once or twice after a day's shooting. The operation of filling your
cartridges is certainly a tedious one ; but a proper supply may always be kept
in hand by devoting an hour or two on wet days. We would strongly advise
our young friends not to attempt it at night, on account of the danger of a
lighted candle or lamp being necessarily so near the quantity of powder which
must be on their table. The best way, no doubt, if the expense be not an
object, is to purchase your cartridges ready filled.
   The above engraving was taken from one of Mr. Daw's best central-fire guns*

5o8                                SPORTS.
Fig. I shows the gun closed and ready for firing ; Fig. 2 shows it when open,
with the cartridge introduced into the barrel, a, the extractor ; B, the base of
the cartridge.
   This gun is opened and closed by means of a lever, which lies under the
trigger-guard, as shown in the drawing, and, when pressed downwards, with
draws a bolt, which, when the gun is closed, shoots forward into a slot in a
block beneath and between the barrels. This method is far more simple and
more easily worked than that in the ordinary breech-loading guns, in which
the lever is pushed sideways.
   The extractor applied to this gun is a most ingenious, and at the same time
a most simple, piece of mechanism. It has no spring whatever, but is advanced
or withdrawn by the action of its bevelled end as the barrel is raised or de-
Eressed. The end of the extractor has a groove, which fits the rim at the
  ase of the cartridge, and withdraws the empty case when the gun is opened.
   We do not think it necessary to give any description of the cartridge, as it
is identical with that manufactured for the Snider rifle, which is fully described
at page 501, the only difference being that shot is used with it instead of ball,
and the case is made of paper instead of brass foil.
                                 THE PIN-FIRE CUS.
   We now come to the Pin-fire Gun, which was the first kind of breech-loader
introduced into this country, and is still very extensively used, many sports
men considering it quite equal, and indeed preferable, to the central-fire gun.

                                 SHOOTING.                                   5°9
Tot homines tot sentential applies in this case as well as many others. This
gun, as its name implies, is used with a cartridge, at the lower end of which,
and standing at right angles with its side, is a brass pin, projecting about a
quarter of an inch. At the upper side of each barrel of the gun is a small
notch to receive the pin when the cartridge is introduced, and on the pin
being struck by the hammer the cartridge explodes
   The accompanying drawings show the gun closed ready for firing, and
when opened for the purpose of inserting the cartridge.
                              SECTION OF PIN CARTRIDGE.
   At the base of this cartridge will be seen a cavity in the pulped paper block,
in which a small ordinary percussion cap is placed sideways, so that one end
of the pin, which is inserted in a perforation made in the side of the base of
the cartridge, falls into and rests on the fulminate. When, therefore, the pin
is struck by the hammer, the cap explodes and ignites the powder in the car
tridge.
   The objections in our opinion to this cartridge are twofold. One is, that,
unlike the central-fire cartridge, it must be placed in the barrel in such a
position as that the pin falls into the notch made for it on the upper side of
the barrel; this requiring some little care, necessarily renders it a slower
operation than that of loading with a central-fire cartridge. The other ob
jection is, that there is always, more or less, an escape of gas through the
hole made to receive the pin.
   In spite, however, of the many advantages on the score of convenience,
                               THE MUZZLE-LOADING GUN.
 quickness in loading, &c, possessed by the breech-loading gun, our love
 remains as it ever has been, unchanged and unchangeable, as regards the
 old muzzle-loader, which, so far as actual shooting is concerned, we still con
 sider to be superior.

 51°                              . SPORTS.
   We give an engraving of this gun, but we consider it to be so generally
 well known as not to require any detailed description.
             rr.SKINES CARTRIDGE-LOADING MACHINE, FOR BREECH-LOADING GUNS.
   We here give an engraving of a most ingenious contrivance for loading
cartridge-cases, which we consider by far the best that we have seen. It is
very simple and most expeditious in its operation, as a hundred cases may,
by its aid, be loaded at once. The directions for using it are as follow :
   1. Invert the machine, draw back the slide, as in Fig. I, and place the
cartridge-cases in posrtion, fitting the pin cartridges in the grooves.
   2. Return the slide, and place the machine as in position 2, fitting the powder-
box, A, into the recess in front. Take powder-holder, 8, and scatter the con
tents over the surface ; then with streak (Fig. 6) draw all the surplus powder
forward into A, which remove and empty into 8. Place one hand at front of
machine near the bottom, and with the other draw forward the top part as far
as the slide allows, when all the powder will fall simultaneously into the cases
below ; after which slide back the top of the machine again.
   3. Throw back the upper part, as in Fig. 3, and place the wadding-board
(Fig. 4, filled with wadding) in position over the cartridges, so that the pin fits
the hole at the top of the machine ; then, with the rammer (Fig. 5), press home
the wads, four at a time ; after which, withdraw the wadding-board, and close
down the machine, as in the second position.
   The same process is gone through with the shot as with the powder; after

                          {
                                SHOOTING. .                                511
which, let the machine set as in position 2, draw out the slide (bottom), when
all the loaded cartridges will fall out on' the table.
   The bridge (Fig. 7) is used as a bar to place on the machine when less than
a hundred cartridges are loaded, in order to prevent the powder and shot from
passing into the holes when there are no cases below.
   With the additional boards or slides on top of machine, extra charges may
be added to any extent.
   The turning-down machine (Fig. 10) will be found very effective and most
simple, finishing off the cartridges without crushing and with great rapidity,
by simply holding the cartridge against the revolving wheel inside the bore
with the left band, while rapidly turning round the handle with the right.
   Having said thus much on the subject of guns and cartridges, and on the
supposition that our young friends have possessed themselves of a really good
gun, we will now proceed to give them a few hints as to its successful use.
           The Method of Holding the Gun when Firing
is shown in the annexed engraving ; many first-rate shots, however, prefer
holding the left hand close against the trigger-guard : it is all a matter of
fancy.
   As what little proficiency we may have acquired was originally gained
from a careful study of the late Colonel Hawker's admirable work, "Instruc
tion to Young Sportsmen," we cannot do better than transcribe a few of his
admirable directions. He says :
   " First let a beginner take a gun that he can manage, and be shown how to
put it to his shoulder with the breech and sight on a level, and make him

512                                . SPORTS.
self master of bringing them up to a wafer fixed on the wall of his room.
Then let him practise at this mark; and when he can draw his trigger
without flinching, he may proceed to take his second lesson, remembering
that in doing this the moment the gun is brought up to the centre of the object,
the trigger should be pulled, as the first sight is always unquestionably the
best.
    " Then send him out to practise at a card with powder till he is perfectly
steady, and afterwards load his gun occasionally with shot ; but never let the
time of your making this addition be known to him, and the idea of its being
perhaps impossible to strike his object will remove all anxiety, and he will
soon become perfectly collected.
    " The intermediate lesson of a few shots at small birds may be given ; but
the above plan throughout must be adopted at game, and continued in the
first instance till the pupil has quite divested himself of all tremor at the
springing of a covey, and observed in the last till most of his charges of shot
have proved fatal to birds. If he begins with both eyes open he will save
himself the trouble of learning to shoot so afterwards. An aim thus from
the right shoulder comes to the same point as one taken with the left eye
shut, and it is the most ready method of shooting quickly."
    The failure in killing birds on the wing, or ground game running, is attri
butable in nine cases out of ten to firing too low, when the object shot at is
going from the gun, or immediately at it when crossing from left to right, or
vice versd. When game is going from you near the ground, the aim should
be full high, or the bulk of the charge, if not the whole of it, will pass below
it ; and when birds are higher than the gun going from you, the aim should
be equally low, or the charge will pass above them. In cross-shots within
say, thirty-five or forty yards, the aim should be at least a foot or a foot and a
half in front of it ; at greater distances the allowance should of course be more.
In partridge shooting, always endeavour to get cross-shots if possible, and
this may generally be done by walking across or heading your dog when
pointing. If you go straight from him to the birds, they will generally go
straight away ; birds when flying across you present a far easier shot, and
expose a more vital part.
    Quietness in partridge shooting is a most valuable ingredient in a successful
day's sport, and yet how seldom is it that it is practically observed and en
forced ! No one but those who have actually tested it on a hot day in Sep
tember can form an idea what noise is made by two persons coming across a
stubble ; but when to the rattling and cracking of the straw is added the hum
of conversation and the universal shouting of the keeper, " Car-lo ! " " So-ho ! "
&c, &c, is it to be wondered at that birds should be considered wild f In
nine cases out of ten, if silence were preserved the birds would lie well and
be easy of approach. In proof of this, take an opportunity some day of
lying down at the side of a field when two guns are crossing it, and you will
be surprised at the noise they make, but will not be surprised that birds will
not lie. Avoid calling or speaking to your dog as much as possible—a shrill
whistle to attract his attention, and a movement of the hand in the direction
you wish him to go, is far more effective, and will gain you many a shot which
would otherwise be lost. Our limited space will not admit of our dwelling
longer on this branch of our subject. Let us, therefore, say a few words on
covert shooting, and on the prince of our game birds,—

                                   SHOOTING.                                    5'3
                                  The Woodcock.
    Without any exception, the most difficult of all shooting is that of the
woodcock ; and the prince, no doubt he is, of all our feathered game. As
compared with other game birds, he is scarce, and therefore eagerly sought
after, and duly appreciated when bagged. To a novice his flight over a
covert appears to be heavy, steady, and slow, owing to the apparently tardy
movement of his wings ; but in reality his pace is rapid : in fact, there is no
bird that we know whose flight is more deceptive than the woodcock's ; and
so variable is it, that one never knows what to expect. As a rule, a cock,
when flushed, will rise perpendicularly from the ground until he reaches the
level of the top of the underwood, and then go away in a straight line. Some
times he will rise in the way described, and then suddenly dart to the right
or left as soon as he has gained the topmost branches. At others he will
commence his evolutions directly he leaves the ground, and, instead of rising
like a sky-rocket, will twist and turn amongst the stems of the surrounding
bushes in such a way as to defy the quickest shot. The precise way to shoot
a cock can only be learnt by experience. Like " a good hand for a horse,"
 it is the most difficult thing to impart to another, however perfectly it may
be known to oneself.
    There is in our opinion more sagacity displayed by the cock in the way of
eluding his pursuers than by any other kind of game. Unless you see a cock
actually alight after being flushed, it is next to impossible to guess by the
direction he was taking when you last saw him where he is at all likely to be
found, and indeed we are almost inclined to think that the very opposite will
be generally found to be the correct one! When a cock is flushed for the
 first time, he generally rises close to you ; not so, however, the second, particu
larly if he be shot at and missed (which sometimes occurs !) H e then frequently
 rises fifty or sixty yards away, and commences his darting propensities in a
manner we can only compare in uncertainty of direction to a cracker when
ignited and thrown into the air.
    We have several times known a cock fly straight at us, and hoping to get
a shot as he went away behind us, have waited for the purpose, and turned
round just in time to see him make a turn like lightning round the stem of
the nearest tree without giving us time even to pitch our gun to our shoulder.
    The knowledge of the best places to search for a cock is only to be ac
quired by experience, so much depending on the general character of the
country and on the weather.
    In most parts of England one seldom hears of men going out expressly for
cock shooting ; they are usually taken as they come, while the coverts are
being beaten for other game, and hence it is that so little is generally known
about them ; but in Ireland, Wales, and Scotland, where cocks are more
abundant than in most parts of England, men go out expressly for cock
shooting, and in these localities the habits of the bird are better known.
How often have we heard such a remark as "What a beautiful covert for a
cock this must be! 'tis so wet, and there are so many springs." Never was
a greater mistake. Though a feeder in damp places, there is no bird that
likes to lie drier than a cock ; and as he feeds for the most part during the
night, he is seldom to be found near his feeding-ground during the day.
Generally speaking, if a covert be large, with swamps and rills in it, a cock
will be found on the high parts of it, and on the sunny side, particularly near
                                                                      33

 514                                 SPORTS.
 holly bushes, or where the covert is thickest, where he can find shelter and
 lie warm.
    If a covert be flat and nearly all swampy ground where cocks are known to
 feed, we should prefer searching for them in any small adjacent covert which
 lies higher and may have the benefit of the sun. We have noticed that in
 such situations cocks are more likely to be found after moonlight nights, and
 for this reason : that when the nights are dark, they are not much on the
 feed till nearly the dawn of the day, and therefore continue their meal in the
 day-time ; but if the nights be light, having satisfied their hunger, they repair
 to such places for quietness, warmth, and repose. On a dull, drizzly day, cocks
 will be found to be much more on the move than on days that are dark or
 gloomy, and when they are plentiful maybe seen on such days frequently chang
 ing their position, flying perhaps a hundred yards at a time in search of
 food. As a rule, if the nights are dark, search for a cock in the low damp
 parts of a covert ; if light, look for him in the high parts. Cocks, however,
 are not always in covert. We have frequently killed them in turnips ; and,
 as they frequent low swampy meadows in search of food, may often be found
 in dark, thick hedgerows adjacent to them. During a hard and long-con
tinued frost, a cock may be expected to be found close to any running stream,
and for this reason : that this is the only situation in which the ground is soft
enough to admit of his feeding.
    The difficulty of cock shooting depends, of course, in a great measure on
the nature of the country in which he is found. Quick as he is in his move
ments in ordinary coverts in the south of England, where they are for the
most part flat, or on hills of tolerably easy ascent, this difficulty is much
increased when he is sought for in Scotland and in Wales.
   There, his favourite resort is on the wooded side of deep ravines, principally
where there is generally a tortuous stream or burn running at the bottom.
We do not pretend to say that in such places his flight is different, excepting
so far as it is varied by the irregularity of the covert itself ; but as the walking
becomes more like climbing among the rocks which one meets with, it of course
follows that a man cannot use his gun with the same ease and quickness as he
can on comparatively level ground ; and as larch and fir plantations there form
the greater part of the coverts, it is infinitely more difficult to shoot among a
series of upright poles, each one of which will hold the shot, than when one
has to fire through the branches of oak or hazel, when a cock may be killed,
though not actually seen at the precise moment when the trigger is drawn.
In such situations, a cock, when "flushed" high on the bank where he is
generally to be met with in fine weather, usually flies nearly straight down
the hill-side, and then follows the course of the burn for some distance until
some object, such as an evergreen or a rock, presents itself, when he will,
with wonderful quickness, suddenly dart round it and leave his whereabouts a
matter of perfect mystery. He may have alighted close at its bottom ; he
may have ascended the opposite hill ; or, what is very often the case, having
" doubled " round it, he may have come right back almost to the spot where
he was first found. We think, as a rule, where a cock is once " flushed," the
place to look for him is where you did not see him last ; for, even if you are
correct in your supposition that he did actually alight, before you can reach
the spot it is more than probable that he will have run some forty or fifty
yards, and in which direction no one can tell but " Becasse " himself.
   The best kinds of doirs, beyond a doubt, are spaniels trained for the pur-

                                   SHOOTING.                                  515
pose ; though it is seldom they are met with, owing probably to the scarcity
of these birds as compared with other kinds of game— rendering it not worth
while, if not impossible, to keep dogs for the express purpose, and if kept, to
retain their good training for want of practice. For our own part, under such
circumstances, we prefer a steady old pointer and a retriever, or a retriever
alone, who thoroughly knows his work and does not require to be continually
 spoken to, but who will " keep to heel," even when a bird is killed, until told
to " seek dead."
   Heather is a favourite resort of the" woodcock, particularly when he first
reaches the northern counties; and it is worthy of note that he is more
frequently found on the shady sides of the hills in fine weather than on the
sunny sides, as is the case in the covert. This may probably be owing to his
preferring as dark a place as he can find for his snooze — the heather not
affording so much shelter and shade as underwood and brambles
   Cocks are found, too, occasionally in places where no one would think of
looking for them, and which no length of experience would lead the oldest
sportsman to search. We have " flushed " one in an old saw-pit, and more
than one from a flower-bed on a lawn. We remember, too, killing one which
got up close to a faggot-stack in a cottage garden.
   We believe it is pretty generally acknowledged that there are two, if not
more, "varieties" of cocks which visit this country, one being very much
darker in plumage than the other. In Wales we know there is a cock called
the " muff cock," from the fact of his having a sort of frill of feathers round
his neck. We remember killing three or four of these birds in Glamorgan
shire, below Swansea, several years ago, but do not recollect ever seeing any
like them elsewhere.
                                  The Pheasant
must next demand our attention, though we cannot reconcile the method
practised at the present day with our notions of legitimate sport. We dare
say we should be laughed at if we were to assert that there are three varieties
of pheasants in this country, "in a naturalist's point of view;" but, practically
speaking, it is nevertheless true.
   There is the wild and noble denizen of our woods (the common pheasant
and the ring-neck), who has been hatched and bred there in his natural
state, and who has been thrown entirely on his own resources for a subsist
ence; and there is the " Leadenhall"—a poor, lame, and effeminate wretch,
who has passed the first part of his miserable existence in a coop, prepara
tory to being transferred to the above market en route to my Lord Puddle-
dock's preserves at Murderem Hall, with about as much claim to the
designation of a pheasant, in a sporting point of view, as a costermonger's
pony has to that of a race-horse! He is turned down in a secluded part of a
covert, regularly fed by the keeper, comes running out of the brambles when
whistled to at feeding-time, and is so degenerate, and has passed such an
artificial life, that in many instances he forgets, or rather has never known, his
natural mode of roosting, and squats on the ground ; and to save him from
foxes, he is frequently driven up to the trees by the keeper !—who, if asked
how his pheasants are getting on, replies probably in this way : " Oh, beautiful,
sir ; I never see'd such a splendid lot of birds in my life. I counted seventy-
six cocks and almost as many hens all round me this morning at feeding-
time ; and I should think by the look on 'em, they '11 be ready in about another
                                                                 33—2

 5i6                                 SPOUTS.
 week." A party is accordingly duly invited, and the " sport " commences. As
 the beaters gradually pass down the covert, an occasional bird rises and is shot
 down often before he reaches the top of the underwood, but by far the greater
 number run some twenty or thirty yards in front of the men until the "corner"
is reached. Here excitement is at its height ! Most of the beaters are thrown
back ; the stems of the trees are struck to keep the birds from returning to
the covert, and the head keeper alone goes forward ; the birds rise by twos
and threes, and dozens; the "sportsmen" — some nine or ten, or possibly
more — stand round, all with breech-loaders, and many of them with two, and
a man to load for them ; and, as the birds all but darken the air, they are
shot into from every direction. And this constitutes pheasant shooting of the
present day !—one of the many results, unhappily, of " foreign aggression."
   But sport, in its genuine sense, is not understood by foreigners, as stated,
and correctly too, by Mr. Baker, the great Ceylon hunter and author already
mentioned, who goes on to say : " The foreigner hunts for the pot, and by
Englishmen alone is the glorious feeling shared of true fair and manly sport.
The character of the English nation is beautifully displayed in all our rules
for hunting, shooting, and fishing;" but we are inclined to fear that this feel
 ing is fast degenerating, and exactly in proportion as foreign ideas of sport
are introduced. " But what, then," may be asked, " are our ideas of pheasant
shooting?" Our answer is that this kind of shooting as it used to be
practised years ago, is the pheasant-shooting of the true sportsman ; when
the enjoyment consisted as much in witnessing the good working of clever
spaniels as in the actual shooting, and a man was obliged to fag hard in
covert in order to obtain anything like a bag; and no kind of shooting with
which we are familiar (with the exception, perhaps, of cock shooting) equals
it in fatigue and real hard work. For its thorough enjoyment a man must
have good dogs trained to hunt, within twenty or thirty yards of him, and,
thus provided, there are few better kinds of sport.
   In hedgerows, too, these birds afford fine wild shooting, as they do also in
gorsc, where they are frequently found, should it lie anywhere near a covert.
We have had great sport in the large fir or larch plantations on the Wolds of
Yorkshire, where, we have noticed, these birds are unusually wild, and one
rarely gets any but true " sporting shots."
   Sport, in our opinion, increases exactly in proportion with its difficulties ;
and although if one goes to Rome one must do as Rome does, and must,
therefore, submit to the mode of shooting as at present prescribed, yet we
would ten times rather go out with a friend, or at most two, with three good
dogs, and bring home our two or three brace of pheasants and a stray cock
or two than take part in the finest battue that ever was provided, where it is
impossible to tell what one shoots, and where we run every possible risk of
being shot as well. The only real way of enjoyment at a battue (a plan we
have always adopted) is, in a large wood, to lie back about a hundred yards
from the end of the covert to which the birds are being driven, put our backs
to a tree, and stand perfectly quiet ; the hares and rabbits which run back and
the pheasants which come skimming over the top of the covert will afford
ample sport, the latter requiring real skill and good shooting. A man who
can kill an old cock pheasant going his hardest over the top of the timber
really well must be able to handle his gun in good style; but very little credit
is due for the " pot shots " he is obliged to take at the corner, where everybody
fires at everybody else's bird. The numbers of birds that are wounded and

                                  SHOOTING.                                  517
 crawl away to die a lingering death after a day of this sort are simply incal
 culable ; and although a good bag is what every good sportsman delights in
 obtaining by fair shooting, we have yet to learn that there is any real sport in
 wholesale murder, which requires but little skill in its accomplishment, and
 when birds are already as tame as barn-door fowls, and every means of
 escape denied them.
                               Rabbit Shooting.
    There are few animals known to the English sportsman which afford so
 much genuine sport as the rabbit. Whether in covert or hedgerows, he is ever
 welcome to the lover of the gun, and when the regular shooting season is
 over he affords a fund of sport by means of ferrets. Difficult as the various
kinds of shooting may be, none of them are more so than rabbit shooting,
particularly in covert ; and a man who is quick enough to kill rabbits really
 well, in our opinion is equal to any kind of shooting. As in other things, the
" savoirfaire" is the great secret. When this is acquired the- art is reduced
almost to a certainty, difficult as it may appear. As we have said in another
branch of our subject, the cause of failure in nine cases out of ten proceeds
from one cause, viz., not making sufficient allowance. It is very seldom in
deed that a rabbit is missed by reason of the charge striking the ground in
front of him. No kind of shooting with which we are acquainted requires
 such quickness, and yet there is nothing more simple when the knack is once
 acquired. In addition to the fact of firing well forward being the most suc
cessful plan, it is absolutely dangerous to adopt a contrary course ; for gene
rally speaking, in coverts either beagles or terriers are used, and in many
instances a dog is so close to the " scut " of a rabbit in thick covert that
unless your aim is well forward he will receive your charge, and the rabbit
go scathlcss away. Rabbits require a very hard blow, and, unless struck in
a vital part, will struggle to the last so long as they have any life, and if by
any chance a burrow should be in the way, they will always scramble into it.
 Nothing will improve a beginner's general shooting more than practice at
rabbits. He must be quick in order to succeed, and if he can pitch his gun
and shoot a rabbit really well as he crosses a "ride" in a covert quickly, he
need not despair of being equal to any kind of shooting.
   Shooting rabbits to ferrets is considered to be no indifferent sport, though
we have often heard it condemned. As it is usually practised very early in
the year and during very cold weather, unless rabbits bolt well to the ferret
we must admit it is very tedious work ; but when, on the contrary, they bolt
freely, we cannot admit its inferiority to many of the varieties of sport de
rived from the use of the gun. Jn this, as in most things, there is a right and
a wrong way of going to work, and where one man in a morning up to his
work will take his five or six couple of rabbits home with him, another, who
is " at sea," will go empty away and vote this kind of sport no sport at all.
The great secret is to observe the most perfect silence, and to avoid as much
as possible moving from place to place. Never fire at a rabbit, no matter
how near he may be to you, until he is well clear of a burrow ; for if not, and
you do not kill him stone dead, he will to a certainty crawl into it, and be the
means of arresting the attention of your ferrets for perhaps hours to come.
We have more than once seen men who would have been greatly offended if
told that they knew nothing about the matter, when ferreting on a hill-side,
the moment a rabbit was wounded, run their hardest down the hill to prevent

518                                 SPORTS.
his escape, and then wondered why the rabbits had suddenly ceased to bolt !
Had they remained perfectly still a heavy bag would have been the result in
all probability.
    Rabbit-shooting in hedgerows is also capital sport when you have good dogs
that are under good command, and will keep within thirty or forty yards of
you ; but let your rabbit come well out of the hedge before giving him his
coup de grace, as you may possibly shoot a valuable dog, and for the same
reason avoid shooting into the hedgerows,—have but a little patience, and
you will have plenty of sport outside of them.
    Rabbits by many may be despised ; but, for our part, whether in the covert
or on the table, we have a wonderful weakness for Bunny !
    We will now direct attention to a branch of our subject which, though a
great favourite of our own, may not be in accordance with the tastes of
many of our readers, subjecting, as it does, its votaries to hardship, loss of
rest, and exposure to cold and wet. In spite of these, however, we must con
fess to being passionately fond of it, and we feel sure that such of our young
friends as have opportunities of engaging in it, provided they are disposed to
 " rough it," will find, as we have done, the greatest gratification in its pursuit.
                              Wild-fowl Shooting.
    To a novice there is nothing more deceptive than the distance which birds
appear to be when on the water, and many a well-directed aim is rendered
 fruitless by this simple fact, and a shot fired at birds in the belief that they
were within range, serves only to frighten away, perhaps, some hundreds of
ducks, &c, and is not the most likely thing in the world to improve the temper
 and to invoke expressions of tenderness and love. An old rule among wild
 fowl shots used to be adopted (we arc speaking, of course, when using an ordi
 nary fowling-piece), viz., never to fire at birds until their eye could be seen
 distinctly ; and if any reader should be disposed to try this test with fowls
 in a farmyard, he will, we think, find that their eye is not clearly visible at a
 greater distance than about thirty or thirty-five yards. Experience and prac
 tice, however, are the best guides in these matters, and will soon enable our
 young readers to judge pretty correctly. Simple hints, however, like these,
 will not be unserviceable.
     Another most useful hint to bear in mind when in pursuit of these birds, is
 the fact that, quick-sighted as they are, their power of scent is ten times
 more sensitive ; and we are sure it is possible tcget a hundred yards nearer
 by keeping to leeward of them than by going directly down wind. Supposing
 birds to be on the water directly due north of the boat, the best way is to
 keep the boat's head about two or three points to the eastward or westward
 of north, instead of sailing directly down upon them. Little observances of
 this kind will frequently ensure a shot, where a disregard of them would most
 certainly have a contrary effect, while thus running down upon birds.
     All moving about in the boat should be avoided, and the body kept as'
  much from view as possible by the sails. The lower the position when firing,
  if a number of birds are together, the better ; a larger family-shot may be made
  in this position than when standing, as the aim is not so likely to be distracted
  by the motion of the boat.
     Of all the marplots which a wild-fowl shooter has to contend with, there
  are none so bad as curlews. Wherever there are wild fowl these birds are

                                   SHOOTING.                                   519
    nearly sure to be found ; they are, we believe, more quick-sighted than any
   other kind, and ten times more active. In proof of this, we remember when
   returning from a day's wild-fowl shooting, coming suddenly upon a number
   of these birds in a small creek in Canvey Island (on the Essex coast) feeding
   with a lot of sea-gulls ; and, having been during the day disappointed of two
   or three shots at wild fowl by reason of their quickness and watchfulness, we
   felt inclined to wreak our vengeance upon them, and let go four ounces of
   BB's at the flock. Our annoyance may be guessed on finding that, although
   we had killed seven gulls, only one curlew was the worse for our visitation :
   they rose at the flash, and the whole charge passed under them, while the
  poor gulls, not nearly so active, received its full benefit.
      Another hint we would give is, when firing at a large lot of birds on the
   water—we mean with a big gun—say from seventy-five to one hundred yards,
   always to aim point-blank at the three or four birds that are farthest from you
   within shot ; for remember that, though only for a second or two, shot does
  take some time in travelling a distance, and if birds are with their heads up
  preparing for a start, as they usually are when you draw the trigger, they may
   move a few inches from the water, and those, therefore, that are nearest to
  you get the full benefit of the charge. Besides, the shot has a tendency to
  depression at that distance ; whereas if you fire point-blank at those nearest
  to you, owing to the rising of the birds, however trifling, and the depression of
  the shot, the great body of it will pass under them. In shooting at a flock of
  birds, endeavour, if possible, to select for your aim those birds that are sitting
  with their heads away from you, particularly when using a small gun, in order
  that the shot may pass under the feathers : for every bird you will kill in this
  position you would fail to hurt two or three though you struck them sitting
  facing you.
     Every one knows how much more guns suffer from rust in sea-air than they
  do from being even hours in the hardest rain. A sovereign remedy against
 the effects of sea-air and salt water is to anoint your guns thoroughly with
 mercurial ointment ; but although this is a sure remedy it is a very disagree
 able one, as it makes your gun so greasy. For your fowling-pieces set apart
 purposely for your boat shooting there is no plan like the following : In the
 first place see that your locks are clean and properly oiled ; then fix them in
 their places, and take a little white wax and place it over the edges of the
 lock-plates where they join the wood of the stock, and then pass a hot knife
 over the wax till it melts and runs in between the wood and the lock-plates ;
 your locks are then perfectly secure against wet and damp. And now for
 the barrels : take them out of the stock and give them a good coat of copal
 varnish, and let them remain in a warm room until the varnish becomes so
dry as to be only sticky when touched with the finger ; then get some bronze
 powder, which can be obtained at most of the oil-shops, and with the end of
the finger rub it evenly over the whole of the surface of the varnish, and when
finished put them away in a warm room until quite hard. In appearance the
barrels look as if made of a composition something between brass and
copper, but this system renders them perfectly impervious to mist or damp,
and will last a whole winter. If you wish it, it may easily be removed with a
little spirits of turpentine, and the gun when cleaned will look as well as ever.
The best plan for a large shoulder or punt-gun is to give it two good coats
of white paint, and perhaps a good coat of varnish. In spite of the cold
and, we may say, misery attending it, we cannot help feeling that wild-fowl

52o                                SPORTS
shooting, if really good and birds plentiful, is quite as exciting and enjoyable
as any other sport the gun affords, supposing, of course, a man is well equipped
for the purpose. A novice must expect that he will meet with many a bitter
disappointment, and many a bitterly cold one too ; but let him once get
fairly among birds, and if he can handle a big gun well, is a judge of dis
tance on the water, and is a tolerably good shot, he will, we think, be inclined
to coincide in our opinion. We may mention here one thing which constantly
causes disappointment to a young hand : he has " worked up " well to a " trip "
of birds and well within range ; he takes a steady aim, fires, and sees the
whole flock rise and go away ; he takes his eyes off them in disgust. Let
us give him one hint : never take the eyes off the birds till they have gone
right away, for it nearly always happens that there are several birds in a
flock mortally wounded, which fly possibly one hundred or even two hundred
yards, and then suddenly fall dead. We remember following and picking up
five widgeon out of a flock which we thought we had fairly missed. We need
hardly say we were more careful afterwards.
   As we have often said, and as we all know to be a fact, the interest of
sport increases exactly in proportion to the difficulty experienced in obtaining
it, and to the pursuit of no animal with which we are acquainted which is a
native of Great Britain, with the exception, perhaps, of the red deer, does this
remark apply with more force and truthfulness than to that of the seal.
    Time was, within the memory of men now living in the north of Scotland,
when most of the rocky inlets of that coast swarmed with these curious
animals, and there is a small rock in the Bay of Oban, in Argyllshire, only
visible at low water, and certainly not more than fifty yards from the espla
nade, on which five or six of them might be seen every day basking in the
sun, regardless of the passing and repassing of people on the shore.
    Matters, however, are far different in the present day, owing, no doubt, to
traffic having increased tenfold in consequence of railroads and steamboats,
and a seal is now looked upon as a curiosity whenever (and it is but seldom)
it is seen. There are, however, many places out of the beaten track of tourists
where, with some little difficulty, seals may be found.
    More than once we have been told, " It is no use shooting them, for if you
kill them you can never get them, as they always sink." With a novice and,
generally speaking, even with sportsmen of mature years, this is perfectly
true. Not so, however, with the old hand, and in this, as in most matters,
 there is a right and a wrong way of going to work. A seal, as we all know,
 though it spends nine-tenths of its existence in the water, is constantly coming
 to the surface, for the simple reason that he cannot remain more than a cer
 tain time beneath it.
    A young hand, we will imagine, has discovered the haunt of a seal or two
 in some snug out-of-the-way bay, and has ensconced himself amongst the
 rocks, patiently awaiting the chance of a shot. The seal has appeared at the
 top of the water two or three times, each time coming nearer to our young
 friend, who has abstained from firing, in order that he may make certain of
 his prize. When he rises to the surface a few yards nearer, the coveted
 opportunity arrives—the seal's head appears:, he places his rifle to his shoulder,
 takes as steady an aim as his nervous excitement will admit of, and fires ; he
 shoots the seal through the brain, and it sinks, probably in twelve or fourteen
 feet of water,, as he has been told it would do. He is certain his aim was
 steady, and that the ball passed through the seal's head, and that it was shot

                                  SHOOTING.                                    521
dead. This is quite true ; and now, then, for a solution of the problem, and
for a simple method of avoiding such disappointment in future.
   A seal, as we said before, is continually rising to the surface of the water
for air. Immediately he appears he is shot, and in nine cases out of ten he
sinks and is lost. Now, then, for a simple dodge, the result of some littls
experience which has never failed us. When the seal reaches the top of the
water he has well-nigh exhausted all the stock of air he had imbibed at his
previous visit to the surface; patiently, therefore, let him enjoy his next
supply for, say, two minutes, and then give him his coup de grace, when he
will float like a cork long enough at all events to enable you to reach him in
a boat, for the simple reason that he will have been enabled in that time to
take in a sufficient supply to keep him on the surface of the water. This is a
dodge worth knowing, but one, simple as it is, we have met with few of the
many we have known who have spent days in quest of these animals who
were alive to it.
   The seal, from the fact of its being an animal most difficult of approach,
and unless shot through the brain most tenacious of life, renders it an object
most greedily sought after. Remarkably quick-sighted, and possessed of
the acutest scenting powers, it now, for reasons before stated, is rarely to be
found but in the wildest and most solitary parts of the far north. Within the
last fifty years these creatures were in the habit of congregating in a cave called
"Gress," in the Island of Lewis, about nine miles north of Stornoway, in
such numbers, that the natives used, for the sake of the oil obtained from
them, to repair to it and slaughter them with clubs. This cave is most
curious, its opening to the sea being but a few feet in diameter, and never
dry even at low water ; but after squeezing oneself through it in a very small
boat, the cavern suddenly enlarges, both in height and breadth, being, we
believe, in some places many feet high and 200 yards long, with no other
outlet than the one mentioned. On the occasions alluded to, a certain number
of the party used to remain at the mouth of the cave armed with spears, guns,
clubs, &c, and the rest entered bearing torches, and the work of destruction
began, and, as may be expected, but few escaped. We have twice visited
this cave, but being unable to procure a proper boat or a man who could be
trusted as a guide, we dared not venture into the interior; for, unless the
water be perfectly smooth, and the proper time of the tide is taken advantage
of, it is a service of no ordinary danger.
   An instance is mentioned of a gentleman who made the attempt against
advice, and, whilst passing through the low-arched entrance, the swell lifted
the boat, and his head was dashed violently against the roof. The sound at
the mouth of the cave is most peculiar, caused by the swell suddenly receding
after having as suddenly closed the opening. At this spot seals may very
often be seen on their way to or from the cave, but to attempt to shoot them
under water would be about as useless a proceeding, as the Irish say, "as to
whistle a jig to a milestone."
   The only chance of shooting them Cthey may be killed inside in the way
described, but butcher)', we are sure, would not be desired by our young
readers) is to take up an adjacent position and wait patiently till some of them
either wriggle themselves on to the shelving rocks, or appear with their heads
above water. We have often heard it asserted, but treated the statement as
one of the marvels one is so apt to hear among country people, and placed no
credence in it, that seals are particularly alive to the strains of music.

522                                    SPORTS.
                      " Music hath charms to soothe the savage breast,
                          To soften rocks, and bend the knotted oak ;
and " humbug seals," the poet might have added, had he been with us one
day off the Island of Scalpa, in the Sound of Sleat, which is between the
Isle of Skye and the mainland.
   It was Sunday, and of course we had no gun, but we plead guilty of having,
with a view of trying the experiment, actually " whistled," and the seal, which
had just appeared, followed the boat for some minutes. Keepers and others
have assured us that their fondness for the sound of any musical instrument
is well known, and that they may be enticed near a boat by means of it ;
but we cannot, from actual experience, state more on the subject. Should
any of our young readers entertain a desire to shoot a seal, we can put them
in the way of doing so, should they happen to be in the Highlands and in the
neighbourhood of the island before mentioned. Near Broadford, in the Isle
of Skye, at which the steamer stops on its journey northward, a great many
seals may be found, and permission to shoot them be readily obtained. Loch
na Keaull, in the Isle of Mull, and the small Isle of Ulva, on the western side
of it, are both frequented by seals, as is also the small island called Canna, on
the south-western side of the Isle of Skye, and the greater part of the Ross-
shire coast.
   We would strongly recommend no one to go out expressly for the purpose
of shooting seals without a lump or two of lead attached to a stout cord, and
a piece of cork at the other end ; for if a seal sinks when shot, you can at once
mark the exact spot by dropping the lead immediately over him and allowing
the cork to float ; the water is generally so beautifully clear, that a seal may
be plainly seen at the bottom of fourteen or fifteen feet of water, and may,
under such circumstances, be easily removed by means of a grapnel made of
three large hooks fastened to a lump of lead of a pound weight and a stout
line.
   Should a seal, while basking on the rocks, be only wounded, the best way
of securing him is of course, if possible, to get between him and the water,
and to seize him by the fin or flipper, avoiding the chance of his bite, which
is awfully severe ; and we would suggest the greatest caution in approaching
him from the rear, for in his exertions to escape—(we do not believe it is
designedly done) — he will cast the shingle and stones with great force behind
him, and a cut from his posterior flippers is no joke ! A struggle with a wounded
seal is no easy task, as he is immensely strong, and can inflict the most despe
 rate wounds both with his teeth and claws.
    He is, nevertheless, a prize worth all the trouble he occasions. The oil
 produced from his blubber, which lies between his skin and flesh, is valuable
 for dressing sea-boots; and his hide, if well dressed, makes a famous bag for
 carrying clothes, etc, being perfectly waterproof, and will wear for a lifetime.
   Any exciting incidents which occur during the life of a sportsman are cal
 culated to take such hold on the mind as to be but rarely forgotten ; but we
 doubt much if any of our Lord Chancellors ever felt more dignified by the
 possession of it, or on whom a greater impression was ever made, than on us
 on the occasion of our obtaining our first great seal.
                                   Snipe Shooting.
    Lest we might be thought to have forgotten the subject, we feel we ought to
   -' a few words on this particular branch of it. To a beginner there is no

                                   SHOOTING.                                 523
bird more puzzling, and, therefore, more difficult to shoot. Its flight is most
uncertain, most variable, and most irregular—rising at one time as evenly as
a lark, and flying close to the ground with scarcely the slightest deviation
from a straight line ; at another, springing from the ground as if fired from a
gun, and then flying in a zigzag course to the right or left, and, indeed, in
every direction ; and sometimes, again, rising to a great height, and then going
straight away with the rapidity of lightning. And yet, with all these apparent
difficulties, when the knack is once acquired, it becomes comparatively easy
—indeed, is reduced almost to a certainty : the great art in this kind of shoot
ing is coolness and to avoid being too much hurried. And, in this, as in
every other kind of shooting, the first sight is the best : the moment you are
"well on" your bird, the trigger should be, pulled. In cross-shots, fire well
before your bird.
   Contrary to the usual practice, you should always walk down wind ; the
reason for this is that snipe always rise against it. Sometimes snipe are
very wild, and at others will lie until they are almost trodden upon. If there
be much wind, your best chance is to " down with them " as soon as they rise
from the ground, or you have little hope of getting a bag.
   This kind of shooting is rendered more difficult by the kind of ground you
have to walk over. In a smooth, even marsh, perhaps, in this respect it
differs but little from any other kind of shooting ; but where there are occa
sional rills and the marsh is " tussacky," the mere fact of your footing being
uneven and unsteady will render your position most puzzling, particularly
when birds fly suddenly round you to the right or left. Bogs and marshes,
however, are not always the only places to find snipe. In a sharp frost, the
best situations to search for them are the sides of running water, for snipe
can only feed where the ground is soft enough to enable them to insert their
bills into it; and in very wet weather, when the marshes are overflowed, they
are frequently to be met with in turnip-fields, in stubbles, and on grass land ;
for, although fond of moist ground, a snipe will not alight unless the water is
shallow enough to enable him to wade without wetting his' feathers.
   A steady old pointer or setter is most invaluable for this kind of shooting,
 and so is a retriever if accustomed to it ; for, not only will he show you when
 he is " on " snipe, but he will save you many a long search for a dead one, for
 we know of no more difficult bird to find— (nature has so assimilated the
 colour of his plumage to his haunts that you may pass close by him a dozen
 times without seeing him)—and this is a great consideration on a short
 winter's day, when every minute is'an object.
    The common or " full " snipe on rising—particularly if not shot at—will
 generally rise to a great height, and after many evolutions in a circular
 direction, will return and drop at the same place whence he started, or not
 far from it ; while the little JacTc snipe, even when shot at and missed, will
 generally alight again within fifty yards. This little bird is particularly fond
 of very rough ground at the side of a ditch.
    The best sized shot is No. 8 for both these birds.
    We cannot better conclude our article on this subject than by giving a few
 practical hints ; and, first, as to
                                       Dress.
    The dress for shooting should be adapted, of course, to the season of the
 year, and also to the kind of covert. For grouse shooting there is nothing

 524                                SPORTS.
 better than knickerbockers, and shoes made to come well over the instep—
.broad in the tread, low and broad in the heel, and nailed with about a dozen
 nails, and no more; for when the sole of a shoe is thickly studded with nails,
 they, of course, afford a smooth surface to stones, rocks, &c, and are there
 fore, more likely to cause a fall than prevent it ; whereas, if the nails are wide
 apart, the edges of stones, rocks, &c, get between them, and the foot is pre
 vented from slipping. The best hand-knit stockings, which can be purchased
 at the Scotch warehouses, are all the covering required for the legs, and are
 quite a sufficient protection from the heather; knickerbockers, along waist
 coat, and a short jacket complete the dress. In partridge shooting the same
 dress may be recommended, substituting lace-up boots for the shoes, and
 adding a leather gaiter to be worn over the stockings. Trousers are also
 good, but they are much improved if, from a little above the knee, they are
 covered with the leather made from the seal-skin to be obtained at the leather-
 sellers'. The trousers should be cut off a little below the knee, and the seal
 skin (glazed side outwards) sewn on : this completely resists thorns, &c, and
 is perfectly impervious to water, so that all mud, &c, may be at once removed
 with a sponge.
    The same dress may be recommended for covert shooting, as may also a
 boot reaching to the knee, and a pair of old trousers cut short so as to fall
 about three or four inches over the tops of boots. For wild-fowl, snipe, &c,
 there is nothing better than these boots, particularly if wet feet are dreaded ;
 but when (as it used to be with us) a matter of indifference, the lace-up boots
 are to be preferred, as they are so much better for walking.
    For wild-fowl in a boat, nothing equals the long fishermen's boots, with a
 couple of pairs of thick yarn stockings under them, plenty of flannel, a thick
 woollen Jersey, and a loose, short, double-texture macintosh overall, and a
 sou'wester. A pair of easy leather gloves may be worn, and over them, in
 very cold weather, a pair of woollen mitts, which are warmer than gloves, and
 can be instantly taken off when the gun is to be used.
                             HOW TO CARRY BIRDS.
    The subject of carrying birds has for years (trifling as the matter may
 be) been a source of much annoyance. In hot weather nothing is worse or
 more likely to ensure their going bad than carrying them in a basket or game-
 bag; and all the contrivances we have seen (though, as regards the birds,
 answering the purpose) are very awkward to carry from their great length,
 and from offering, moreover, too tempting a weapon in the hands of an angry
 keeper in the case of a refractory dog or a wounded hare, and when thus used
 are sure to come to grief—the long ones are very apt to spring open and let
 the birds fall out. The sketch below will probably sufficiently describe the
 carrier we have used, and which we can confidently recommend. The pattern
 was given to us by an old friend and sportsman, and can be easily made by
 any carpenter, or, indeed, by our young friends themselves.
    It should be made of oak three-quarters of an inch thick, 5 in. wide, and
 28 in. long. The slits or openings for the necks of the birds should be 9 in.
long and 1 in. wide; the solid part or handle 6 in. long, and have the edges
rounded. It will be observed that the grasp of the hand keeps the cross-
 piece in its place, and effectually prevents the birds falling out. a a, is a
piece of wood turning on the pivot, D, having bevelled ends, which, on being

                                   SHOOTING.                                  5*5
shut down, slide under the edge of the blocks, B B, and thus, while they pre
vent the birds from falling out, support the two tongues between the slits, E E,
being the poirits at which the birds' heads are inserted. C C are two flat
pieces of brass screwed on to strengthen the wood at each end.
    To such of our young readers as prefer the muzzle-loader, a capital con
trivance for carrying the lever shot-pouches may be worth their attention.
Any saddler can arrange it for them. A short strap must be sewn to the
bottom of the pouch and carried upwards, A, to just below the socket which
carries the charger, where another small strap, B, must be sewn round the
pouch, and to this piece must be sewn a strong iron ring,C, about three-quarters
of an inch in diameter ; then procure one of the brass swivels, D, which are
used for the pillar-rein in a
stable: this must be fastened
to a piece of strap 2 in. long
which must be sewn to an
other strap about 2 in. broad,
which is to be worn round the
waist. By this contrivance
the weight of the shot is not
felt ; none of it can escape in
getting over hedges, &c; it is
ready to the hand, as it falls
under the skirt of the coat.
    It is a good plan to carry1
 in the pocket of the shooting-
coat a piece of macintosh
about 15 in. square, which
 will be found very useful to
 sit on on a damp bank, piece
 of timber, &c, when taking luncheon, as in damp weather nothing is more
 likely to give a severe cold.
    If the mode of carrying the shot-pouch above described be not approved of,
 it is a good plan to have pockets made in the waistcoat—one on each side —
 sufficiently large to hold the powder-flask and pouch, as the weight, being close
to the body, is not felt. Avoid as much as possible carrying anything heavy
in the coat, as nothing is so tiring as carrying a weight which is continually
swinging about.

                                pome l^ts.
   We have now to talk about Pets—pets furred and feathered, biped and
quadruped, that is, two-footed and four; pets with tails — some curly, some
straight, some short, some long, and some without tails at all ; pets with
beaks, and beakless ; large pets and small, pretty and ugly—for some cherished
and petted creatures are valued chiefly for their excessive ugliness ; pets gentle
and fierce, playful and savage ; some that have musical voices, and some that
utter only discordant cries and screams ; pets that play all manner of tricks,
and sullen, morose pets that will not play at all, but only eat, and drink, and
sleep, and look solemn. But, whatever they be, we should always remember
that God has given them into our care, and it is our duty to treat them with
kindness and see that their wants are well supplied. And so, with this little
introduction, let us begin with that most charming kind of pets—
                                CAGE BIRDS.
   Here at once we plunge into a wide subject, and must take care we do not
lose ourselves and lead our readers astray. We wish to give them as much
sound, useful information as possible in a small space, and therefore shall say
little about the poetical associations of the delightful songsters that make
our homes so lively and musical. We might talk by the hour of all the
beautiful things that the poets have said and sung about them, and quote

PETS.
      /-


                                THE CANARY.                                      527
long passages of description from those who have observed them in their wild
state ; but this, although very delightful, would not accord with the object of
this book, and perhaps the boys and girls for whom we write would not care
to read them, although they must be pleased, when they take their walks
abroad, to observe for themselves the interesting manners and customs of the
feathered people.
   A young friend of ours who was grievously tormented by having exercise
papers to write on various subjects, generally used to begin by saying that
chalk or cheese, iron or indigo, tea or tobacco, or whatever the subject might
be, was of two kinds, and when he had got as far as this he was out of his
depth directly, and floundered about in a sad state of bewilderment. Well,
he was right : there are two kinds of most things—good and bad ; but this
simple arrangement will hardly do for our present subject.
    Of cage birds there are a good many kinds, and one scarcely knows how to
classify and arrange them. Scientifically, we might do it easily enough, and
set them forth all in apple-pie order (whatever that may mean), in orders, and
genera, and species, with a lot of Latin names attached, that few of our readers
would understand, and therefore they would most likely turn away from the
page and say, " Bother science !"
    We say so too, and, notwithstanding the frowns of Minerva, who, every boy
knows, was the Goddess of Wisdom and grandmother of Dr. Birch, we shall
leave science out of the question, attempt no arrangement whatever, and try
to make everything as plain as A B C. Now, let us begin with
                                    The Canary,
that most delightful of all feathered songsters ; and in saying this we do not
forget the nightingale, the poets' favourite, that certainly has the richest : .nd
most melodious natural song of any bird that we know of. But then we
only hear the nightingale for a short period in each year, and very seldom see
it, and if we did there is little to please the eye in its appearance : it is a plain
brown bird, and not particularly lively in its motions. It seldom lives long in
confinement, and very rarely becomes quite reconciled and familiar. But look
at the canary, which is a kind of finch, a hardy, lively, playful, and beautiful
bird, a most accomplished musician, and never weary of pouring out his sweet
strains, in which are combined the various excellences of all the best feathered
songsters, added to its own natural song. Some canaries that have had
nightingales for music-masters—and this is often the case in Germany, where
they have regular schools for them, and elsewhere— sing so like their instruc
tors that one can hardly distinguish between them : they have quick ears
and retentive memories, and are very docile and teachable pupils. Beautiful
did we say? they are most beautiful, and sprightly, and loving. Why, of all
pets .ne chiefest is ever the pet canary. How well he looks in that pretty cage,
hung aloft out of the reach of the puss, or flitting about in the aviary, or
hopping about on the breakfast-table, or perching on his mistress's shoulder,
in his bright golden plumage, or it may be a more varied dress of black and
yellow fading into white, or mottled with green !
   Canaries are great favourites with bird-fanciers : on their breeding and
education they bestow much pains, and from their sale they derive a large
part of their income. Many are bred in this country ; but it is from Germany
that the chief supply is obtained. The price of a good singer varies from a

528                              HOME PETS.
crown to a guinea, and even more. In the canary shows, at which prizes are
given for the best birds, shape and colour are considered more than powers
of song, and no birds are admitted to those shows unless they come up to a
certain standard of excellence in these respects, however fine a singer he may
be. The show birds are arranged in classes, in accordance with some pecu
liarities of colour and marking. There are " Jonques," and " Lizards," and
" Mealy birds," and other names cunningly devised to puzzle simple people,
and exalt canary-breeding into a science ; but we must not trouble ourselves
with all that. Once more — Bother science!
   The canary, as my readers are doubtless aware, is not a bird native to
Britain. We never see it flying about in the woods and fields like the larks
and its relatives the pretty finches. Originally it came from the Canary
Islands—turn to your maps and see whereabouts they are. But the wild birds
arc not so beautiful as those we behold in our cages and aviaries. Cultivation
has improved the appearance, as well as the voice, greatly. All, or nearly all,
of the wild canaries are grey, with a greenish tinge ; the rich golden plumage
which is so familiar to us, is seldom seen among them. They were first brought
from their native islands as long ago as the latter part of the sixteenth century
certainly, perhaps earlier than this, and the first European ground in which
they found a resting-place was that little island in the Mediterannean Sea
called Elba. It is stated that a ship, bound for Leghorn, with some of these
Canary Islanders on board, was wrecked at Elba, and the prisoners escaping,
settled and bred there ; and in this manner, we are told, the first canaries
found their way into our quarter of the globe. Since then, how many thousands
have been brought from their distant home, and how many millions, we had
almost said, have been bred and dispersed all over the world! Throughout
England there are canary-breeders, and it is curious to note how many of them
are either hairdressers or weavers. Yorkshire and Norfolk are the two counties
that send out annually the greatest number of these birds; those from the
former county are most celebrated for their strength and powers of song,
those from the latter are the most graceful and beautiful birds, as they are
also the most delicate. They are generally sent up to London in the autumn,
and then is the time to choose a canary pet, when the markets are well stocked
with young and vigorous birds. From Prussia and Belgium they generally
 come earlier in the year, and among these foreign importations are some of
the finest songsters. The dealers live in all parts of London, but chiefly in
 the neighbourhood of Holborn and Oxford Street in the west, and Clerkenwell
 and Whitechapel in the east. They are no doubt very honest people, but they
 sometimes make mistakes, so it is best, when you have made choice of a bird
 that pleases you, to bring it away. We have known such a thing as a hen
 substituted for a cock, in which case you do not get what you doubtless require,
 a sweet songster ; for the hen does not sing—she only, as the breeders say,
 " chatters."
    " First catch your hare," says Mrs. Glasse in her famous cookery-book, " and
then skin it;" but if nobody ate hare until he or she had caught one, there
 would be few hare-caters in the land. People generally have their game
 caught or shot for them, and so they have their canaries bred and trained
 for them, and they must first buy one, and then put it into a cigc. And what
 sort of a caje should it be? Why, a pretty cage, of course. Yes, but pretti-
 ness is not the only quality which recommends it : soft wood, such as fir, should
 never be used in the construction, as this would be likely to breed insects, with

                               THE CANARY.                                    529
which cage birds are often much troubled. A metal cage is perhaps best, as
it can be most easily cleaned, and can be made very light and pretty. The
shape should be circular, and there should be at least a foot in height of
interior space, and eight inches in length and breadth ; there should be two
or three perches, one very near the bottom, so that the bird can stand on it
and peck from the seed and water-vessels, which are best of glass ; another
about half-way up, and one yet higher, unless there is a ring suspended on
the top of the dome ; these perches should cross each other. The breeding-
cage, of course, must be more roomy, and of a different shape ; but about this
we can give no directions that would be of much service: if any of our
readers mean to go into canary-breeding, a book on the subject had better be
procured.
   Take care that your canary cage is not hung in a draught, or in a place
where there is a foul smell of any kind ; the lungs of the bird are very delicate,
and many a pet has languished and died without any perceptible cause,
through breathing keen or unwholesome air. If in a room where gas is
burned, the cage should always be lowered or taken away before it is lit, as
the air above soon gets heated and unfit for breathing.
   Seed and water-vessels are best of glass, as they can be most easily kept
clean and bright, as everything about a bird should be—clear as the crystal
water and bright as the sunshine in which it delights. Yet there should be
provision made for shelter, too; it cannot live always in a glare: naturally
much of its life is passed in the shadow of green leaves, so let it have some
green about it when in confinement, leafy boughs that quiver and wave as the
breeze kisses them, and fresh flowers that give out a pleasant perfume, or, if
these are not available, draw a covering of emerald-tinted gauze, or some other
thin stuff, partly over the cage when the sun is hot and bright. All this is
                                                                   34

530                             HOME PETS.
very troublesome, perhaps you will say; no doubt it is, but remember that all
pets are kept for the pleasure or profit of the keeper, and it is pure selfishness
to grudge any pains or expense which may help to render their lives happy
and comfortable; besides, if the pets are really loved, this necessary attention
to their wants and comforts will not seem a trouble; if not, they had better
not be kept.
   Canaries, like all shut-up birds, are subject to a variety of diseases, which
probably do not affect them in a wild state, where they have plenty of aif and
exercise, and the food which exactly suits them. We cannot enumerate all
the ailments to which they are subject, but may just lay down two or three
simple rules by which they may be kept in health.
   First, as to suitable food, without which no bird or other creature will keep
well. Rape and canary-seed mixed in about equal proportions, with now and
then a little linseed added, is best under ordinary circumstances, and green
meat, such as water-cresses or groundsel, of which all finches are especially
fond ; but this should not be allowed to remain in the cage over twenty-four
hours. A little piece of sugar may be placed between the bars for the bird
to peck now and then, but not often ; nor should sweet cake, or rich food of
any kind, be frequently given, as it is likely to produce surfeit. When breed
ing or moulting, hard-boiled eggs, chopped small and mixed with crumbs of
stale bread or bun, with a little maw-seed ; fresh clear water, changed every
day, and a scrupulous attention to cleanliness. Attend to these simple rules,
and your bird will be brisk and blithe, and well repay your care and attention
by his sweet song and pretty engaging actions. If he can be let out to fly
about the room occasionally, so much the better, and better still if he can
have the range of an aviary.
   The claws of canaries, like those of other cage birds, often get uncomfort
ably long, when wild they keep them short by scratching. When they
require cutting, it should be done with a sharp pair of scissors : the bird to
be operated on should be taken gently, yet firmly, and the toes turned up to
the light, so that you can see how far it is safe to cut. When moulting-time is
coming on, which is generally in the autumn, the bird loses its liveliness, and
becomes silent ; then the cage will be strewn with feathers, and then is the
time for extra care and nourishing food, such as chopped egg and maw-seed,
with a little saffron in the water.
   We need but mention one more troublesome visitation, which one is indeed
often a legion : if you see your pet canary moping about, moving restlessly
from side to side of his perch—which should always be of a good size and
round, so that the bird's claws can grasp it tightly—and seeming generally
very uncomfortable, take him out of the cage, blow open the feathers beneath
his wings and other under parts, and you will, no doubt, see a number of little
crimson dots, which are the insect pests called red mites. It is extremely
difficult to get rid of these when once they take possession of a cage : the best
plan to rid the bird of them is to put about ten grains of white precipitate
powder into a wine-glassful of warm water, and with this solution wash the
bird carefully wherever the mites are likely to be, taking care that none of the
solution gets into your pet's eyes, nose, or mouth ; then wash him well with
clean warm water, wrap him in flannel, and put him in a warm place to dry.
The cage should also be well washed in precipitate-water of about three
times the above strength ; if a wooden cage, with many holes and crevices, it
had better be destroyed. These mites, which are a small kind of bug, often

                           THE GOLDFINCH.                                   S3i
infest breeding-cages, and so torment the sitting hens that they leave their
nests, and so render the hopes of the breeder futile.
   Cross-breeds between the canary and other finches arc called " mule birds."
Some of them are highly valued for their beauty and powers of song ; none of
them more so, perhaps, than that between the canary and
                               The Goldfinch.
   And what a beautiful bird is Master Goldie !—the " Goldspink," as he is
called by some—the " Thistle-finch," by others, from his love of the downy seeds
of the thistle. Naturalists name him Elegans, which means elegant, and the
term is well applied, for he is so. both in shape and arrangement of colours
on his plumage of buff and brown, that melts away into white in the under
parts, and is ornamented with gold and crimson. He is a docile and affec
tionate bird ; has a good natural song, capable of great cultivation ; and is
not so liable to diseases as many other feathered pets. Several varieties are
known to fanciers under the names of " Whitethroats," or " Cheverals," which
                                                               34— 2

532                              HOME PETS.
have a white streak entirely down the throat ; " Bastard Whitethroats," with-
the streak half-way down ; " speckled birds," with one or two white spots only.
All these fetch high prices, not because they are more beautiful than the others,
but because they are more rare ; and a thing generally is valued more on account
of its rarity than for its beauty or utility.
   Canary and rape, with maw and poppy now and then, and hemp in the
breeding season, are the best seeds for the goldfinch, with thistle and ground
sel, in seed, when they can be had.
   This, as well as several other pet birds, can be taught to draw its own food
or water, as shown in the illustration.
                                 The Bullfinch
is another highly valued cage bird, very handsome, and gentle, and teachable.
Like his near relative Goldie, he may be taught all sorts of tricks, such as
drawing up a bucket from an imaginary well. But we should not care to give
him much of this sort of work to do : it is amusing and pretty to see, but the
bird never really likes it, and we should not punish any creature for our
pleasure.
   This bird has a rich and flexible voice, and may be taught to pipe any
simple tune when young. Piping bullfinches fetch high prices. The Ger
mans take great pains in teaching them, and have regular schools for their
instruction, in which they are divided into classes, with a teacher to each. The
birds are kept very much in the dark at first, so that their attention may not
be diverted from the tune which they have to learn ; this is sometimes whistled
to them, at others played on a hand-organ or flute. The teaching has to be
continued for about three-quarters of a year, and as with children so it is with
these feathered pupils, some are much quicker at learning than others. There
arc bullfinches that whistle or pipe three distinct airs, and these will fetch
several pounds; but generally they have but a single simple air.
   There are curious varieties of this species, such as white, black, and speckled,
and these are highly valued on account of their rarity ; but they are nothing
like so beautiful as Bully in his natural plumage, with his black velvet cap,
and coat of soft grey, deepening at places into blue, with a fine vermilion tinge,
like the reflection of fire, over the breast and under parts.

                                   FINCHES.                                     533
    " Peck-a-bud " the gardeners call him, and no doubt he is mischievous
among the fruit trees ; but he pecks off the green buds chiefly because he
knows there is a little green maggot under, which would prevent its coming
.to perfection ; and he likes a few ripe cherries, just as payment for this ser
vice. So don't shoot him, Mr. Gardener, he is so beautiful and such a sweet
songster.
    In confinement he should have rape, poppy, and millet-seeds, with now and
 then a little sprouting wheat, barley, or oats ; lettuce, water-cresses, ripe fruit,
 and, as a great treat, cracked nuts— which he can eat, having a strong bill.
 Hemp-seed should not be given, or he will become too fat, and liable to
apoplexy.
    Young bullfinches should be reared upon rape, bread and milk, with a little
 soaked hemp-seed bruised in a mortar, or buckwheat-meal.
                                Other Finches.
    The ChaffincH, the Hawfinch, the GreenfincH, the Serin FincH, and
•the Siskin or Aberdevine, are all birds of this family, which are sometimes
.kept in confinement, and valued on account of their beauty of plumage and
singing powers.
    Most of the finches are very neat nest-builders, and the first-named of the
above is the neatest of all ; its natural song is not much, but it is a bird which
 may be easily taught, so that it often becomes a very good songster indeed.
 It is a pretty creature too, and so brisk and cheerful that the French have a
 proverb—" as gay as a chaffinch ;" while to show the high value set upon it by
 the German fanciers, we may quote their saying, that "a chaffinch is worth a
 cow." The treatment of this bird in confinement should be pretty much the
 same as that of the other finches ; but it mav haye more hemp-seed than
 Bully.
    The Hawfinch is large and handsome, but not a good bird for the cage or
 aviary, as it has no vocal powers. The Greenfinch is pretty and vivacious,
 and a fair songster : it is properly a linnet, but is generally called a finch.
 The Siskin has good powers of imitation, and is a pleasing, lively bird. The

534                             HOME PETS.
Serin finch is an intelligent foreigner, but seldom seen in this country, never
in a wild state.
   There are also many other finches, brought from various countries, and very
beautiful some of them are, but we have not space to describe them, nor is it
necessary for our present purpose. Let us now take a glance at
                                  The Linnets,
one of which, we may remember, bore the torch at the burial of poor Cock
Robin, after he had been shot by that wicked Sparrow.
                                "Who'll bear the link?
                                    * I,' said the Linnet,
                                    4 1 'II fetch it in a minute :
                                 111 bear the link.'"
    Bechstein, the great German writer on cage birds, says that the linnet has
a very agreeable, loud, and flute-like song, and that it utters some high-
sounding notes, which are called its crowing, on account of their resemblance
to the crowing of a cock, and that it will not only learn the song of any bird
that it hears, but also imitate melodies of airs and dances which are piped to
it, and it will even learn to repeat some words.
    The linnet is a plain brown bird generally, with black marks and shadings.
At some periods of its growth, the forehead becomes of a blood red, and a
reddish tinge prevails at other parts of the plumage, and then it is commonly
called the " Redpole." It is in the male bird of about three years old that the
change of colour is most noticeable.
    The term " linnet " comes from the Latin linium, flax, and originates in the
marked fondness of the members of this family for the flax, or linseed, as it
is usually called.
    Linnets, like larks, are gregarious birds, that is, they go in flocks in the
winter; and then the net and the gun play sad havoc among them. The lesser
redpole, spoken of by some writers as a distinct species, seems to be but a
smaller variety of this bird, whose proper food, in confinement, is rape or lin
seed and canary. For the young, soak crumbs of bread and bruised rape-seed,
squeeze tolerably dry, and mash together.
                                      Thrushes.
    These are" large birds, Snd require more ample space than those we have
hitherto spoken of. A thrush's cage should be of wood, at least two feet long,
by one and a half wide, and about the same height, with a shelving roof like
 that of a house, and solid back and sides. The water and food-vessels should
 be large, and placed outside the cage, for the bird is a gross, untidy feeder,
 and makes a sad mess if he has a chance of doing so. Barley-meal moistened
with water is a good general food, with a little hemp-seed, and now and then
 a worm, or snails with shells just cracked : when at liberty the thrush, which
 is a great snail-cater, manages this himself by taking it in his strong bill and
 knocking it against a stone or other hard substance. Keep the bottom of
 the cage well cleaned.
    Thrushes are not good birds for the aviary, as they are greedy and dirty;
 but they are fine songsters, and therefore often kept in confinement ; a little
 too loud, perhaps, for most people, and too constant : a caged thrush will begin
 to tune up as soon as it is light, and keep on, with but short intervals, until it

                       THE BLACKBIRD—LARKS.                                    535
is quite dark. Its music sounds very sweet when mellowed by distance,
coming across intervening fields and woodlands, but is ear-splitting when too
near. The natural song is good, and may be much improved by instruction.
   The common brown, or Song-Thrush, called by old English writers the
" Mavis," is the species usually kept ; but the Missel-Thrush, that feeds much
upon mistletoe-berries, and, from being particularly noisy before a storm, is
often called the " storm cock," is sometimes made a pet of, and becomes very
familiar ; as, however, he cannot sing, and is much given to screeching, he is
not a desirable house bird. He is the largest of the thrush family, in which
is included the much-admired
                                    Blackbird,
a rich and mellow songster, very handsome in his glossy black plumes and
golden bill, affectionate and intelligent. He may be taught to whistle simple
airs. In his natural song there is not so much variety as in that of the
thrush ; but it has in it more of richness and melody. He, too, wants a large
cage, with plenty of water for bathing, barley-meal, and moist food, ripe fruit
as a treat, and frequent cleaning. Young thrushes and blackbirds should be
fed upon white bread soaked in milk, and a little raw meat, chopped fine.
                                       Larks.
   A favourite cage bird is the common Skylark, or " Laverock," as the Scotch
call it ; but it always seems a pity to make a prisoner of such a creature as this,
which delights to soar and sing in the open sky, above the corn-fields and
breezy commons and wide grassy downs ; and yet he does not seem unhappy
 in his confinement, but sings away, from morn to night, right merrily, amid
  the bustle and din of the busy city. It is a strange sound to hear in the
  crowded street, the joyous trill of this " bird of the wilderness," as the Ettrick
  Shepherd called him, "blithe spirit," as he was termed by Shelley, whose
  "Ode to the Lark" is one of the most perfect poems in our language ; a strange
  sound that takes one away to the quietude of nature, and somehow refreshes
  the mind.
    But we must be practical, and not poetical, so, if you do have the skylark

536                              HOME PETS.
for a pet, give him a good roomy cage, with a circular front projecting like a
bay-window, where he can stand out and sing to his heart's content : a piece
of fresh green turf should always be placed there for his feet to rest upon.
   He is a pretty, lively bird, with a somewhat slender body, and longish legs,
with toes that spread out a great way, and are armed with sharp spurs. There
are flowers, you know, called " larkspurs " from their resemblance in shape to
the feet of the lark. When this bird stands up to sing, he lifts his head, and
the crest of silky feathers on the top of his head, which is generally flat so as
not to be noticed, rises into an erect position', his speckled breast swells out,
and he looks as proud and happy as a bird well can. Not unfrequently he
flutters his wings, as though he would say, " Oh that I were out of this cage,
and far up in the golden sunshine ; then would I sing, and sing, until all the
earth and air were filled with my joyous melody!"
   The larks in a wild state live much on insects, they also cat small seeds and
grain. In confinement they should have poppy and crushed hemp-seed, barley-
meal and bread-crumbs, with some green food and insects occasionally; a
few ants' eggs, or lean meat cut very small, will make them more lively and
inclined to sing. They sometimes acquire the strains of other birds.
   Young larks should be fed with white bread soaked in milk, crushed poppy-
seeds, and ants' eggs.
   The Woodlark is a sweeter though not so loud a songster as his soaring
relative. Abroad its song is seldom heard, as it is a shy bird, and loves
retirement. When confined it requires great attention, being rather delicate;
but its delightful song will well repay any care which may be bestowed upon
it. A piece of fresh turf, once a week, slightly moistened, is almost indispen
sable ; with this the bird cleans and cools its feet, which are apt to become
diseased otherwise. White bread soaked in boiled milk, with poppy and maw
seed, or bread-crumbs, with ground hemp, ants' eggs, meal-worms, flics, and
other insects, are its proper food. It should have sand at the bottom of the
cage, of course ; all birds require this, instinct teaches them to swallow some
to assist digestion, and some species roll in it, and dust themselves with it.
    Young woodlarks require bread and milk, mashed up together, with soaked
rape and ground hemp. Nothing but ants' eggs and meal-worms will save
birds of this species if caught when fully grown ; with this food, and gentle
treatment, they may become reconciled to confinement.
                                     The Tits,
 or Tomtits, as they arc generally called, are charming little birds to keep, on
 account of their beauty and liveliness; but it is difficult to preserve them in
 health, as they require so much insect food. There are several species of this
 family, such as the Ox-eye or Greater Tit, the Cole, the Blue, the Crested, the
 Bearded, and the Long-tailed or Bottle Tit, which builds a curious nest, like
 a bottle with the long nose turned down, and all covered with moss and
 leaves.
    They are funny little mountebanks, these tits, running up and down the
 sides of the cage—which should be tolerably large- -as they do the branches
 of the trees in their native woods when they search for insects, and assuming
 all sorts of attitudes and positions. They are best kept in a room or aviary
 where there is plenty of space for their antics. One defect in their character
 is that they arc apt to quarrel with, and sometimes kill, their fellow-prisoners ;

          THE TITLARKS—BUNTINGS— GROSBEAKS.                                    537
 so, if you have a "climbing Tommy," or a "Joe Bent," as these birds are
 playfully called, in your aviary, look sharply after him, and give him notice to
 quit if he manifests murderous propensities.
    Cooked meat, suet puddings, boiled vegetables, and hemp-seed should be
 given to the tits—indeed, almost anything that birds can. and do, eat ; they
 are fond of earth-worms, which should be chopped small for them. They
 must not be confounded with
                           The Titlarks or Pipits,
which are sometimes kept. The best known of these is the Titling, some
times called the " Meadow Lark;" this is the bird in whose nest the cuckoo,
who seems to have no home of its own, most frequently lays a single egg,
about the hatching of which it takes no sort of care, but goes wandering
about uttering that curious cry of cuck-oo, as if it were playing at hide-and-
seek with echo.
   The titling is not a good songster, having too weak a voice ; but it is a lively
and amusing bird, and very cleanly in its habits. It should be fed and treated
like the larks.
   There are also the Tree and the Rock Pipits, pretty little birds both, but
wild and shy, and seldom or never seen in cages. Richard's Pipit is another
species of this family, of which but two or three specimens have been taken
.or shot in this country.
                                 The Buntings.
   Of these, the bird known as the Yellowhammer is the favourite species, if
we except the foreign buntings, many of which arc very handsome, and there
fore highly valued as cage birds. The " Yellow-Yowley," "Yeldring," "Yolk-
ring," " Yoke," and all sorts of queer names, have been given to this bird,
which is not deficient in beauty ; but he is by no means a good singer, being
much given to the utterance of harsh shrieking sounds. In the cage he is
awkward and heavy in his movements. His food and general treatment should
be the same as that of the larks.
   The Corn, the Cirl, the Black-headed, the Ortolan, the Snow, and the
Lapland Buntings are the other members of this family known in Britain.
The two last arc extremely rare, and none of them are at all common as cage
birds, although one or other of them may be met with occasionally in well-
stocked aviaries : they have little or no power of song. Very nearly related
to them is the common Sparrow, that bold, inquisitive fellow who twitters on
the house-top, and builds between the chimneys, or wherever he can get. He
can sing as well as twitter; but his musical powers are seldom cultivated.
Like the poor, he is " always with us," and is certainly a feathered pet.
                                 The Grosbeaks
are large birds, with remarkably thick strong bills, adapted for splitting hard
grain, nuts, and the kernels of fruit, on which they chiefly live. They are
nearly allied to the finches, one of which, the hawfinch, is often called a
grosbeak. About twenty species are in the list of cage birds, nearly all of
which arc foreign. Perhaps the most highly valued of them all is
   The Cardinal Grosbeak, which is very large and handsome, having
plumage of a beautiful bright red, relieved by glossy black about the head

53»                             HOME PETS.
and throat ; it is sometimes called the " Virginian Nightingale," being a sweet
and powerful songster. It is fed on millet, canary, rape, and hemp-seed, and
is not a difficult bird to keep.
   The Amandava Finch is another of the family, much valued for its-
beauty and sprightliness ; its feathers are mostly crimson, tipped with white,,
which gives it a speckled appearance. It has a soft and agreeable song, and
is a very sociable bird. Then there is the little Wax-bill, the Paradise, the
Grenadier, the Cinnamon, and a host of other grosbeaks and finches, from
all parts of the world.
                                   Warblers.
   "Why, arc not all song birds warblers?" some of our readers may perhaps
ask. Yes, they certainly are; but they are not called so in Natural History
books by writers who aim at scientific classification, and, although no such
attempt is made here, yet we have thought it best to place together all those
soft-billed, insectivorous birds, which naturalists have agreed to call warblers,
because they mostly modulate their songs with many turns or variations, and
so they warble. We have said that they arc soft-billed and insectivorous ;
that means that they feed chiefly on insects. They are mostly birds of slender
make and delicate constitutions, difficult to keep in confinement, and requiring
more care and attention than those of which we have been speaking. In a
 wild state, we know them in this country only as summer visitants. Generally
 they are vCry sweet songsters, and hence the high value that is put on them
 as cage birds, and the effort made to rear and preserve them.
   Of this musical family the highest place is by common consent awarded tc
                               The NightingalE,
 whose delightful song is generally heard in the groves and shrubberies of our
 southern and western counties from quite early in April to the end of June,
 and sometimes later. And what a rich strain it is ! preferable, we think, to'
 that of any bird whose " wood-notes wild " have been improved, as it is said,
 by cultivation.
    The bird-catchers are on the look-out for the arrival of these musical visitors,
 and as soon as the first sweet warble is heard all are on the qui vive. The

                           THE NIGHTINGALE.                                  539
 males precede the females by several days, and, as the former are the songsters,
their capture is most eagerly sought, but their shyness renders it most difficult
to effect this; still, very many are taken in traps baited with meal-worms, or
other insects, in the larva or grub state, and then if you go to Whitcchapel or
 Seven Dials you may buy a charming feathered songster for about five shillings.
 Hear the bird sing before you buy, and bring it away with you. Except in the
song there is little to distinguish the male from the female, and you may have
a mute bird, instead of one to delight you with its melody, unless you take this
precaution.
   Very capricious birds are the nightingales : some have been known to
 remain obstinately silent when removed to a new house, and some to sing so
 incessantly as to be quite exhausted by the effort and die, thus literally sing
 ing themselves to death.
   The nightingale's cage may be of any desired form, from twelve to eighteen
inches long, nearly the same depth, and about a foot high ; the roof should
 be covered with green baize or cloth, and also the three perches, two near the
bottom and the other half-way up, to preserve the feet of the bird ; it is best
to cover the bottom with a sheet of blotting-paper, which can be frequently
removed with all impurities; the water-vessel should be of glass, made to
project outside, and so placed that the bird can pass into it for the purpose
of bathing, of which it is very fond ; the cage should be painted green and
overshadowed with leafy boughs, to imitate the shade which is so congenial to
the nightingale.
   In one or two instances only has it been known to breed in confinement,
and seldom does it live long in that state. Ants' eggs and meal-worms are its
favourite food, and when these cannot be procured, a little lean beef or mutton,
cut very small, may be given, with, now and then, boiled carrots and other
vegetables, soft pudding, stale whitcbread with milk, yolk of boiled egg, a little
hemp and poppy, suet, spiders, crickets, earwigs, and maggots of the flesh-fly
are all very acceptable to this sweetest of songsters.
   Young birds of this species brought up in confinement seldom sing well ;
they want an old one to teach them.
   The BLACKCAP is sometimes called the " Mock Nightingale," and its powers
of song are almost equal to those of the real nightingale, which it sometimes

540                             HOME PETS.
imitates very closely indeed. In confinement it will often sing during the
greater part of the year, and to this state it soon becomes reconciled. In the
woods it may sometimes be heard as early as March 23rd, and as late as
October 15th, about which time it migrates to the south. The black cap,
which gives the bird its name, is worn only by the male, and not by him until
after the first moult, as the change of feathers is called ; for all birds, it should
be understood, have a new dress once a year : the old feathers fall off and new
ones come in their places ; but they do not fall off all at once, or the bird
would be naked : it is a gradual process. This is a convenient arrangement,
for however would Mr. Cock Sparrow or Miss Jenny Wren get the money for
a new suit of clothes? It saves all trouble, too, about following the fashion :
if our clothes grew on our backs we must take them as they came, and be
thankful that we got so cheap a covering.
    Sad to say, this is a greedy bird : he must be supplied sparingly, or he will
 cat more than is good for him. He should have the same kind of food as the
 nightingale; soft fruit he is very partial to, and a little will do him no harm.
    The Garden Warbler, or the Whitethroat, and the Fauvette, or
 the Pettichap, are both very pretty birds of this family, which are sweet
songsters, but most difficult to rear and keep. They do best in an aviary
 where there are growing plants : if in a cage, it should be kept well shaded
 with green boughs. Like all the warblers, they require fine gravel, which they
.eat to assist digestion, and plenty of clear, fresh water. The food of all the
 members of this family may be pretty much the same as that recommended
 for those already described. When meal-worms, ants' eggs, and maggots
 cannot be procured, a little bullock's heart, boiled and grated, will not be a
 bad substitute.
    The Babillard, or Babbling Warbler, the Lesser Pettichap, or
 Arbour Bird, the latter of which builds a nest covered with a dome, arc all
 interesting members of the same family, but they are very rarely kept. The
 country people call the last "chiff-chaff," because its cry resembles these
  words.
    The Willow and Reed Warblers.—These birds are sometimes called
  the Willow and Wood Wrens ; they are both elegant birds, and much alike in
  their general appearance and habits: their song is shrill and tremulous, and

                                     WARBLERS.                                  541
 is very constantly uttered. They are great at fly-catching, being very fond of
 these as of other insects. They sometimes become very tame and familiar
 with their feeder, taking flics out of the hand, and drinking milk from a spoon
 or cup while perched on the finger.
• The Common and Golden-Crested Wrens.—Every boy and girl knows
 the little Jenny Wren, with its round body and short cocked-up tail, and must
 have listened with pleasure to the low sweet warble of the bird, which in con
 finement is lively and engaging. It is very sociable, and should always have
 a companion in its cage, or be left at liberty to fly about a room or aviary
 with other birds. The gold-crest is the smallest of all British birds, and is
 as quick and restless as he is small. When at liberty, he lives chiefly amid
 the dark pine-woods, and his crest of flame-coloured feathers flashes amid
 the gloom like real fire. The closely-woven nest, like a little mossy cup, is
 suspended to the bough of a pine or larch, generally far up and hidden by the
 thick foliage ; in it are eight or nine flesh-coloured eggs, no bigger than peas.
    The Redbreast seems out of place in a cage: he ought to be hopping
 about on the table, or under it, picking up the crumbs ; coming to the window
 to be fed when the snow lies thick on the ground ; or out in the woods, cover
 ing with leaves the two poor children who were there left to wander alone and
 die of hunger. Of course, every boy has read the old nursery story of the
 "Children in the Wood," and loved the Robin Redbreast all the better for the
 compassionate part he played in that sad drama. He is a bold, confiding
 bird, and has a sweet voice of his own, although it has not much power or
 compass in its melody. In the summer it is seldom heard, as the singer then
 keeps pretty much in the leafy woods, away from houses ; but when the cold
 weather comes and there is a scarcity of food, then, too, comes Robin, to tune
 his pipes in the garden and ask to be fed. In at the open door or window he
 hops, gives a bright intelligent look all round, then two or three lively chirrups,
 as much as to say, " Here we are again !" and then proceeds to make himself
 at home. If you have an aviary, just put him in, and let him out again in
  February, that he may go away and help his mate to build her nest where he
 best loves to be,'          „ _,.... , . . .
                             " rutting about from tree to tree.
    Robins that have been placed when young under the tuition of a nightin
 gale are said to make splendid songsters : their natural song, though soft and
 sweet, is not sufficiently powerful to attract much attention. They may be
 kept in almost any kind of cage ; but care must be taken not to put two male
 birds together, as they will be sure to fight, Master Bobby being, I grieve to
 say, a very quarrelsome fellow : for that reason he is often troublesome in the
 aviary. He may be taught a variety of tricks, and is generally a very pleasant
 and amusing bird. Give him the kind of food recommended above for other
 warblers, and plenty of water to bathe in, and he will be as happy as a—
 what?—prince or a sand-boy, shall we say? taking our example from the two
 extremes of life, maybe the sand-boy has the best of it.
    We have now done with the warblers, all of which, except the wrens and
 Robin, leave this country at the approach of winter, for more southern lati
 tudes, because they require warmth and plenty of insect food; and this
 flying to and fro between one country and another, at certain regular periods,
 we call migration. It is wonderful how these seemingly weak and delicate
 birds can fly hundreds of miles over land and sea straight as an arrow to the
 places best suited for them, and how, at certain dates, which scarcely ever

 542                            HOME PETS.
 vary, they set off on these long flights. All we can say in explanation is that
 God teaches and strengthens them.
                                   CROWS, &c
    Before we proceed to speak about certain birds of gay plumage and harsh
 discordant voices, which are all foreigners, let us finish with the natives, and
 say a few words about those that caw and croak, and hoot and scream, and
 otherwise disport themselves, in our own dear native land.
    Among the commonest of these are several members of the Corvus, or Crow
 tribe, some of which are made household pets, and are valued for their talk
 ing powers or other amusing qualities : foremost among them is
                                  The Raven,
 which is what the Scotch call an "uncanny bird," which we can best translate
 by the word " unearthly." There is something strange and mysterious about
 him: he is black, and all black; his cry is a dismal cro-a-k, coming, as it
 seems, from a sepulchre ; his motions are odd and ungainly ; he hops all on
 one side, and never looks directly at you, but, with his head awry, peers up
 in a very suspicious manner, so that he ever seems bent on mischief.
    But why keep such a disagreeable creature about the house? Well, some
people have a fancy for oddities, and the raven is one. He has great imitative
 powers : he will talk and whistle, crow like a cock, bark like a dog, mew like
a cat, and make all manner of queer noises, and perform the strangest antics
 in the gravest possible manner. So, although he is a dirty, spiteful, and
altogether unloveable bird, and frightens children into fits, by going up to
them sideways, as if he did not see them, and then suddenly darting at their
legs ; although he steals all he can lay his hands—or rather beak—on, and
hides it away ; although he is greedy, and even blasphemous—for swearing he
seems to learn most easily, and repeats with the greatest gusto—yet people
keep and pet him, even while they are half afraid of him, and look upon him
as something like an incarnation of evil. There are many mysteries in the
world, and this is one of them. The raven has a wonderful history, too : we
hear of him as far back as the Deluge ; his great black wings went flap-flapping
heavily over the wide waste of waters, in which floated so many ghastly corpses,
on some of which he, no doubt, alighted to feast, for he is very partial to
decomposed flesh ; he fed Elijah, you know, at the time of the great famine
in Israel; and in the sacred narrative, as well as in profane history, his name
frequently occurs. Wherever there is a lonely, barren, desolate, and sin-cursed
place upon earth, there is the raven sure to be: his croak has always been
considered ominous of evil, and the shadow of his wings a foreboding of death.
Such has been, and is, the notion of superstitious people ; but we know better,
and simply look upon the raven as a cunning, mischief-loving bird, with a
hoarse voice, which he cannot help, and a desire to steal and hide anything
that comes in his way; but then we know some people who are very like him
in this respect. So, if you will keep him about you, let him have plenty to
eat, and a sheltered corner to hide and sleep in ; and, as he has such wonderful
powers of imitation, be as careful as possible that he hears only words which
are pleasant and proper. We had the honour of the acquaintance of one of .
these birds, who lived in a military hospital, where there was a guard-house,
and when the sentry at the gate was aware of the approach of the visiting

                  THE JACKDAW— THE MAGPIE.                                   543
officer, or any person of distinction to whom the honour was due, he cried,
" Guard, turn out !" and out rushed the soldiers from the guard-house, to stand
in a row and give the salute.
   Ralph had noticed these proceedings, as he noticed, without seeming to do
so, everything that was going on, and he thought he would have a bit of fun ;
so one night he crept out of his corner and broke the stillness with his hoarse
command, "Guard, turn out!" and out they came in the darkness, and stood
ready; but there was no one to be saluted, so, after awhile, they turned in
again, wondering what it could mean. It was afterwards discovered that the
raven had played the trick. Poor Ralph died long since, and was gathered
to his fathers. He lived to a great age, as ravens commonly do, and his loss
was deplored, as he was a source of great amusement to the hospital folk.
                                The Jackdaw
is another amusing bird of the crow family, which is easily tamed and taught
to speak. If kept in a cage, it should be a large one; but it is best to let him
have the run of the house. If taken when grown up, his wings should be cut
about every six months, to prevent his flying away. Young birds should be
taken from the nest in the church steeple, ruined tower, hole in the cliff, or
hollow tree, when about half fledged, and fed upon bread and milk, with
caterpillars, worms, and other insect food, or entrails : they will grow strong
enough to take care of themselves, and, if brought up in this way, may generally
be trusted, with uncut wings, to go where they please. They have the thievish
propensity common to all the family, and there is a funny story, told by
Thomas Ingoldsby, of one who stole "my Lord Cardinal's ring," and was
excommunicated ; but, having repented and made restitution, he was again
received into the Church, became a very pious bird, and dying in the odour of
sanctity, was canonized under the name of J im Crow !
                                 The Magpie
is a very handsome and a very knowing bird. He is described by one of our
old poets as "the cunning magpie, with his head awry," peeping and peering

544                              HOME PETS.
into every hole and corner. His black and white plumes give him a clerical
appearance, which is not borne out by his habits, for he is a great chatterer
and is by no means honest ; silver spoons must be taken care of where he is,
for anything bright and glittering seems to have an irresistible attraction for
him. The nest of a magpie is often a wonderful structure, built of sticks
piled up to an amazing height ; it has a dome at the top, and the hole for
entrance is at the side ; it is generally placed in some ruinous out-of-the-way
place, and far up out of reach.
  Young magpies should be taken when about a fortnight old, and fed as
directed for young jackdaws. If carefully instructed they will become accom
plished talkers.
                                    The Jay.
  This is a very beautiful kind of crow, which is not unfrcquently seen in a
wicker cage, and heard uttering words and other sounds in a somewhat dis
cordant manner, screaming, whistling, and making all sorts of curious noises.

                      THE STARLING—PARROTS.                                    545
One of its scientific names is garrulus— noisy or talkative. Its nest, like that
of the magpie, is generally on a tall tree, or some other lofty place difficult
of access. The young should be taken when about a fortnight old, and fed
upon soaked bread, curds, and meat cut small, or worms, slugs, &c
   In Germany this bird appears to be more highly valued as a cage bird than
with us, and great pains are taken with its education, so that it will imitate airs
on a trumpet, and the songs of other birds. The jays seem to have a great
antipathy for owls, which they persecute dreadfully ; if they can but catch
Mr. Goggle-eyes abroad in the»day-time, or find out where he is hid, they
chase and besiege him with a tempest of clamorous and discordant cries.
                                 The Starling
is another accomplished talker, for which faculty he is no less valued than
for his beauty of plumage and sociability : he is as sagacious as a dog—quite
docile and affectionate. Country people sometimes call him the " Speckled
Stare;" and his dark, glossy feathers, having white tips, give him a very
peculiar and handsome appearance.
   This is the smallest bird of the crow tribe resident in Britain : its nest is
built in hollow trees, holes in chalk-pits, and out-of-the-way, ruinous places,
generally in company with its own kind, or other members of the same family,
with whom it may often be seen hunting for worms and insects on the pasture
and arable lands, sometimes on the shore and adjacent marshes. The small
meadow grasshopper is a favourite food, fruit and grain are not rejected—
indeed, it is an bmnivorous feeder. It likes to keep its glossy plumes free from
defilement, and should have plenty of water to wash in. When properly
taught the starling will talk like a parrot. It is subject to few diseases, and
generally lives long in confinement. Its natural cry is rather melodious, having
a harp-like sound. Old and young birds may be fed in the same way as the
other crows.
                                   PARROTS.
   " Pretty Polls " of many sizes and colours are choice pets all over the world,
although they are found in a wild or natural state only in the warmer latitudes.
Their lively manners, gay plumage, and wonderful imitative powers have made
them great favourites, and for the sake of them, their harsh voices and often
times spiteful and mischievous ways are put up with. In no birds is articulation
so distinct, and this is because they have thick fleshy tongues, much like those
of human beings; their bills are large, stout, and strong, as are also their
claws, which have a peculiar arrangement, two projecting forward and two
backward; this enables them to grasp tightly the branch or other object to
which they cling when they climb and swing about among the trees, some
times hanging by the toes, and sometimes by the bill, in an extraordinary
manner. This arrangement of the toes is common to all the scansortal or
climbing birds, of which we have remarkable examples in the woodpeckers
of our own country.
                                 The Macaws
are the largest birds of the parrot family, and of these there are three species
only which are met with in confinement. First the Red and Blue, and the Blue
and Yellow Macaws, each of which is about two feet eight inches long; they
both come from South America, are birds of gorgeous plumage, and good talkers
                                                                    35

546                             HOME PETS.
if instructed. It is best to keep them on a stand, with a small chain attached
to one leg ; but they should not be approached by children or timid persons,
as they are apt to be spiteful, especially to such as fear them. They should
have water to bathe in as well as to drink, for they are naturally dirty birds,
and the oftener they can be induced to wash the better. They are frightful
                             GREY PARROT AND COCKATOO.
screamers, and their screeching, and laughter, and other noises keep the house
in a perpetual tumult. Yet people will have them, and they must pay the
penalty : the birds are not to blame : it is as natural for them to make a noise
as it is to eat and drink. How they must wake the echoes in those thick
Brazilian forests where the alligator floats like a huge log on the breast of the
silent river, the deadly snake glides glittering amid the tall grass and reeds,
and the monkeys swing amid the bright-blossomed creepers that throw their
lithe stems from tree to tree ! There the parrots and macaws hold their noisy
parliament, glowing and flashing amid the dense foliage like coloured flame.
There too dart and flash and quiver those little winged gems, the humming
birds. What glorious feathered pets these would be, if they could be kept in
confinement ! but they cannot, so we must leave them in their native woods,
and be content with our beautiful macaws, another species of which, also from
Brazil, is the Great Green Macaw, which is less in length by seven or

                                  COCKATOOS.                                547
eight inches than those already mentioned ; it is a much rarer bird too, and
consequently fetches a higher price.
    One of the distinguishing features of the macaws is their great length of
tail, and in this one it is very remarkable, the two central feathers being con
siderably longer than the others, and finely variegated with red, blue, and
green, which latter is the prevailing colour of the whole plumage. A docile
and very beautiful bird is this, arci he is a fortunate fancier who possesses it.
    All the macaws may be fed alike on bread and milk and scalded hemp-seed,
varied by broken biscuit, and ripe fruit when in season. Meat, sugar, or
sweetmeats should be given sparingly, as they heat the system and cause the
bird to pull its feathers out.
                                  The Cockatoos.
    These, like the macaws, are mostly large birds, and are very handsome,
although they do not present the same variety of colouring, their plumage
being light and of an uniform tint. Their imitative powers are not good ; they
seldom get beyond pronouncing with great distinctness the syllables of their
own names, Cock-a-too, which is their natural cry or call. They are mostly
found wild in Australia and the Indian Isles, where they breed in hollow
trees, and feed upon fruits and nuts, which they are able to crack with their
powerful beaks.
                        The Great White CockatoO,
with the sulphur-coloured crest and tail, is the best known species in Europe :
it is almost as large as the common fowl, and is valued no less for its docihty
and gentleness than for its beauty. Its native home is in the Molucca Islands,
from whence we get cloves and other spices, and where the air is always solt
and warm, so the bird should be carefully tended and protected against the
 severity of our climate in winter. It may be chained to a stand, or kept in a
large bell-shaped cage, furnished with a movable ring, and at least two trans
verse perches. It requires the same kind of food as the macaws.
                        The Lesser White Cockatoo
comes from the same part of the world as the greater, which it very closely
 resembles in shape and colour of plumage, having, however, the beautiful silky
crest which adorns the heads of all the cockatoos of a more decided sulphur
tint. There is nothing particular in its habits or treatment to demand notice
                     The Great Red-crested Cockatoo
 is one of the noblest of cage birds, its white feathers having, here and there,
 a rosy tinge, and its long crest being ol a brilliant orange. It is one of the
 largest of the parrot tribe, and has a bold defying aspect. Its scream is
 perfectly ear-splitting ; it will sometimes crow like a cock, and make a noise
 like a trumpet, and seems to have greater powers of imitation than the cocka
 toos generally. It is apt to be rather fierce and intractable.
                            The Banksian Cockatoo
 is the handsomest and rarest species: the plumage is mostly of a rich glossy
 black, about which tongues of fire seem to be flashing, many of the feathers
                                                                35 —2

 548                             HOME PETS.
 being crimson with bright yellow; the tail is crimson and orange. This
 magnificent bird comes from New Holland, and, on account of its beauty and
rarity, fetches a high price.
                          The Red-vented Cockatoo
 comes from the Philippine Isles: its feathers are mostly white with a sulphur
 tinge, the under parts red. Its cry is horrible, something between a scream
and a yell.
                                   The Lories
are all remarkable for the splendour of their plumage. The marks which
distinguish them from the other parrots are obvious to naturalists only. The
largest of them (which are brought from the East Indies) are about the size
of a common pigeon ; there are some smaller kinds found in Australia and
the isles of the Pacific which are called Loriquets or Little Lories.
                      The Cream or Variegated Lory
has generally a bright scarlet body, variegated with vivid green and rich
violet, which play about the feathers like coloured light. This is a very tract
able bird, and a great pet with those who are fortunate enough to possess one.
                           The Purple-capped Lory
has a red body, green wing-coverts edged with blue ; the edges of the tail-
feathers are orange, as is also the beak and a band across the breast. The
German naturalist Bechstein describes it as the tamest, the most pleasing,
and the most delicate of the lories.
                 The Black-capped and the Shell Lories
are two other birds of this kind which are highly valued ; the latter especially
is a beautiful little creature, speckled and marked in a sort of shell pattern,
on crimson, purple, and gold, making a very rich appearance.
   We now come to the Parrots proper : birds with short even tails. Of
these there are several species kept in confinement.
                The Illinois and Ash-coloured Parrots
are two of the commonest of them. The first comes from the Southern
States of America, and the last from Guinea and other parts of Africa. The
one is of a rich green colour, fading into grey beneath, and lighted up by a
brilliant orange on the forehead, cheeks, and throat ; the other is a soft silvery
grey, with a crimson tail and black beak. Both are docile, affectionate birds,
and fluent talkers.
   The Grey Parrot, as it is often called, is one of the few birds of this
kind that may be trusted with children, the company of which it seems really
to enjoy ; and this is one of the few parrots that have been known to breed
in confinement. It is extremely fond of the seeds of the sunflower, which it
may have as a treat when they can be procured, but as a rule rich food is not
good for it ; swollen and gouty feet is a probable result of high feeding.

                                  PARROTS.                                    549
           The Amazon and Yellow-billed Amazon Parrots
are two South American birds, the first of which is not uncommon, but the
last very rare. The plumage of both is chiefly green and yellow, with black
markings ; but the latter has the colours more decided and the markings more
distinct.
                   The Carolina and Amboyna Parrots.
   These names sufficiently indicate where the birds come from. The first
is generally about twelve inches long, and has a most wonderful tail. The
plumage is chiefly grey, with brown and orange markings; the front of the
head is deep orange, fading off at the back to yellow. A very noisy bird this,
and a poor talker, but it is tame and gentle. For richness of plumage the
next species might well claim a place among the lories. The head, neck, and
lower part of the body are a rich vermilion, the back is a fine green, turning
to blue towards the tail, which is black, with blue and green stripes ; the upper
part of the bill is orange, and the lower black. And here it will be as well to
mention that all the parrots can move both the upper and lower halves of the
bill ; with most other birds it is as with man, who can move the lower jaw
only, the upper being fixed to the bones of the head. This arrangement gives
to these birds a peculiar advantage in using, as they do, the bill as well as the
claws to grasp with and support themselves.
             The White-fronted and Blue-faced Parrots.
   The first of these comes from the West Indies, and is about the size of a
pigeon. The plumage is chiefly green, with bright red on the cheeks, throat,
and neck; the forehead and a circle round the eyes is generally white. It is
a very amusing bird, having a particular aptitude for imitating the cries of
cats, dogs, and other animals. It comes from the West Indies, like the blue-
faced species, which is about the same size, and has also a green body, but
the larger wing-feathers are blue, some of them tipped with red. The throat
and front of the head are also blue, while the neck and upper part of the
breast are red ; the bill is remarkable for an orange stripe on each side of the
upper mandible. The natural cry of the bird is very shrill, and it is not
easily taught any other.
            The Blue-headed and Angola Yellow Parrots.
   The first is an East Indian bird, very beautiful, and by no means rare. Its
length of eleven inches is more than half occupied by the tail, the two centre
feathers of which are much longer than the rest. The head is blue, and the
throat violet, with a rich silvery reflection playing about it. A green hue,
deepening into blue, there lightening into yellow, are its prevailing coloun.
The Angola kind is of about the same size, its colours are much the same,
but it has a short tail, which its large wings almost cover.
            The Grey-breasted and Blue-throated Parrots.
   The first is a South American bird, about ten inches long ; green, yellow,
and silvery grey are its chief colours. About the head it looks much like an
owl, having a short bill, and the grey feathers of the cheeks being much puffed
out. It is a docile .bird, easily taught to speak, but rarely lives long in con
finement.

550                             HOME PETS
   The next species is very rare. It is chiefly of a fine indigo blue colour,
deepening at places into purple ; the tail-feathers are green shaded with blue
and yellow, and lined -with scarlet, of which colour it has a line along each
side of the upper part of the bill.
            The Moreton Bay and Green Trinidad Parrots.
   Of the first of these two species but little is known. It is a splendid bird,
with golden tinted plumage, and very valuable on account of its rarity.
   The second has a dark green body, blue and red wings, and a scarlet head.
It is not much of a talker, but is interesting on account of ils beauty and
engaging manners. It must be kept warm; and, indeed, this is essential for
all the parrot family, although some require it more than others.
   We now proceed to open our show of
                                  Parrakeets,
or Paroquets as it is sometimes written. These are the little parrots, and
they differ in no respect from the larger kinds except in size and in the pos
session of a long tail— although this is not always a distinction, for some of
their bigger relatives have it also.
                    The Long-tailed Green Parrakeet.
    This is, perhaps, the most curious bird of the group: it is found all through
South America, and in the West Indies. It is about as large as a blackbird,
having yellowish-green plumes, ornamented with bright yellow and red. It is
one of the noisiest of feathered pets, talking, screaming, whistling, crowing,
and uttering all sorts of discordant sounds.
                          The Pavouane Parrakeet
comes from Guinea, Cayenne, and the Caribbec Islands. It is rather larger
than the preceding species, and has much the same colours, although diffe
rently arranged. The red spots on the cheek do not appear until the bird is
upwards of four years old. It is not particularly rare, nor difficult to keep,
and has great imitative powers.
                  The Red and Blue-headed Parrakeet
is a native of South America. The whole upper part of the body is grass-
green, the under parts greenish-yellow; the forehead is scarlet, and the neck
bright blue, which runs off into the green of the back. This is not a rare
 species nor a good talker. It is usually about ten inches long.
                          The Cardinal Parrakeet
 is a gorgeous bird, similar in size to the above, with a very remarkable tail,
 the two middle feathers being blue with white ends, and the rest green ; the
 head is violet shot with blue ; around the neck is a ring of glossy black, which
 is also the colour of the throat. The upper part of the body is a rich green,
 the lower parts yellow ; the beak is a delicate peach-blossom, and the legs
 silvery grey. The female bird is very different in appearance, having a yellow
 beak, a blue head, no black colour, and but little beauty of plumage.

                       PARRAKEETS—PIGEONS.                                 551
  The Blossom-headed, the Rose-headed, Ring, and the Bornean
                                 Parrakeets.
   What shall we say for them ? They are all nearly related to my Lord the
Cardinal—only varieties, some think. The first of them is sometimes called
the Guinea Sparrow, which name tells us it is a small bird, and comes from
Africa. The second sometimes also goes by the same name, although it is
more commonly found in the Philippine Islands. Lovely birds, all three of
them.
              Pennant'S, and the Two-spotted Parrakeets,
the first from Australia, and the last from the South Sea isles. The Aus
tralian bird is sometimes called the Purple Parrot : it is found chiefly about
Botany Bay, and is about the size of a sparrow-hawk. See what a beautiful
crimson dress he has, and how the black at the base of the feathers, and dark
blue of the tail and some other parts, give to the whole a rich purple effect.
This other is sometimes called the Palm-bird. It is as large as a turtle-dove,
has a long drooping tail, a black band across the forehead, and a triangular
spot of the same colour on each side of the head. Above, his feathers are all
silky grey, and green, and blue, and yellow : beneath, all flame-colour.
        The Lanated, and Little Gem, and Blue Parrakeets.
   The first is sometimes called the Red-Crescented—both names having re
ference to a moon-shaped patch of bright red on the breast. The back is
dark green, and the under parts yellow. A very pretty bird ; lives long in con
finement, and talks well. The other species is about as big as a sparrow, with
an orange-coloured bill and circle round the eyes, and a green body with blue
markings. He comes from South America.
                     Australian Ground Parrakeets,
severally distinguished as the Roselle, the Crimson-shouldered, the Blood-
billed, Barnard's Parrakeet, and two others. Beautiful little birds, of all the
colours of the rainbow : playful, gentle, and easily kept. Unlike most parrots,
they are as much at home on the ground as anywhere else.
                                 Love Birds;
charming little creatures, with crimson heads and emerald bodies, and
variegated tails ; so loving and affectionate, that if one dies the other pines
away and dies too of grief. They are as tame as they are gentle and beautiful,
 and will come out of their cage to be fed with crumbs, &c There is a variety
of this bird called the Passuaria, which has no red on its plumage, but is
all green.
                          PIGEONS AND DOVES.
   A very curious and interesting family of birds are the Pigeons—Columbida,
 as naturalists call them, which signifies properly Doves; but in reality there
is no difference in the meaning of the two terms Doves and Pigeons, only in
this country we generally apply the latter name to those domesticated varie
ties which have been produced by cross breeding, and very funny as well as
beautiful varieties some of these are. Among wild pigeons we see 110 such

552                              HOME PETS.
grotesque birds as Pouters, Fantails, Tumblers, Trumpeters, and the like
choice breeds, on which fanciers set great store; their peculiarities are the
result of peculiar modes of treatment, into which we cannot here enter.
   Wild pigeons are found in all parts of the world except the very coldest,
and often in prodigious numbers. They are swift and strong fliers, and when
in flight from one place to another they sometimes literally darken the air,
and break the boughs of the trees on which they rest. Some of these wild
birds, especially those from the East, are magnificent and stately creatures,
with most gorgeous plumage, crowned and crested like monarchs of the
feathered tribes ; but of these it is not our present business to speak. We
may just mention the chief of them.
                         The Crowned Gouri Pigeon,
measuring nearly twenty-five inches in length. It is found in the Indian
Archipelago and the Molucca Islands. Its general colour is a rich purple
brown above and grey beneath ; there are white bars across the wings, and
the semicireular crest is light blue or delicate grey.
                              The Nicobar Pigeon
is another beautiful crested bird. Although smaller in size than the Gouri,
it is equally worthy of admiration. The upper part of the body is a rich green,
with bronze and steely blue reflections ; the head is slate-coloured, with purple
 shades. On the neck are a number of long pointed feathers, glowing with
 resplendent colours that shift and change with every movement of the bird.
                             The Aromatic Vinago
 is a curious title, very suggestive of aromatic vinegar, and yet one member of
 the pigeon family is known to dealers by this name. A rich brown red shot
 with purple is the colour of its back and upper parts, the under are a pale
 green ; the forehead is also green, the throat yellow, and the tail is a mixture
 of blue, grey, brown, and green ; so that our friend with the quaint name is
 something of a harlequin as to dress. He comes from India, Java, and other
 parts of the East.
                     The Carunculated Ground Pigeon,
 sometimes called the Oceanic Fruit Pigeon, is about as large as the common
 dove. It is a bird of splendid plumage, and is very useful, for to it the dis
 semination of that valuable spice the nutmeg through the Moluccas and other
 tropical islands is mainly due. The bird swallows the nutmeg, with the whole
 of its pulpy covering, which is mace. The latter is digested, but the nut
  passes out whole, and so becomes self-sown; and, curiously enough, some
  such process as this appears necessary to its germination.
              The Top-knot and the Bronze-winged Pigeons,
  both from Australia, are two very handsome species. The first is a stout,
  powerful bird of a silver grey colour, with black markings ; it is remarkable
  for a double crest, one on the forehead, and the other on the back of the head.
     The other beautiful foreigner is not quite so large ; brown, changing into
  deep plum-colour, and grey of different shades are its chief colours. There
  are bronze-green spots on the wing-feathers.

                                  PIGEONS.                                   553
                          The Magnificent Pigeon
comes also from Australia, and is worthy of the name : it is about the size
of the common ring-dove. Silvery grey, rich metallic green, and golden
yellow are its principal colours, which shift and change with every motion of
the bird.
                            The Passenger Pigeon,
of whose habits and manners in a wild state Wilson and Audubon have given
most graphic descriptions, leads us by an easy step to the more common
domesticated kinds. Throughout North America this bird abounds, migrating
in immense flocks from one State to another in search of food. Their arrival
is eagerly looked for by men and wild animals, and the pigeon battue that
ensues is something fearful and wonderful : the cries of the birds render the
reports of the guns, the shouts of the men, and barking of the dogs, inaudible.
The dead bodies cover the ground, and are carried away in waggons and
everything that is available for the purpose ; "the hogs feed on them until they
can eat no longer, and yet their number is not sensibly diminished.
                             The Carrier Pigeon.
   This is the most useful, celebrated, and in every way remarkable, of the
domesticated pigeons : it has a history extending back to a period anterior
to the foundation of Rome. The names of the victors in the Olympian games
were made known through the Roman provinces by means of this bird, just as in
our own times are those of the winning horses at the races of Newmarket and
elsewhere. Keen of sight and strong of wing, the bird, which when released
always flies straight to its home, no matter how great may be the intervening
distance ; so it is taken to the scene of the contest, and directly the result is
known it is released with a message, which is eagerly received by those who
are waiting the arrival of the messenger. The despatch so transmitted is
written on a small piece of thin paper, which is rolled up, and fastened to one
of the tail-feathers by means of a piece of fine wire, which is wound round
the shaft of the feathers to make it secure : in this way it does not impede
the flight of the bird. Sometimes it is fastened to the leg with worsted. The
winged messenger flies with incredible swiftness. Forty-five miles an hour is

554                             HOME PETS.
not considered a very high rate : in the pigeon flights against time, which
have frequently been flown from Paris to Antwerp, from London to Liege,
and other places, it has exceeded this.
    The Belgians are great pigeon-breeders, and one of the choicest birds of
this kind is the true Antwerp Carrier, which is comparatively rare.
    The twelve points which, according to the recognized rules, a thoroughbred
carrier should possess, are these- The Head, straight, and long, and flat.
The Beak, straight, and long, and thick. The Wattle, broad at the base, short
from the head to the bill, and leaning forward. The Eye, large, round, and
uniform. A bird with these qualifications, and being of one colour, dark blue,
will be likely to take a prize at a pigeon show. '" Cinnamon Birds," as those
of a dun-colour are called, are not so much valued, although they may possess
all the above-named good points, and have as much sagacity and power of
wing as the others. A long lithe body, and a firm strong wing, a proud bold
look, and great activity, are the characteristics of the carrier in the prime of
his life : as he grows old, he becomes stout and inactive, his wattle increases
 in bulk, his eye loses its brightness and his feathers their beautiful gloss ; he
 is then only fit for breeding purposes.
    Since the introduction of the electric telegraph, pigeon expresses have not
 been so much used as they formerly were, consequently, the breeding and
 training of the birds is comparatively little practised. Still, the carriers hold
 a high place among the fancy kinds. They are not prolific breeders, nor at
 tentive and affectionate parents : frequently they destroy their eggs and neglect
 their " squabs," as young pigeons before they are fledged are called—after
 that they are " squeakers."
     With carriers, as with other pigeons, breeding " in and in," as it is called—
 that is, getting a stock from the offspring of a single pair of birds—is bad:
 they will generally be small and weakly. Any breeder will exchange eggs
 with another whose stock is good. The best and steadiest sitters are the
  common Dove-house, the Runt, and the Dragon, to one or other of which is
 generally deputed the task of hatching and bringing up the young carriers.
                              The Tumbler Pigeon
  is one of the most amusing birds of this family, on account of its extraordi
  nary motions on the wing. He is the most accomplished acrobat known,
  turning back-summersaults, and springing about in the air in the oddest
  fashion. His appearance when at rest does not give promise of such preter
  natural activity, for he has a plump little body, set firmly upon short, thickish
  legs, a round head, and a small beak ; but his eye is bright, his look intelli
  gent, and he seems to say, "Ah, I can do more than you think!" Then, off
  he goes, up, and head over heels, as though he were gambolling upon a tight
  rope or over an invisible trapeze.
      There arc several varieties of tumblers : the Old English, which is nearly
  extinct, the German Feather-footed, the common Flying, the Baldpatc, and
  others. They are of all colours.
      One of the most favoured varieties of what are called the Short-faced
   Tumblers is the Almond, which fanciers only consider perfect when it is of
   three colours, yellow, black, and white, the first predominating : the true
   colours are not attained until the bird is three years old.
      A great variety of curious names are given to these pigeons, in accordance

                                   PIGEONS.                                   555
with their variations of plumage: thus there are Rocks, Blues, Chequers,
Silvers, Duns, Kites, Reds, Yellows, Buffs, Drabs, and Mealies: these are
all what are called "whole coloured." Among the mixed plumage or varie
gated birds are Crrey-mottled Blue-black, and Red-grizzles, the latter being
sometimes called a Strawberry bird, splashed or pied. A fancier will tell you
that if you breed from a black with a cinnamon, you will get a cinnamon-
splash ; and if from a black with a cream-colour, you will get a magpie. But
colour is really of little consequence, the great aim should be to produce well-
shaped birds, such as have a full breast, a short body, slender neck, pearly
eye, and straight beak.
   Tumbler pigeons make a clapping noise with their wings as they rise in
the air, and the louder this is the more highly is the bird prized: the old
name, Smiter, was no doubt derived from this habit.
                              The Pouter Pigeon.
   A very ludicrous caricature of the absurdities of fashion does this bird look,
with its great crop puffed out like a frilled shirt-front, its legs seemingly en
cased in white trousers, and the long points of its wings reaching far down
behind, like the ends of a swallow-tailed coat : he is altogether " a swell,"
diere can be no doubt about that, and when he condescends to walk, it is
upon the tips of his toes, with a mincing gait, like a fop of the olden time.
If you want a personification of conceit and supercilious pride, there he is ;
and yet, probably, the poor bird thinks no more of himself than does the little
sparrow which hops in the gutter. His natural peculiarities have been exag
gerated by breeding until he has become a monstrosity, and the bigger he
inflates his crop, the higher he pushes up his shoulders, the closer he keeps his
legs together, and the more he walks upon his toes, the higher is the value
set upon him.
   Naturally the pouter is a tall, strong bird, and when his crop is not inflated
he is very handsome. Buff, blue, and white, singly or intermixed, are his
common colours. He is called Ring-headed, Swallow-tailed, Rose-pinioned,
Bishoped, or Lawn-sleeved, in accordance with certain peculiar tints and
markings which distinguish particular birds, and make them more or less

556                              HOME PETS.
valued. But the crop, and the ability of the bird to inflate it, and control
his motions when he is under full sail, is the great point with fanciers. Some
times he is greedy, and fills it too full of grain, which will become bad before
it can be passed into the stomach: the remedy for this is to put the glutton
feet downwards into a worsted stocking, and after stroking the crop gently
upwards, hang him up, and supply him occasionally with water only until he
gets rid of his excess of food.
   The female pouter has not so large a crop as the male, and she is less
upright in her carriage. When the crop hangs about like an empty bag, be
sure the bird is out of health. If confined in a place less than two feet high,
he will probably contract a habit of stooping, which ruins him as a fancy bird.
                                     The Runt
is a plain homely kind of bird, less valued by fanciers than most of the other
varieties, but it is a prolific breeder, not given to range or wander away, and
it may be kept without much trouble; so to boys who would commence
 pigeon keeping we say, get a pair of runts, give them an old rabbit-hutch, or
anything you like, to live in, and plenty of food, they will increase and multiply
 wonderfully. Some of these are handsome birds, too, and all are pretty. The
 chief varieties are the Roman, the Leghorn, the Spanish, and the Friesland:
 the first is the largest, and the last the most curious, having the feathers set
 pointing forwards, so that, to smooth and caress it, you must begin at the tail.
 This peculiarity very much limits its powers of flight. The rarest, and there
 fore the choicest variety, is the Frill-back, which is always white or cream
 coloured.
                                      The Nun
 is a pretty little bird, about the same size as the tumbler, like which, too, it
 has a tuft of feathers at the back of the head, by the size of which its value
 is very much regulated. The plumage of the body is sometimes pure white,
 but that of the head differs, and in accordance with this, the birds are Red,
 Black, or Yellow-headed Nuns. There is a variety termed by French amateurs
 the Death's-head Pigeon, and another the Bearded Pigeon. The most beautiful
 of all are those which are all black except the head and quill-feathers, which

                                  PIGEONS.                                  557
are white. The Dutch Shell Pigeon is also a much-admired variety: the crest
at the back of the head assumes the form of a shell.
                          The Archangel Pigeon
is a large and handsome species, having a rich plumage of dark blue and
copper-colour. It has a crest, is a good steady breeder, a strong flyer, and is
altogether a very desirable bird in the pigeon-house ; but somehow it seems to
have been underrated, as the stock is not nearly so much cultivated as most
other breeds.
                                 The Fantail.
   This is another "great swell" among the pigeons. He is sometimes called
the Broad-tailed Shaker, from the habit he has of shaking or wagging his
head as he walks, as though there were a great deal of wisdom in it, which
there is not, or he would not strut about so, and spread out his enormous fan
behind, to be looked at and admired. A long tapering neck, so that the bird
can nestle his head among the tail-feathers, a full prominent breast, and a
tail that shall never number less than twenty-four feathers, nor more than
thirty-six, are among the points of perfection of this pigeon, which is perhaps
the most elegant of all the fancy kinds. Its colour is commonly pure white;
when bred with another species, the tails of the progeny become smaller,
and they are called Half Fantails, or Narrow-tailed Shakers.
                                The Trumpeter
is another crested bird, which ought to be a great favourite, as it possesses
almost every quality desirable in a pigeon. It may be easily recognized by
the short silky feathers, like a moustache, on the upper part of the beak ; its
legs, too, are feathered to the very toes. Yellowish white is the ordinary
colour, but sometimes the plumage is beautifully speckled and marked with
black. A large round head and a full bushy moustache are two points insisted
on by fanciers. Its coo is unusually loud, hence its common name.
                                 The Jacobite,
 otherwise the Jacobin, the Capuchin, or the Ruff, are names given to this bird

 558                               HOME PETS.
on account of the frill of inverted feathers which encircle the head and neck,
like the hood or cowl of a monk. The Dutch call these birds Cappers, and
their value is greater or less in proportion to the size and completeness of the
hood. With regard to colour, they may be white and blue, white and black,
or mottled, and to be at all perfect in the estimation of fanciers, the head,
tail,.and flight-feathers must be white.
                                     The Turbet.
    This pigeon is about the same size as the last-mentioned, but instead of
being adorned with a hood, it has a fine frilled shirt-front, or what looks like
one, the feathers of the breast standing out considerably, and falling contrary
ways. As the nuns are classed according to the colour of their heads, so are
the turbets of their shoulders — all the colour that the birds have being there
—the rest of the plumage being white. A short bill, a full frill, and a small
round head are the turbet's chief points of excellence.
                                      The Owl                                   ,
is thought by some to be but a variety of the turbet : it, too, has a breast-
frill, but it is not so large, and has a short beak, but it is more hooked, and the
eyes are more staring. The general colour of the bird is white, with black
bars across the wings ; sometimes it has a black tail, and sometimes there is a
yellow tinge over the white part.
                                    The Laugher
is a very rare kind of pigeon : it conies from the Holy Land and Arabia. In
colour it is a grey-mottle, called a haggle ; in shape and size it is like the com
mon dove-house pigeon : it makes a noise like the gurgling of water poured
out of a bottle, or suppressed laughter—hence its name.
                                      The Barb
came originally from Barbary: it has a short beak, a small wattle, and at a
distance might be taken for a carrier. Its chief distinction is a wrinkled skin-
around the eyes, of a pink colour. Barbs which are wholly black are most
valued ; but dun-coloured are not uncommon. There is also a white or cream-
coloured variety, which is said to be a cross-breed between the barb and
turbet ; it is called
                            The Mawmet, or Mahomet,
a name which appears to have been applied somewhat loosely to more than
one kind of pigeon, that commonly called the Scandinavian being sometimes
so termed.
   In old books on pigeon-breeding the Mahomet is described as having fea
thers of a cream-colour above, and of a smoke-colour underneath, with decided
black bars crossing the wings; the bill is something like that of the bullfinch,
and there is a small black wattle about it ; the feathers of the breast are
raised a little, so as to make a mark like a seam.
                                     The Magpie
is a variety of the tumbler which, for want of training or some other cause,
has lost the art of tumbling, and so has sunk down to be merely what fanciers

                                   PIGEONS.                                   559
call a " toy bird," pretty to look at, but without any special recommendation.
The body is white ; the head, crop, and shoulders, black, blue, or yellow.
                                  The Helmet
is a species now seldom seen in this country, although it was at one time not
uncommon. Except the tail, only the top of the head, in a line with the corners
of the mouth, is coloured, so that the bird seems to have on a cap or helmet.
    One variety is feather-footed, and this has the leg-feathers also coloured.
                                     The Spot
is another "toy pigeon," in size and form closely resembling the dove-house
kind. An oval spot on each side of the head and tail are the only coloured
parts, all the rest being white, with sometimes a creamy tinge. The birds are
distinguished as Black, Blue, or Red Spots.
                            The Dove-house Pigeon
we have kept till the last, because it is the commonest of all, and with us, as
with most persons, a great favourite. It is very close to the original type, if it
be not the same species as that from which all our domestic pigeons come.
 It so closely resembles the wild pigeons of this and other countries as to leave
little doubt of its being the same species, and, although the peculiarities of
many of the fancy kinds are so very marked and distinctive, yet such astonish
ing changes and diversities are produced by cross-breeding and cultivation
that we may well believe it possible for all these to have come from one
common stock.
    A very beautiful bird is the common pigeon, of a soft, silky slate-colour,
relieved with white, and barred and mottled with black, with green and purple
 reflections playing about the neck, a beautiful, a gentle, and a very useful
 bird; and most prohfic — a single pair will sometimes produce eight or ten
 pairs in the year. In pigeon matches, these birds arc shot by thousands
 under the name of " Blue Rocks," "' Rockies," or " Duffers ;" and it is their red
 feet that generally stick out of pigeon pies, and their eggs are the dainties
 on which so many feed. Whether they yield the milk that April fools are
 sent to fetch we cannot say ; but certain it is that those who go to fetch it
 must be themselves veritable " duffers."
    It is very interesting to watch their pretty ways, and easy though somewhat
 pompous movements, as they strut about the enclosure, circle in the air, or
 sit cooing on the house-top, as their wild relatives do in the depths of the leafy
 woods.
    We must now say a few words about
                               The Pigeon-House.
    The dove-cot, or cote, as it was formerly called, was a building attached to
 most farm-houses in the country in the olden times, as well as to mansions
 and family seats, but we do not so commonly see it now. Often it was a solid
 structure built of brick or stone, and forming quite an ornamental feature in
 the landscape.
    An old loft over a stable or outhouse, or a disused attic of a house, may be
 made available for the purpose ; it only requires compartments fitted ud for
 the different pairs of pigeons, which, if they have not separate resting-places,

  560                           HOME PETS.
will be constantly quarrelling and fighting, breaking their eggs, and killing
their squabs and squeakers. The window on the roof should not open to the
east, and should be made so as to form a platform, for the birds to alight on
when open, and to admit light and air when closed. We cannot here enter
into very minute particulars of treatment, but would enforce the necessity of
frequent cleaning, and fresh sand or coarse gravel on the floor, with a little
chalk or old mortar, and a sprinkling of salt, for the birds to go to when they
please : lime in some shape is essential to the formation of their egg-shells,
and they will pick the mortar from between the bricks all around if they have
not a supply provided for them. Rats, mice, and cats must be guarded
against; the first are very destructive of both eggs and young, and the last
 of old birds as well. Near to the entrance of the pigeon-house should be a
 chimney or other conspicuous object, painted or washed with white, as a land
 mark for the birds when flying home.
   A good and safe kind of pigeon-house is one made of wood, and fixed well
up against the side of a building, with a separate entrance for each compart
ment, or it may be a round structure like a barrel, fixed on the top of a post
or pole, and, by an arrangement of ropes and pulleys, made to draw up or
down, or it may be made easy of access by a rope or other ladder. But
whatever or wherever the house may be, it should always have an elevated
position.
   A pair of runts, or dove-house pigeons, if allowed to breed, will soon stock
the house, and keep up a good supply of eggs and squeakers. If new birds
are introduced, they should be young ones, as those fully grown, who have
been used to another house, will be pretty sure to return to it. A barbarous
practice prevails of plucking out the larger wing-feathers to prevent the flight
of such birds ; but this should never be done : the mutilated birds frequently
become diseased and die, besides which, as soon as they recover their powers
of flight, they will be the more likely to leave a place where they have been so
cruelly treated.
                                 Pigeon Food.
   Grey peas, with an occasional change of wheat, oats, or barley, and the
small beans known as pigeons' beans, which should be at least a year old,
are the best food. Rape and hemp-seed are sometimes given as a stimulant ;
but the last is of too heating a nature, and should be given very sparingly, if
at all. Both grain and seed should be clean and sound ; if decayed, they will
be full of mites, which are mischievous to the birds. A little green food is
desirable : mustard and cress, lettuce or cabbage, if grown within reach, will
'ic taken by pigeons if they are at large ; if not, something of the kind must
be put into their house or enclosure, taking care that the refuse is not left to
decay.
   Pigeons are said to be fond of strong odours ; and to sprinkle the floor of
their house with lavender, or assafoetida, or anything that smells powerfully, is
thought to be a good means of inducing new-comers to remain. To fatten
squabs, give maize steeped in water, and keep them under an inverted hamper,
or where they can have air without much light.
                                    DOVES.
   The Turtle, the Ring, and the Stock-Doves are the kinds most usually
kept : they do very well in large wicker cages, but better in houses built like
those for pigeons, with which they will sometimes associate.

                                   DOVES.                                    56i
   The first and third of the above-named are but summer visitors to this
country in their wild state, the second is always with us, and is commonly
known as the Great Wood Pigeon, the Cushat, or the Queen : it is the largest
of our native doves, and is a very handsome bird ; it has a crescent-shaped
mark of white, which nearly encircles the neck, and relieves the dark ashy
grey of the rest of the plumage. The iridescent play of colours about the
neck, which is observable in most of the pigeons, is very conspicuous in this
bird.
   Doves may be fed and treated like the pigeons generally.
                                  RABBITS.
   We have now got into a different division of the animal kingdom, and
jumped from feathered to furred, from two to four-footed pets, creatures that
live wholly upon the earth, and, being destitute of the organs of flight, cannot
escape, as birds often can, from man and other enemies. Many of them
are very useful to us: they yield us food and clothing, and in other ways
minister to our numerous wants, and -for this reason alone, but more for the
higher motive of humanity, they demand our tender care and consideration.
   But about rabbits, of which 80,000 are annually sold in London alone, these
come chiefly from Ostend and other parts of France and Holland, where
rabbit-breeding for the supply of the markets is chiefly carried on. In this
country there arc few large breeders who do it systematically for purposes of
profit, as it has not been found to pay. Rabbit-warrens there are in a great
many places where these animals burrow and breed, and from these we have
a large supply of tender delicate flesh to eat, and of soft brown skins of which
to make muffs and other articles of comfort and utility.
                                                                   36

562                           HOME PETS.
                                  WILD RABBIT.
                          Varieties of Rabbits.
   Great are the mysteries of rabbit-breeding, and strange the names given
to some of the varieties. Rabbits are classed in four divisions: Warreners,
Parkers, Hedgehogs, and Sweethearts. The first of these inhabit the sandy
warren, where their burrows honeycomb the earth, and afford a rich spoil
to the poacher as well as to the wild cat, the stoat, the weasel, and other
"varmint," as the country people call all four-footed depredators. The
                                  PEkFECT LOI\
second are found in the gentleman's park, where they are more protected,
and from whence they sometimes drive their near relatives, the hares. The
third are vagabond rabbits, living in holes in banks and chalk-pits, and all
sorts of out-of-the-way places, and wandering about the countr)' in a very
unsettled manner : they are the gipsies of their kind. The fourth are the tame
rabbits so sleek and well fed, who live a life of ease and comfort, and have
nothing to do but to eat and grow fat, that they in turn may be eaten and

                                  RABBITS.                                   563
 help to produce fatness on their devourers. But what are these? mere ple
 beians, that belong not to the aristocracy of rabbitdom, before we enter the
 sacred precincts of which we may mention one or two other kinds which are
 not strictly of the "fancy" order.
                                     HALF LOP.
   There is the Silver-sprigged rabbit, a modern introduction into this country,
 having a black coat mottled over with grey hairs ; and there is a larger variety
 coloured much like a hare, with flesh of a deeper tint and more gamey flavour
 than that of most rabbits; and there are the large white and white and
yellow kinds, with delicate flesh on their bones, and plenty of it : these we
often see in hutches, but then they are all flesh and fur, nothing more—mere
brute weight, as a fancier would say. They may do very well for boys to keep,
and people who want them to eat and clothe themselves withal ; but the "club"
would not look at them : they must have animals with ears, wonderful ears,
                                                              36—2

 5<M                             HOME PETS.
 of prodigious size, and of a certain shape and inclination, without which a
 rabbit is nought. Now these ears must not slope backwards as those of vulgar
rabbits do, they must "lop," and they must both lop in an equal degree ; some
perverse creatures will insist on cocking one ear, and lopping the other: away
 with them ! kill, skin, cook, and cat them ! do anything you like with them ;
 they are outcast pariahs, and do not belong to the "fancy." Then again these
 wonderful ears must lop in a particular way ; the forward or "horn lop," which
 makes a droop over the forehead, will not do; neither will the "oar lop," on
 which the cars spread out like the wings of a bird, or a man's arms in the
 act of swimming. That, however, is the nearest point to perfection, which
is the Real or Perfect Lop, which is so rare that our breeder thinks himself
fortunate if he can rear twelve of these in a year out of the offspring of
twenty of the handsomest and most perfect does he has.
                                      HORN LOP.
   In the real lop, the ears in their descent from the head describe the curve
which we see in the neck of the swan when it swims with its head somewhat
raised : the open parts of the cars turn inwards, and the tops touch the ground
when the animals stand. The pair of ears are of an equal length and breadth,
so as to be a perfect match. Another point of great importance in the fancy
rabbit is the dewlap beneath the chin : it should be large enough to support
the head of the creature like a cushion, when she lies on all fours.
   Fancy rabbits may be of a slaty blue colour, or white, or a mixture of tawny
and white, which is called tortoiscshell ; but whatever the ground colour may
be, they must have certain peculiar markings, in accordance with which they
are distinguished as Blue or Black Butterflies, &c Then there arc marks
called " the chain," and " the saddle," and the more distinctly these are made
out, the more perfect is the rabbit considered.
   Shape or " carriage," as it is called, is another point of excellence : a finely
arched back, reaching at least two inches higher than the top of the head, is
essential ; and the head held so low that the muzzle may almost, and the ears
quite, touch the ground. As much as ten guineas is sometimes given for a
well-bred fancy rabbit, and some that have taken prizes at the rabbit shows
which are held periodically throughout the country, fetch immense prices.

                                  RABBITS.                                    565
                                   Hutches.
   It is a common notion that anybody can make a rabbit-hutch out of any
thing, but this is a popular fallacy. True, an old tea-chest, or any kind of
box, will do for the purpose, and rabbits will live and thrive in very incommo
dious places ; but they will do best in a comfortable habitation, into which
neither the wet nor the cold wind can penetrate. Unless the stock is very
large, a portable hutch is better than a fixed one, in shape like the common
dog-kennel, with the shelving roof on both sides overlapping considerably, so
that small gimlet-holes for ventilation can be made along the top, protected
by the lap of the roof. It should be high enough for a division into an upper
and lower storey, the breeding-places being above. The floor should be of
beech or some other hardwood, that will not absorb urine and soft matter, which
make such places often smell so badly, and it should be frequently cleaned.
   The lower floor should be raised by legs or some other contrivance several
inches from the ground, and in this holes should be bored for drainage. Each
doe in the breeding-room above should have a separate compartment, which
can be got at without interfering with the others. The whole should have a
latticed front, but, if in an exposed situation, there should be a shutter also,
which can be put up in bad weather.
                                      Food.
   Rabbits will eat almost anything that is green, or, indeed, any vegetable food,
and thrive upon it : they are voracious eaters, and are particularly fond of sow-
thistle, carrots with the tops, cabbage, and lettuce-leaves ; they should also
have oat and barley-meal, corn, and hay. In the wild state they are animals
that feed in the twilight, so the morning and evening are the best times for
their supply of food. It is a disputed point whether they require water, and
with plenty of green food, perhaps they may do well without ; but when the
food is mostly dry, they should be supplied with this great requisite of animal
existence. The habit some does have of eating their young has been ascribed
to a sort of frenzy, produced by excessive thirst: one cause of this is un
doubtedly having more than the doe can well suckle, and her powers of sus
tenance should not be too highly taxed. If there are more than eight young
ones in a brood, some of them should be destroyed. A doe will not unfre-
quently bring up as many as twelve, and even fourteen, but this should not
be permitted. While she is suckling she should be well fed on barley-meal
and milk, with a little green food. The young may be taken from her when
they are eight weeks old ; they will then be able to feed themselves.
   Let none of my readers fancy they are going to make a fortune by rabbit-
breeding: it may be pleasant, but, as a rule, it is not profitable—the animals
eat too much, and skins and flesh fetch too little for this. Yet it is well for
young people to have pets, and rabbits are about as easily managed as any.
                                 SQUIRRELS.
   We hardly like to recommend these pretty creatures as home pets, as it
seems as if they could not be happy anywhere out of their native woods,
where they lead a life of almost incessant activity, springing about from tree
to tree, and playing among the leafy branches with their bushy tails turned
up over their backs, their pointed ears quivering, and their bead-like eyes
flashing, as it seems, with very joy. Wonderful are the leaps taken by them

566                             HOME PETS.
in their gambols in search for food, which consists chiefly of acorns and
other nuts ; they appear rather to fly than leap from place to place. They
are very light in proportion to their size, and there is no doubt that their
tails, which can be spread far out, greatly assists them by offering opposition
to the air, and preventing their sinking too rapidly through it. They are
great economizers of food, storing it carefully up for winter consumption,
                                  and forming several depots at different places,
                                  which their sagacity enables them to find al
                                  though the change of season may have com
                                  pletely altered the aspect of the landscape.
                                     The name Squirrel comes from the Greek
                                  sciurus, which is made up of two words signi
                                  fying shade and tail, which is indicative of the
                                  creature's habit of shading its entire body with
                                  its tail when at rest. It is commonly about fif
                                  teen inches long, of a bright red-brown above,
                                  and white underneath. It has long pointed
                                  ears, large black and sparkling eyes, short
                                  legs, with long toes armed with very sharp
                                  claws ; the upper lip is cleft or divided, like
                                  that of the hare; in each jaw there are two
                                  incisors, or cutting-teeth, very sharp ; the rest
                                  are moiars, or grinding-teeth. It is a shy
                                  timid creature, but may be tamed and ren
                                  dered very familiar; it is naturally playful,
                                  and when domesticated affords great amuse
                                  ment by its gambols.
                                      If you want to keep a pet squirrel, the best
                                  time to make your purchase is in September,
when the animals are in their best condition. See that the fur is sleek and
glossy, the feet clean, the eyes bright, and the teeth white : if the latter are
 yellow, the creature is old, and would be difficult to tame. Put your captive
 into a good roomy cage, a portion of which only is made to revolve, so that
 he can take his treadmill exercises when he likes ; give him plenty of nuts of
 any kind, the less oily the better, acorns, wheat, stale bread, a little boiled
 potato, and now and then cooked meat, a small piece only. Be gentle in all
 your doings with him, and he will soon come to know and love you. Beware
 of squirrels brought about by men who say they have caught and tamed
 them : if they look stupid and inactive, the chances are that they have been
 drugged to make them seem tame, and if they recover they will be wild and
 intractable.
                                     HARES.
    If taken quite young, when they are called "leverets," as juvenile rabbits
 are termed " conies," these animals often become quite tame and attached to
 their keepers. ' The poet Cowper had three of them, which used to sport about
 him as he sat in the summer-house at Olney. We have seen a tame leveret
 gambolling through,the house, on good terms with the dog and cat.
    Hares have even been brought to breed in confinement, like rabbits; but
  instances of this are rare. Naturally wild and timid, they will generally, even

                           HEDGEHOGS— MICE.                                     567
when brought up in confinement, take the first opportunity of escaping to the
woods. They require the same food as rabbits.
                                  HEDGEHOGS.
    If any of my young readers should feel inclined to keep an exaggerated
walking pincushion, with the points turned outwards, he had better get a
Hedgehog— which is not a hog at all, and only tesembles one in having a snout
fit to grub among the loose earth and decayed vegetation, where he picks up a
living, extracting sustenance from rubbish like a scavenger, as he is. Snails
and beetles, worms—almost anything that can be eaten — he eats; he sucks
eggs, neatly biting off the smaller end, and taking care to spill none ; he is
fond of milk—no doubt of that ; but that he empties the udders of the cows,
as they lie ruminating in the meadows, we altogether deny— he could not get
a teat into his mouth when the milk is trickling out, as is often the case, he
scents it, and prevents waste by licking it up. He does not climb fruit trees
in order to bite off the fruit close to the stalks that they may fall to the
ground, and he, by rolling himself among them, may carry them off on the
points of his spines, and feast on them at leisure, with his young. All these
are calumnies, which those who have observed the habits of the animal know
to be such. But ignorance and prejudice are strong, and so the harmless and
useful hedgehog gets classed among the " varmint," and killed whenever his
persecutors can catch him. The gipsies, too, catch and roast him for his flesh,
which is said to be very delicious.
   The hedgehog is a great destroyer of troublesome and noxious creatures,
and any one who is troubled with rats, mice, or cockroaches, should get one
of these English porcupines, which, as we said before, eats almost anything,
and does not appear to suffer from the bite ot the most venomous snakes. It
is a nocturnal or night-feeder, and, when shut up in the kitchen, makes a
tremendous clatter among the pots and pans in its search for creatures to
devour. All the day it sleeps in some snug hole or corner, and when all is
still sallies forth. Some animal (ood should always be left out for it, as with
out this it will pine and die. When danger approaches, it assumes the form
of a prickly ball, which it is disagreeable, if not dangerous, to touch or handle.
Rover may cautiously touch it with his foot and bark at it ever so furiously,
the globe of sharp spines defies him ; and presently, when he is gone, the globe
will begin to unroll ; the snout will come out first, then the head, then the feet,
and the creature will go grunting and shuffling off triumphantly, to potter
about in a hide-and-seek sort of fashion during the summer, and, on the
approach of winter, to dig a hole in the earth, and bury himself there, or to
creep into a rat-hole or rabbit-wa.rren, or under a pile of leaves or other vege
table matter, and await the return of spring and genial weather.
                                       MICE.
   People have made pets of spiders, lizards, snakes, even rats— all sorts of
living creatures—why not of Mice? They are very pretty, lively, and in
teresting animals, are not very difficult to tame, and evince great attachment
to their keepers, or feeders, we ought to say—for, after all, the way to the affec
tions of any animal is through the stomach.
   There are several kinds of mice which are sometimes kept, but the most

568                             HOME PETS.
common is the Mus domesticus, as naturalists call the little sleek grey-coated
creature which is the terror of thrifty housewives. If you wish to tame it you
must take it when quite young, and place it with others of the same brood
or same size in a cage with a wire front, but a solid back and sides : let the
little prisoners have something warm and soft to lie upon placed in a covered
corner, and give them bread and milk to eat. If you whistle or make some
other noise whenever you take them their food, they will soon learn to asso
ciate the sound with the pleasures of eating, and come forth at the summons.
When they have got beyond childhood, they will eat grain, stale cheese, and
almost anything you like to give them. If you mean to breed them, there
must be a division in the cage to separate the mamma from the papa, who has
an ugly trick of eating his offspring if he has access to them when they are
young and tender. The nursery should also be separated from the common
apartment, which should be in the front, and here should be placed a revolving
cylinder of wire, for the performance of mouse gymnastics, which will be greatly
facilitated also by a number of bars and brackets, fixed in the corners and
elsewhere. It is very amusing to watch the antics of the little climbers and
leapcrs, who are wonderfully agile and graceful in their movements. Their
 cage should be kept very clean, and water should be easy of access.
    White and parti-coloured mice are generally more valued than the com
mon sort: they can be obtained without much difficulty by those who are
willing to purchase, and from" them the fancy sorts may be bred.
    Several instances are recorded of mice that emitted musical sounds, some
thing like a soft low warble, and it has been thought by some that this musical
power might be cultivated, so that they might become really " singing mice."
 But we much doubt this : their vocal organs are very different from those of
 birds. We are more inclined to believe that the whiffling or piping noise is
 the result of disease in the lungs or air-passages.
    The DORMOUSE is by some naturalists classed with the squirrel, which in
 many of its ways it resembles very closely. It is about the same size as the
 common species, but has a rounder body and a more blunt nose ; it is of a
 reddish-brown colour above, and white underneath. The life of this animal is
 passed chiefly in the woods—a very active one in summer, but quite the reverse
 in winter, through the greater part of which it sleeps in some snug hole, lined
 with soft substances, and carefully prepared beforehand. As soon as the
 weather becomes mild it wakes up, and visits one of its magazines of nuts, of
 which it usually has several in different places. When in its somnolent state
 it may be captured easily if it can be found ; but in the summer, when wide
 awake, it is one of the most difficult animals to catch. When taken, it should
 be wrapped up warm, and kept in a box lined with flannel or cotton wool, and
 fed upon nuts, grain, bread, &c It will become tame, and may be let out to
  play about the room when there is no cat near. It requires water or milk, like
  other mice.
     The Shrew and the Harvest Mouse are both tiny creatures, the latter
 especially, it being the smallest of British quadrupeds, or four-footed animals.
  These two species scarcely come under the denomination of Pets, being rarely,
  if ever, kept in confinement.
                                 GUINEA PIGS.
     It has been said that if you take a Guinea Pig up by the tail its eyes will
  drop out ; but whether this is a " fact" in natural history we cannot say, never

             GUINEA PIGS— TORTOISES-FERRETS.                                    569
having tried the experiment: if any of our readers do so, we shall be glad to
know the result. Another puzzle connected with this animal is the name : it
is not a pig at all, and it did not come from Guinea, but from South America;
perhaps a guinea was given for the first specimen brought over, and its general
shape being something like that of a miniature swine, this name was given to
it. Whether that be so or not, domestication has very much altered the
appearance of this creature; in the wild state it is much less plump, and
mostly of an uniform grey or slate-colour, with a reddish tinge, not variegated
as we see it now. Then again, in its native wilds it breeds but once a year, and
produces but one or two little ones, whereas a tame guinea pig is wonderfully
prolific, five or six litters of eight each being by no means unusual. It seems
to be a connecting link between the mice and the rabbits. It was formerly
believed that no rat would come near the place where it was kept, and for this
reason those who had rabbits generally had guinea pigs also ; but as the rats
have frequently eaten them and the rabbits too, they have lost their value as
protectors of the hutches, and what other use they are nobody knows. Yet
they are among the most popular of children's pets. Let them be kept warm,
 have plenty of vegetable food, and they will do very well.
                                     TORTOISES.
    If you buy a Tortoise, or have one given to you, leave it alone as much
 as possible ; let it have the run of the garden, or any place where there is
 plenty of juicy vegetation, and it will take care of itself. You need not be
 afraid of treading on it, for its beautifully constructed shell, so strongly pro
 tected is this curious animal, that a loaded waggon might pass over without
 crushing it. This is Mr. Slow-and-sure, who, you know, beat the hare in a
 race, because he kept steadily on at an even pace, while she run a little way
 and then slept, thinking she could easily make up for lost time. Although
 no great traveller, the tortoise often disappears for awhile as though he had
 gone on a long journey, but he is all the time close at hand down in the earth,
 or under a heap of dead leaves or rubbish, lying in a torpid state, as do lizards,
 snakes, and other cold-blooded animals, as they are called, for this creature be
 longs to the class of reptiles, which are wonderfully tenacious of life : some of
 them have lived and moved with their brains taken out, and even with their
 heads off; as to the loss of a limb, that seems a mere trifle to them. The turtle
 of which the famous soup is made, is a Water Tortoise, or rather, we should
 perhaps say, that shelly pet is a Land Turtle. Although the shell is so thick
 and strong, yet it is very sensitive: the slightest tap on it, or even the pattering
  of a few drops of rain, will make the creature draw in its snake-like head and
  scaly legs. It will live an immense time without food, and live to an extra
  ordinary age, some say hundreds of years.
                                     FERRETS,
   THEIR MANAGEMENT, AND THE SPORT TO BE DERIVED FROM THEIR USE.
     To those of our young friends who reside in the country the keeping of
  these animals will be found to be a source of the greatest amusement, and as
  the cost of them is but trifling (a good ferret averaging in price from 5-r. to

S7o                                 FERRETS.
lof. or 12s.), we can strongly recommend their being included in the list of
live stock connected with every country house.
    Before, however, alluding to the sport to be derived from them, we will briefly
draw attention to the miserable way in which these poor creatures are usually
treated, and endeavour to point out how they may be successfully managed
with really but very little trouble.
    The ferret is naturally a very clean animal, and cleanliness is the principal
thing to be attended to. If this be disregarded, ferrets are a source of con
stant anxiety to their keeper and of misery to the poor creatures themselves.
More disease is engendered by neglect of it than by anything else, and as it
is so very easily avoided, it is most unpardonable to subject a poor animal to the
misery it entails.
    It appears to be considered by most people that any place in which a ferret
can be confined without the possibility of escape is all that is requisite, and an
old tub is the commonest form of domicile selected for the poor brute. In it
is thrown a handful of straw, which is seldom or never changed, and in this
wretched place (rendered positively putrid by the remains of garbage of all
kinds thrown into it, and the consequences of its having no means of exit) it
is doomed to pass the greater part of its horrible existence.
    We will now endeavour to describe what a ferret-hutch ought to be, and we
feel certain it will amply repay our young friends for any trouble or expense
they may go to in its construction. The plan is that of Captain Darwin, whose
experience in game preserving, trapping, &c, is as well known as it is de
 servedly appreciated. It is made as follows:
    The hutch should be 4 ft. long, 18 in. wide, and 22 in. deep, having two
 partitions dividing the box into two compartments of 18 in. each, one at each
 end, and one, l ft. wide, in the middle. These partitions should be made to
 lift up and down, sliding between small fillets of thin wood. Each of the par
 titions should have near its bottom a hole 3 in. in diameter, to allow the ferrets
 to pass in and out, and to each should be a small sliding door capable of
 adjustment by means of a stout wire, so that the ferrets can be confined at
 pleasure in either compartment during the process of cleaning, feeding, &c,
 by simply drawing the wire, which should be carried through the front of the
 hutch. The centre compartment should be filled three parts full of clean
 wheat-straw, which need only be changed occasionally. The compartment at
 one end should be used exclusively as a feeding-place, and that at the other
  devoted to purposes of cleanliness, and should be fitted with a wooden tray
  lined with zinc or lead, with two handles to lift it out by, and should always
  have in it a layer of dry sand or sawdust about an inch thick, and should be

                                      FERRETS.                                  57i
 thoroughly cleaned out and washed every morning. The hutch should have
 three separate lids (one for each compartment), so that they can be opened or
 closed independently of each other. By this means, and by making use of the
 sliding doors, the ferrets can be confined in any compartment while the other
                   ^ss» •   • m   •""*"£/•} • ' K^-V« - m + *"*"~^
                                                          —1
                             FCCOiNC   PLACE     SLEEPING
                                                    PLACE  1
                   •    •        •                         ;
                                      \Sy            \^S   TRAV.-" V-v,t-i.
two are being cleaned, &c All the lids should be bored with holes at intervals
of about 3 in., J in. in diameter, and it is as well to have a few bored all round
the sides of the hutch.
   Having thus described the hutch, we will proceed to give a few hints as to
the management of ferrets. They should be fed regularly every evening at one
stated hour, and no better food can be given them than birds of any kind, and
they should be as fresh as possible. Give them also bread and milk (the milk
should be first boiled), but take care that it is not in the slightest degree sour,
for it is very apt to " scour " them ; and be particular in seeing that the saucer
in which it is placed is constantly scalded.
   It need scarcely be remarked that ferrets should never be fed before working
them, but they should be placed in their hutch directly they are brought in
from their work, and fed as soon as possible. If fed before they are used,
they will, in the first place, work very badly, and what is worse, will " lie up,"
and go to sleep in the burrows, and in all probability be lost.
   When ferreting for rabbits, they should always be muzzled ; and we would
here call the attention of our young friends to the barbarous practice adopted
by some keepers, of sewing up their mouths, in the confident hope that they
will never lend themselves to such revolting cruelty, particularly as it is quite
unnecessary, and as an easier, a simpler, and more efficacious plan can be
made use of, which we will now endeavour to describe.
   Take a piece of whipcord, about 18 in. long, and double it, and at the
doubled end tie a knot, so as to form a small loop ; then (another person
holding the ferret) place this loop on the upper part of the neck just behind
the ears, allowing the two ends of the string to fall one on each side of the
neck ; then tie them together in a double knot under the throat sufficiently
tightly to prevent the string slipping forward over the head ; then pass the
two ends forward, and tie another double knot even with the corners of the
mouth ; pass the two ends upwards, and tie another double knot above the
nose, and finally, pass one of the ends through the loop on the neck, and tie
the two ends tightly together. This, if properly done (and it is very easy),
makes the best and most effectual muzzle, and can be removed with a knife
in an instant. We are aware that there are small muzzles made of thin leather
straps to be had at some of the gunmakers', but we much prefer the above
plan.

572                                FERRETS.
   It is a bad plan to begin to handle young ferrets until they are nearly half
grown : if handled too young, the mother is apt to destroy them. They should
at first only be handled occasionally, and this should be done boldly ; and on
no account should the hand be snatched away from them : nothing is more
likely to make them bite. As a matter of precaution, it is advisable, perhaps,
at first to wear a thick dog-skin glove ; and it is a curious fact, that although
a ferret may probably seize your fingers if presented to him, he will seldom or
never attempt to bite yourfist if the knuckles are pushed boldly towards him.
As they get older they may be frequently handled, and they will soon learn to
be perfectly harmless. If one should unfortunately seize your hand, you may
make him loosen his hold by pressing him tightly with your thumb under the
throat, or, as we have found equally effectual, by taking a long breath, and then
blowing steadily but strongly into his nostrils : this prevents his breathing, and
in gasping for breath he releases his hold. This plan may, of course, be adopted
when, for the purpose of getting him out of a burrow, you have allowed him
to seize a rabbit, &c.
   You will find that the generality of keepers, &c, carry ferrets in a bag :
nothing can be worse, as by their own weight they are squeezed together, and
if more than one, the stronger gets uppermost, and the weaker, of course, be
comes much distressed. They will keep lively double the time if carried in a
small box, with a piece of perforated zinc in the lid.
   The only two diseases that we are aware of to which ferrets are liable is
what is called the " sweat " and " foot-rot." The former may be prevented,
and, indeed, cured by perfect cleanliness, and the latter by an application of
creosote to the part affected with a feather.
   Should either of such diseases attack your kennel of ferrets, they should at
once be transferred to a new hutch, and the one they have left well scalded,
purified with whitewash, and again scalded and dried before being again used.
   Having, we think, described all that is necessary for the management of
ferrets, we will now give a few hints that may be of service as regards their
use, and the sport that may be derived from it.
   From the fear of losing them when "working" for rabbits, it is the usual
plan to " run " them with a line attached to a small leathern collar round their
 necks. No better plan can be adopted on a sandy soil, where there are no
 roots of trees or rocks ; but if such be present, the line is nearly certain to get
 entangled among them, and if such should be the case, you have the choice
 of two alternatives—that of leaving your ferret to die a miserable death, or
 of digging down and following the line until he is rescued ; and in many situa
 tions, such as in woods, hedgerows, &c, this expedient is simply impossible.
 You had far better, therefore, in such situations, " run " your ferret loose, and
 trust to the chance of his coming out of the burrow, than incur the risk of
 his being strangled. We remember a laughable incident which occurred to
 us some years ago. We had been using a very favourite ferret, which was as
 tame as a kitten, in a hedgerow by the side of a wood, and after shooting four
 or five rabbits which had " bolted," we could hear nothing of poor " Pug."
 We sat watching most anxiously for her return, but there were no signs of it.
 The boy who was with us was sent to a farm-house close at hand for a bundle
 of straw and a lantern, for we were determined to make ourselves as comfort
 able as circumstances would permit, and remain all night on the spot rather
 than lose poor Pug. The straw was placed in a hollow a few yards from the
  burrow by which she had entered, and a rabbit pegged down at its mouth,

                                   FERRETS.                                     573
with the lantern placed so as to cast a light upon it. Burying ourselves in the
straw, for it was a cold October evening, we watched hopefully and patiently,
and at length, as it appeared, fell asleep. On awaking somewhere about
midnight, and excessively cold, we found the greater part of the neck and
shoulder of the rabbit eaten away, and Miss Pug comfortably asleep amongst
the straw on which we were lying. We were amply repaid for the loss of our
dinner, and all the discomfort we had undergone, by the recovery of poor Pug.
    Ferreting for rabbits may appear to the uninitiated a very simple and easy
operation ; but in this, as in almost everything else, there is a right and a wrong
way of going to work, and the hope of sport and success is dependent almost
entirely upon the way in which it is practised. In approaching a sand-bank—
where there are sure to be burrows if there are any rabbits in the neighbour
hood, or, indeed, in any situation — the principal thing to be observed is quiet
ness and silence, and whether it is the intention to shoot rabbits as they
" bolt " from the burrows, or to catch them in nets placed over the mouths of
the burrows—which we shall presently describe— this is equally essential. If
any noise—caused either by walking about more than is absolutely necessary,
or by loud talking—is made, but very small chance of success may be looked
for; for in such a case rabbits will rather allow themselves to be scratched tq
death (for ferrets will do this if prevented from biting by their muzzles) rather
than bolt ; but if the operation is carried on noiselessly, and on a fine day, they
will leave the "earths" very freely, and present capital shots as they go away.
Endeavour, if possible, to allow them to get some yards clear of any earths
or burrows before firing ; for if a rabbit has a minute's life left in him after he
is struck, he will crawl into a burrow, and there die. Take up your position
above the earths if on a bank, and if on flat ground at one side, behind a bush
or tree, or in any situation most likely to screen you from view from the rabbits
as they first emerge from their holes. If they sec you (and rabbits generally
stop for a moment at the mouth of a burrow before they make their bolt), they
frequently return, and are difficult to move afterwards. In this situation, unless
tolerably near them, do not attempt to fire ; for unless killed dead on the spot,
they will most certainly return into the hole, and offer a greater temptation to
your ferrets to " lie up."
    When not using a gun, recourse must be had to nets. They are easily made
of stout string, and meshes about 2 in. square, and should be about 18 in. long
and 9 wide. The meshes at each end should be looped round a piece of wood,
having a hole at each end of it, as shown in the drawing. A piece of stout
string should be laced through the meshes at each side of the net. and passed
through the hole in the wood, and the two ends tied together. When in use
the net is stretched out so as to cover the mouth of the burrow, and the " bend "
of the string at a and B is slightly pegged down to the ground, or passed over
a twig or root that may offer. It will be seen that directly a rabbit bolts into
it, the two pieces of wood slide up the string, and he is at once confined in a bag.
He must be taken out as quietly as possible, and the net set again. The string
need not be pegged down tightly ; all that is required is that there should be

 574                                  FERRETS.
 sufficient resistance to the bolt of the rabbit to ensure the pieces of wood being
 drawn together.
    If a ferret lies up, it is generally because he cannot compel a rabbit to bolt ;
 and if after waiting some time he does not make his appearance, the only
 course to be adopted is to dig him out, and much time and labour may be
 spared if this be done in a proper manner. The first thing to ascertain is the
 exact spot as near as possible where he is, and by a little practice this may be
 easily done. First, by means of a long thin twig, discover the direction the
 burrow takes ; then lie on the ground face downwards, and by holding the
breath and applying your ear to the ground, you will soon perceive the rumbling
noise a rabbit makes in his endeavour to avoid the attack of a ferret; then by
 shifting your position, guided by the sound, you will soon come directly over
it ; then at once dig down. By placing a dead rabbit into the hole, your ferret
will, as soon as you come to the burrow, be at once induced to follow it, and
he is then easily secured.
    We do not advocate using the same ferrets for rats and rabbits, and we need
 scarcely add that, when " working " for rats, ferrets should never be muzzled
 or run with a line. A large old rat is a formidable antagonist, and it would
.be an act of cruelty to deprive your ferret of his means of defence.
    For rabbits we prefer the white ferrets, but we consider the polecat ferret
 the best sort for rats.
    When a ferret has young ones, care should be taken that she is well and
 regularly fed. Don't give her much meat, but a plentiful supply of new milk,
 warm, with bread sopped in it, and be particularly careful that the saucer in
 which it is placed is kept perfectly sweet by being regularly scalded.
    Avoid all acts of cruelty in feeding your ferrets. It is by many people
 considered necessary that their food, whether birds, young rabbits, &c, should
 be given to them alive. This is a mistake. Let their food be as fresh as
possible, but avoid inflicting unnecessary torture, and kill as quickly as pos
 sible any bird, &c, with which they are fed.

                                   ^pisticulfurt.
         ARTIFICIAL FISH-HATCHING AND CULTURE.
   Amongst the numerous and varied discoveries of modern times, that of fish-
hatching by artificial means has undoubtedly and most deservedly commanded
its share of public attention, and it is certainly a matter of wonder that, among
the many keen observers of the nature and habits of the inferior animals who
have added to the stores of science in bygone days, and even in our own times,
the idea should have remained so long undeveloped. It has, however, at last
been turned to account, and whether the process may be pursued by our young
friends with a view to its utilization in stocking rivers, &c, or simply as a
source of amusement and instruction, we feel sure that their attention to the
method of accomplishing it, which we shall endeavour to point out, will not
be in vain.
   Before proceeding, however, to give instructions as to spawning the fish, &c,
it will be necessary to explain the apparatus required for the purpose, and the
simplest method of arranging it.
   In the first place, it must be borne in mind that it is indispensably necessary
that there should be a continual supply of running water; for so sensitive
are the young fry when first hatched, that we have known several instances of
them dying in consequence of some trifling circumstance having occurred
which for two or three hours had stopped the supply of water, and thus ren
dered it stagnant in the troughs in which
the young fry were placed. Proximity to a
river or pond supplied by a spring, pro
vided a sufficient fall can be obtained, is
most desirable if it can be commanded,
although the supply of water afforded by a
cistern will answer the purpose. Mr. Frank
Buckland, whose name and reputation are
world-wide as a practical naturalist, and
who has justly been appointed one of
 Her Majesty's Inspectors of Fisheries, and
who has done more for the advancement
and protection of our fisheries than any
man, has hatched and brought to maturity
many thousands of ova, both of the salmon
 and trout, with no other supply of water
 than that from the ordinary scullery cis
 tern, the mode of adapting which we will
 now describe. The best troughs in which
the ova are placed are made of slate, but for all practical purposes they are
 equally good if constructed of wood the number of them will, of course, de
 pend upon the extent to which the operation is carried on. These troughs

576               FISH-HATCHING AND CULTURE.
should be made 36 in. long, 6 in. wide, and 5 in. deep, and should be placed
on a stand, arranged like a staircase, the bottom of one trough on a level with
the top of the next, as in the woodcut.
   A continual stream of water must be conveyed into the upper trough, as
at A. A short piece of leaden or zinc pipe must be fixed in the upper trough,
as at B, and similar ones at C and D, so that the overflow of the upper trough
supplies the lower. The stream of water need not be larger than an ordinary
drawing-pencil. The bottom of each trough should be evenly covered with a
layer, 2 in. deep, of fine shingle, which should be boiled before being used, in
order to destroy any insects or tneir larvae which might be amongst it. The
depth of water above the shingle should not exceed 2 in. It is also indispens
ably necessary that both the ova and the young fish in their first stage of
existence should be kept in darkness ; the troughs, therefore, should have thin
boards fitted to them, but movable, with a small hole at one end, in which the
supply-pipe must be inserted. The supply-pipe at A had better be fitted with
a small tap, so that the stream of water can be regulated to a nicety. Between
the cistern and the troughs it is a good plan to have a small cask nearly filled
with alternate layers of small shingle and charcoal, which thoroughly cleanses
the water in its passage. The pipes from the cistern should, of course, be .
carried to the top of this cask, and that supplying the troughs from the bottom
of it.
   When the ova are procured they should be placed evenly on the shingle in
the troughs, and the water allowed to flow incessantly over them.
   The only care that need be bestowed upon the ova until they arc hatched is
to prevent the accumulation of dirt of any kind, and to remove all eggs in
which there is no vitality, which are easily distinguishable by their opaque
white colour. This may be done either with a glass syphon or with a thin
piece of wood with a small brass ring at the end of it, like that at the bottom
of an ordinary fishing-float. There is one maxim which it is advisable should
be adhered to : it is one than which nothing is theoretically more easy, but
which, practically, it is found few things are more difficult : it is simply to
leave them alone ! More than half the young fry which are lost are killed by
an over anxiety for their well-being, which would in all probability have come
to maturity if this simple prescription had been adopted.
   In order to guard against the escape of the young fry from one trough to
the other, a small piece of finely-perforated zinc should be placed across the
 corners of the troughs where the water passes through the pipes, which will
also have the effect of preventing the egress of any accumulation of dirt, &c,
 which may accidentally have got into the water. It is also advisable to have
 pieces of slate, tile, &c, supported by stones, &c, in each trough, with a space
of about an inch above the shingle, as the young fish delight in hiding them
selves under anything that will thus afford them shelter.
    It would appear from this that in this early stage of existence the action of
light is most offensive, if not injurious, to their dehcate organs of vision, and,
 indeed, to their life ; for it must be remembered that in their natural state the
 young fry remain buried in the gravel at the bottom of the river until they
 become perfect fish: i.e., until they lose the umbilical vesicle or sac, which
 contains the only sustenance they require up to a certain period. When this
is no longer necessary it is absorbed, and the little stranger emerges from his
 gravelly bed, which he is obliged to do in search of food, with which he is no
 longer provided.

                 FISH-HATCHING AND CULTURE.                                   577
   Our young friends, having followed the directions we have endeavoured to
give, will now be in a position to commence operations. It must be borne in
mind that trout spawn at different seasons of the year in different rivers, vary
ing from September to February. We will suppose, then, that they have ob
tained the permission of the owner of a trout stream, and that the apparatus,
as above described, is in good working order.
   A light and portable drag-net, a large shallow tub, filled with water, to re
ceive the fish when caught, and a shallow tin dish, in which to impregnate the
ova, and a good-sized fish-kettle, to carry home the ova when impregnated,
will complete the apparatus necessary at the river-side.
   The plan adopted by Mr. Buckland (and we cannot do better than follow
the example of so experienced a practitioner) is to have two nets, and having
selected a spot in the river in the shallows where the trout congregate to spawn,
fix our net across the stream ; then commence dragging the stream with the
other net slowly towards it. When the net is drawn ashore, remove the fish
from it as soon as possible, and place them in the large tub.
   When the fish are caught, examine them one by one. If the ova of the fe
male be ripe, they will pour out from the abdomen at the slightest pressure of
the hand. Handle the fish very tenderly. If the milt of the male fish be ripe,
it will also upon the slightest pressure be observed to flow out like thin milk.
   Fill your tin dish three parts full of clean water from the stream.
   Return all unripe fish to the river.
   Take a female fish that is ripe ; hold her head with your left hand ; get an
assistant to steady the tail ; gently submerge the lower part of the body into
your bowl ; then gently and carefully pass your right hand downwards from
the head to the tail, the thumb and forefinger gently compressing the abdomen,
the other fingers following. You should also slightly bend the fish backwards
in a bow-shaped form. If the eggs are quite ripe, you will see in an instant
that they will all pour out into the water, following each other in most rapid
succession. Continue the downward pressure as long as the eggs continue to
come out, and take the greatest care that the vent of the fish, during the
operation, is kept the whole time under water. The eggs should run out
quite freely. No force is necessary: if it be found to be requisite to dislodge
the eggs, you may feel quite sure the parent fish is not ripe enough to spawn.
   The eggs being collected at the bottom of the shallow tin vessel, take a
male fish. Press the abdomen in the same way as you treated the female,
and if he be quite ripe, the milt will instantly escape and discolour the water,
giving it a milk-white appearance. Stir the eggs and milt gently together
with the hand, and leave them quiet for three or four minutes, then pour fresh
water into the tin, allowing the discoloured water to escape, until that in the
tin is perfectly clear. If this be neatly and properly done, the eggs will have
been sufficiently impregnated. Then pour the water, eggs and all, into the
fish-kettle in which they are to be taken home, and let them be placed with
as little delay as possible in the troughs. If you have any distance to carry
them, they should be taken as gently as possible. If per railway, it is a good
plan to suspend the can by its handle on a stick placed between the seats.
   Although it is quite possible to wash the eggs in an open shallow dish or
pan, yet it is by no means an easy operation to any but those who have had
considerable practice ; we will, however, describe it, and afterwards give direc
tions for making a simple apparatus, which may be used by the most inex
perienced person without the possibility of failure. The usual plan is to place
                                                                    37

578               FISH-HATCHING AND CULTURE.
the ova as soon as they are impregnated in a shallow tin dish with a small
quantity of water (for it must be borne in mind that the eggs must never even
for a moment be exposed to the air, but kept constantly immersed in water).
The operator must then stand in the water looking " up stream," and, holding
the dish with his hands one on each side, must slowly and steadily lower the
end of the dish farthest from him, so as to allow the water to flow gently into
it, keeping his eye on the end of the dish next to him, in order to sec that
none of the eggs flow out ; the fresh water flowing in will drive out the dirty
water, and in a minute or two the eggs will be found to be perfectly clean ; they
must then be at once poured, water and all, into the can in which they are
to be conveyed to the troughs.
    We have designed a can for the purpose, which, while it will most effectually
cleanse the ova, will entirely prevent the possibility of their escape. It can
be made by any tinman. Its dimensions are as follow : 12 in. long, 9 in. wide,
and 3 in. deep, with a piece of thick plate glass let into the lid. as shown in
                                           the drawing. The upper half of each
                                           end should be made of a piece of per
                                           forated zinc, and one end at which the
                                           water will enter should be made quite
                                           flat and square with the top, and the
                                           other slanting off, as shown. The piece
                                           of zinc at the slanting end should be
                                           made to slide out by being pulled up
                                           wards. The glass in the lid will admit
                                           of the eggs being examined to see if
 they are sufficiently washed before placing them in the can for conveyance
home. To wash the eggs, all that is necessary to be done is to open the lid,
pour them into it, close the lid, and immerse it in the stream with the flat end
against it ; the water will then, of course, flow through the perforated zinc at
one end and out at the other, and the eggs will then be perfectly cleansed with
out any loss. When the operation is complete, the piece of zinc at the slant
ing end should be lifted up and the contents poured into the can.
    Very little of the milt of the male fish is sufficient to impregnate the ova of
many females.
    The eggs or ova being placed in the troughs in the manner before described,
 they should be allowed to remain quiet and undisturbed, excepting so far as it
 is necessary to remove the dead eggs, &c.
    If the eggs be carefully examined from about thirty to thirty-five days after
 they are taken from the parent fish, two small dark spots will be discovered :
 these are the eyes of the future fish ; and about the same number of days after
 the eyes appear the young fish may be expected to burst out from the shell,
 and as they have been taken from the parent fish on the same day, their arrival
 may be looked for about the same time. No further care is necessary than
 that which has been bestowed upon the eggs, nor is it requisite to do anything
 more than to see that the water is supplied in a continuous stream, that all
 dirt and scum is carefully removed, and that water-insects of every- kind are
 expelled from the troughs. An inspection once or twice a day is all that is
 required, and, with this exception, the little family may be left entirely to itself
 until its members are entitled to the denomination of fish, and, indeed, until
 they have become so for some little time. It is, we believe, the general prac
 tice to transfer the young fish from the troughs in which they were hatched to

                 FISH-HATCHING AND CULTURE.                                  579
n small stream prepared for the purpose adjacent to a river; but we are in
clined to think that it is advisable to have a trough made on a larger scale,
but exactly on the same plan, and fed with water in precisely the same way,
in which they should be deposited for some two or three weeks before being
transferred to the stream before mentioned. The trough for this purpose
should be made 9 ft. long, 18 in. wide, and 9 in. deep. The shingle at the
bottom of it should be of the same depth as in the smaller troughs ; but the
depth of water above the shingle should be about 3 in. ; this will leave about
4 in. above the water, and will prevent the loss of many young fish, as they
will occasionally jump out of the water, and, but for this precaution, would
tail over the sides of the trough and come to an untimely end.
    The only alteration necessary in the arrangement of this larger trough is
in the supply of the water. Instead of allowing it to flow directly into the
trough through the small pipe, the better way is to plug up the end of the
pipe entirely and carry it across the end of the trough, and perforate it at in
tervals of half an inch with a number of small holes, as shown in the cut.
The reason of this is that the fall of water makes a greater splash, and there
fore aerates the water to a much greater extent than if it simply flowed into
the trough through the end of the pipe in one stream.
    As soon as the umbilical vesicle or sac on the young fish has been absorbed,
it, of course, derives no other nutriment than that which it is able to find in
the water, and although no doubt the minute animalcuke in the water itself
afford a certain amount of nourishment, it has been found in practice that
something more is required ; and, if one watches attentively the greedy way
in which the young fry rush at and devour every particle of food which is given
them, it is evident that what is thus provided for them is not altogether need
less. At first, of course, it must be given in very minute quantities; a little
of the finest biscuit powder, the yolk of a hard-boiled egg scraped very fine,
and boiled liver allowed to get cold and then grated or scraped, is found, we
believe, to be the best food that can be given.
   After the young fish have been some five or six weeks in the larger trough,
they should be advanced enough to be turned out, and, if it be practicable, it
is advisable to monopolize some twenty or thirty yards of a small natural
stream for the purpose of completing their education, before being turned out
on the wide world to shift for themselves. When the spot has been fixed upon,
we should recommend a dam of brick or woodwork being thrown across it,
so as to create, if possible, a mimic fall of some two or three inches, and the
upper part of the dam should have a piece of finely-perforated zinc placed
upon it, which will keep the water clean and free from scum, weeds, &c ; and
to protect this, it is as well to place a faggot or two across the stream above
it, which will relieve the zinc from too great pressure. At the lower end of
the nursery a similar dam should be placed, in order to prevent the escape of
                                                               37—2

580               FISH-HATCHING AND CULTURE.
the fish. In the stream itself some large stones, roots, &c, should be placed,
under which the young fry can shelter themselves.
   If it be practicable, the best situation for the nursery is close to a waterfall.
Send your supply-pipe from the stream above the fall, and allow your waste-
pipe to discharge itself below it. You will thus insure a constantly running
stream ; whereas, if your nursery be made by the side of a stream without
this fall, it will have no stream of itself, but be simply dead water, and very
soon that adjective may be applied to your fish. Supposing your nursery to
be all that is desirable, the young fish from the trough should be turned into
it as soon as they are about ii in. long, care being taken to protect them from
the tender mercies of kingfishers, herons, &c, by having a piece of net stretched
over them. As a rule, they will generally find food enough in the shape of
insects, but it is still advisable to feed them, and there is no better plan than
to suspend at the end of a stick fixed in the ground, and overhanging the
water, the body of any animal or bird you may be able to procure; for as it
decomposes, the gentles or maggots will fall into the stream, and keep up a
supply of food for many days.
   We regret that our necessarily limited space will not admit of our going:
more fully into detail, but we trust that the foregoing instructions, acquired
as they have been by actual practical experience, may be found sufficient at
least to enable our young readers to practise successfully artificial fish-hatching:
r.nd culture.

                             CHEMISTRY.
   Chemistry is the science which teaches us the nature of the component parts
.or elements of the earth, and especially the relations which these elements
 bear to each other.
   Formerly it was considered— and the notion is not yet quite exploded—that
 there were only four elements, viz., earth, air, fire, and water ; and these were
 called elements because it was supposed that they were simple bodies, that is,
 bodies which could not be produced in their apparent form, except by the hand
 of Nature. Now, this being the true meaning of the word element, chemistry
 has discovered that none of these four things are elements ; for she has, so to
 speak, dissected them all, and can not only exhibit in a detached form the true
elements of which they are made, but can also unite the true elements in such
proportions as to reproduce the substances which erewhile she split up.
   The chemistry which splits up a combination of elements is called analytical
 chemistry (resolving any substance into first principles) ; and that which re
 produces broken combinations, or builds up others, is called synthetical che
 mistry (joining elements into a compound). To both of these the student will
 be introduced.
   To account for our forefathers not reckoning the metals amongst elements,

 5*2                                   SCIENCE.
 it must be borne in mind that they made a distinction between base and
 noble metals— a sort of House of Commons and House of Lords amongst
 minerals —and believed that, by a process which they called transmutation, the
 members of the lower class could be changed into members of the upper class,
 so that iron might become gold, and lead silver, and so on. Some cunning
 men, working on the avarice of their fellows, pretended to a knowledge of this
 process, and to be able, by means of the " philosopher's stone," to enrich with
 out stint the man who would only spend enough money to defray the cost of
 their operations. The histories of the Middle Ages are full of the records of
 chemical rogueries of this kind, which would have been impossible if folks-
 nad only known, as we know now, that all metals are elements, unchanging
 and unchangeable in their nature, entering into many different forms and com
binations, but ever in themselves the same, and utterly incapable of conversion.
    An clement, therefore, is a body constituted of perfectly identical particles,,
 and incapable, so far as chemistry hitherto knows, of being resolved into com
ponents. Of this kind of element chemistry at present numbers sixty-threer
which are stated in the following table :
                                TABLE OF ELEMENTS.
      (The names in italics are those of the elements commonly met with.)
      Name of Element.     Symbol.    Name of Element. Symbol.  Name of Element. SymboL
Hydrogen )                   H       Glucinum            Gl    Tungsten          Tn,or
I Kvygeu f          at       0 K Thorium                 Th       (Wolfram) . W
Nitrogen ( common            N || Yttrium                Y     Molybdenum . Mo
Chlorine ) ""P""'"           CI i Zirconium              Zo    Osmium .           Os
Bromine .                    Br | Lanthamium .           La    Tantalum           Ta
Fluorine .                   F | Cesium .                Ce    Niobium            Nb
Sulphur                      S       Didymium            Di    Ilmenium           11
Phosphorus            o .    P       Erbium .            Er    Pelopium           Pe
                      E £
Carbon                E =    C       Terbium             Tr    Copper (Cu
Iodine            .   S2     1       Manganese           .Mn      prum) .         Cu
Boron                sS,
                     •3 6    B       Iron (Ferrum)       Fe    Lead (Plum
Silicon              "o **   Si      Nickel .            Ni       bum) .          Pb
Selenium                     Se      Cobalt .            Co    Bismuth            Bi
         METALS.
                                     Chromium            Cr    Mercury (Hy
                                   ' Zinc                Zn       drargyrum) . Hg
Potassium (Kalium)           K       Cadmium             Cd    Silver (Argcn-
Sodium (Natrium)             N       Vanadium            V       tum) .           Aff
Lithium                      Li | Uranium                u     Gold (Aurum)       Au
Barium                       Ba 1 1 Arsenic .            As    Platinum           Pt
Strontium                    Sr I Tin (Stannum)          Sn    Palladium          Pd
Calcium .                    Ca \\ Antimony (Su-               Rhodium • . R
Magnesium                    Mg J bium) .                Sb    Iridium .          Ir
Aluminium                    Al      Titanium            Ti    Ruthenium          Ru
   It is quite possible that as chemical knowledge becomes greater, some of
these bodies may be struck out of the list, and others yet to be found may be
added ; but, as far as we know now, the above list contains all the elements.

                                 CHEMISTRY.                                    583
    The letters put against each element signify the name by which it is known
 in chemical language, a language highly necessary, as will be shown, and with
out a knowledge of which the real student of the science cannot advance a
 step. He may play at chemistry, and, under direction, produce certain effects
 with the chemicals at his disposal ; but he will understand nothing of what he
 is about, nor will he perceive the " reason why " of the changes wrought before
 him. He should learn the language of the region in which he is about to
 travel, or he will meet with nothing but misadventure ; and the language is so
 simple that there is no excuse for his not mastering it thoroughly.
    By the use of symbolical letters to represent the words, and by the use of
 little figures placed to the right of the symbols, the names of the elements in
 any combination of elements can be seen at a glance, together with the pro
 portion in which the elements are combined. Thus Cu, as will be seen by
 reference to the table, is the symbol for cuprum or copper, O is the symbol for
 oxygen, and S is the symbol for sulphur. These three elements combine in
 certain proportions to make sulphate of copper (blue vitriol) ; but to write the
 words " sulphate of copper" conveys no idea of what elements, or how much
of them, are contained in this substance. Let us see how it looks in chemical
language: CuO,S03. Here we see that in order to make up this salt, one
part of copper unites itself with one part of oxygen to form what is called the
base of the salt, and that one part of sulphur unites with three parts of oxygen
 to form sulphuric acid, which is the acid of the salt ; so that at a glance we see
 —written in a smaller compass, too, than is the common name of the salt—the
 exact nature and composition of sulphate of copper.
    But this is not the only advantage of symbols. By their aid we are enabled
to work out on paper, without seeing the chemicals, the changes which two
substances will work in each other when brought intimately together. Indeed,
but for them it would often be impossible to trace the operation of causes to
their final results. With them, there is no chemical process so delicate or dif
ficult but it may be followed, detective-like, to the end.
    The student should not attempt topractise with his chemicals and apparatus
till he has well drilled himself in the use of the symbols; and when he sees
in practice any fresh combination brought about by the means of any of his
processes, he ought invariably to accountfor it on paper, and ascertain, through
the symbols, what that new combination is.
    Acids not containing oxygen will not unite with bases containing oxygen ;
so that, whenever there is an oxygen acid, as nitric (NOB) or sulphuric (S03),
oxygen must be derived from somewhere or other among the elements to join
with the base before a salt can be formed. The reverse is the case with hy
drogen acids, as hydrochloric (HCl) or sulphuretted hydrogen : any oxygen in
the base must be got rid of before union can be effected.
    In order to understand the operation of the symbols in accounting for che
mical changes, it must be borne in mind that even amongst chemicals there arc
strong likes and dislikes, one clement preferring another above its peers so
strongly that, when possible, it will always hasten to make a combination with
it, even at the cost of a previous combination. Thus, if a solution of sul
phate of copper (CuO,SOs) be introduced to a solution of nitrate of lead
(PbO,N06), a precipitate of sulphate of lead (PbO,SOn) will be thrown down,
because the lead, having a stronger liking for the sulphuric than the nitric
acid, hastens to form an alliance with it, giving its former uncongenial acid to

584                               SCIENCE.
the copper, with which it unites (still in solution) to form nitrate of copper
(CuO,NOs).
   The law by which these likes and preferences—ascertained in the course of
long chemical experiences—are regulated is called the law of chemical affinity,
that is, " chemical relationship." A knowledge of it will come gradually. To
assist in acquiring the knowledge, let it be remembered what is said above as
to the unions of oxygen acids and hydrogen acids with bases to form salts.
   The student should practise writing the names of his chemicals in chemical
language. Let him also express any chemical he has to mention in the like
way. Study the composition of the chemically written names of the reagents
on p. 588 with reference to the table of elements already given ; and exercise
by supposing, on paper, the introduction of the reagents to some previously
existing combination of elements, as in the following examples, where the
actual changes arc worked out :
             Substances added.                 Substances formed.
                                         ( Ag,Cl (Chloride of silver).
   HCl (Hydrochloric acid).
   AgO,NOB (Nitrate of silver).         \ N05 (Nitric acid).
                                         ( HO' (Water).
    NH40,S03 (Sulphate of ammonia). BaO,SO..i (Sulphate of baryta).
   Ba,Cl (Chloride of barium).             NH4,Cl (Chloride of ammonium).
    HS (Sulphuretted hydrogen).            Pb,S (Sulphide of lead).
    PbO,N0B (Nitrate of lead).             NOs (Nitric acid).
                                           HO (Water).
                                The Laboratory.
    The construction of such a laboratory as will be amply sufficient for the
 wants of a beginner need not — indeed, should not — be an expensive affair.
  It will require the exercise of some ingenuity and the proper application of
  such hints as are here given ; but the outlay of money need be only trifling.
     First, a bench or table, which may be wholly devoted to the purpose, is to
 be got. An old bed-room table, the commoner the better, will do admirably ;

                                  CHEMISTRY.                                    585
•or, failing this, three deals, sawn to a length of 7 ft. and supported on trestles,
will answer. A packing-case, perhaps, is best of all ; but, whichever is chosen,
 it must be devoted to chemical work and nothing else.
    The bench or table should be put against a wall, so as to get side support
for bottles and apparatus. Shelves, which a very little skill in carpentry will
enable the student to make for himself, can be added if wanted, being made
fast to the wall. They are handy, but not essential, and should not be added
till the growing requirements of the student suggest them. A lock-up box, to
keep delicate apparatus in, will be useful.
    The best place for a laboratory is a stable loft or garden shed—some place
out of the dwelling-house, in order to prevent a conflict between the student
of science and the lovers of comfort and haters of smell.                     .
    These conditions being satisfied, it will be necessary to stock the laboratory.
There are some things that must be bought, such as the chemicals themselves ;
•and where it is necessary to buy it is cheaper to buy the best, that is to say,
 not necessarily the dearest that can be procured, but the best that a respect
 able operative chemist can furnish. Cheap chemicals are worse than useless,
for they are impure, and impurity in the working materials of chemistry can
 lead only to confusion. For a few purposes, which will be specified, certain
 cheap articles will do, but, as a rule, the purest should be obtained. Some
 apparatus must be bought, but much that is often bought can be made by the
 student himself, and this will be described.
    It is of necessity that the laboratory be furnished with the following things:
those in the first division must be bought, those in the second may be made
by the student.
                                     s. d.
.2 cvaporating-basins                I O     Hydrogen gas-making apparatus,
Wedgwood pestle and mortar           I O     Sulphuretted hydrogen-maker,
Test-tubes (1 doz.) .                I O     Washing-bottle,
Deflagrating-jar and spoon           2 6     Test-tube stand,
 Spirit-lamp                         2 0     Pneumatic trough,
Glass funnel .                       O 7     Gas-jar,
 Blowpipe                            O 9     Syphon,
 Glass tubing (1 lb.)                I 6     Retort-stand,
2 funnel-tubes               \       O 8     Filter papers,
                                             Florence flasks (those in which Italian
                                    11   0     oil has been will do if cleansed).
    The above constitute the entire stock of apparatus which the student will
 find to be indispensable to beginning his work. The cost of chemicals neces
 sary to the same end will not exceed £1 more, so that for the sum of 31*. a
 student may really make an excellent beginning, if he only spend his money
prudently, and be not enticed to extravagance by the alluring catalogues of
 the operative chemists.
    Before I go on to state what chemicals will be wanted, and to what uses
 they should be put, let me say how the apparatus included in the second
 column can be made.
    1. Gas-making Apparatus (for Hydrogen). — Get a small pickle-bottle,
 with a sound tightly-htting bung. Bore the bung in two places. Through
 one hole thrust a thistle-headed tube {4d.), and through the other pass the
 short end of the glass tube, which you have previously bent into this shape

586                                 SCIENCE.
(Fig. i.) Having done this, put four or five pieces of zinc into the bottle, get
the bung tightly home in the mouth of it, and then pay over the top surface
of the cork with a solution of sealing-wax in naphtha, so as to make it air-tight.
Let the naphtha evaporate, and the apparatus, Fig. 2, is ready. When wanted
for use, half till the bottle through the funnel-tube with water; add enough
common sulphuric acid to set up action on the zinc, and receive the hydrogen
gas under water, as directed at paragraph 4.
   Fig. t                   Fig. 2.                  Fie. 3.               Fig. 4.
    2. Sulphuretted Hydrogen Apparatus.— An apparatus constructed in the
same way as that just described, but with the addition of a little bottle of water
in which to clean the gas, will be wanted. The annexed figure will show
what it is. Care must be taken that the surface of the corks in both bottles
be thoroughly air-tight, by means of the solution of sealing-wax, for the smell
of this gas is so foul that it ought to be kept strictly to bounds. Indeed, the
apparatus ought to be kept in some place away from the house—as at the
bottom of a garden, or in a yard—and when sulphuretted hydrogen is wanted,
the student should take the solution through which the gas is to be passed
to the apparatus, and not bring the apparatus to the solution. It is unfortu
 nate that this reagent is indispensable to conducting chemical analysis.
    The little bottle should be two-thirds full of water, and into the larger bottle
sulphide of iron should be placed, instead of the zinc as in the first experi
 ment. In other respects act as in that case.
    3. A Washing-Bottle, which is used for washing filtrates when draining in
 their filter papers, may be made thus. Get any sort of pint bottle (white glass
 if possible), clean it thoroughly, bend two pieces of glass tubing into the shapes
 shown in Fig. 4. pass them through a good cork that fits the bottle, and the
 washing-bottle is made. The end of the long tube, pointing downwards, is
 drawn out to a fine point, so as to give increased force and diminished volume
 to the stream of water blown out. In order to draw the tube to a point, it must,,
 when quite dry, be exposed to the flame of the blowpipe until red hot. When'
 it is so, another piece of tubing, also heated, should be applied to it, till the
 two stick together ; then draw the assistant tube gradually away, and it will at
 tenuate its adherent till that comes to a point. If the point be blind, nip off the
 extreme end with the teeth. To use the bottle, fill it with water (and all water
 used in analysis must be distilled water), and put in the cork with its tubes.
 Blow in at the smaller tube, and a strong penetrating stream of water will be
 ejected from the pointed end of the outletting tube.

                                    CHEMISTR Y.                                    587
     4. Test-tube Stand. —With some copper wire take four turns round an object
 a little larger than the test-tubes, allow an inch of wire at right angles to the
 coil, and then repeat the coil, continuing until enough holders have been made.
 Secure the two ends of the coil to nails against the wall at such a height that
 the tubes will hang by their lips.
     5. Pneumatic Trough.—Any pan or tub, 6 in. deep, with a flat bottom, will
 do, and need not be kept on purpose, but may be borrowed
 from the house. When wanted for use, fill it with water, and
 put in, bottom upwards, a flower-pot saucer in which a hole
 has been made in the centre and another at the side (Fig. 5).
 Upon this the gas-jar will stand, the bent tube from the gas-           Fig. 5.
 maker will pass underneath through the side hole, and the
 gas to be received will pass into the jar through the hole in the centre.
    6. Gas-jar.—Exceptfor making oxygen gas, any stout, wide mouthed glass
 bottle will do. When wanted for use, immerse the jar in the trough sideways
 till it is quite full, then turn it upright, bottom upwards, taking care that the
 mouth does not come above water. Move the jar, mouth under, to its place
on the saucer, and it is ready to receive the gas, which will displace the water
 contained.
    7. Syphons, which are useful for drawing off fluids from vessels which it is-
desirable not to shake or disturb, may be made as re
 quired by bending glass tubing before a blowpipe
 name. They are of various shapes. The two handiest
are Figs. 6 and 7. In order to use them, steep the
long end in the liquid to just past the bend, then,
putting the thumb over the mouth of the small end,
so as to hold the liquid in the tube by excluding the
air, adjust the syphon as wanted, and remove the               Fie. 6.         Fie
thumb. There will be a continuous flow through the
syphon till the level of the long arm has been reached.
    8. Retort-stand.—This is a most useful article. A good
one will cost at least half a crown to buy it ; but a serviceable
one can be made very cheaply. Fix an iron rod, 15 in. high,
into a flat piece of hard wood. Take two turns with some
stout copper wire round the rod, allow 2 in. at right angles            O-l?
to the rod, and then round an object of the circumference
of the desired ring take another turn, fastening off before
removing the object. Any number of rings, and of any size,             CZ>-&I
can be made in this way. To hold them at the required
place on the rod, tie a piece of cord firmly round the rod
just underneath them. (Fig. 8.)
    9. Filter Papers. —-Get some fine white blotting-paper;
cut it into strips of the breadth of the required filter (opened
                                                                         I'lr,
                                                                               m
and laid flat) ; cut these strips into squares, and fold each
square to its quarter ; then, with scissors, cut the open edges of the fold, so as
to make the quarter square take the shape of a quadrant of a circle. The
filter is then ready to be placed in the funnel. It should be kept quite clean
and dry till wanted for use.
     I have spoken of bending glass tubing before the blowpipe flame. It may
be well to mention how it is done, and at the same time to explain the use of
the blowpipe, and the composition of the blowpipe flame.

 588                                  SCIENCE.
    The spirit-lamp being alight, rest the nozzle of the blowpipe on the wick-
holder, the mouthpiece of the pipe being in your mouth. Blow gently through
the pipe till the flame of the lamp is blown out at right angles to it, and you
will have two distinct bodies of fire, the inner one of a violet colour, the outer
of a yellow. The properties of these two will be explained presently. Having
secured a continuous blast, get that part of the tube which is to be bent at
the point of the violet flame. Move the tube in the fire, so as to heat the
parts near the part to be bent, and when the glass is at red heat it will be
flexible to any curve. Care should be taken not to expose the hot tube too
suddenly to the cold air, or the joint will probably crack.
    Some practice will be required before the blowpipe can be properly used.
 Do not blow from the chest or throat ; distend the cheeks, and keep them full
without making any effort ; the process of breathing will go on through the
nose. The air in this mouth-receiver will be ample to feed the blowpipe, and
unless it be fed in this way it will be found impossible to feed it— and that
 not regularly—for more than a few seconds.
    As regards the properties of the two flames of the blowpipe—which are very
important properties—they are mainly these : the violet-coloured flame, caused
by the combustion of the carburetted hydrogen (which has come from the
wick) in conjunction with the oxygen of the air blown into the flame, is the
hottest part of the whole flame, and is called the reducing flame, because any
oxidized body—i.e., body containing oxygen— being brought before it, is com
pelled to give up its oxygen in order to promote the burning of the carbon
which is there ; whilst the outer or yellow flame, where combustion is not so
perfect, notwithstanding it is in contact with the outer air, is less hot, and is
called the oxidizing flame ; because a body, being heated at the point of it,
comes into contact with the oxygen of the outer air, and is oxidized by it.
    The blowpipe is a most valuable help to the analyst ; metals and their salts
showing individual characteristics when exposed to its action, which they will
 be slow to exhibit in any other way.
                                      Chemicals.
    These should be of the best. For a very few purposes only, second quality
acids may be used.
    The beginner will need to furnish himself with the articles enumerated in
the following list. If possible, glass-stoppered bottles should be had for all
 the liquids ; but as this would increase the expense of setting up, I have marked
 with an S those reagents which it is absolutely necessary should be kept air
 tight. The substances to be experimented on can be obtained from time to
time in small quantities as required.
                                         ACIDS.
 (s) Sulphuric, common, S03                 I (s) Nitric, NOB
 (s)      „      best, SO-                  | (s) Hydrochloric, HCl
                            Oxalic, I oz. dissolved in water.
'(s) Ammonia, NH40                            (s) Carbonate of ammonia, NH40,
      Chloride of ammonium, NH4,Cl                   co2
 (s) Sulphide of       „       NH„S           (s) Potassa, KO
      Chloride of barium, Ba,Cl                   Carbonate of soda, NaO,CO„
      Chromate of potassa, KO,CrOs                Phosphate of „ NaO,POs
      Oxalate of ammonia, NH,O,0              (s) Cyanide of potassium, K,Cy
  (s) Naphtha, i pint.                            Sulphate of magnesia, MgO,So3
                               Distilled water as wanted.

                                 CHEMISTRY.                                    589
                                       SOLIDS.
     Borax, NaO,2Bo3                      j     Sulphide of iron, FeS
     Peroxide of manganese, Mn02          |     Chlorate of potassa, KOjCIOj
   The chemicals included in the above list are called reagents, because they
react in a certain known way upon the substances exposed to them. Experi
ments have been tried with each of them upon all sorts of substances, and
the result has been noted as an invariable one. With some things they form
chemical combinations, which change the character and form of the reagent
and the thing acted upon; with others they make no alliance, but, though
mechanically intermixed, are chemically as distinct as they were before they
¦were put together.
   And here note the difference between a chemical and a mechanical combi
nation. If you take some undiluted sulphuric acid and add water to it slowly,
you will see that there is not any disposition on the part of the two to unite.
 If the water be added cautiously and quite slowly, it will be seen lying on the
top of the sulphuric acid, as distinct from it as oil would be if poured upon
water under like circumstances. But though the two liquids have no inclina
tion to mix, they will not refuse to do so as oil and water will. Shake the bottle,
or stir its contents with a glass stirrer, and you will compel a union, but the
heat that will be evolved will be so great that in a minute or two you will
not be able to bear your hand on the bottle or vessel. The heat is due to the
friction of the particles of the acid with the particles of the water as they try,
under compulsion, to intermix. When the intermixture has taken place, the
liquid will gradually cool, and you will have in the bottle diluted sulphuric acid,
that is, sulphuric acid and water. But they each retain the same nature and
characteristics which they had before they were mingled, and by evaporation
the water could be driven off, leaving the acid as it was before : the two liquids
were only mechanically combined, just as the leg and seat of a chair are me
chanically combined.
   Dissolve some common salt in water. The salt disappears, but it is only
held in suspension, hidden, as it were, in the pores of the water. Pour the
solution into an evaporating-dish, and put that on one of the rings of the
retort-stand ; place the lighted spirit-lamp underneath and evaporate all the
water in the dish ; the dissolved salt, unchanged in character, will remain be
hind. Here, too, there was only a mechanical combination.
   But pour into a test-tube a few drops of, say, acetate of lead, dilute them
with a little distilled water, and then add a drop or so of ammonia. A white
precipitate will be thrown down, and the result of the addition will be fresh
chemical combinations, which no amount of mechanical means will suffice to
destroy. In obedience to the laws of affinity—that is to say, the laws under
which reagents show their preference for some bodies over their fellows : laws
which I will try to explain, because they must be understood—acetic acid,
which was united with the lead, has given up its union with it, and formed an
alliance with the new-comer, the ammonia, causing the liberated oxide of lead,
which is insoluble in water, to fall down to the bottom of the test-tube. Here
there has been a chemical change, which will be seen by the symbols :
                                PbO,A    +    NH40.

59o                                SCIENCE.
                               8     !        NH40,A.
   Now, as stated above, the action of the various reagents upon chemical
substances has been strictly observed, and from their behaviour a set of laws
has been made, by observing which the analyst is enabled to detect the pre
sence, or declare the absence, of particular elements in the subject of his
analysis.
   Thus, a stream of sulphuretted hydrogen gas, on being passed through a
solution of, say, a dozen elements, will throw down six of them in an insoluble
form, having made fresh combinations with them, and will leave the other six
as they were before. Here at once is a medium for the separation of certain
elements from certain other elements ; and there are other reagents, which will
be spoken of later on, under the head of analysis, by which further subdivisions
can be made, so as eventually to disintegrate the whole compound. Certain
reagents, acting upon certain sets of elements in a special way, are noted as
the special reagents for the elements in those sets, distinguishing them from
other groups ; and therefore it has been the practice of some chemists to divide
the bases into groups (five), each one of which is marked by some particular re
agent. I will specify these groups presently, but in the instructions which will
be laid down for guidance in making analyses, I shall follow the rule of the
Giessen Laboratory (Baron Liebig's), which, taking advantage of the distinc
tive reagents which will be mentioned, yet works upon a broader basis, pre
scribing the application invariably of the most general reagent (sulphuretted
hydrogen) first, and then applying in order successive special reagents, till
the analysis has been pursued to the end.
   The following instructions must be observed strictly in the conduct of the
analyst :
   First, thorough cleanliness of all apparatus. Many an experiment has failed,
and many a test has proved deceptive, because some remains from former
experiments, or some impurity contracted elsewhere, has been allowed to be
in the test-tube, or whatever apparatus is in hand. The table cannot be free
from stains, but it can and should be kept dry and quite free from chemical
or other refuse. Common water may be used to rough-wash apparatus, but
test-tubes should always have a final rinse with distilled water before being
used.
   Secondly, playing with the chemicals, by which I mean using them without
some distinct object in view, should be looked upon as unworthy of a student
of chemistry.
   Thirdly, patience and perseverance must both be largely drawn upon by the
 student. He cannot expect to arrive at perfection suddenly in the pursuit of
this most patience-taxing, as well as most interesting, study, any more than he
 can expect to do so in any other matter whatever. But the operations of che
mistry are so delicate, so very little (an impurity in a test-tube) will throw its
 working machinery out of gear, that it is above all things necessary that he
 should not be disheartened, but persevere, even if he finds himself foiled after
 having taken all the precautions he thought he could to prevent such a result.
 One Hung he must never do : attribute his want of success in any experiment
 to chemistry, and not to his own fault. Provided with good chemicals and
 truthful information how to use them, he cannot but see that any coming-short

                                 CHEMISTRY.                                      591
of the expected result must be due to himself, and not to the science. He
 should ever remember the Virgilian advice, " Tu nc cede malis, sed contra
 audentior ito /" and, with regard to his chemicals and apparatus, he should
 bear in mind that it is not the good workman who complains of his tools.
    Fourthly, it is never to be forgotten that many of the chemicals are rank
 poison, so that the greatest care must be used to prevent their getting into the
 hands of those who do not understand the nature of them.
    Before proceeding to the subject of analysis, as applied to the separation of
 metals and earths from each other, let us go through a few experiments of a
 simple analytical character in connection with gases, which are not only in
 structive but highly amusing. And first let us try some with the lightest of
 gases, hydrogen, two parts of which unite with one part of oxygen to form
 water. To form water? Two invisible gases make up by their union that
 immense volume of liquid which washes the globe of the earth, in ocean, sea,
 river, and lake ? Yes ; two gases, invisible, odourless, only to be felt through
•effects, combine to do all this, and to make a solvent for those millions of tons
 of chemical salts which are found in sea-water and river-water, and to get rid
 of which, by distillation, lest they should confuse the investigation, is so ne
 cessary before using the water in the process of analysis. Fire is the medium
 by which they are united so as to form water ; but fire will not suffice to dis
 unite them when once joined, unless at a very high temperature. Electricity
 dissects watei into its two elementary gases, and the same result is obtained
 in the manner already indicated when describing the hydrogen gas-maker, and
 is incidental to several other chemical operations.
    HYDROGEN (the water generator) may be made either in the manner already
 indicated, or by heating water till it rises into vapour, when it is passed through
 a gun-barrel, heated red hot and filled with nails. The steam is decomposed
 by the heat, and the oxygen of the water unites with the iron to form oxide of
 iron, while the hydrogen passes through the pipe, and may be secured on its
exit. But this will require more apparatus than we are supposed to have ;
besides, hydrogen is more quickly and conveniently prepared by the zinc and
•diluted sulphuric acid in the machine.
    Having filled the gas-jar in the manner pointed out when describing that
 article, remove it from the shelf in the water-bath into the air. The gas will
not escape so long as the jar is kept mouth downwards, because hydrogen,
being lighter than air, will press against the interior sides of the bottle, re
maining there until displaced by the atmospheric air. Invert the bottle con
taining the gas, and apply a lighted taper or match to the mouth of it. It will
then be seen how very inflammable this gas is : it will immediately take fire
with an explosion, and in course of burning will re-unite with the oxygen of
the air, from which it seems not to like to live apart, producing, as will be found
on inspection of the sides of the jar, drops of water, which will gather and roll
down to the bottom. This experiment is both analytical and synthetical. In
the first place, an analysis of the water was made through the action of the
acid and zinc upon it, and then a reunion of the elements was made, resulting
in the production of water.
    This is the rationale of the first process as shown by the use of symbols :
                       SO., (Sulphuric acid) >        u
                       HO (Water)                )    "'

592                                SCIENCE.
   The zinc has undergone a change at the expense of the water, which it has-
robbed of its oxygen to make oxide of zinc, and with the sulphuric acid this
oxide of zinc has united to form a salt of sulphate of zinc The only element
which has not been called upon to play its part in this act is the hydrogen of
the water, which is given off and received into the jar.
   The reverse process, which is accomplished by means of fire, is so'by virtue
of some force, the characteristics of which arc not yet known. One thing only
is certain, that by its aid and nothing else, the two elements, oxygen and
hydrogen, are re-united in the form of water.
   Water will not extinguish the flame of hydrogen. Repeat the experiment
of filling the gas-jar with the gas, stand the jar on its bottom, ignite the gas,
and immediately pour water into the bottle. The effect will be, not to put the
fire out, but to make it more fierce ; for the water being poured in displaces
the gas, which, running out, brings additional fuel to the flame.
   A small balloon, made of goldbeater's skin (it costs half a crown to buy it).
when filled with the gas, will rise to the ceiling of the room. This is an in
teresting experiment; but the cost of the balloon makes it an expensive one.
and it is doubtful if the student would be able to make an efficient balloon
for less money than it would cost to buy it.
   Hydrogen is found so largely distributed in nature, that between five and
six per cent, of it is found in all animal and vegetable substances. It is not
found in combination with the metals. Coal gas, the common illuminating
gas, is a compound of hydrogen with charcoal gas, and is called carburetted
hydrogen. Combined with chlorine gas (which is obtained from common
salt, and is a most dangerous poison when not in combination), it forms the
strong solvent and reagent known as hydrochloric or muriatic acid.
   Oxygen.—This gas unites with hydrogen, in the proportion of one measure
of oxygen to two of hydrogen, to form water. It is the element most largely
distributed throughout the world. It is indispensable to life and to com
bustion, and the poorer the air is in this element, the less healthy it is, and
the richer, the more healthy. The benefit of change of air from that of an in
land place to the sea-side lies in the greater amount of oxygen in the atmo
sphere of one place than the other, and the increased appetite which comer
on change of residence to the sea-side is caused by the increased combustion,
or quicker living, brought about by the larger amount of oxygen with which
the subject is in contact. The atmosphere of crowded towns, being loaded
with many impure gases, becomes impoverished in respect of this life-giving
element ; at sea, and near the sea, the atmosphere is not so loaded, but con
tains a full amount of this most essential article.
   To man it is literally the breath of life. The blood which is in man's veins is
of a dark red colour, and very impure by reason of its lack of oxygen. Before
it can exert that influence over the body which has acquired for it the name
of the "life of the body," it must be purified; so it is poured into the heart,
in a stream never ceasing till death, and by that little organ is pumped up
through the lungs, where, becoming exposed to the air, it is instantaneously
purified by the contact : the carbonic acid gas, which made it so dark in
colour and so unprofitable, is there breathed out, and the oxygenated blood,
bright red, bounding, lively, is pumped into the arteries all over the bedy,
imparting vigour to the whole frame.
   Suffocation, whether by strangling or the inhaling of foul air, is no more
than the exclusion of oxygen. The life-giver being withdrawn, the life destroyer

                                 CHEMISTRY.                                        593
carbonic acid gas, is allowed to have sway ; the lungs, instead of receiving a
supply of oxygen, are choked with an accumulation of carbonic acid—a poison
fatal to man (though it is the life of plants) —and death is the result.
   To prepare this gas on a small scale, put some binoxide of manganese
(Mn02) and some chlorate of potassa (KO,CIOB) into a Florence flask, mixing
them well together, and taking care that the flask is
quite dry both inside and outside. Into the neck of
the flask put a cork with a bent glass tube through
it, support the flask on the retort-stand, and put the
lighted spirit-lamp at the bottom of the flask ; a
large quantity of oxygen will be given off, in a suffi
ciently pure state for our purpose, and it may be
received in the stout deflagrating-jar, which will be              Fig. 9.
safer than the pickle-bottle in conducting experi
ments.
    Oxygen is heavier than air, so that, after removing the jar from the trough
(which may be done by sliding it off its shelf under water on to a plate with
water in it), the mouth of the jar may be opened without fear of the gas
escaping.
    Into the jar, by means of the iron spoon, introduce a piece of glowing wood,
not alight, but red from recent burning. It will burst into a
brilliant blaze, so bright as scarcely to be looked at. Heat a
piece of charcoal before the blowpipe, and do the like. Put a
little piece of sulphur into the iron spoon, ignite it, and put it
into the jar of oxygen : a wonderfully beautiful light of dazzling
brightness will be the result. Care must be taken not to re
move the top of the jar in this case till the fumes have sub
sided, for they are fumes of sulphurous acid, a very trouble
some and poisonous gas. Repeat the experiment with iron
filings, heated before the blowpipe in the iron spoon; and,
taking great care not to touch the phosphorus with thefingers,
but only with a pair of scissors or nippers, with a small piece
of ignited phosphorus.                                                     Fit;. :
    These experiments are among some of the most beautiful
that can be imagined, and may be safely tried, so care and ordinary prudence
be exercised.
    Nitrogen. — Roughly stated, five volumes of common air contain four of
nitrogen and one of oxygen. It is also the principle of fat, and is a constituent
of all plants and animals. It is also called azote (a and £0)7$), because it de
prives of life animals wholly subjected to its influence. It is not ready to com
bine with other elements. In forced combination with oxygen it forms nitric
acid (NO,), and it is also largely distributed throughout nature as nitre, or
saltpetre, or, more correctly speaking, nitrate of potassa.
    It is thus prepared : dip a small piece of sponge in naphtha or spirit of wine,
the sponge being fast to a piece of wire, which must be supported in water, so
that the sponge shall project 4 in. above the surface. Ignite the naphtha, and
at once clap an empty bottle (the pickle-bottle will do) over the burning spirit.
After a while (that is, when all the oxygen of the air in the bottle has been
consumed by the operation of combustion) the flame will be extinguished, and
a quantity of water, proportionate to the quantity of oxygen consumed, will
enter the bottle, which else contains nitrogen gas.
                                                                       38

594                                   SCIENCE.
   Nitrogen will not alone support either life or combustion, the essential of
which is oxygen. A lighted taper put into the jar of nitrogen prepared as
above will be instantly extinguished, and animals subjected to its influence
will die. Few experiments can be made with this gas, on account of its un
congenial nature. It runs exactly counter to oxygen in respect of combustion,
and, unlike that gas, avoids all combination whatever.
   Carbonic Acid.—This most deadly poison, when applied to the lungs to
the exclusion of all other gases, is widely diffused throughout nature. To plants
it is life, as it is death to man ; through all their millions of pores the trees suck
in this their food, clearing the air of that which to all animals is so noxious.
Carbon is in wood, coal, turf, the bodies of all animated creatures, the yield
of the earth in the shape of crops ; it is in small quantities in the air; and dia
monds are pure carbon in a crystallized form, such as Nature only possesses
the secret of making. Carbon is, next to oxygen, the most important element
in the world.
   It may be prepared by pouring any acid on to chalk, which is carbonate of
lime. Carbonic acid is very ready to sever any combination it may have
entered into, and in this case it will give place to the strange acid, which will
make a new compound with the lime, while the carbonic acid is given off. Care
should be taken not to inhale this gas, for, if taken exclusively into the lungs,
it is a rank poison, not that of itself it has any deleterious qualities, but be
cause it excludes the one thing needful to life, viz., oxygen.
   It' is considerably heavier than air, and may be poured from one vessel into
another, though it is colourless, odourless, and invisible. Put a lighted taper,
or even a piece of charcoal that has just been burning in oxygen, into the
reservoir of carbonic acid gas, and it will be immediately extinguished. Put
a small piece of lighted candle at the bottom of a bottle or jar, and then take
the jar with the fire-killer in it and invert it gradually, just as though you were
pouring water from it. As soon as the gas reaches the level of the flame, it
will extinguish it suddenly and thoroughly.
   To show that the breath expired by animals is very fully charged with car
bonic acid gas, put some water in which lime has been soaked and then filtered
into a glass ; blow through a glass tube into the lime-water, when a thick white
precipitate will be thrown down —a precipitate of carbonate of lime or chalk.
The carbonic acid gas (CO„) of the breath has united with the lime (CaO) in
 the water to produce the salt thrown down.
                                 Chemical Analysis.
    Analysis is the highest function of chemistry, and has for its object the
 separation of compounds into their component parts. The importance of a
 science which can teach how to examine any substance whatever, so as to
 pronounce exactly what is contained in it, will be at once apparent. But
 chemistry can do more than this. She can not only separate the elements of
 a body, but she can also declare the quantity of each clement contained, even
 to a fractional part of a grain.
    The analysis which determines what elements are combined is called quali
 tative analysis, and that which declares also the proportions in which they are
 combined is called quantitative analysis. I do not propose to deal with the
 second branch at all. It is only to be attempted after the other branch has
 been thoroughly mastered ; it requires the utmost nicety of operation, much

                                   CHEMISTRY.                                   595
  skill and experience, and costly apparatus. Qualitative analysis will occupy
  as much time and space as we have to fill, and even that will be pursued only
, so far as the means which I have supposed to be at the disposal of the student
  will admit.
     In order to perform such operations as the analysis of the contents of organs
  of people who have died from poison, the analysis of earths, guano, and such
  like, it will readily be believed that long practice and laborious study are in
  dispensable, and I cannot hope to teach in a few pages—or in any number of
  pages, without practical demonstrations— how to do these things ; but as
   Rome was not built in a day, so do not skilful analysts become skilful all at
  once ; and it is to that preparatory course, through which they, as beginners,
  have to go, that I propose to introduce my readers, hoping that they will see
   so much of the beauty of the science, and be so far interested in those opera
   tions of it which will be shown to them, that they will go on further with the
   study, pursuing it far beyond the bounds of this treatise.
     I have already stated that by their identical behaviour with certain special
  reagents, certain elements mark themselves out as distinct from all other ele
  ments which do not behave in a similar manner, these others again marking
  themselves out into distinctive groups by reason of their identical behaviour
  with certain other special reagents. There are, according to the division of
  Dr. Fresenius (whose two fine works on Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis
  are well known), six of these groups, viz. •
     1. Potassa, soda, ammonia        ....                 (PtCl, and T).
     2. Baryta, strontia, lime, magnesia .      .     .    (NH40,Co2, and Sog).
     3. Alumina, chromium                                  (Ko, and NH2,Cl).
     4. Zinc, manganese, nickel, cobalt, iron .       .    (NH4S).
     5. Silver, mercury, lead, bismuth, copper, cadmium (HCl,HS).
     6. Gold, platinum, antimony, tin, arsenic .           (HS).
     The special reagents attached to these groups are marked against each of
  them, and it will be well for the student to try the behaviour of each element
  in the six groups, not only with these distinguishing reagents, but with the
  following general reagents, applied separately and successively in the order in
  which they are placed. Sulphuretted hydrogen or distilled water saturated
  with the gas ; sulphide of ammonium ; ammonia ; potassa or soda ; carbonate
  of ammonia ; sulphuric acid ; hydrochloric acid.
     He should ascertain for himself, by actual trial, how the different elements
  behave on being brought into contact with the above-mentioned reagents.
  He should ascertain in what liquids precipitates produced by any of them
  are soluble ; and for this purpose he should first try cold water, then hot water
  boiled with the precipitate in a test-tube over the spirit-lamp. Should the
  precipitate not yield to this treatment, he should add a few drops of nitric
  acid, and boil again, continuing to add acid until he has found means of dis
  solving the solid. He will find all precipitates, with the exception of one or
  two rare ones, yield to this method ; but he must be careful not to put in too
  much acid — it should be added in a few drops at first, and then additions
  made drop by drop. Some of the precipitates are soluble in an excess of the
  reagent that threw them down. This is especially the case with the oxides
  of most of the metals when thrown down from their solutions by ammonia or
  potassa; it is also the case with some of the sulphides thrown down from
  solutions by sulphide of ammonium. Carbonate of lime (CaO,C02) is soluble
                                                                 38—2

596                                 SCIENCE.
in an excess of carbonic acid, as will be seen if—in the experiment already
described, where chalk is thrown down from a solution of lime in water, by
blowing with the breath into it through a glass tube—the blowing be continued.
In this case, when the lime-water is so saturated with the carbonic acid gas
blown into it from the lungs as to throw down all the lime contained, in the
shape of carbonate of lime, it yields to the pressure of a continued in-draught
of the gas, and takes up again in acid solution the salt to which it gave birth.
   The behaviour of each clement in the six groups, being manifested by the
tests, should be carefully noted in a memorandum book. There should be
stated whether a precipitate follows upon the introduction of a reagent, and
if so, the colour and general characteristics of it should be described; its
solvent should also be ascertained and mentioned.
   By careful comparison of the results thus obtained, distinctions may be
yioticed, which will serve as means for the separation of the bodies so dis
tinguished. To take a very simple case, suppose a solution which .is to be
•Jested contains salts of silver, lead, and protoxide salts of mercury. To this
solution, diluted with water, add hydrochloric acid drop by drop, shaking the
test-tube after each addition, so as to mix the reagent and the test solution
thoroughly. When no more white precipitate is thrown down, add to the
mixture a large quantity of water, which must be decanted as the precipitate
settles. Repeat this washing several times, and after the last time throw the
contents of the test-tube on to a filter, catching the filtrate (the fluid that runs
through is so called) in a test-tube for further examination. By means of the
washing-bottle, wash well the residue on the filter, so as to free it from lead,
and then dissolve the soluble part of the precipitate still remaining with am
monia. Ammonia will dissolve all the silver contained, and will convert the
subchloride of mercury into the black suboxide of mercury, which will remain
on the filter. The filtrate will contain all the chloride of silver, which can be
again thrown down from solution by the addition of nitric acid in such quan
tity as to neutralize the ammonia and overcome its power over the silver chlo
ride. In this way, then, the three members of the fifth group, which are
 similarly acted upon by hydrochloric acid (this acid will not so act upon the
 salts of any other elements), are distinguishable from the members of all other
 groups and may be distinguished from one another.
   After the student has thus observed in practice the behaviour of the elements
with the various reagents I have mentioned, he may proceed to the analysis
of any inorganic matter, no matter how many substances there may be in
combination ; that is to say, he may analyse the bases of the substances, the
analysis of the different acids being a delicate and difficult operation, to be
undertaken only after repeated trial has perfected the student in his method
of detecting the bases. It is not possible, either, to give directions for the
detection of them within the limits of an elementary treatise.
   The following instructions being strictly and perseveringly attended to, will
be a sure guide to the detection of any of those elements enumerated in the
lists of groups. The reagents should be applied in the order in which they arc
arranged, that order being founded upon their observed effect upon the bases
they are designed to detect. Let us suppose a mixture to contain all the ele
ments, in some shape or other, which are included in the six groups. The first
thing to be done is to pass through the slightly acid liquid a stream of sul
phuretted hydrogen gas, which will be done through the medium of the gas-
generator already described.

                                 CHEMISTRY.                                    597
    Sulphuretted Hydrogen throws down as sulphides precipitates of anti
 mony (orange), arsenic, tin (yellow), gold, and platinum (black), which are
 soluble in sulphideofammonium, and again thrown downfrom that menstruum
 by the addition of hydrochloric acid. It also, at the same time, throws down
 as sulphides: mercury, silver, lead, bismuth, and copper, in black or brownish
 black precipitates, and cadmium as a yellow precipitate. These latter are all
 soluble in sulphide of ammonium, so that here are two divisions already. We
 will deal with each of them presently.
   Sulphide of Ammonium.—To the filtrate from the precipitates thrown
down from the acid solution by sulphuretted hydrogen add sulphide of ammo
nium; there will be thrown down as sulphides: nickel and cobalt (black),
manganese (flesh-coloured), iron (black), zinc (white) ; as oxides : alumina and
sesquioxide of chromium ; and, in combination with certain acids only, baryta,
strontia, and lime; and, in combination with phosphoric acid, magnesia—"
but these last four as salts. These precipitates we will also deal with pre
sently.
   To the filtrate from the precipitates thus thrown down by sulphuretted hy
drogen and sulphide of ammonium add an excess of chloride of ammonium,
and then add carbonate of ammonia. Baryta, strontia, and lime will be pre
cipitated, leaving magnesia, potassa, soda, and ammonia to be looked for in
the residue in the filtrate.
   Let us now take in order the different results we have obtained.
   The solution made by sulphide of ammonium is to be treated with a slight
excess of hydrochloric acid. If a white cloudiness appear, it is probably due
to sulphur, freed by the acid ; but if a yellow or orange precipitate is produced,
it may contain antimony, arsenic, or tin ; if darker still, it may contain gold
and platinum ; but as these latter bodies arc not likely to be in the beginner's
experimental stock, I will leave them out of the question for sake of the others.
Should antimony, arsenic, and tin be suspected, the precipitate obtained as
above should be dried, and then fused in a crucible with nitre and carbonate
of potassa, by which means they are converted into the oxides of their re
spective metals.
   The fused mass, on being treated with cold water, will yield arseniate of
potassa, sulphate of potassa, and a small quantity of antimoniatc of potassa,
and stannate of potassa ; while insoluble antimoniate of potassa and stannate
of potassa will remain behind. In order to precipitate the small quantity of
these two latter salts dissolved, neutralize the solution by the addition of nitric
acid, when they will fall down. The filtrate is to be tested for arsenic acid by
the addition of nitrate of silver. The residue which remains after exhausting
the fused mass by water contains binoxide of tin, or antimonic acid, or both.
It should be mixed with cyanide of potassium, and reduced to a globule on
charcoal before the flame of the blowpipe. If the globule is brittle, it is anti
mony; if ductile, it is tin.
   But if the globule contain both tin and antimony, it should be reduced (by
nitric acid) to the oxides of those metals. On boiling these oxides with tar
taric acid, teroxide of antimony is dissolved, and may be detected by sul
phuretted hydrogen. Binoxide of tin is not affected by tartaric acid.
   These metals, in consequence of their closely similar behaviour under the
influence of the same reagents, are very difficult to separate, excepting after
much practice. It will be seen from the foregoing that the task is no easy
one. The student is advised not to try the analysis of them till after he has

598                                SCIENCE.
mastered the other branches ; but he may note their behaviour separately with
the various reagents.
   Boil in nitric acid the precipitate thrown down by sulphuretted hydrogen,
but insoluble in sulphide of ammonium. A black residue is sulphide of
mercury. Should there be a whitey precipitate floating in the liquid, it is of
lead. Dilute with water, and add hydrochloric acid. The precipitate in this
case will consist of chlorides of silver and lead, and subchloride of mercury.
They should be treated as already described.
   The filtrate from this solution may contain oxide of lead, the oxide of bis
muth, oxides of copper and cadmium ; and to it is to be added ammonia in
excess. The precipitate thus obtained may be oxide of lead and teroxide of
bismuth. It should be re-dissolved, and tested for lead with dilute sulphuric
acid, and for bismuth by evaporating the solution to a small size, and then
adding water. The filtrate from the excessive addition of ammonia, if of a
blue colour, will indicate the presence of copper, which may be thrown down
by ferrocyanide of potassium. On the ammoniacal solution being neutralized
by hydrochloric acid, carbonate of ammonia will throw down the cadmium.
   The precipitate produced by sulphide of ammonium is to be dissolved in a
mixture of nitric and hydrochloric acids {aqua regia), after which potassa in
the cold is to be added in excess, and the mixture well shaken. The filtrate in
this case will contain oxides of zinc and alumina, and sesquioxide of chromium.
Boil this solution continuously, and sesquioxide of chromium will be thrown
down ; filter, and to the filtrate add sulphuretted hydrogen, sulphide of zinc
will be thrown down ; and the filtrate from that may be tested for alumina
by saturating it with hydrochloric acid, adding ammonia, and digesting with
carbonate of ammonia.
   The precipitate left on the filter after the addition of potassa in the cold, as
above, should be well washed, and then dissolved in aqua regia. To the solu
tion add chloride of ammonium and ammonia. The oxides of cobalt, nickel,
and manganese will remain in solution, and sesquioxide of iron will be thrown
down, together with baryta, strontia, and lime if in combination with oxalic,
phosphoric, or boracic acids, and, if in combination with phosphoric acid,
magnesia also.
  Add a few drops of acetic acid to the filtrate, pass sulphuretted hydrogen
through it, and heat gently. The sulphides of nickel and cobalt will be thrown
down, and if to the filtrate from them an excess of ammonia be added, and
then sulphide of ammonium, sulphide of manganese will be precipitated.
  The sulphides of nickel and cobalt should be dissolved in aqua regia, and
thrown down as cyanides by cyanide of potassium, which will re-dissolve both
precipitates; but (except under exceptional circumstances) hydrochloric acid
added to this solution will throw down the nickel but not the cobalt. Borax
dipped into a solution of cobalt, and fused before the blowpipe flame, gives a
beautiful blue glass. In the outer flame, borax similarly treated with nickel
makes a red-coloured bead, in the inner flame a grey bead.
  The precipitate remaining when the oxides of nickel, cobalt, and manganese
are dissolved out is to be dissolved in hydrochloric acid, and tested for iron
with ferrocyanide of potassium, with which it will form Prussian blue.
  The detection and separation of the alkalies and the alkaline earths then re
mains to be accomplished, and this brings us to deal with the result described
four paragraphs back, where, by the use of carbonate of ammonia in the pre
sence of an excess of chloride of ammonium, baryta, strontia, and lime have

                                    OPTICS.                                    599
been precipitated ; while magnesia, potassa, and soda were to be looked for in
the filtrate. A portion of this filtrate, tested with phosphate of soda, will, if
magnesia be present, throw down insoluble phosphate of magnesia.
   To detect potassa and soda when in conjunction with magnesia, all the mag
nesia must be got rid of by adding a solution of baryta, or sulphide of barium,
till a precipitate is no longer formed ; filter and get rid of any excess of baryta
by addition of dilute sulphuric acid ; filter again and test for the alkalies.
   Antimoniate of potassa (KO,SbOB) produces a white precipitate of antimo-
niate of soda (NaO,SbOs); and chloride of platinum (PtCl3) produces in
salts of potassa, in the presence of HC1 and alcohol, an orange crystalline
precipitate. In the outer flame of the blowpipe potassa salts impart a violet
tint when soda is not present ; soda imparts a distinctly yellow-coloured flame,
by which it can always be recognized.
    To separate baryta, strontia, and lime, precipitate with dilute sulphuric acid
the two former, neutralize the filtrate with ammonia, and throw down the lime
with oxalic acid.
    When baryta is in company with strontia, the carbonates of them should
be dissolved in HC1, the solution evaporated to dryness, and the residue
digested with strong alcohol. Chloride of strontium is dissolved and may be
detected by burning the alcohol, the flame of which will be of a beautiful red
colour. *
    I have thus laid down rules for the guidance of the student founded in the
main upon the rules of Dr. Fresenius and Dr. Will, of the Giessen Labora
tory. That they are good guides I can gratefully testify, and the student can
not do better than submit himself wholly to their direction. There is no doubt
they are intricate, and must be followed with much patience and perseverance,
the only forces which will overcome the difficulties of this most interesting
branch of chemistry ; but, intricate as they are, they are as simple as such rules
can be. Let the student test the truth of them by applying them to his prac
tice in his own laboratory; but I would advise him to begin with the separation,
according to these rules, of two or three bodies, gradually increasing the number
until even so many as are above prescribed for can be mixed and analysed.
                                   OPTICS.
    Optics is the science which treats of the laws of light. Light may be
defined as the agent which, operating through the eye, produces the sense of
sight. This is no longer believed to be due to the impact of luminous particles
on the retina of the eye, but to a wave motion communicated by luminous
bodies to an ethereal medium which pervades all space. Bodies through
which light passes, as air, glass, &c, are named transparent; those through
which light does not pass, as wood or iron, are said to be opaque. Light
travels in a uniform medium in straight lines. When a sunbeam is admitted
into a darkened room through a small opening, the rays may be traced across
the Toom in straight lines by means of the floating particles of dust, which
reflect a portion of the light. When light radiates from a centre, its intensity

6oo                                   SCIENCE.
diminishes as the square of the distance from the luminous point. This may
be illustrated by Fig. 1. Suppose the light of a candle to illuminate, at the
distance of one foot, the surface of a screen one foot square, the same amount
of light, at a distance of two feet, will spread itself over a screen four times
as large, and at a distance of three feet, nine times as large. Since at these
distances the same amount of light is diffused over areas respectively of four
times and nine times the extent of the unit area, its intensity must diminish
four times and nine times, or will vary inversely as the square of the distance.
                      Fig.                                 Fig. 2.
   When light falls upon a body, it may be disposed of in three ways. First,
either reflected, that is, bent back ; secondly, it may pass through the body in
an altered direction, refracted; or thirdly, it may be absorbed.
   In speaking of the properties of light, frequent use is made of the term ray,
which must be understood to mean a single line of light. A pencil of light is
a collection of rays diverging from or converging to a point. Mirrors are
bodies of glass or metal with polished surfaces, which cause bodies presented
«o them to be seen by reflection.
   Xeflection from a Plane Surface.— Ifa ray of light fall perpendicularly
on a mirror, it is reflected back in the same line towards the point whence it came.
When a ray of light, I O, falls obliquely on a plane mirror, M N, the incident
ray is reflected in the direction O R, so that the angle P O R, formed with the
perpendicular P o at the point of incidence, is equal to the angle, I O P, made
by the incident ray with the same line. P o R is the angle of reflection, I O P
the angle of incidence. The two laws of reflection are the following : First,
the incident and reflected rays are in the same plane ; secondly, the angle of
reflection is equal to the angle of incidence. A candle placed in front of the
mirror, as at I, would be seen by an eye placed at R as if at B, at a perpen
dicular distance behind the mirror equal to the perpendicular distance of the
candle in front of it. The image is always seen in the direction the ray is tra
velling when it enters the eye. (Fig. 2.)
    If a diverging pencil of light fall upon a plane mirror, the focus of the
 reflected pencil will be at the same distance behind the mirror as the focus
 of the incident pencil is in front of it.
    Let 1 be the incident focus of a diverging pencil of rays, I O, I O', I O", any
 incident rays. Draw 1 p perpendicular to the mirror ; taking the ray I O,

                                     OPTICS.                                  601
 make P f equal to P I, and join ro. At O draw the perpendicular o X. From
 this construction it follows, from simple geometrical reasoning, that the angle
 D O X is equal to the angle I O x, and therefore F D must be the direction of
 the reflected ray. It can be shown in the same way that all the reflected rays
 proceed from F, which will thus be the focus of reflected rays. (Fig. 3.)
                                                            Fig. 4.
    Reflection from Curved Surfaces. — When a pencil of light is re
 flected from a curved mirror, each ray follows the ordinary laws of reflection.
 If three parallel rays, S A, I R, 1' r', fall upon the concave mirror M N, the
middle ray will be reflected in the same direction, AS, IR, and 1' r', in the
directions R F, R' F, so that the perpendiculars R o and R' O divide equally
their angles of incidence and reflection. Every line drawn from o to the
surface of the mirror is perpendicular to the mirror at that point. We see
that, in order to make the angles of incidence and reflection equal, the par
allel rays I R, 1' r' must cross each other at a point, F, on the axis of the
mirror. All other parallel rays cross at the same point. This point, F, is
called the principal focus of the mirror. It can be proved by geometry that
the distance, A f, of the principal focus from the mirror is equal to half the
radius, A O, of the mirror. (Fig. 4.)
   When the incident rays are not parallel to the axis of the mirror, but pro
ceed from a point, Q, on its axis, F is no longer the focus, but some point, q,
on the axis, whose position changes with that of Q. By making the angles of
incidence and reflection equal, its position in every case can be fixed. It will
be found on trial, that when Q lies between F and A, q will pass to the back
of the mirror. The focus is then said to be virtual. A real image or focus is
that formed by the reflected rays themselves, a virtual image or focus that
formed by the prolongation of the reflected rays. In Figs. 4 and 5 wc have
examples of real foci, in Fig. 6 of a virtual focus. When the mirror is convex,
as in this case, the focus is always virtual. It is necessary, to be able to find
the distance of q from the mirror (focal length), which can be done by the
following rule : multiply half the radius of the mirror by the distance of the
incident rays from the mirror ; divide the product by the difference of the
distance of the incident rays and half the radius (if concave), and, if convex,
divide by their sum. Example: — If the distance of incidental rays be 36 in.,

602                               SCIENCE.
and radius of mirror 18 in., focal length = ^ -9=i2 in., or, if convex, ^p-'=
7i in.
   IMAGES in MIRRORS. —When an object is placed before a mirror, every
point of the body sends out a pencil of light, which falls upon the mirror and
is reflected. The foci of all the reflected rays form the image. The relative
size of the image and object is proportional to their respective distances from
the mirror if plane, or from the centre of the mirror if curved.
                                                        Fig. 6.
   1. When the mirror is plane, as in Fig. 7, by the laws of reflection already
stated, a is the focus of all the rays coming from A. Similarly, b is the focus
of all the rays from B. Rays from all the points between A and B have their
foci between a and b. Thus a complete image of a b is formed in a b. The
image is virtual, of the same size as the object, and at a distance behind the
mirror equal to A B in front of it.
   2. When the mirror is convex, the image will be placed as in Fig. 8, and is
less than A B in the proportion b o to B O. It is here virtual.
   3. When the mirror is concave (Fig. 9), and the object, A B, placed be
 tween the principal focus and the mirror, the image, a b, is virtual, erect, and
 enlarged in the proportion of b o to B O.

                                     OPTICS.                                   603
  4. When the mirror is concave, and the object placed at a distance from
the mirror greater than its focal length (Fig. 10), the image is real, inverted,
and diminished. Conversely, if we suppose a b an object, A B will be the
image, in this case real, inverted, and enlarged.
                                                            R            1
                                                             V
                                                            M   R   D
                Fig.                                           Fic. 11.
  Refraction.— If a ray of light, I o, Fig. 11, fall obliquely on the surface
of a dense medium, such as a plate of glass, A B, a portion of the ray is re
flected in O R, and a portion transmitted. The transmitted portion, instead of
going straight on in the direction O M, is bent towards the perpendicular to the
surface in the direction O r'. This change in the path of the ray is termed
refraction. It occurs when light passes from a rarer to a denser medium. In
                     Fig.                                       Fic. 13.
the latter case the ray will be bent away from the perpendicular. Here, as in
reflection, the angle of incidence, I O P, and the angle of refraction, r' O D, are
in the same plane. Again, if a ray, I o, Fig. 12, fall upon the surface, A B, of
a refracting medium, such as water, and points, N R, be taken in the incident
and refracted rays at equal distances from O, the perpendiculars, nq,R m, from
these points on P M have a constant ratio for all angles of incidence. The
ratio of A N to R M (jgj) is called the index of refraction. The object in intro
ducing a circle into the figure is to enable us to measure off equal distances, O N
and O R.

  604                                SCIENCE.
    Many facts of common observation receive an easy explanation from the law
 ot refraction. • Bodies placed in a medium more highly refracting than air
 appear nearer the surface of this medium than they really are. Let a body
 C, be placed in a vessel of water, v, Fig. 13. A ray of light from C, on leaving
 the water, will be deflected from the perpendicular in the direction A r. The
 body will, therefore, be seen as if at C, the direction in which the ray is travel
 ling when it enters the eye at r. It is for this reason that the eye is deceived
with regard to the real depth of water. The rays of light appear to proceed
 Jrom a point nearer the surface, and cause the bottom to appear more elevated
 than it really is. The index of refraction for water is i, so that the eye is
 misled to the extent of one foot in every four ; in other words, if water appear to
the eye three feet deep, its real depth isfour feet.
   As long as the two surfaces of the refracting medium are parallel, the rays
which pass through it emerge parallel to their original direction. The path of
a ray of light through a triangular piece of glass, called a prism (Fig. 14), will
                                                              Fig. 15.
                                                             Fig. 16.
show the altered direction of the ray when the faces of the medium are not
parallel. The ray is always bent towards the thick part of the prism. A com
bination of surfaces may be so arranged as to cause all the refracted rays to
converge towards one common line ; such a combination forms a lens. A lens
is a portion of any transparent medium adapted to magnifying purposes by
having both surfaces spherical, or one spherical and the other plane. There
are six forms of lens (Fig. 15). Those which are thickest at the centre are
convex ; those which are thinnest, concave. Rays passing through lenses are
bent towards the thick part of the lens, so that the rays converge in a convex
lens, and diverge in a concave. The focal length of lenses may be determined
experimentally as follows: if convex (Fig. 16), expose the lens with its prin
cipal axis parallel to the sun's rays. By receiving upon a screen of polished
glass the emergent pencil, we can easily ascertain the point where the rays
converge. The distance of the lens from the screen is its focal length. In a
concave lens the focal length may be found by projecting upon a screen the
image of two points, a b, Fig. 17 (the rest of the surface being blackened).
When the distance between the points in the image is double the distance a b
on the lens, it is placed at its focal length.
   The following consideration renders evident the use of a lens in magnifying
objects. The apparent size of an object depends upon its distance from the
eye. If, then, an object could be brought indefinitely near the eye, its ap-
Earent size might be increased to any extent. It is found, however, that objects
  rought nearer to the eye than a certain distance, which varies with different

                                      OPTICS.                                  605
individuals, cannot be distinctly seen. This limiting distance is on an average
about 10 in. If we wish to examine an object placed nearer to the eye than
 10 in., we use a lens (Fig. 18) which will cause the rays from the object A to
have their foci in a b at the ordinary distance of vision. In order to get the
magnifying power in any case, divide the distance of distinct vision by the
focal length of the lens used. Lenses are also used for correcting defects of
vision. It is necessary for correct vision that the images of objects should be
formed exactly on the retina. If the lenses of the eye are too convergent, the
rays converge too soon, and the image is formed in front of the retina. This
defect —known as short-sightedness— is corrected by the use of a concave lens,
which renders the rays more divergent. In long-sighted persons, the eye has
not sufficient power to cause rays from near objects to converge on the retina.
In this case the image is formed behind the retina. By using a convex lens,
the rays are made to converge more rapidly.
                                                        Fig. 19.
   Spectrum.—When a beam of light is admitted into a darkened room, and
passed through a prism, as in Fig. 19, it is not only changed in direction, but,
if received upon a screen, is found to be divided into rays of seven different
colours, violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange, red. The violet is bent
farthest from the original direction ; the red least. White light may, therefore,
be regarded as a combination of these seven differently-coloured rays. To
show this, divide a circular disc of cardboard into seven compartments, the
size of each corresponding with the extent of the colour in the spectrum.
Paint each compartment its appropriate colour. On revolving the disc very
rapidly on an axis through its centre, the paper appears white.
   Another phenomenon of great interest in connection with the spectrum is
the occurrence of fixed lines in it. The solar spectrum is not continuous, but
crossed at right angles to its length by a number of dark lines. The spectra
of gases and vapours consist entirely of bright lines. These lines form a most
delicate test of the presence of any substance whose spectrum is known, since
the position of the lines is sufficient to indicate its nature. In this way several
new metals have been discovered. The explanation of the origin of the dark
lines in the solar spectrum is due to Kirchhoff and Bunsen, and forms one of

6o6                               SCIENCE.
the most important scientific announcements of modern times, as we are thus
made aware of the existence of substances in the atmospheres of the sun and
stars with which we are familiar in our own planet. We have discovered that
the spectra of metallic vapours consist of bright lines ; that of sodium, for ex
ample, consists of two such lines in the yellow. If through the flame giving the
sodium spectrum rays from a strong source of white light (such as an electric
lamp) be transmitted, the spectrum due to this last flame will be continuous,
with the exception of two dark lines where the bright lines from the sodium
originally appeared. We thus see that the sodium vapour has absorbed the
rays which would occupy the same position on the spectrum as its own bright
lines. Other vapours would absorb different rays, causing dark lines to appear
in other parts of the spectrum. The sun is supposed to be a body of extreme
brightness, which would emit a continuous spectrum, but that, surrounding
the solid portion, is an atmosphere of incandescent metallic vapours, which
cut off rays of the same refrangibility as their own light. The dark lines show
where certain bright ones would occur if the solid nucleus of the sun were re
moved. In this way many well-known metals have been detected in the sun's
 atmosphere.
                         OPTICAL INSTRUMENTS.
   When two mirrors are placed parallel to each other, and an object is placed
between them, an endless succession of images is formed. This arises from
the fact that the image formed in one mirror becomes the object for the other,
 and so on alternately. When the two mirrors are inclined at an angle to each
 other, the number of images is limited, and depends upon the angle at which
 the mirrors are placed. The instrument known as the Kaleidoscope is
             Fig. jo.                                    Fig. 2i
  founded upon this property of inclined mirrors. It consists of a tube of card
  board (shown in section in the figure), in which are placed along the whole
  length of the tube two mirrors, M N and M' N, inclined at an angle which is
  an aliquot part of 1800, and hinged together along one edge. One end is
  fitted up with an eye-glass, the other end is closed with two glasses placed at
  a small distance apart. Between these are placed small fragments of glass or

                                             OPTICS,                                                607
 other variously-coloured objects. On looking through the other end, the
images of these are seen symmetrically arranged, and one less in number than
the angle at which the mirrors are inclined is contained in 3600.
    Magic Lantern.—This is an optical instrument, by means of which magni
fied images of small pictures are thrown upon a screen in a dark room. It
consists of a lantern, in which is placed a lamp in the focus of a concave re
flector, c, placed behind it. In the side of the lantern is inserted a horizontal
tube on a level with the flame. The rays reflected by C are thrown upon a
converging lens, A, which concentrates the rays upon the figures traced on the
slide S. In front of these figures (now strongly illuminated) is another con
verging lens, placed at a little more than its focal length from the slide. Ac
cording to the principles explained in the formation of images by convex
lenses, an inverted and greatly magnified image will be thrown upon the screen.
 In order to obtain an erect image, care must be taken to introduce the slides
in an inverted position.
   The Stereoscope (Gr., steros, solid, and skoptin, to see) is an instrument
by means of which the projections
of solid bodies, on a plane surface,
arc seen in relief, as in the ordinary
vision of the objects themselves. In
viewing a near object with both eyes
where there is a sensible conver
gence of the optic axes,* the retinal
pictures differ in their perspective
for each eye, thus giving the idea of
solidity. The first conception of the
instrument is due to Prof. Wheat-
stone, and, as modified by Sir David
Brewster, is the instrument now in                                  Fig. 22.
general use, and represented in the
figure. 1 1 consists of a small wooden box, the upper side of which bears two
tubes the same distance apart as the two eyes. In the tubes are fastened two
semi-lenses used as eye-pieces.
   The pictures to be used are taken from two different points of view, and
mounted side by side upon a piece of cardboard, and being placed in the
stereoscope, are viewed through the two semi-lenses in the tubes. The lenses
are so constructed that, on looking through them, the two pictures appear to
occupy the same part of space. The principle upon which this depends
may be stated as follows : When an object is viewed through the centre of a
convex lens, the eye, the centre of the lens, and the actual place of the object
are in one straight line. If the lens be moved to the right or left, the object
will appear to move to the left or right, the displacement of the object being in a
direction contrary to that in which the lens is moved. Let such a lens be cut
transversely into two semicircular pieces, and placed side by side, with their
thin edges adjacent, so that the two plane edges formed by the section are
parallel. The left half of the lens now forms the right eye-piece, and the
right half the left ; and it will follow from what has been said, that the picture
placed under each lens will appear in a position midway between the two
  • The diverging pencils which fall upon the eye from every point of an object, are of the shape of a
cone, the base of which rests upon the pupil of the eye. The axis of this cone is called the optic axis.

6o8                               SCIENCE.
lenses. By this arrangement the objects are magnified as well as made to
coalesce.
   Zoetrope, or Wheel of Life. (Fig. 23.) This instrument is so named from
its exhibiting the pictures of objects as if possessed of life. It consists of a
cylinder of cardboard of about 12 in. diameter and 7 J in. in depth, with a rim
of metal at the top and fastened to a circular piece of wood at the bottom. An
upright inserted into the stand, S, forms the vertical axis upon which the box
may be made to rotate with any desired speed. There are thirteen apertures,
each 3 in. long and -& in. wide, at equal distances round the circumference.
                                                                Fig. 24.
Each set of pictures is printed on a strip of thick paper, 36 in. long and 3} in.
broad. In using the instrument the picture strip is placed inside the cylinder
immediately below the apertures. Light it well from above, and on revolving
the cylinder look through the apertures at the pictures on the opposite side. The
appearances observed depend upon the fact that vision lasts for a short interval
of time after the exciting ray has been removed. The pictures, it will be
observed, represent the different attitudes successively assumed by the object
in contemplating a certain movement. The mechanical arrangement is such
that the visual impression of each picture remains until the incidence of the
next following it. The object is thus constantly in view, and appears to exe
cute the movements delineated by the pictures.
   In the Thaumatrope, represented in Fig. 24, the attention is confined to
a single group, instead of to a number of groups, all performing the same
movement. The cylinder turns upon a horizontal axis. The groups are ar
ranged on the strips one above another, and not side by side as in the zoetrope.
They are perforated with apertures corresponding to those in the cylinder.
By an opening at the bottom of the hood the view is confined to a single group
on the opposite side of the cylinder. Both eyes are here used at once, which
renders the illusion more distinct and pleasing.

                                   ACOUSTICS.                                    609
                                ACOUSTICS.
   When a bell, or other elastic body, is struck, we feel a sensation, to which
the name sound is given. The question is, What is the cause of this sensation ?
It is this : on striking the bell, its particles are thrown into a vibratory motion ;
the same motion is transmitted to the air. and propagated through it to the
ear, producing the sensation of sound. That the particles of the bell have
been actually thrown into this tremulous or oscillatory motion, you may feel
by putting the finger gently to it ; but if the finger be pressed against the bell,
the vibratory motion of its particles will be stopped, and consequently the
sound destroyed. So we silence a bowl or glass that has been accidentally
struck at table.
   We have now to consider how this sonorous motion is propagated or trans
mitted through the air. This will be the more readily understood by taking
a case in which the sound results from the transmission of a single pulsation
or wave, as it does in the following experiment :
   Fill a bladder with a mixture of hydrogen and air, or of hydrogen and
oxygen ; thrust into it a red-hot skewer : the gases explode, and a sharp loud
sound is heard. What has taken place ? This : when the mixture of gases
exploded, an intense heat was given out from their chemical union ; the heat
caused a great and sudden expansion of the air at the place of the explosion,
which, forcing away the air immediately around, produced a condensation at
a little distance : this condensed layer or shell of air gave up its motion to the
next layer of air, condensed it, and at the same time came to a state of rest
itself; each layer acted in the same manner, imparting its motion to the next
succeeding layer, and coming itself to rest : the motion was thus propagated
like a pulse or wave through the air. When the wave reached the ear, the
air in its cavity was thrown against the membrane of the tympanum, or drum
of the ear; this membrane transmitted the motion to the auditory nerve,
which conveyed it to the brain, where it produced the sensation of sound.
Sound, then, till it reaches the brain, is merely motion ; and when we speak
throughout this article of sound being propagated, transmitted, or conveyed
through bodies, we mean by sound the motion which produces the sensation
of sound when it reaches the brain. This sonorous wave is propagated through
the air, at the common temperature of 590 F., at the speed of 1,120 ft. per
second. We must be careful not to confound the velocity of the wave with
the velocity of the particles of air which constitute it at any instant ; for while
each particle of air makes a small excursion about its point of rest, forwards
and backwards, the wave is propagated for a considerable distance.
    Now to return to our experiment with the bell. The continuous sound pro
 duced on striking it was simply caused by a succession of waves being propa
gated through the air, which impinged against the ear with such rapidity or
 frequency as was sufficient to produce the sensation of a continuous sound.
 It is with the sonorous wave as with a wave of water—motion, not matter, is
 transmitted ; and this is the distinguishing character of all wave motion. Of
 the truth of it the reader may further satisfy himself, by observing how a pulse
 runs along a rope, when it is fixed at one end and receives a jerk at the other.
                                                                        £9

6io                                SCIENCE.
   In both our experiments above mentioned, namely, the striking of the bell
and the explosion of the bladder, the sound was transmitted through the air ;
but other gases are also capable of transmitting it, so are liquids and elastic
solids, and these even with greater facility than air. A bell struck under water
was heard across the whole breadth of the Lake of Geneva, a distance of nine
miles, which shows that water has a great facility for propagating through it
sonorous motion. If a poker be suspended by a string, and the end of the
string pressed into the ear while the other end of the poker is struck, a loud
tolling sound is heard ; this arises from the vibrations of the poker which are
transmitted through it to the ear ; or if the end of a long log of timber be
scratched with a pin, a person having his ear at the opposite end will hear the
sound distinctly.
  We have now had examples of sound being transmitted through gases,
liquids, and elastic solids : some medium is essentially necessary. Sound can
not be transmitted through a vacuum. This is shown by ringing a bell under
the exhausted receiver of an air-pump : though the hammer pound against
the bell, no sound is heard. The less dense the air in which the sound is pro
duced, the less intense the sound : this is shown in the last experiment, for as
the receiver becomes more and more exhausted of air, the sound of the bell
becomes more and more feeble. If the receiver were now filled with hydrogen
(which is fourteen and a half times lighter than ordinary air), and the bell rung
in it, the sound would be found to be still more feeble than if air of the same
density as the hydrogen were used. When a pistol is fired on the top of a
mountain where the air is light, the report is very slight. If a sound be made
on the bank of a river, it is greatly weakened to a person immersed in the
water : this is an example of the general law, that when sound is transmitted
from a light to a heavy body, it is enfeebled. The same thing is exemplified
when a bell is rung first in the open air, and then under a glass vessel ; the
sound in the latter case is much lessened, for the vibrations have in this case
to be transferred from the air to the glass, and thence to the outer air.
   When a gun is fired we see the flash before we hear the report ; it has taken
this time for the sound to reach us. The rate at which sound travels through
air has been determined by experiment. At a station whose exact distance
from an observer is known, a sound and flash of light are produced at the
same instant ; from the great rapidity with which light travels, we may con
sider that the observer sees the flash the moment it is produced, so that what
ever interval there is from the time he sees the flash till he hears the sound, it
has taken this time for the sonorous wave to travel to him : this being noted
exactly, and the distance known, the velocity is determined. After neutralizing
the influence of the wind, and taking into account the barometric pressure,
temperature, and hygrometric state of the air, 1,120 ft. per second is given
as the velocity of sound through air at the temperature of 59° F.
   The speed with which sound is transmitted through any. medium depends
on two things : the elasticity of the medium and its density. The greater the
elastic force compared with the density, the greater the velocity of sound. If
we could diminish the density of the air while its elasticity remains the same,
we should increase the velocity of sound through it. This is exactly what is
done when our atmosphere is heated by the sun— it expands, becomes lighter
bulk for bulk than before, while its elasticity (which is measured by the height
of the mercurial column it supports in the barometer) remains the same.
Through this heated air sound travels more rapidly than through cold, and

                                  ACOUSTICS.                                  611
the increase in velocity is found to be if ft. per second for every degree of
increase of temperature measured on Fahrenheit's scale ; so that the velocity
of sound through air at the freezing-point (320 F.) is 1,090 ft. per second.
   From knowing the elasticity and density of air, the velocity of sound through
it can be determined from theory. The velocity obtained by experiment is
found to be 173 ft. per second more than that obtained from theory; this in
crease is due to the effect of heat disengaged from the compression of the air
by the passage of the sonorous wave through it. That heat is given out when
air is compressed, the following simple experiment well shows. Take a good
stout glass cylinder, A B, closed at the end b, and having a piston, C, fitting it
perfectly air-tight ; attach a bit of gun-cotton, E, as in the figure, press the
piston forcibly down the cylinder so as to compress the air in it : as much
heat will be disengaged as is sufficient to kindle the gun-cotton.
    From knowing the rate at which sound travels through the atmosphere, we
can tell the distance of the place where it originates. Thus, suppose we see a
flash of lightning, and five seconds afterwards hear the thunder, we know that
the cloud at which the discharge took place is distant five times 1,120 ft., that
is, 5,600 ft., or rather more than a mile. It is only when the interval between
the flash and the peal is short that there is danger.
   The time that it takes sound to travel, explains many of its phenomena.
Thus, if a long line of musketry fire at the same moment, and two persons be
stationed at a distance, one in front of the line and the other at the end, the
one in front will hear a sharp loud report, while to the person at a distance
from the end the sound will continue for some time, diminishing in intensity.
Now, the reason of this is, that the person in front was nearly at an equal dis
tance from each of the muskets, and consequently the sound of each of them
reached his ear at nearly the same moment, producing a sudden bang; while
the other person, being much nearer the muskets at one end than the other,
hears the report of those nearest him first, and the sound will continue during
the time that it takes to travel through the whole line, diminishing in intensity
as it comes from a greater distance. Similar considerations explain why
thunder is sometimes heard as a sudden clap of deafening loudness, and at
other times as a prolonged rolling.
   The velocity of sound is greater in liquids and elastic solids than in air : in
water it is four and a half times, in cast iron ten times, and in different kinds
of wood from eleven to seventeen times as great as in air. The cause of this
is, that in these the elasticity compared with the density is greater than the
elasticity of air compared with its density. An experiment of Biot beautifully
illustrates how much better iron transmits sound than air. Fix a bell to the
end of a long iron tube; when the bell is struck, a person having his ear at
the other end of the tube will hear two distinct sounds, one after the other,
the first transmitted through the iron, the second through the air in the tube.
   When sound strikes a hard or elastic surface—plane or curved—it is re
flected, and in this respect follows the same laws as light and radiant heat—
the angle of incidence being equal to the angle of reflection. Fig. 2 shows an ex
periment which exemplifies the reflection both of radiant heat and sound, a and
                                                                 39—2

6l2                                 SCIENCE.
B are two mirrors, made of any hard polished substance, and fixed 10 or 1 5 ft.
apart. I f a heated ball of iron be placed at F (the focus of the mirror a), a
piece a gun-cotton placed at /(the focus of the mirror b) will be exploded;
though at any other place much nearer the mirror this would not happen.
For the rays of heat from the ball, falling on the mirror A, are reflected in
                            Fig. 2.
                                                                            V
                                                                           Fig. 3.
parallel directions ; but on striking the mirror B, they are all reflected into the
focus /, as shown by the direction of the lines in the figure. If a watch be
now hung at F, instead of the ball, to a person having his ear at f the ticking
will be distinct and loud, and will be heard coming from the mirror B.
   Curved walls and roofs act upon sound in the same manner as we have seen
the mirrors act, and on this principle whispering galleries are constructed : a
whisper uttered at one of the foci of an elliptical building will be heard
distinctly by a person at the other focus, though quite inaudible to persons
situated midway.
   When the reflecting surface is at such a distance that the reflected sound is
heard distinct from the direct, the reflected sound is called an echo. The re
flecting surface may be at so great a distance as to repeat distinctly words of
several syllables: at Woodstock is an echo which is said to repeat twenty
syllables. A single sound may be repeated several times, the successive echoes
still becoming feebler : of this we have good example in the echo at the Gap
of Dunloe, at Killarney.
   Sounds are either musical or non-musical, or, in other words, are either
notes or noises. A musical sound or note is produced when the impulses of
the air, &c, against the ear occur at equal intervals, and with such rapidity
as to produce a continuous sound—as when a tuning-fork is made to vibrate.
When the impulses are irregular, noise is the resulting sensation.
   Two sounds of either class may differ in intensity or loudness, in pitch, and
in timbre, that is, the quality of sound peculiar to each instrument, and by
which we distinguish, for instance, the sound of a violin from that of a clarionet.
   The intensity or loudness of a note depends on the amplitude of the vibra
tions that produce it, the amplitude of a vibration meaning the space that a
particle moves through in making a vibration : the greater this space, the more
intense the sound. Thus, when the tuning-fork, F, is made to vibrate, as in
Fig. 3, the amplitude of the vibrations, at first, is from the dotted line a to
the dotted line b; as the fork continues to vibrate, the amplitude will be seen

                                ACOUSTICS.                                    613
to become less, and at the same time the sound will be heard to become
weaker ; when the motion ceases, silence prevails.
  A sound becomes less intense the greater the distance of the sounding body,
and the diminution is proportional to the square of this distance ; that is, at
double the distance the intensity is only one-fourth, at treble the distance it is
one-ninth, at four times the distance it is one-sixteenth, and so on. Thus, if
a bell be placed at a certain distance, and four other similar bells be placed
at twice the distance, the sound coming from the one bell should be as loud
as the sound coming from the four. It must be borne in mind that the above
law is only true when the sound is transmitted freely in the open air; but if
the sound be transmitted through the air in a tube, it is conveyed to a great
distance without losing much of its loudness : in this way communication
may be maintained between very distant apartments in a house.
   The acuteness of a musical sound or note is called its pitch, and this depends
entirely on the number of vibrations per second required to produce the note,
as the following experiment shows. By turning the handle H, Fig. 4, each
tooth of the smaller wheel, C, is made to strike the card, D, in passing it.
                                      Fig. 4.
When the wheel revolves slowly each tap is heard separately, but when the
speed is increased, these link into a continuous sound, which rises in pitch the
more rapidly the wheel revolves.
   This apparatus was invented by Savart, and may be used not only as we
have done, to show that the pitch of a note rises as the rate of vibration in
creases, but also to find the number of vibrations per second due to any par
ticular note. To do this, we have simply to turn the wheel till the required
note is attained, and then, maintaining the same speed for some time, we find
from an index the number of revolutions the wheel has been making per
second ; multiplying this by the number of teeth in the wheel, the result gives
the number of vibrations per second due to the note in question. In England
a vibration means an excursion to and fro of the vibrating body ; but in France
a vibration consists of an excursion of the vibrating body in one direction,
that is, to ox fro. It is found by an experiment similar to the above, that the
least number of complete vibrations capable of linking together, so as to pro
duce a continuous sound, is sixteen per second. The Syren is an instrument,
invented by M. Cagniard de Latour, for determining the vibrations due to
any note ; in it the musical sounds are produced by a succession of puffs, but

  614                                        SCIENCE.
  a full description of it would be too long to introduce here. A series of notes,
  whose vibrations are in the ratios denoted by the following numbers: I, g, {,
  i' h Si V. 2, forms the natural or diatonic scale ; multiplying these ratios by
  24 to avoid fractions, we get the following series of whole numbers which ex
  press the same relations : 24, 27, 30, 32, 36, 40, 45, 48. The notes of the
  diatonic scale are denoted by the letters, C, D, E, F, G, A, B, c', or by the syllables,
  do, re, me, fa, sol, la, si, do'. It has been agreed that the note produced by
  435 complete vibrations per second shall be denoted by A on the second space
  of the treble ;* the vibrations due to the other corresponding notes are, there
  fore, as follows :
     Names of the notes .               .     .      C, D, E, F, g, A, B, c'.
     Relative rates of vibration              .       I, §, f, J, f, J, V, 2-
     Number of vibrations per second 261, 294, 326, 348, 392, 435, 489, 522.
     We observe that Cf, the octave of C, that is, the eighth note on the scale
 from C, is produced by twice the number of vibrations due to C. The scale is
 continued both ways, each note being produced by twice the number of vibra
 tions due to its lower octave, or half the number of vibrations due to its higher
 octave.
     When two notes are sounded together, they produce a pleasing effect called
 harmony, if their notes of vibration bear a simple relation to each other; thus
 c produces harmony with its octave c', their notes of vibration being as 1 is
 to 2. Also C sounded with G produces harmony, though not so perfect as in
 the last case, their vibrations being in the proportion of 2 to 3. When no such
 simple relations exist, the notes when sounded together produce an unpleasing
effect called discord. From c to G is called an interval of a fifth, on account
 of their relative positions on the scale ; other intervals are named in the same
way : thus from C to E is an interval of a third, and so on.
    Fig. 5 shows the condition of the air when a musical sound is passing
through it : when the prong of the fork advances it produces a condensation
of the air, and when it retreats it leaves a partial vacuum behind it. Thus
every complete vibration of the prong, that is, an excursion forwards and
backwards, sends forth a complete wave, which consists of a condensed part
and a rarified part; these two parts form the length of the wave. In Fig. 5
   * This is the "Diapason Normal," or French pilch, formally established ,bv law in i8s9 : the English
concert-pitch is higher, but many musicians are anxious to have it lowered, which it is soon likely to be.

                                 ACOUSTICS.                                    6i5
 the dark spaces represent the condensed parts, and the light spaces the rarihed
 parts of the waves ; from a to b is a wave length. It would appear from this
that we should be able to tell the length of the waves that produce any par
 ticular note. And so we can. Suppose the fork in Fig. 5 performs 435
vibrations per second, and that the velocity of the sound is 1,120 ft. per second.
 Now, when the fork is made to vibrate, in one second the front of the first
 wave sent forth will be 1,120 ft. ahead; but during this one second the fork
 will have sent forth 435 waves; so that this space of 1,120 ft. is made up of
435 waves, therefore the length of each wave is 1,120 ft. divided by 435, that
 is, rather more than 2\ ft. Thus the length of the waves corresponding to
any note is found by dividing the velocity of the sound per second by the
number of vibrations per second due to the note. It follows that the higher
the pitch of a note, the shorter the waves : if one note be an octave higher
than another, the waves producing the higher note are just half the length
of those producing the lower.
     In a large class of musical instruments the sound is produced by the
vibration of highly stretched strings, the intensity of the sound being increased
by the vibrations being communicated to suitable sound-boards, as in the
violin, piano, harp, &c From experiments made with the simple instrument
(Fig. 6) called a monochord, in which, by means of the movable bridge, c.
any length of the string may be vibrated, it is shown that the vibrations of a
string depend on the following laws :
    1. The shorter the string the more rapid the vibration, and consequently
the higher the pitch of the note: with half the length of the string the vibra
tions are doubled, and produce the octave of the whole string ; with one-third
the length of the string the vibrations are trebled, and produce a note a fifth
above the octave of the whole string. In general terms, the number of vibra
tions is inversely proportional to the length of the string.
    2. The more tightly the string is stretched, the more rapidly it vibrates, and
it is found that the number of vibrations is proportional to the square root of
the stretching .weight.
    3. The vibrations depend also on the thickness of the string ; the length
and stretching weight continuing the same, we find that the number of vibra
tions varies inversely as the thickness.
    4. All other things remaining the same, the number of vibrations is inversely
proportional to the square root of the density of the string. The two last
laws may be expressed in one, thus : the length and stretching weight con
tinuing the same, the number of vibrations is inversely proportional to the
square root of the weight of the string. I n the violin and other stringed instru

6i6                                SCIENCE.
ments, we avail ourselves of thickness instead of length to obtain the grave
notes.
   We can make any length of string vibrate without using the bridge C, Fig.
6. If we remove the bridge, and touch the string in the middle, while a
fiddle-bow is drawn across one of its halves, the two halves will vibrate sepa
rately, as represented in Fig. 7, in which only the string of the monochord
is shown. The note produced is an octave of that produced by the string
vibrating as a whole, as shown in Fig. 8.
 At::                             :.hB         AK-                              IB
                                                            Fig. 8.
   The point, c, between the vibrating segments remains at rest, and is called
a node. By touching the string in the proper place and then drawing the bow
across it, we can divide it into three, four, or five, or any number of vibrating
segments, separated by the corresponding number of nodes. The position of
these segments and nodes is readily observed by putting riders of paper along
the string ; those situated at the vibrating segments will be unhorsed, while
                     At::        *:                       "::*B
                                       Frc. 9.
those at the nodes remain on, as in Fig. 9. The same thing takes place when
plates of glass are made to vibrate, and the position of the nodal lines in these
is beautifully shown by scattering fine sand over the plates ; the sand assumes
a curious rapid motion, and finally settles along the nodal lines. If a square
piece of glass be held at the centre by a suitable clamp, and fine sand scattered
over it, when a violin bow is drawn across its edge near one of the corners,
        Fig.                          Fig.                          Fig.
while the middle point of one of its sides is touched with the finger, the sand
is tossed about and settles along the nodal lines (Fig. 10) which divide the plate
into vibrating segments. The note produced by this division is the lowest note
of the plate.
   If one of the corners be touched, and the bow drawn across the middle of
one of the sides, the sand arranges itself as in Fig. 11: the note produced

                                  MECHANICS.                                  %17
this time is a fifth above the last. If the plate be held near one of the corners,
and the bow drawn as in the last case, the sand assumes the form shown in
 Fig. 12, and we obtain a note higher than either of the former. By thus
agitating and touching the plates in different parts, Chladni was able to obtain
an immense number of beautiful figures.
    In organ-pipes the sound is produced not by the vibration of the material
 of which the pipes are made, but by the vibration of the air in the pipes. The
lowest or fundamental note of a pipe, open at both ends, is that whose semi-
wave equals the length of the pipe; and if the pipe be closed at one end, its
lowest note is that whose semi-wave is half the length of the pipe. From this
it follows that if two pipes be the same length, and one be open and the other
closed, the fundamental note of the former is an octave lower than that of the
latter. Since the longer the wave the deeper the note, the longer the pipe the
deeper is its fundamental note. Higher notes may be got from a pipe by in
creasing the velocity of the current of air passing over its mouth ; for then
the air in the pipe divides itself into vibrating segments. The rates of vibra
tion of the notes that can be got from an open pipe are as the numbers I, 2;
3, 4, 5, &c, and from a pipe closed at one end, as the numbers I, 3, 5, 7, 9,
&c. Thus with an open pipe, the next note that can be produced above the
fundamental note is its octave ; but with a closed pipe, the first note above
the fundamental is a fifth above its octave.
                               MECHANICS.
                            Composition of Forces.
   In Mechanics we treat of the effects of forces on bodies ; a force being any
thing which produces or tends to produce motion in a body, or which changes
or tends to change the motion of a body. If one force alone acts on a body,
only one effect can take place—the body must move in a straight line ; for
whenever a body at rest appears to be acted on by a single force, a little con
sideration will show that one or more others are in play. And when a body
is subjected to the action of two or more forces, some one of two effects must
 take place: either the body must continue at rest, or it must begin to move in
some definite direction and at some definite speed. If the body continue
at rest, the forces that act upon it must be so related as to their intensity and
direction, that they neutralize each other's effects. They are then said to be
in equilibrium, and the science that treats of the relations that must exist be
tween two or more forces in order that they may be in equilibrium is called
Statics ; while that which treats of the effects of forces not in equilibrium—
that is, of the motion of bodies— is called Dynamics.
   In statics, the magnitude or intensity of a force is measured by the weight
which it would be able to support. A force that would support a weight of
1 lb. is called a force of 1 lb. ; that which would support a weight of 2 lbs. is
called a force of 2 lbs. ; or, speaking of the two with reference to each other,
the former may be called a force 1, and the latter a force 2.
   Since the only things necessary to describe a force are its magnitude and

Gifi                                 SCIENCE.
its direction (that is, the direction in which it would tend to move any body
to which it is applied), it is plain we can represent forces by lines, simply by
drawing the lines in the directions in which the forces act, and of lengths
proportional to their magnitudes. Thus if we want to represent, by means of
fines, two forces of 3 lbs. and 5 lbs. respectively, acting on a body, o, at right
     r
                  Fig. :
angles with each other, we draw trom the point O two lines, o A and o B, at
right angles to each other, as in Fig. 1. From o A we measure off O P=3 in.,
and from o B we measure off o Q=5 in. ; then O P and o Q represent the said
forces. Of course we might have taken three half-inches and five half-inches,
making a line of i in. represent a force of 1 lb., or any other convenient
lengths, taking care always to make the lines o P and O Q, which represent
the forces, in the proportion of three to five.
    Here is a body at O, Fig. 2. If it be acted on by a force which tends to
move it in the direction o A, and at the same time be acted on by another
force which tends to move it in the direction o B, it will obey neither, but will
move off in a direction between them. From this it is evident that a single
force might be found that would have the same effect in moving the body as
the other two forces combined. That single force is called the resultant of
the other two, and how to find it we shall now show. Let the force tending
to send the body o in the direction o A be 3 lbs., and the force tending to send
 it in the direction o B be 4 lbs. ; from o A measure off O P=3 in., and from O R
measure off o Q=4 in. Now the lines o P and o Q represent the said forces.
 Complete the parallelogram, as in the figure, and draw the diagonal o R : o R
 represents the resultant. Let us measure it on the same scale as we measured
 O P and o Q on ; we find it contains 5 in., and therefore represents a force of
 5 lbs. Thus a single force of 5 lbs. acting in the direction O R would have
 the same effect in moving the body, o, as the other two forces combined have.
 The reader may, perhaps, now ask, What is the use of finding the resultant of
 two forces? Well, it is this: it enables us to tell both the magnitude and
 direction of a single force that would balance two given forces; and of the
 great and practical advantage of this no one will doubt. For instance, in the
 example that we have just taken, if a force of 5 lbs. be applied to the body at
 o, and be made to act in the opposite direction to O R, it will balance the other
 two forces, namely, the force of 3 lbs. acting in the direction O A, and the force
 of 4 lbs. acting in the direction o B. Two forces are called, in relation to their
 resultant, components; and the method of finding the resultant is called the
 composition 0/forces.

                                  MECHANICS.                                    619
     Having done this example, we shall now give in words the general rule for
  finding the resultant of any two forces acting on a body at the same point,
  but in different directions. Represent the forces by lines ; complete the paral
  lelogram of which these lines will be the adjacent sides, and draw the diagonal
  from the point at which the forces act. This diagonal represents the resultant.
  This rule is founded on the principle called the parallelogram of forces, which
  is in these words : if the two forces acting on a body be represented by the
  sides of a parallelogram, then the diagonal of this parallelogram, drawn in
  the direction of the forces, will represent the resultant.
     We shall show by an experiment that this principle is true. Knot three
  strings together, and hang two of them over fixed pulleys, M and N ; let
  the third hang from the point o ; attach weights, P, Q, and R— R being less
  than the sum of p and Q : the whole, when left to itself, will balance in some
  definite position, as in the figure. The tension at every point of the string 0 M
                        Fig. 3.
 is the weight P, and at every point of O N the tension is the weight Q. Now,
 since R, acting vertically downwards through O, balances P and Q, acting
in the directions o M and O N respectively, the resultant of P, acting in the
direction o M, and Q, acting in the direction O N, must be a force equal to R,
and acting vertically upwards through O.
    Let us now find the resultant of P and Q, according to the method of the
parallelogram of forces, and it will be found to agree with that which we have
just obtained by experiment. To do it, from o M measure off O A, containing
as many inches as there are ounces in P, and from O N measure off o B, con
taining as many inches as there are ounces in Q ; complete the parallelogram
as in the figure, and draw the diagonal o c. O C will be found on trial to
contain as many inches as R does ounces, and to be drawn vertically upwards
through o ; it therefore represents the resultant found by experiment. This
proves the truth of the principle; for, however the position of the pulleys may
be varied, the resultant found by the parallelogram offorces will be found
always to agree with that found by experiment.
    If we take five rods jointed together, and form four of them into a parallel
ogram, making the fifth rod, which should be longer than the others, a diagonal,
as shown in Fig. 4, and let the rods. O P and o Q, represent two forces acting

620                                  SCIENCE.
on a body at O, then the rod O R will represent the resultant. By pushing in
the corners at P and Q, so as to lessen the angle P O Q, we increase O R : this
teaches us that the smaller the angle at which two forces act, the greater is
the resultant. If the angle be diminished until it becomes nothing, then the
forces act in the same direction, and the resultant is their sum : this is the
greatest value the resultant of two forces can have. Again, if we pull out
the corners p and Q, so as to increase the angle P O Q, we diminish O R : this
teaches us that the greater the angle at which two forces act, the less is the
resultant. If the angle be increased until the forces come to act in precisely
opposite directions, then the resultant is their difference : this is the smallest
value the resultant can have. If the two forces were equal to each other, in
this case their resultant would be 0, and they would therefore be in equilibrium.
    The resultant of any number of forces acting at a point may be found by a
                                  repetition of the same process : simply find the
                         r        resultant of two of them by the above method,
                                  then find the resultant of this resultant and a
                                   third force, and so on ; the last resultant found
                                   will be the resultant of all the forces. Thus, let
                                   three forces, O a, o b, O C, act on a particle, O,
                                   as in Fig. 5. To find the resultant of these
                                   three forces, find O Rl, the resultant of O A and
                                   O B ; then find O R2, the resultant of O R, and
                                   O C; OR2 will be the resultant of the three
                                   given forces O A, O B, O C.
                                      The reader will have no difficulty in finding
                                   illustrations of
                                   the composition
                                   of velocities act
                                   ing as we have
                                   described. Thus,
                                   when a man rows
               Fig. s.             a boat across a
                                   river so that in
still water it would go straight across in the di
rection o A ; if the river be running in the direc
tion o B the boat will obey neither the oars nor                    Fig. b.
the stream directly, but will go exactly in the
direction o C, determined by the parallelogram of velocities.
     We now come to consider what is the resultant of two parallel forces acting
 on a rigid body at different points. To do this let us perform the following
 experiment : balance an inflexible rod by hanging a weight from its middle
 point over a fixed pulley, as in Fig. 7. Suppose the rod a b to be 10 in. in length ;
 to the end A attach a weight, P, of 3 oz. ; to the end B attach a weight, Q, of 1 2 oz.
 Now, it will be found that, in order to balance P and Q, we must suspend 15 oz.
 from a point, C, which is 2 in. from B and 8 in. from A. Now, since a weight of
  1 5 oz. acting vertically upwards through c balances P and Q, the resultant of
 p and Q must be 1 5 oz. acting vertically downwards through c. This experi
 ment teaches us that the resultant of two parallel forces acting on a body at
 different points is equal to their sum acting at a point between them, so. that
 a c may bear the same proportion to B C as Q does to P ; and we see that when
 that point is supported the bar on which the forces act remains at rest in all

                                 MECHANICS.                                  621
positions. This experiment must be borne in mind when we come to speak
of the centre of gravity of a body. Similar experiments and considerations
enable us to find the resultant of any number of parallel forces acting down
wards.
   No doubt the reader would be able now to determine the resultant of any
number of forces acting at a point, and, therefore, able to tell what single
force would balance any number of given forces ; for he will remember that a
force equal to the resultant, but acting in the opposite direction, would do so.
              I  H      0
  I
              Fig. 7.                      Fig. 8.               Fig. g.
There is one interesting case, however, in which no resultant can be found of
two parallel forces, and therefore no single force could be applied that would
keep them at rest ; this happens when the parallel forces are equal and oppo
site, and act at different points of the body, as shown
in Fig. 8. Such forces constitute what is called a cou
ple, and the tendency of a couple is to produce circular
motion.
   We have a good example of a couple in the centri
fugal drill, represented in Fig. 9. When the handle,
A B, is forced down, the actions of the string on the
opposite sides of the spindle constitute a couple, which
makes the spindle revolve rapidly, so that a hole is bored
in whatever its lower end rests on.
   Another beautiful illustration of a couple is seen in
the philosophical toy, Fig. 10. Here a ball is kept in
constant rotatory motion by a jet of water playing
against it. The weight of the ball, acting downwards
at its centre, is one of the forces of the couple, and the
water, acting upwards against its side, is the other.
                                                                  Fig- 10.
                              Centre of Gravity.
   We observe that when a body is not supported it falls to the ground ; if we
 raise it again and once more leave it unsupported, down it falls in the same
 direction as before. The reason of this is, that every particle of the body is
 drawn towards the centre of the earth by a force that gets the name of gravity.
 The action of gravity on a body may be well represented by lines drawn from

622                                 SCIENCE.
the places of the particles, as in Fig. 1 1 : these lines will all point to the centre
of the earth, and would therefore meet there ; but as that point is nearly 4,000
miles distant, they may be considered parallel. The action of gravity, then, on
a body is a number of parallel forces drawing its particles downwards ; but we
have just learnt that these parallel forces acting downwards are equivalent to a
single force acting at a certain point between them, and that when that point is
supported the body remains at rest in all positions. In this case, that point is
the centre of gravity of the body, and the single force, which is the resultant
of all the others, is the weight of the body. The centre of gravity of a body,
then, is that point through which passes the resultant of all the forces which,
on account of gravity, act on the body ; and therefore, when it is supported,
the body remains at rest in all positions.
   This enables us to find the centre of gravity of many bodies by experiment ;
thus, if we balance a rod on the finger, as in the figure, the point c, which is
vertically above the point supported by the finger, is the centre of gravity
of the rod ; and if a piece of wire be put through the rod at this point and
supported, the rod will remain at rest in whatever position it is put. The
reader must be careful not to imagine that the centre of gravity of the rod is
at its surface. In regular bodies of the same density throughout, we can fix
upon the centre of gravity from general considerations; thus in a line it is its
middle point, in a sphere it is the centre, in a cylinder it is the middle of the
axis, and so on.
   When a body is suspended freely from a point by a string passing through
a hole in it, as in Fig. 13, and allowed to come to a state of rest, its centre of
gravity will lie in the vertical line, a G, drawn from the point of suspension by
means of a plummet, otherwise the centre of gravity would not be supported.
   This principle enables us to find the centre of gravity of irregular bodies
experimentally; for if we suspend the body in Fig. 13 from another point. R,
and draw the vertical line B D from that point, the line B r> will also contain
 the centre of gravity : the point, G, in which the two lines intersect, is the
 point required.

                                  MECHANICS.                                   623
   As long as the vertical line drawn through the centre of gravity of a body
falls within the base, the body remains at rest ; but the nearer this line falls to
the extremity of the base, the more easily is the body overturned ; and when
this line falls outside the base, the body falls of its own accord. Thus, of the
bodies represented in the margin, Fig. 14 is less easily overturned than Fig.
15; the slightest touch would overturn Fig. 16, and Fig. 17 would fall of its
 /
        -
        r
      Fig. 14.
                         w     p
                             Fig. 15.
                                     0
                                                 /77
                                                 Fig. 16.
                                                                 /-       /-e
                                                                     Fig. 17.
own accord. The art of balancing a stick on the finger consists in continually
shifting the point of support, so as to keep it vertically under the centre of
gravity, as shown in Fig. 18.
   When a man stands upright, his centre of gravity is supported by his feet ;
but when he carries a load on his back, he has to lean forward in order to
bring the centre of gravity of his body and of the load vertically above the
base formed by his feet ; for if he now stood upright, the load would have a
                                                /
                                              /
                                       .. J
       Fig. 18.                              Fig. 30.               Fig.
 tendency to make him fall backwards. More than once has a porter been
 precipitated downstairs from attempting to carry a heavy box in front of him,
 instead of on his shoulders.
    The vertical line drawn through the centre of gravity of a body is called
 the line of direction. Raising the centre of gravity in the same line of direc
 tion causes a body to be more easily overturned, as is shown in Figs. 19 A and
 19 B. A and B are two bodies of the same weight and shape, but the upper
 part of B is made of heavier material than the under part, so that its centre of
 gravity is higher than that of A. The body B is more easily overturned than

624                                 SCIENCE.
A ; for in order to overturn either, the centre of gravity, g, has to describe the
arc G d, and is raised through the vertical distance c d; but this distance is
less in B than in A, therefore B is the more easily overturned. This explains
the danger of putting a great deal of luggage on the top of a coach, and the
accidents that occur from persons suddenly standing up in a boat through
fear. When a body is free to move about a point, its centre of gravity always
assumes the lowest position it can attain ; this we can see from holding a pen or
pencil gently between the finger and thumb, so that it is free to move about
the point by which it is held. This tendency causes a body which is suspended
or supported from a point above its centre of gravity to vibrate for a few times
like the pendulum of a clock, and finally to settle with its centre of gravity
vertically under the point of support, as shown in Fig. 20, for this is the lowest
position it can attain.
   Fig. 21 represents an experiment which depends on the principle just men
tioned. Two forks, A and B, stuck in a cork, C, are balanced on the point of
a needle, which passes through the cork C and rests on a pin-head d. Here
the point of support, d, is above the centre of gravity of the forks, and there
fore, when they are put in motion, they will vibrate for a few times, and come
to rest in the manner we described above.
                     Fig. 22 shows a simpler form of the same experiment, for
       '          in it the centre of gravity is visible.
                     A cylinder may be made to roll for a short distance up an
                  inclined plane, A B, by having
                  one of its sides loaded with a
                  piece of metal, M. The centre of
                  gravity is thus changed from the
                  centre of the cylinder to the
                  point G; the cylinder will roll
                  up the inclined plane till the ver
                  tical line from G passes through
                  the point on which the plane                    Fig. 23.
                  supports the cylinder.
                     If a body is so situated that when it is slightly moved it re
                  turns to its former position, it is said to be in stable equili
      Fig. 22.    brium ; if it does not return to its previous position, but moves
                  farther, it is said to be in unstable equilibrium ; but if, when
the body is slightly moved, it neither returns to its former position nor moves
farther, it is said to be in neutral equilibrium : this is the case when a globe
rests on a smooth horizontal plane.
                               Mechanical Powers.
   Machines are instruments used for raising or supporting weights, or for com
municating motion from one body to another. In a machine we have two
forces in action—the resistance to be overcome, which we call the weight, and
the force to overcome it, which we call the power. If a machine enables a
power to overcome a weight greater than itself, it is said to have a mechanical
advantage. Thus by using a bar, as in Fig. 24, a power of 1 cwt. may be
 made to raise a weight of 10 cwt., and then the bar is said to have a mechani
 cal advantage of 10. The mechanical advantage of any machine is expressed
 by the ratio of the weight to the power when the machine is in equilibrium.

                                 MECHANICS.                                   625
 But we must not suppose that the bar, or any other machine, creates or begets
 force: it merely economizes it, and what is gained in power is lost in speed;
 for in order that the power of I cwt. may raise the weight of 10 cwt. through
 1 ft., the power must move through 10 ft. This is called the principle of virtual
 velocities, and we find it exemplified in every machine.
    There are six simple machines, namely, the Lever, the Wheel and Axle, the
 Pulley, the Inclined Plane, the Wedge, and the Screw. They are called the
 Six Mechanical Powers. Every machine, however complicated, is merely
formed of a combination of these ; it is, therefore, important that they should
be well understood.
                      Fig. 24.                                    Fig. 25.
    It will be the business of the present section to find the relation between
 the power and the weight when they balance each other in each of the simple
 machines ; friction and the weight of the machine not being taken into account.
 For the sake of convenience, the power will be denoted by P, and the weight
by w. We shall commence with the Lever.
    A Lever is an inflexible rod, straight or bent, turning on a point called the
fulcrum. It is much used in the form of an iron bar for moving stones, and
other heavy bodies, through small distances. Fig. 25 shows a lever used for
that purpose, in which F is the fulcrum, P is the power exerted by the hand,
and w is the weight to be moved.
                               w
                  Fig. 26.                               Fig. 27.
    Take a straight inflexible bar, a b, and place it on a prop, F. On the end,
B, hang a weight, w, and balance it with the power, P, hung on the end, A:
F A is the power arm, and F B the weight arm. Now if f a is equal to F B,
then W is equal to P; if F A be double the length of F B, then w is double of
P ; if F A be three times the length of the arm, F B, then w is three times P ;
and so on. The weight always bears the same proportion to the power as the
power arm bears to the weight arm. The same thing is expressed by saying
                                                                       40

6z6                                 SCIENCE.
that the power multiplied by the length of the power arm is equal to the weight
                                    multiplied by the length of the weight arm.
                          B
                                      This rule holds for all levers; but if the lever
                                    be bent (as in Fig. 27), we must not take the
                                    bent arms of the lever, F M and F N, for the
                                    power and weight arms ; but for the power
                                    arm we must take F A, the perpendicular
                                    drawn from the fulcrum to the direction in
                                    which the power acts, and for the weight arm
                                    we must take F B, the perpendicular drawn
                                    from the fulcrum to the direction in which the
                                    weight acts.
                                       The same precaution must be observed if
                                    the power and weight do not act in directions
                                    parallel to each other, as shown in Fig. 28.
    In the three Figs. 26, 27, 28, the power multiplied by the length of F A is
called the moment of the power about the fulcrum, and expresses the tendency
that the power has to produce motion about the fulcrum ; in the same figures
the weight multiplied by the length of F B is called the moment of the weight
about the fulcrum, and expresses the tendency that the weight has to produce
motion about the fulcrum in the opposite direction. We see that when a lever
is at rest, the moments of the power and weight about the fulcrum are equal.
    Levers are generally divided into three kinds, according to the position of
the power and weight with regard to the fulcrum. In levers of the first kind
the power and weight act on different sides of
the fulcrum, as shown in Fig. 29. It is evident                                    a
that with levers of this kind we may either
have a mechanical advantage or a mechanical
disadvantage, according as the fulcrum is
placed nearer the weight or the power. Ex
amples of this kind of lever are numerous: the
                                                                               -0
crowbar used as we have shown in Fig. 25;
the poker used in stirring the fire; and the
clawed hammer used in drawing a nail, furnish                       F,G- **
familiar examples. In these, as well as in the
examples to be given of the other two kinds of levers, the reader should satisfy
himself as to what constitutes thefulcrum, power, and weight in each case.
    In levers of the second kind, the power and weight act on the same side of the
fulcrum, the weight being nearer the fulcrum, as shown in Fig. 30. Here, it is
evident, you have always a mechanical advantage, for the power arm must be
always longer than the weight arm. Nutcrackers, a chipping-knife, an oar
used in propelling a boat, and a door taken by the handle and opened on
its hinges, are levers of the second kind.
    In levers of the third kind, the power and weight also act upon the same
side of the fulcrum, the power being nearer the fulcrum, as in Fig. 31. In
this kind of lever there is always a mechanical disadvantage, for in it the power
arm is always shorter than the weight arm, so that to support a weight with
it, a greater power is required than if the power were applied directly without
the intervention of a machine at all. This kind of lever is only used when
velocity rather than power is wanted : the human arm (Fig. 32) is an example.
The fulcrum is at the elbow, the weight is the body resting on the hand, and

                                  .MECHANICS.                                 627
the contractile force of the muscle furnishes the power which acts at p. When
the muscle contracts, the hand describes a much longer curve than P does,
and this is convenient.
    It                       a
                                                                        It
                 Fie. 3a
                          W                                    Fig. 31.
  The Wheel and Axle, as represented in Fig. 33, consists of two cylinders
of different sizes, having a common axis to which they are rigidly attached :
the larger cylinder is called the wheel, because a wheel having a groove in its
circumference for carrying a rope is sometimes used instead of it ; the smaller
cylinder is called the axle; their common axis is supported on a frame. The
                         Fie. 32.                                Fig. 33-
weight is attached to the end of a rope which is coiled round the axle, and the
power acts at the end of another rope which is coiled round the wheel in an
opposite direction, so that when the rope is pulled down the weight is raised.
  Fig. 34 represents a vertical section of the wheel and axle, from which it is
manifest that it is merely a modification of the lever, in which C, the centre of
the axle, is the fulcrum. C A, the radius of the wheel, is the power arm, and C B,
the radius of the axle, is the weight arm. It follows at once, from the law of
the lever, that the wheel and axle is in equilibrium when the power multiplied
                                                                  40— 2

628                                SCIENCE.
by the radius of the wheel equals the weight multiplied by the radius of the
axle ; so that if the radius of the wheel were 18 in., and the radius of the axle
2 in., then a power of i lb. would balance a weight of 9 lbs.
             Fie 34.                                         Fig. 35.
   In the windlass, shown in Fig. 35, the arm, A C, is used instead of a wheel.
Examples of the practical application of the wheel and axle are seen in the
capstan, crane, water-wheel, and toothed wheels.
   Fig. 36 shows a Pulley in use. It is a small disc or wheel, of wood or
metal, having a groove in its circumference for carrying a string, and turns on
an axis passing through the centre of its faces, the axis being supported by a
frame called a block.
        Fig. 36.                     Fig. 37.
   Pulleys are either fixed or movable : a pulley is called
fixed when it does not ascend or descend according as                   FlG- 38
the weight is raised or lowered. It is manifest from
Fig. 36 that a fixed pulley has no mechanical advantage, for the power, P,
must be equal to the weight, W, in order to support it. This machine is only
used to change the direction in which a force acts. When force is transmitted
through a string, as it is in the case of pullevs. it gets the name of tension, and

                                 MECHANICS.                                      629
a string possesses the property of transmitting a force without changing its
amount ; thus the tension at every point of the string in Fig. 36 is the weight,
w.
   Pulleys are called movable when they ascend or descend according as the
weight is raised or lowered. We have a movable pulley in Fig. 37. When
one movable pulley is used, the strings being parallel, the weight is equal to
twice the power. For w (Fig. 37) is supported by the tension in B R and the
tension in A P ; and since the tension in each of these is the power, P, acting
upwards, these two tensions would support a weight of 2 P, therefore W must
be equal to 2 P.
   Perhaps it will make it still clearer if you hold the end, R, also with the hand.
Then it must be quite evident that the weight is supported by two forces acting
upwards, each equal to the power, P, and that, therefore, the weight is equal
to twice the power.
   It is generally convenient to use a fixed pulley along with the movable to
change the direction of the force, as in Fig. 38.
           Fig. 39.                       Fig. 40.                      Fig. 41.
   There are three systems of arranging pulleys, or reeving them, as it is called.
 In the first system, which is shown in Fig. 39, each pulley hangs by a separate
string, and all the strings are parallel. When three movable pulleys are
arranged thus, the weight is equal to eight times the power ; for the tension in
the string passing under the first movable pulley at the top is the power, P ;
the tension in the string passing under the second movable pulley is 2 P ;
 the tension in the string passing under the third movable pulley is 4 P; and
 the tension in the string hanging from this pulley is 8 P ; but this last tension
 supports the weight, W, therefore w = 8 p. It will be observed that in this
 system each movable pulley that is added doubles the mechanical advantage.
    In the second system the same string passes round all the pulleys, and the

630                                 SCIENCE.
folds of this string are parallel, as represented in Fig. 40. Here the weight,
w, is supported by the tensions in the folds of the string ; and as there are
four folds, each having the tension of the power, p, the weight must be four
times the power. In this system the weight is always as many times the power
as there are folds in the string, the folds being counted between the two blocks.
   In the third system, Fig. 41, each pulley hangs by a separate string, and the
end of each string is attached to the weight, the whole being suspended from
a fixed support. The tension in the string passing over the first pulley at the
bottom is the power P ; the tension in the string passing over the next pulley
is 2 p ; the tension in the string passing over the third pulley from the bottom
is 4 P ; and so on. Thus when three pulleys are arranged in this manner, w is
supported by P+2 P+4 P, that is, by 7 P, and therefore the weight is equal to
seven times the power. The effect of any other number may be calculated
similarly.
   The first thing that strikes one on experimenting with the pulleys is the
principle of virtual velocities. Let us make an experiment with the first system,
shown in Fig. 39. Here we have three movable pulleys, and we find that a
power of 1 oz. balances a weight of 8 oz. : true ; but on putting the machine in
action, we also find that when the weight is raised 1 ft., the power has to move
through 8 ft., so that what is gained in power is lost in speed, and as we said
before, this is true of every machine.
   We now come to consider the Inclined Plane. Here is one in Fig. 42.
We shall perform an experiment on it, and then draw a conclusion. Let the
weight w, be drawn from the bottom to the top of the inclined plane by the
                                    power, P, which acts on the weight in a direc
                                    tion parallel to the length of the plane, A B ;
                                    w will be thus raised through a vertical dis
                                    tance equal to B C, the height of the plane ;
                                    but during this time P will have descended
                                    through a vertical distance equal to A B, the
                                    length of the plane. Now, from the principle
                                    of virtual velocities it follows at once that
                                    there is equilibrium here, when P multiplied
               Fig. 42.             by A B is equal to w multiplied by B c ; that
                                    is, on the inclined plane, when the power acts
parallel to the length of the plane, there is equilibrium when the power mul
tiplied by the length is equal to the weight multiplied by the height.
   In Fig. 43 an experiment is shown which veri
fies the rule we have just drawn from the principle
of virtual velocities, a b and a c are two boards,
hinged together at A. AC rests on a table, and
A b can be made to rise from it at any angle by
inserting a wedge, as in the figure.         From B
hangs a bar graduated in inches, by which the
height of the plane can be at once measured.
The carriage, w, constitutes the weight, and the
power, P, acts on it in a direction parallel to the
length of the plane. Now make P balance w,
and then measure the height and length of the                    Fig. 43
plane; it will be found that P is to w as the height
 of the plane is to its length, that is, the power multiplied by the number of

                                 MECHANICS.                                    631
inches in the length will be equal to the weight multiplied by the number of
inches in the height. By varying the experiment, so that the power might act
in a direction parallel to the base, we would find that there would be equili
brium when the power multiplied by the base equals the weight multiplied by
the height.
   Two inclined planes placed base to base form
a Wedge. It is much used in splitting wood,
as in Fig. 44 ; it is also used for raising great
weights through small distances. In dockyards,
ships are raised on the stocks by wedges driven
under their keels. Theoretically considered, the
mechanical advantage of the isosceles wedge is
the side of the wedge divided by half the back ;
but this gives us no idea of the real advantage
of the machine : this arises from its enormous
friction, and also because the force which urges
it is derived from the blow of a hammer or mallet,
&c. ; a force so very different in its nature from
the resistance that it has to overcome, which is
the pressure of some weight or the cohesion of
the particles of a body, that they admit of no nu
merical comparison. One part of the theory is true- -that the smaller the
back the greater is the advantage of the wedge.
                     If a flexible inclined plane, A— one made of paper for ex
                  ample— be wrapped round a cylinder, b, as in Fig. 45, a screw
                  is formed. By means of the apparatus in Fig. 46 we can de
                  termine the mechanical advantage of the screw. The resist
                  ance is the bar, w, to
                  be moved forward ;
                  the power acts at the
                  handle, A P. When
                  the machine is put in
                  action by turning the
                  handle, the power
                  moves through the
                  circumference of the
                  circle described by
                  the handle, while the
                  weight is only moved from a to 6, the distance between two
     Fig. 45.     threads; so that in the screw the power is to the weight as
                  the distance between two threads is to the circumference of
 the circle described by the power: thus, suppose a p sweeps a circle of 30 in.,
 and that the distance between two threads is J in., then the mechanical advan
 tage of the machine is 30 divided by J, that is, 60 ; so that if a power of 50 lbs.
 be exerted on the handle, A P, the bar, w, is urged forward with a force of 60
 times 50 lbs., that is, 3,000 lbs.
    The screw is much used by bookbinders, &c, to exert a great pressure
 through small distances. Fig. 47 shows a common screw press. To apply
 the screw here, a hollow screw is cut in the nut N, into the grooves of which
 the threads of the solid screw fit exactly. The solid screw, s, is fixed to the
 press-board, B B, so that it cannot turn round, but can be made to move up and

632                                 SCIENCE.
down ; on the other hand, the nut, N, is fixed, so that it cannot be moved up
                             and down, but can be made to turn round by
                              means of the bar, P, which is inserted in a hole in
                              its side. When the power makes one revolution,
                              the solid screw, with the press-board attached to
                              it, is raised through the distance between two
                              threads ; so that if the power, P, sweep a circle of
                              20 ft., that is, 240 in., and the distance between two
                              threads be 1 in., then the mechanical advantage of
                              the machine is 240 ; so that if a force of 100 lbs. be
                              exerted on the end of the lever, anything placed
                              between B and D will be pressed with a force of
                              240 times 100 lbs., that is, 24,000 lbs., or ioi tons.
                                 In the compound machines, the mechanical
                              advantage is the
                             product of the j)                f g       ?       _A..
                             mechanical ad
          Fig. 47.           vantages of the
                             simple machines
which compose it. Thus, in Fig. 48 we have             |\V
a compound machine consisting of three                            Fig.
levers combined together ; its mechanical
advantage is 3 times 2 times 2, or 12; 3 being
the mechanical advantage of the first lever, 2 that of the second, and 2 that
of the third, A power of 1 lb. applied at A would balance a weight of 12 lbs.
at d.
                                 Falling Bodies.
   When forces not in equilibrium act on a body, motion ensues. The speed
or rate at which a body moves is called its velocity. When the body in
motion describes equal spaces in equal times, its velocity is said to be uniform,
and is then measured by the number of feet described in one second: of
course it might be measured by the number of miles described per hour, or
in any other convenient way. We can write one second thus (1"). If a body
move with a uniform velocity, it is evident that the distance described in any
number of seconds would be found by multiplying the distance described in
 l" by the number of seconds. Thus, if a body move uniformly for 10" with
a velocity of 20 ft. per second, it will describe 200 ft. When a body does not
pass through equal spaces in equal times, its velocity is said to be variable.
When a horse gallops past you, you might say, " That horse was going at the
rate of 12 miles an hour when it passed me:" you don't mean to say that the
horse actually galloped uniformly for an hour, and went through 12 miles in
that time; but what you do mean is this, that if the horse had galloped for
an hour, and kept up during the whole of that time the speed that it had the
moment it passed you, then it would have gone 12 miles. Thus, when the
velocity of a body is variable, its velocity at any instant is measured by the
space that would be described in a unit of time if the velocity were to con
tinue during the whole of that unit the same as it is at the instant in question.
We observe that when a body is unsupported it falls to the ground, and we
 said in a former section that what causes this motion is the large mass of
 the earth drawing the body towards its centre. In this section we have to

                                MECHANICS.                                      633
find the measure of this force called gravity (that is, the velocity that gravity
generates in a falling body in one second) ; the relation between the time that
a body has been falling, and the space it has fallen through ; the relation be
tween the time that a body has been falling, and its velocity at the end of that
time, &c. ; or, in other words, we have to prepare ourselves to answer such
questions as these: How far will a body fall in a given number of seconds?
What velocity will it have at the end of this time ? &c. These questions are
of much importance, and we shall be very soon able to answer them.
   It is found on experiment that a body falling freely passes through 16 ft. in
the first second of time, and 64 ft. in the first two seconds ; so that, in order
to find the relations above mentioned, without in any way checking gravity,
we would require a machine of impracticable size. It then became obviously
necessary to invent a machine that would reduce the scale on which gravity
acts, without in any way relatively altering its effects. Such an instrument
we have in Atwood's machine.
   Here is a drawing of a simple form of it in Fig. 49. It consists of two
pillars, supporting a pulley at the top, which moves with little friction; a
flexible cord passes over the pulley, and has equal
weights, P and Q, attached to its ends. One pillar
is graduated in inches, and on it slide a ring, A, and
stage, B, which can be fixed at any part of it by
means of screws ; C is the pendulum of a clock beat
ing seconds. Let us see how the machine works.
Since -P and Q are of equal weight, they have no
tendency to move ; but put an additional weight on
P, such as a small bar, motion at once ensues, and
the velocity increases as long as the bar remains on
P; but the instant that P, by passing through the
ring. A, loses the bar, the velocity at once ceases to
increase, and continues the same as it was at A
during the rest of the course. The heavier the bar,
the more rapidly will the velocity increase while it
remains on P, and the lighter the bar, the less rapidly
will the velocity increase while it remains on p.
   We shall now perform four experiments with the
machine, which establish the laws that regulate the                Fig. .
motion of falling bodies.
   1st Experiment.— Let P and Q be 7J oz. each; bring the upper edge of P
exactly opposite the 0 of the scale ; fix the ring, A, at 12 in. ; now lay upon P
a bar (an ounce weight), and let go the string as the pendulum gives a beat.
It will be found that the bar will be caught on the ring, A, at the next beat of
the pendulum ; that is, the bar will have fallen 1 ft. What does this teach ?
Why, there has been a mass of 16 oz. actually in motion, namely, 7J + 7J + 1,
and only 1 oz. has been causing that motion ; therefore the bar will have fallen
through only one-sixteenth of the distance it would have done had it been un
impeded during its descent ; that is, a body falling freely would pass through
16 ft. in the first second.* This is what the first experiment teaches.
   2nd Experiment.—In this experiment, put such a bar on P that in the first
second it may fall through only 1 in. ; then it will be found to fall in 2" through
                               • More correctly i6u ft.

634                                   SCIENCE.
4 in. ; in 3" through 9 in. ; in 4" through 16 in ; in 5* through 25 in. ; in 6"
through 36 in., and so on. This experiment shows that when a body falls under
the influence of gravity, the space it describes increases as the square of the
number of seconds it has been falling.
    In the first experiment we found that a body falls through 16 ft. in the first
second; and now the second experiment has shown that the space increases
as the square of the number of seconds ; therefore, to find the space described
by a falling body in any time, multiply 16 ft. by the square of the number of
seconds it has been falling. This answers the first question. As a practical
application, suppose a stone takes 5" to fall from the top of a tower to the
ground : we know that the height of the tower is 16 ft. X 25, that is, 400 ft.
    yd Experiment. — Bring P to the 0 of the scale again; fix the ring, A, at
 12 in., and fix the stage, B, 2 ft. and the length of the weight, P, below it. Now
put on the bar (1 oz. weight), and let go the string at a beat of the pendulum.
At the end of the first second, P will lose the bar at a, and then, moving
uniformly during the next second, will strike the stage, B, just at the end of
this second. This informs us that the velocity of the bar at the end of the
 first second was 2 ft. ; but as there was a mass of 16 oz. in motion, and only
 i oz. causing that motion, the velocity of the bar is only one-sixteenth of what
 it would have been had it bcc;n allowed to fall freely; that is, a body falling
 freely acquires a velocity of 32 ft. at the end of the first second. This means
 that if the velocity were to continue during the second second the same as it
 is at the end of the first, then 32 ft. would be the space described during the
 second second. This is the teaching of the third experiment.
    4th Experiment.— Let us use such a bar with P in this experiment that it
 may move through 1 in. in the first second. By taking off the bar at the end
 of any second, and noting the space described during the next second, we
 determine the velocity at the end of the second in question. Let us do so for
 each second, and we shall find that the velocity of the bar at the end of the
 first second will be 2 in. ; at the end of the second second it will be 4 in. ; at
 the end of the third second it will be 6 in. ; at the end of the 4th, 5th, 6th, &c
 seconds, the velocity of the bar will be 8, 10, 12, &c inches respectively. From
 this we learn that the increments of velocity in a falling body are the same for
  every second.
     Experiment 3 showed that gravity generates a velocity of 32 ft. in the first
  second, and from the last experiment we found that the increase of velocity is
  the same for every second ; therefore, the velocity at the end of any number of
  seconds is found by multiplying 32 ft. by the number of seconds. This answers
  our second question : thus, if a body falls freely for 5", its velocity at the end
  of the fifth second is 32 ft. multiplied by 5, that is, 160 ft. Other questions on
  falling bodies can be easily worked from the principles here established.
     Since gravity destroys velocity in a body projected upwards just as rapidly
  as it generates it in a falling body, it follows that if a ball be projected vertically
  upwards from B, with the velocity it would acquire in falling from a to B, it
  should rise to the height A ; and so it would, were it not for the resistance of
  the air.

                                 HYDRA ULICS.                                      635
                              HYDRAULICS.
   Hydraulics (from two Greek words, hudor, water, and anlos, a pipe) properly
treats of the flow of water through pipes ; but it is usual in hydraulics to treat
of the motion of liquids generally—of the flow of water in rivers and canals,
of its waves, and of the resistance experienced by bodies in moving through
it. Other liquids obey the same laws as water
   If a vessel be filled with water, and holes made in it at
different distances from the surface of the liquid, as shown
in Fig. 1, the water will gush out of these holes with diffe
rent velocities; the velocity of the escaping liquid at B is
greater than at A, and at C greater than at B. The following
law holds : when water escapes from an orifice its velocity
is the same as that which a body would acquire in falling
through a space equal to the height of the surface of the
water above the centre of the orifice. Thus the velocity
of the water escaping at a is the same as that of a body
having fallen from d to a ; its velocity from B is the same
as that of a body having fallen from D to B, and so on.
   We can show the truth of this law by an experiment. Fill                 Fig.
a vessel with water to the height a (Fig. 2), having an ori
fice, B, opening upwards. If the principle hold, the jet should rise to A, the
height of the surface of the water in the vessel ; for we know from what we
learnt on falling bodies, that if the particles of water be projected from B with
                           a velocity equal to that which a body would acquire
                           in falling from A to B, they will rise to A. Well, on
                           making the experiment, the reader will find that the
                           jet falls a little short of A, but nothing more than can
                           be accounted for by the friction of the water against
                           the sides of the tube, the obstruction of bends, and
                           the resistance of the air : but for these the jet would
                           rise to a, and thus completely verify the principle. By
                           a proper arrangement a jet of 9 in. may be got from
                           a column of water 10 in. high. On this principle arti
                           ficial fountains are constructed.
                              We learnt from an experiment on Atwood's ma
                           chine that a body in falling freely from a state of rest
                           through a space of 16 ft. acquires a velocity of 32 ft.
per second ; therefore if A B be 16 ft., the velocity of the water escaping from
B will be 32 ft. per second ; if a b be 4 ft., the velocity will be 16 ft. per second ;
and if a B be 1 ft., the velocity will be 8 ft. per second. From this it is seen"
that the velocity varies as the square root of the height of the surface of the
water above the orifice. The rule for finding the velocity in any case is to
take the square root of the height of the surface above the centre of the orifice,
and multiply the result by 8.
   If you fill a vessel, A (Fig. 3), with water, and allow it to discharge itself
 from an orifice in the bottom, the velocity of the escaping liquid will continually

636                                  SCIENCE.
diminish as the depth of water in the vessel becomes less. If the vessel were
kept full by pouring in water at the top, then, of course, the velocity would
continue the same. The following is an instructive experiment on this point.
                                                                 A                  11
                                                                          n      K~
                                                             -
                                                                              c
                                                               -
                                    Fig. 4.                           Fig. 5.
    Fill the vessel, A; with water, and allow it to quite empty itself from an orifice
in the bottom ; say it takes five minutes to do so. Fill the vessel again and
allow it to run for five minutes, but this time keep it constantly full by pouring
in water at the top : it will be found to discharge twice the full of the vessel
during these five minutes.
    This experiment exactly agrees with what we learnt on falling bodies : that
 when a body falls under the influence of gravity, the space that it describes in
 any time is only half as much as it would have been had the velocity all through
the descent been the same as it is at the end of the time.
    In performing the last experiment we must have noticed that the section of
 the escaping liquid becomes less after leaving the orifice. This arises from the
 particles of water crossing and interfering with one another on rushing in from
 all directions towards the orifice. This narrow part, C, shown in the figure, is
 called the vena contractu, or " contracted vein ;" the narrowest part is at a dis
 tance from the orifice equal to about half its diameter, the diameter of that
 part being about two-thirds that of the orifice.
    Since we can find the velocity with which water escapes from an aperture
 in a vessel, it would occur to our readers that we should be able to tell the
 quantity of water that would be discharged by an orifice in a given time.
 And so we can. Suppose the orifice to be 1 square inch, and that the water
 escapes with a velocity of 12 ft. per second, that is, 144 in. per second, then will
  144 cubic inches of water flow out every second, that is, 8,640 cubic inches, or
 rather more than 31 gallons, per minute. But it is found in practice, or on
 making the experiment, that the actual flow from an orifice is only about two-
 thirds of the quantity thus calculated. The diminution arises from the same
 cause as the contracted vein.
     If, instead of allowing the water to flow from a mere hole in a thin bottom,
  a short pipe is used of a length equal to twice the diameter of the orifice, the
  discharge is increased : such a pipe increases the flow from being two-thirds of
  the calculated amount to be four-fifths of that amount, and if the pipe be made
  funnel-shaped at both ends, the discharge will still be increased. The reason
  why a short pipe increases the flow seems to be that the sides of the pipe attract
  the particles of water, thus widening the column, and causing a partial vacuum,
  which acts as a suckage on the water in the vessel. When water spouts from

                                     HYDRAULICS.                                         637
an orifice in the side of a vessel, it follows the same law as a projectile, and
describes what is called a parabola; for it is acted on by two forces—the
forces of projection and gravity. To find the horizontal range, we describe a
semicircle (S E x) on the depth, as in Fig. 4 ; from the centre of any orifice
we draw a horizontal line to meet the circumference : twice the length of this
line is the horizontal range from that orifice. Since B E, drawn from the
middle point of the depth, is the longest of these lines that can be drawn, it
folloxvs that the water will spout farthest from that point ; from orifices A and
C, equally distant from the middle point, the horizontal range will be the same
as is seen in the figure.
   The surface of water at rest is always horizontal, meaning by this that every
part of its surface is equally distant from the earth's centre. This is usually
expressed by saying that water always tends to find its own level. Thus, if
two vessels, a and B, be connected at the bottom, as in Fig. 5, when water is
poured into one it will rise to the same height in both, however different the
vessels be in size or shape.
    This property of liquids often enables a town to be supplied with water
 from a hill at a distance, though a valley and uneven grounds lie between ;
 for water, when confined in a pipe, will rise to the same height as its source.
 Fig. 6 shows water conducted by a pipe from a lake (s) on a hill, through a
 valley, to a house situate on a rising ground. This property of liquids was
 not unknown to the ancients, for Pliny distinctly says that " water ascends in
 a pipe to the height of its source."* However, they did not avail themselves
 of the property, probably from want of the material and means of construct
 ing the necessary apparatus. Their mode of conducting water from one
 place to another was by open channels called aqueducts, either cut in the
 level ground, or supported on arches when necessary : such structures cost
 great labour and expense.
    When water is thus conveyed through pipes of any considerable length, the
 friction against the sides is so great, that in practice it is found necessary to
 allow them one-third or one-fourth more diameter than would be necessary to
 convey the same quantity of water if there were no friction. A pipe 30 ft. long
 and 1 j in. in bore, only delivers half the quantity of' water that it ought to do,
 theoretically considered. A great gain in the flow is secured by increasing the
 capacity of the tube ; thus a tube 2 in. in diameter would deliver five times as
          ' "Aqua in plumbo subit altitudincm cxtortus sui."—PUn., Nat. Hist , 31, vi 31

638                                 SCIENCE.
much water as a tube I in. in diameter, although its section is only four times
as great.
   The quicker the flow of water through a pipe the less it presses against the
sides ; this explains why water-pipes often burst when choked or stopped in
any way. If water in flowing through a pipe met with no retardation, but had
the velocity due to the height of its source, then it would exert no lateral
pressure, so that if a hole were made in the pipe, no water would spout out;
and if the pipe be short, so that the velocity of the water is greater than if no
pipe were used, there is then not only no outward pressure against the sides
of the pipe, but the opposite, namely, a pressure exerted in an inward direction.
   This is readily illustrated by the following experiment. In an orifice near
                                the bottom of a vessel (Fig. 7) insert a cylindrical
                                pipe of a length equal to three or four times the
                                diameter of the orifice ; in the upper side of this
                                pipe insert a small bent tube, which dips into a
                                vessel underneath filled with water, as shown in
                                the figure. Now, when the water is allowed to
                                flow from the pipe, A, liquid will rise in the tube,
                                C B; and if this be not too long, the vessel, D,
                                will be exhausted of its water, which will rise in
                                the tube, C B, and flow out at A. The experiment
                                is made clearer by colouring the water in the
                                vessel, d.
                                   Venturi, availing himself of this principle, em
                                ployed the lateral draught of a mill-race near
            Fig. 7.             Modena to drain a marsh situated at a lower
                                level.   It is also employed in the circulating
                                system of animals : a current of blood passing
along one vessel may assist in emptying a lateral branch, or two currents enter
ing a large trunk at the same part may drain a small one lying between them.
   In rivers, the friction of water against solids is readily observed. The
velocity of the water is least at the bottom of the current, where the friction is
greatest ; for the same reason the* velocity at the sides is less than in the
middle of the stream. The water in rapid motion in the middle draws the
water at the sides after it, and this causes the river to be somewhat raised in
the centre. The velocity of a stream may be practically determined by throw
ing into it pieces of turnip or other body of the same specific weight as water,
and noting the mean time required to pass through a known distance.
   When the velocity of the stream is known, the number of cubic feet of water
that it discharges per minute is at once found by multiplying the sectional
area of the stream expressed in square feet by its velocity in feet per minute.
   When a pebble is dropped into a still piece of water, a series of small waves
is transmitted from the point of disturbance in widening circles; the size of
these continually diminishes, and the motion is finally overcome from the im
perfect mobility and friction of the fluid. It is merely motion that is trans
mitted from one part of .the liquid to another, and not water that is carried
onwards. We may satisfy ourselves of the truth of this by dropping a cork
on the surface of water through which waves are passing; the cork will be
seen merely to move up and down, and not to advance with the waves. These
undulations can be well observed by dropping a glass bead into a basin of
mercury.

                                 HYDRA ULICS.                                   639
   Water offers considerable resistance to bodies moving through it, but the
amount depends much on the shape of the body. The surfaces ought to be
oblique to the direction of the motion ; thus, when a cylinder is moved through
water end foremost, if the end be terminated in a hemisphere the resistance
is only one-half of what it would be if the end were a plane perpendicular to
the axis ; and if the termination be an equilateral cone, the resistance is re
duced to one-fourth. When the speed of a body moving through water is
doubled, the resistance is made four times as great, for the body has to dis
place twice the number of particles, and also to displace them with twice the
velocity ; if the speed be made three times as great, then the resistance be
comes nine times as great, and so on. A good deal of resistance is due to a
vacuum being formed in the water behind the moving body, thus causing it
to be subjected to a hydrostatic force in front pressing backwards. The sooner
and more easily this is filled up, the more is the force in front counteracted ;
hence, the bow and the stern of a ship being unchanged, the longer the body
is, within certain limits, the less is the resistance.
               Fie. 8.                                 Fig. 9.
    We now come to speak of water as a motive power. Here is a tube (Fig.
 8) filled with water and suspended by a string. Let us fix our attention on
 any two points, C and D, on opposite sides of the tube. The pressure of the
 column of water, a B, is transmitted equally to C and D ; thus these points ex
 perience equal pressures, but opposite in direction. Now make a hole at C, so
 that the water may be free to gush out: the tube at once moves in the opposite
 direction! Why? Simply pecause the pressure has been removed from the
 point C and continues at D, hence the motion.
    On this principle is founded Barker's Mill. The following experiment beau
 tifully illustrates its mode of action : into the end of a large tube, a b, a cork
 is inserted ; to this is fitted two small tubes, C and D, bent as in the figure.
 When the whole is suspended from the ceiling and water poured into the large
 tube, a rapid rotatory motion commences. For, as was shown above, the cur
 rent escaping from c gives the tube a tendency to move in the opposite direc

640                                SCIENCE.
tion ; the same is the case with the current from D ; thus both currents tend
to prodnce motion in the direction of the arrows. (Fig. 9.)
   But Water-Wheels afford a better means of employing currents of water
as a power to drive machinery. Vertical water-wheels are of three kinds-.
overshot, breast, and undershot. Fig. 10 shows an overshot wheel. It is used
when a fall can be obtained at least equal to the height of the wheel ; on it
the water acts by its weight, and the buckets are made of such a shape as to
retain the water as long as it is of any effect in turning the wheel.
        Pto.                    Fio.                         Fig. i:
   When such a fall cannot be commanded, we use a breast wheel (Fig. 1 1).
The water acts on it both by its momentum and weight, momentum meaning
the force that a quantity of matter possessing some velocity can exert on
another body ; the momentum of a body is measured by the product of its
weight and velocity.
   The undershot wheel is used when there is scarcely any fall. It is some
times turned by tidal streams, and then works in both directions ; in this case
the water acts only by its momentum. When an undershot wheel is driveD
by a current which runs always in the same direction there is a decided advan
tage in having the float-boards a little inclined to the advancing stream, for
then the water rolls up the floats and acts by its weight as well as by its mo
mentum. An undershot wheel might be used where a fall could be obtained
that would be sufficient for an overshot; but it appears from the experiments
of Smeaton that the dimensions, quantity of water, and height of the fall
being the same, an overshot will produce double the effect of an undershot
wheel. (Fig. 12.)
   Various contrivances have been employed in the course of time for raising
water. An early and ingenious method was by the screw of Archimedes,
invented by that celebrated philosopher about 200 years before Christ. Con
structed as in Fig. 13, it consists of a flexible tube, wound round a cylinder in
the form of a screw; the lower end of the screw dips into the water to be
raised. As each part of the screw changes from a lower to a higher position
during a revolution, the water within it falls backwards, and at the same time
is raised by the lower surface of the interior ; thus, it gradually ascends from
A, and is finally ejected at B.
   We had occasion to mention before that when the flow of water in a pipe is
suddenly stopped, a great lateral pressure is exerted : this is the principle of

                                ELECTRICITY.                                    641
the Hydraulic Ram (Fig. 14), an instrument invented by Montgolfier, in
1796, by which water can be raised to a height much above its natural level.
Through the inclined pipe, C, leading from a reservoir, the water flows ; but,
on reaching the orifice at D, it has acquired a force sufficient to raise the valve,
and thus close the orifice ; the flow being thus suddenly stopped, a lateral
pressure is exerted so great as to lift the valve E; the water then flows into
the chamber B ; this condenses the air in B, which, from its elastic force, soon
               Fig. 13.                                     Fig. 14.
closes the valve E again and forces the water up the pipe F. The liquid in A
is now quiescent, but in that state is unable to support the heavy valve D, which
therefore falls, and allows the water to escape from the orifice ; soon such a force
is acquired by the water as is sufficient to again close the valve d. The above
process is repeated, and thus the action is continued. This engine can only
be employed with advantage when there is an abundant supply of water, for
more flows out of the orifice at D and is lost than is actually raised through
the pipe F.
   All other methods for raising water are inferior to the simple and beautiful
 contrivance of the common pump and force-pump, but the principle of their
 action belongs to pneumatics.
                              ELECTRICITY.
   The study of electricity has been usually divided into two parts: static, or
 frictional electricity, and dynamic, or current electricity.
    The great advance that has been made in the science has been within, com
 paratively speaking, very few years: in its early stages the distance between
 discoveries was very great. Of the earliest known date of the observation of
 electrical phenomena, we find the first to be B.C. 600, when Thales of Miletus,
                                                                      41

 642                                       SCIENCE.
the founder of the Ionic philosophy and a Greek philosopher of celebrity,
noticed the remarkable properties of amber excited by friction, which had the
peculiar effect of attracting to it straws and pieces of light material. So struck
was he with this peculiarity, that he imagined the amber to possess a species
of animation.
   The next electrical phenomenon was observed by Theophrastus, about
B.C. 321, who observed a similar property in a hard stone called " ly.natrium"
now supposed to be tourmaline, which not only possessed the power of attract
ing, similar to amber, light pieces of straw, but even small pieces of metal.
   Amongst other ancient philosophers who have made mention of these facts
in their writings, I will only refer to Pliny, a.d. 70, who, in speaking of amber,
says, "attritudigitorum accepta vi caloris attrahunt in se paleas etfolia arida
at magnes lapis ferrum."
   The observations of the above facts have been handed down to us by writers,
a few of whom I have mentioned ; but the observations are simply recorded
as facts : cause and effect are in no way entered into, and conjecture and rea
soning relative to such extraordinary effects do not appear to have entered into
their writings.
   To the peculiar effect of amber excited by friction do we fall back for the
name given to the science. Electricity is derived from " amber," in Greek
TjktKTpov (electron), and in Latin electrum, hence "electricity."
   If you will take a piece of amber and rub it with some dry woollen stuff, you
will find the peculiar attractive properties noticed above : it will readily attract
small pieces of paper, &c Amber so excited is called " electrified."
   From the period mentioned above but little observations appear to have been
taken until Dr. Gilbert, in the sixteenth century, instituted a series of experi
ments upon electrical attraction. He found that amber was not the only sub
stance possessing that peculiarity, but that it belonged to many bodies, among
which were glass, sulphur, sealing-wax, and resin. It was subsequently observed
that the attractive power was increased upon warming the substance.
   The principal discovery that added to the advancement of the science was
that of Otto Guericke, of Magdeburg, who was the first to invent an electrical
machine. A globe of sulphur was mounted on an axis, and on being turned
round friction was applied. By this means a greater quantity of electricity
was obtained, and its principal features experimented upon and recorded.
   Sir Isaac Newton contributed several important discoveries, and in 17 10 a
globe of glass was substituted by Hawkesbee (some say Newton) for the globe
of sulphur; this he mounted in a wooden frame, and it is, indeed, very similar
to those in use at the present time.
   The following experiments will enable you to observe some of the peculiar
effects of electrified bodies ; but first provide yourself with these articles : a
tube of stout glass about 1$ ft. long, an ebonite ruler or paper-cutter, a stick of
sealing-wax, and two pairs of pith balls attached to some silk thread.
   1 st Experiment. —Warm the glass tube, and with a dry silk handkerchief
excite it by rubbing it several times ; then it will become electrified and capable
    exercising its attractive powers. On a small stand or convenient support
hang one of the pith balls (a stand somewhat similar to Fig. 1 * is most conve
nient) ; present the glass towards it : the pith ball will immediately fly towards
      * A glass rod bent to the required form and attached by sealing-wax to a small wood base.

                               ELECTRICITY.                                    643
the glass and cling to it for a short space of time ; it will then drop away and
remain at some distance from it. If you follow it with the glass, you will see
it try to avoid the glass. In the former case the glass exhibits electrical attrac
tion, and in the latter, electrical repulsion.
   Next excite the sealing-wax or ebonite with some warm flannel ; similar re
sults will be observed, the two bodies showing attraction and repulsion.
       Fig. i.
    2nd Experiment.— Excite the glass and then the sealing-wax, and present
 the glass to the pith ball; it will, as before, be immediately attracted and then
 repelled. Now present the sealing-wax : it will immediately attract the pith
 ball. Reverse the experiment, and first present the sealing-wax : the ball will
 be, as before, attracted and repelled ; but immediately on the presentation of
 the excited glass it will be attracted.
    From this it appears that these bodies, which both attract light substances,
 exhibit a different kind of force ; they are consequently called, those exercising
 the same attractive property as glass, vitreous electricity ; and those similar
 to the wax, resinous electricity.
    The fundamental rule is that bodies charged with the same kind of elec
 tricity repel each other ; charged with opposite kinds of electricity they attract
 each other.
    Suspend the two pith balls from the same support, Fig. 2 ; charge them
 with the glass—the pith balls will repel each other ; touch them in order to
 discharge them, as, until bodies which have been charged have touched the
 earth or some substance in connection with it, they will remain charged and
  cause repulsion. Next charge them with the excited wax or ebonite ; they
  will again repel one another, showing that they are charged with the same
  electricity exercising mutual repulsion.
                                                                 41—2

644                                 SCIENCE.
   Suspend the two balls from two points near each other ; charge one with
                                           the glass, and the other with the wax :
                                           on bringing the balls near they will be
                                           found to be violently attracted to eac
                                           other.
                                              That the terms vitreous and resin
                                           ous are not without some objections,
                                           the following experiments will prove :
                                              Excite the sealing-wax with the
                                           woollen cloth; present it to the pith
                                           ball : it will first attract and then repel
                                           the pith ball. Now present the woollen
                                           cloth — the pith ball is immediately
                                           attracted, showing that the cloth is
                                           vitreously or excited with electricity of
                                           an opposite nature.
                                              Perform a similar experiment with
                                           the glass tube: it will be found that
                                           the woollen cloth will attract the ball
                   Fie. 3.                 that the glass repelled; this would
                                           show that the cloth was resinously ex
                                           cited.
   Next, if the glass be rubbed first with a woollen cloth and then with the fur
of a cat, it will be found to be excited in the first place with vitreous, and in the
second with resinous electricity. Both glass and woollen cloth exhibit, there
fore, both kinds of electricity.
   These terms have, therefore, been considered objectionable, and positive
and negative are now generally substituted for them ; thus glass excited with
a woollen or silk cloth is said to exhibit positive electricity ; sealing-wax ex
hibits negative electricity when similarly excited.
   Excite the sealing-wax or ebonite as before; but, instead of having pith
balls suspended on silk threads, let them be hung on thin wire or cotton
thread ; present the ebonite —the pith ball will be found to be permanently
attracted, and will remain so as long as there is any electric excitement in the
ebonite. Under these circumstances, it shows that it cannot retain a per
manent charge, and that the electricity communicated to it is conducted away
by the cotton. A body, therefore, will not retain a charge unless insulated.
   Various bodies conduct or insulate differently: the two terms as usually
applied mean the opposite condition. Faraday says that conduction and in
sulation are only extreme degrees of one common condition. A body that
insulates well must of necessity be a bad conductor ; on the other hand, a
body that conducts well must be a bad insulator.
   Of conductors, the various metals are the best, then bodies in a fluid state ;
of insulators, gums—such as India-rubber, gutta-percha—bodies like glass,
amber, wax, jet, &c, are the best ; but between these extremes, the one con
dition gradually merges into the other.
   In any experiments that maybe made with frictional electricity, it is neces
sary that everything should be kept dry, as insulators, when moist or damp,
become, practically speaking, conductors.
   Amongst the instruments used for detecting electricity are some by which
the electricity can be measured : these are called ELECTROMETERS ; those for

                                     ELECTRICITY.                                              645
simply indicating its presence are denominated Electroscopes—the pith-
ball arrangement is about the simplest of the latter. Another simple electro
scope can be made by attaching to a stick of sealing-wax (as an insulating
handle) a narrow strip of gold-leaf: a very little moisture from the lips will be
sufficient to attach it. This form of electroscope for delicate experiments is
usually enclosed in a glass bottle, as gold-leaf is very susceptible to the slightest
motion. In this case it is necessary to attach the gold-leaf to a brass rod, or
some conductor projecting beyond the mouth of the bottle.
   Amongst the most interesting electrical phenomena we must place that of
induction, for it is everywhere, and no experiment can be carried on without
it. In the experiments previously shown, induction played its part; but in
order to show it more effectually, let us try the following experiment :
   On an insulated stand of glass let us support a small metal cylinder (brass
is the best, but wood covered with tinfoil will answer the purpose) ; upon the
end of it place our electroscope (a pith-ball arrangement, similar to what we
used before) ; excite the glass tube or ebonite, and present it towards the
end opposite to the pith balls. Immediately the tube comes near enough, the
cylinder becomes charged inductively, causing the pith balls to diverge ; re
move the glass tube—the balls converge, and show the absence of electricity.
This may be repeated, and
the same results will follow                        ,                                        _
so long as any charge remains                     ^^^M<^^ ^V+
in the glass tube. Ifthecylin-                   f                             ~~
der be tested whilst under the
action of induction, it will be
found that the end nearest to
the glass tube is oppositely
(negative) electrified, whilst
the other end is similarly
electrified, showing that a dis
turbance has taken place of
the natural electricity of the
conductor under induction
the opposite electricity to the end near the excited body. Similar electricity
to the opposite end (following the before-mentioned fundamental law of oppo
site electricities) are attracted, and similar are repelled.
   Whilst the cylinder (Fig. 4) is under induction, let it be touched with the
finger: the pith balls will immediately collapse; remove the finger and suddenly
withdraw the tube : the pith balls will diverge, and remain so for a length of
time. If they be examined, the electricity will be found to be negative or
opposite to what it was before.
   For any experiments relative to induction with statical electricity, the Elec-
TROPHORUS is about as good an instrument as can be used. The following
is a description of this useful instrument :
   B is a metal sole upon which A, a resinous plate of equal parts of resin, shel
lac, and Venice turpentine, is placed ;* C is a metallic cover with an insulated
handle. The plate a is to be excited by striking it briskly with dry silk : place
the cover on. This cover, being insulated, docs not take away the electricity
from the plate, but is simply electrified by induction ; the upper surface is
           • A polished plate of ebonite will be easier to prepare, and equally efficacioui.

 646                                        SCIENCE.
 charged similarly to the plate ; the under, being next to the plate, is charged
 oppositely. Now, if the top of the plate be touched with the finger or other
 conductor, the negative induced electricity will escape, but the positive on the
 lower surface will remain. Remove the cover: the electricity will spread over
the surface, and the cover be found to be charged positively. The plate
remains in the same state, not having lost any of its electricity, as the cover
was electrified by induction only. It will thus be seen how useful this instru
ment may become ; in fact, it has been termed a perpetual electrical machine.
The discovery is due to Professor Volta.
                                    Electrical Machines.
    An electrical machine is simply the glass tube and rubber on a large scale,
and is " an apparatus by means of which electricity can be developed and
accumulated in a convenient manner for experiment;" in fact, any instrument
for the excitement of electricity is a machine. The following illustration will
explain the form now usually adopted : it is generally termed a cylinder
machine. The old machines were usually excited by hand, but in the modern
the great improvement of rubbers has been introduced.
    The hollow cylinder of glass, having open ends fitted with caps of wood, is
fixed on two upright supports. At one end of the cylinder is fixed a crank-
handle. In front is placed the rubber on an insulated stand ; this rubber
consists of a cushion of soft leather, stuffed with horse-hair. When in action
it is necessary to smear the surface with a metallic amalgam,* the object being
to increase the excitement. On the opposite side to the rubber, and also on
an insulated stand (this is frequently made separate from the machine), is
placed the conductor, or printe conductor, as it is called : this is a cylinder of
brass or wood covered with tinfoil, provided next the machine with a number
of metal points, and with a metal ball on the opposite side. The addition of
   • Anudgam. —The following is given as the method of making it : "Melt together five parts of zinc
and three parts of tin : pour gradually on the melted mixture nine parts of metallic mercury previously
warmed ; the whole is shaken briskly till cold in an iron or thick wooden box ; it is then reduced to _«
fine powder in a mortar, sifted through muslin, and mixed with lard in sufficient quantity to reduce it
to the consistency of paste."— Noad.
   It can be procured of any philosophical and electrical instrument maker.

                               ELECTRICITY.                                   647
a flap of oiled silk (oiled on one side only) from the rubber, covering the glass
cylinder, completes the machine. The advantage of this silk is the prevention
of the electricity escaping from the excited cylinder into the atmosphere.
   It is very essential that the glass cylinder should be kept free from dirt and
moisture ; before being used it should be well warmed : placing a well-heated
flat iron under it is a very good plan. These machines can be constructed
very cheaply, and with but little trouble, the only great expense being the
purchase of the cylinder ; the remaining portion can be easily put together.
A small machine of this kind is very useful, for with it all the experiments
connected with frictional or static electricity can be performed.
                                       Fie. 6.
   It is generally necessary that the machine should be connected with the
earth ; for this purpose a chain or wire to the table or floor should be in con
nection with the rubber. Attach this to the rubber, and turn the machine ;
the electricity of the rubber (according to Noad) is decomposed by the friction,
the positive is carried off on the glass round to the conductor, whose induction
comes into play. The negative electricity of the conductor is thus brought
towards the points where the negative of the conductor and the positive of
the cylinder unite; this is the cause of the bright sparks constantly passing
between the two. The result is, that the conductor is left powerfully positive,
and the rubber proportionately negative. On applying the hand, or anything
metallic in connection with the earth, to the ball on the conductor, vivid sparks,
accompanied by loud cracking noise, will constantly pass from one to the
other; this is termed the positive spark. On the application of the knuckles
to the conductor, the spark will be accompanied by a slight shock. Take
away the earth connection from the rubber, the effect will be that but a small
quantity of electricity will be given off: the supply of the rubber and glass
being small, it is necessary to recruit them from the earth. By connecting
the conductor with the earth, a constant supply of negative electricity can be
obtained.
   Besides the cylinder, there is also a powerful machine made of glass, called

648                               SCIENCE.
the plate machine, from the disc being of plate glass. The glass plate is fixed
between two uprights ; attached to it is a handle for rotation. At top and
bottom it passes between two pieces of wood, with amalgamated rubbers and
silk flaps, as in the cylinder machine. Its conductor is formed of hollow
brass, fixed on to one of the uprights, and brought round at each end close to
the machine, where, at the place the flaps leave off, it is fitted with points.
The action is similar to the cylinder. Mr. Hearder estimates that cylinder
machines of equal surface are four times superior to plate machines. These
latter have also been made of ebonite, but in that case it is necessary that the
amalgam should be softer.
                 Fig. 7.
   Many and very beautiful experiments
may be made with a cylinder machine.
Relative to the variety of the sparks, Pro
fessor Faraday says :
   " In air they have, when obtained with
brass balls, a well-known intense light and
                                                              Fig. 8.
bluish colour, with frequently faint or dark
parts in their course, when the quantity of
electricity is not great.
   " In nitrogen they are very beautiful, having the same general appearance
as in air, but more colour of a purple or bluish character.
   " In oxygen they are brighter, but not so brilliant as in common air.
   " In hydrogen they are of a fine crimson colour, but have very little sound,
in consequence of the physical character of the gas.
   "In carbonic acid gas they have the same general appearance as in air, but
are remarkably irregular. Sparks can be obtained under similar circum
stances much longer than in air, the gas showing a singular readiness to pass
the discharge.

                                ELECTRICITY.                                  649
    " In muriatic acidgas, when dry, they are nearly white, and almost always
 bright throughout.
    " In coal gas they are sometimes green, sometimes red ; occasionally one
 part is green and another red. Black parts always occur very suddenly in the
 line of the spark ; i.e., they are not connected by any dull part with bright
 portions, but the two seem to join directly the one with the other."
    For observing the peculiarity of the spark under the above varying circum
 stances, the following apparatus, consisting of a glass globe about four inches
 in diameter, provided at each end with a brass cap. Through the upper of
 these projects a brass rod, terminating at each end with a brass ball ; at the
lower cap is arranged a stop-cock, to which is attached a short brass rod and
ball, slightly projecting into the globe ; the upper rod should be so arranged
that by a well-fitting collar it may be lengthened or shortened, in order to
increase or decrease the distance between the two balls. (Fig. 8.)
    To put this in action, it is necessary to exhaust the air from the globe by an
 air-pump or condensing syringe ; and for observing the discharge in rarefied
 air only, connect one ball with the positive, the other with the negative con
 ductor. Immediately the machine is turned, " a current of beautiful light
 passes from the positive to the negative ball, on which it breaks, and divides
 into a luminous atmosphere entirely surrounding the ball and stem."
    For experimenting with the spark in different gases, first well exhaust thfc
 globe, and then charge it with the required gas. Connect the wires, and on
 turning the machine the sparks will be observed of the colours mentioned
 above.
   Very many beautiful experiments can be performed with the machine by
bringing the sparks into play. A pretty experiment may be tried by pasting
on a sheet of glass pieces of tinfoil cut out into various patterns, separated
from each other by a slight distance : letters may be so cut out and arranged.
 On connecting the one end with the conductor, and the other with the earth,
the whole is immediately lighted up, and the design becomes apparent.
   In the experiments that I have mentioned, the power of the electricity
obtained has been, comparatively speaking, slight ; but in order to obtain elec
tricity of greater power, we make use of what is termed a Leyden jar, an
instrument that plays a very important part in static experiments. Its dis
covery was made under peculiar circumstances in about the years 1745 and
 1746. Some Dutch philosophers at Leyden turned their attention to try and
find some method of enabling an insulated conductor to retain an electric
charge, as they found the conductors rapidly discharge themselves. In their
experiments a small glass phial was filled with water, establishing electric
connection with the water by a nail through the cork ; this was attached
to the prime conductor. One of the experimenters, in trying to take away
the phial, received a shock across his arms and breast that shook his whole
frame.
   A similar result was obtained about the same time by Von Kleist. In a
letter, found in the register of an academy at Berlin, he communicates his
discoveries.
   " When a nail or a piece of brass wire is put into a small apothecary's phial
and electrified, remarkable effects follow ; but the phial must be very dry and
warm. I commonly rub it over beforehand with a finger, on which I put some
pounded chalk. If a little mercury, or a few drops of spirits of wine, be put
into it, the experiment succeeds the better.

650                                   SCIENCE.
   " If, while it is electrifying, I put my finger, or a piece of gold which I hold
in my hand, to the nail, I receive a shock wmch stuns my arms and shoul
ders."
   Great excitement was shown everywhere at this discovery, and experiments
                                               were carried on in London and else
                                               where, which ended in the Leyden
                                               jar, as at present used, being per
                                               fected. The coating the jar exter
                                               nally as well as internally was due
                                               to Sir W. Watson.
                                                  The construction of a simple Ley
                                               den jar is shown in the drawing.
                                               The shaded lines show the extent
                                               of the tinfoil coating. At the mouth
                                               of the jar is fixed a cover of wood
                                               or otherwise, through the centre of
                                               which passes a brass rod terminat
                                               ing in around ball at the upper end,
                                               and in a chain at the lower, which
                                               rests upon the bottom of the jar,
                                               completing the electrical connection
                          Fig.                 between the brass ball and the inner
                                                coating.
    In connection with the jar is an instrument that plays a conspicuous part,
 and saves the experimenter from many a rude shock : it is called a discharger.
 Fig. 10 represents the ordinary form—two bent brass rods, terminating in
brass balls, and fixed to a glass handle. They are so jointed at the handle
 that they can open or close like compasses. To charge the jar, it is only
 necessary to place the ball of the conductor in connection with the conductor
 of the machine, and the exterior coating with the ground ; it will be found to
 be rapidly charged. If, instead of making connection between the two, the
 ball is placed near the ball of the conductor, as soon as the machine is set in
 motion, the sparks fly across the intervening space, the jar rapidly accumulates
 electricity, and the sparks get fainter until the jar is completely charged, when
 no more sparks pass. Remove the jar ; touch the outside with the discharger,
 and bring the other end near the ball of the jar. While yet some distance off,
 the discharge will take place, causing a brilliant spark to pass between the
 two balls, accompanied by a loud report. The jar may be again charged,
 and the experiment repeated ; but between the discharger and the ball of the
 jar place a card : the discharge will take place through the card, causing a
 disruptive action, and making a very small hole. If wood is used in a similar
 way, the disruptive effect is so great that it sometimes splits it up. The dis
 ruptive action is shown in imperfect or inadequate conductors by tearing,
 splitting, and heating, and by combustion—thin wires are melted, gunpowder
  inflamed, &c
     The following pretty experiment may be shown with an ordinary Leyden
 jar: place in a straight line, and just touching each other, three or four eggs ;
 pass a charge from a Leyden jar through them: they will immediately become
 luminous.
     Noad gives the following substances, rendered phosphorescent for a time by
  transmitting a charge through them, acquiring various colours, viz. : chalk,

                                ELECTRICITY.                                   651
 orange ; rock crystal, first red, then white ; sulphate of barium, bright green ;
 calcined oyster-shells, the prismatic colours ; loaf sugar, green.
    But the magic effects of disruptive action require the accumulation of more
 than one jar. A combination of Leyden jars is termed a Lcyden battery.
 Placed in a box, the bottom of which is lined with tinfoil, so as to connect all
 the outside coatings, are as many jars as may be required. The brass rods
 of all are connected together. They are charged in a similar way to that
 adopted for a single jar. The accumulated power of this battery is in exact
proportion to the number of cells. A shock from twelve jars is stated to be
 sufficient to kill a man.
    The object of the tinfoil coating is merely to conduct the electricity to the
surface of the glass, and to afford it a free passage from point to point.
    On presenting the jar for charging to the prime conductor, the following takes
 place : the inside acquires a positive charge, and induces a negative one on the
near surface of the outer coating fronting it, that is, on its inside surface. The
outside surface of the outer coating would then be positive ; but, it being in
connection with the ground, the positive electricity passes away, and leaves
the outer coating entirely free for a negative charge, which it thus possesses,
and thereby fixes the positive charge in the inside.
   That the glass itself retains the charge may be proved by testing both inside
and outside coatings with the electrometer : its presence cannot be detected ;
but connect the two by the discharger, and immediately the discharge takes
place with a brilliant spark.
   The following facts are mentioned in the early use of Leyden jars : " At
Paris, M. Nollet transmitted a shock through a hundred and eighty soldiers;
he also formed a chain measuring 5,400 ft. by means of iron wires extending
between every two persons: the whole company received the shock at the same
time."
    Dr. Watson stretched a wire across the Thames over Westminster Bridge.
One end of the wire was attached to the interior of a Leyden jar ; the exterior
of the jar was in connection with one hand of a person, whose other hand held
an iron rod. On the opposite side of the river was stationed a second person,
holding the other end of the wire in one hand and in the other hand an iron
rod dipped in the water. Immediately the person near the jar dipped his rod
in the river, a simultaneous shock was felt by both. Great astonishment was
expressed at the time. This was the first time in experiments of conduction
that the circuit was completed with wire and the earth.
   Dr. Watson subsequently made other experiments. In 1747 experiments
were made at Shooter's Hill for a distance of two miles, and it was proved
from that time that electricity could be conducted from one point to another
at a distance from it. To that year we must look back as the period from
which the electric telegraph may date.
   Amongst the disruptive effects of the Leyden jar may be mentioned the de
flagration of metals. Between two pieces of paper place a slip of tinfoil or
gold-leaf, ends projecting ; press the whole firmly together. On passing a strong
charge through it, the metals will be burnt. The paper will be coloured of a
purplish blue if the gold-leaf be employed.
   For deflagrating metal wires a Leyden battery should be used. Great care
must be exercised with the single jar, and still more so with the batter)', as
the shocks will be very severe. Professor Noad gives the following: "The
wires are stretched above sheets of white paper, and powerful discharges sent

652                                  SCIENCE.
through them. The results are exceedingly beautiful—the wires disappear with
a brilliant flash, leaving different coloured impressions on the paper. Diameter
of the wire used should be l-J^ of an inch."
Gold . . Purple and brown.                    Tin . . Yellow and grey.
Silver . . Grey, brown, and green.            Zinc . . Dark brown.
Platinum . Grey and light brown.               Lead . . Brown and blue-grey.
Copper . Green, yellow, and brown.             Brass . Purple and brown.
Iron . . Light brown.
   With the above experiments we will take leave of static electricity, and now
enter into some description and account of experiments with Dynamic Elec
tricity.
               DYNAMIC OR CURRENT ELECTRICITY.
   Dynamic or Current Electricity may be divided into Galvanism or Voltaic
Electricity, Electro-Magnetism, Magneto-Electricity, Thermo-Electricity, and
lastly, Animal Electricity.
   At present we can only enter into the phenomena of some of the former.
   As the first observations of static electricity and many of its discoveries
were accidental, so was also in a great measure the circumstance that gave
rise to the discovery of Galvanism or Voltaic Electricity. Indeed, it has be
come a matter almost of history : as you may not have heard the anecdote, I
will tell the generally- accepted version.
   Arago writes: " It may be proved that the immortal discovery of the gal
vanic pile arose in the most immediate and direct manner from a slight cold
with which a Bolognese lady was attacked in 1790, and for which her' physi
cian prescribed the use of frog-broth." The " Encyclopaedia Britannica" states :
" When one of Galvani's (Professor of Anatomy in the University of Bologna)
pupils was using an electrical machine, a number of frogs were lying skinned
on an adjoining table, for the purpose of cookery. The machine being in
action, the young man happened to touch with a scalpel the nerve of a leg of
one of the frogs, when, to his great surprise, the leg was thrown into violent
convulsions." Dr. Lardner, after giving this usually-received account of Gal
vani's discovery, writes: "This was the first, but not the only or chief, part
played by chance in this great discovery. Galvani was not familiar with
electricity ; luckily for the progress of science, he was more an anatomist than
an electrician, and beheld with sentiments of unmixed wonder the manifesta
tion of what he believed to be a new principle in the animal economy ; and,
fired with the notion of bringing to light the proximate cause of vitality,
engaged with ardent enthusiasm in a course of experiments on the effects of
electricity on the animal system. It is rarely that an example is found of the
progress of science being favoured by the ignorance of its professors. Chance
now again came upon the stage. In the course of his researches he had
occasion to separate the legs, thighs, and lower part of the body of the frog
from the remainder, so as to lay bare the lumbar nerves. Having the members
of several frogs thus dissected, he passed copper hooks through part of the
dorsal column, which remained above the junction of the thighs, for the con
venience of hanging them up till they might be required for the purpose of
experiment. In this manner he happened to suspend several upon the iron
balcony in front of his laboratory, when to hisinexpressible astonishment the

                              ELECTRICITY.                                   653
limbs were thrown into strong convulsions. No electrical machine was now
present to exert any influence."
   From how little causes do great effects spring ! The accidental circumstance
of hanging a frog by a copper hook on an iron railing is the cause which has
directly led to the ease and facility of telegraphic communication.
   Galvani ascribed these effects to animal electricity. This hypothesis was for
some years opposed by Volta, who for a long time occupied the chair of Natural
Philosophy in the University of Pavia. He contended that the muscular action
shown in the frogs was due to the contact of two dissimilar metals producing
electricity. After conducting many experiments, in 1796 he made his name
immortal b" the discovery of the " Voltaic Pile."
               £.
             FiG. II.                                              Fig. 14.
   This pile consisted (Fig. 11) of alternate layers of silver or copper and zinc
plates in pairs, of the same size, arranged one above another in regular order,
each pair separated from the next by flannel moistened with salt and water.
Applying an electroscope (gold-leaf) to the ends of a large arrangement of
these plates, the zinc plate end would show negative electricity, and the silver
end positive. By touching the two ends a small shock might be received.
   Volta, in carrying out experiments for the improvement of his pile, in order
that he might obtain a greater amount of power, invented the apparatus known
as "Za Couronne de Tasses" (ring of cups), which is indeed the father of all
the batteries used at the present time. (Fig. 12.)
   In the above arrangement you will see that a series of cups were placed,
containing a solution of some acid. A rod of zinc and one of copper were
soldered together and bent, and one end placed in one cup, the other in the
next. A second pair was treated similarly, and the whole so arranged that
each cup contained one zinc rod and one copper rod, the two ends being
represented by one zinc and one copper. Immediately the two ends were
brought together electrical effects were obtained.
   Since that time, many and various have been the improvements made in

 654                                   SCIENCE.
batteries ; but before giving you any account of them, I would wish you to
 understand the action of a battery.
     In the arrangement of " La Couronne de Tosses," one cup represents a cell,
 the combined series a battery. In a glass vessel (Fig. 13) partly filled with a
 weak solution of sulphuric acid, Z and C represent the two elements of a single
 cell—the zinc and copper elements. So long as these two elements remain
 unconnected, and in the position shown, practically no effects are observed.
 Connect their upper ends together by a short wire, and electric effects due to
 chemical action are observed : the water becomes decomposed ; the oxygen,
 having a great affinity for zinc, attacks it, and forms on its surface an oxide of
 zinc ; the hydrogen becomes liberated at the copper plate and escapes ; but
 oxide of zinc is not soluble in water, here the acid comes into play. In addition
 to its making the water a better conductor, the oxide of zinc is dissolved by
 the sulphuric acid, forming a " sulphate of zinc," which is held in solution, and
 leaving a fresh surface of zinc to be operated on. This operation continues
 (the plates being joined together) so long as there remains any zinc The zinc
 is, therefore, being continually eaten away or corroded, the solution becomes
 impregnated with sulphate of zinc, and the hydrogen is set free.
     By observing this arrangement, you will sec a constant series of bubbles
 given off at the copper plate. The action is peculiar: the hydrogen is origi
  nally set free at the zinc plate ; it passes through the various particles of water,
  combining and decomposing until it is set free at the copper plate, where, for
 the first time, it becomes visible. This action is going on over the whole sur
 face of the plates. Now, when the cell is left to itself, the acid attacks the
  zinc and reduces it. In order to avoid this extra expense, the zinc is amalga
  mated with mercury, the acid then having but little action upon the zinc
     On referring to Fig. 14, you will see the arrows point to the direction the
  current takes ; the electricity evolved by the chemical action originating at
  the zinc plate is conducted through the acidulated water to the copper plate,
  from whence it is directed by the wire conductor to wherever required, and
 back to the zinc plate. This evolution of electricity is dependent on the amount
  of decomposition of zinc, and continues so long as there is any zinc left.
     A single pair of plates forms a single cell ; a series of cells forms a batter}-.
  The zinc plate, or that from which the electricity is produced, is called the
  positive element ; the copper, or plate to which it is conducted, is called the
  negative element. The upper ends of these elements or plates, to which the
  conducting wires— called battery-wires —are attached, are called poles: the
  copper pole from which the electricity proceeds is called the positive pole ;
. the zinc to which it returns is called the negative pole.
     These terms are conflicting, Professor Faraday has therefore introduced the
  terms anode and cathode—the former representing the positive pole, the latter
  the negative— (the words mean, "the way up" and "the way down")—but
  you will generally find that positive and negative poles arc most used (Fig. 22).
      The electric action of a battery is set up when the two plates are dissimilar
  in their affinity for oxygen : the more the affinity one metal has for oxygen,
   and the less the other has, then the more powerful the current a combination
   of these two will form. Now, of different metals, platinum has the least
  affinity for oxygen, and zinc about the greatest. A combination of these two
  forms a most powerful battery, and constitutes the principle of several batteries.
      The following embraces a general description of the most important varie
   ties of the battery :

                              ELECTRICITY.                                    655
   Daniel's Battery (generally called the constant battery, on account of its
remaining in action for a great length of time) consists in dividing the ordinary
cell into two by inserting a porous pot or other porous diaphragm. Fig. 15
shows a section of an ordinary Daniel cell.
   In the glass cell is placed a cylinder of copper in a solution of sulphate of
copper (blue vitriol) ; in the porous cell— in a solution of sulphate of zinc—
is placed a solid rod of zinc ; the zinc of one cell is connected to the copper
of the next.
   The action of this battery, by the use of the porous cell, prevents the in
jurious effect of the evolution of hydrogen in the single-liquid arrangement ;
the effect of the hydrogen was to deposit oxide of zinc on the copper plate,
neutralizing in a great measure the effectiveness of the battery.
                                                  c:      c z
                               ^/itihJ
                  Fig. 15.                     Fig. 15 a.
   Avery convenient arrangement of Daniel's battery is shown in Fig. 15 a,
in great use amongst the principal telegraph companies.
   A trough of wood, coated internally with some insulating and waterproof
substance, is divided into ten or twelve cells ; these are further subdivided by
inserting between each two divisions a porous plate. A plate of zinc and one
of copper are soldered together, and placed one on each side of the wooden
division ; the separate spaces are filled with solutions of sulphates of copper
and zinc The last plate in each trough is fixed down by a screw, to which a
wire may be attached.
   In fact, there are many arrangements of Daniel's batter)-, but the principle
remains the same.
   Groves's Nitric Acid Battery. — In this arrangement (Fig. 16) a zinc cylinder
is placed in the outer cell. Inside the cylinder is a porous pot, with a platinum
plate for the negative element. The exciting liquids are common nitric acid
with the platinum, and a solution of sulphuric acid with the zinc The action
of the battery is very powerful, but it does not remain in order for any length
of time. This battery is unpleasant for using in a room, as the fumes from
the nitric acid are disagreeably strong.
   Smee's Battery is one of those that require only one exciting liquid. On
a wooden bar is attached a platinized silver plate, P, with a binding-screw on
its upper surface. On each side of the bar are placed two large plates of zinc,
kept together by a metal clamp. When required for action, the jar, or gutta
percha cell, is charged with common sulphuric acid (1 part to 7 of water) ; the
plates are then dipped in. This arrangement is one very frequently used, and
very much so for electrotyping. (Fig. 17.)

6S6                                   SCIENCE.
                             Fig. 16.                              Fig. 17.
   Bunsens Carbon Battery.—This is an arrangement very similar to that of
Groves, only carbon is used instead of platinum, the exciting liquids being
the same. Although much used, it has the same unpleasant disadvantage as
the Bunsen ; however, the following alteration of exciting liquids does away
with that disadvantage, and gives us a battery which lasts for some days in
pretty constant action, and has the great recommendation of being cheap.
   In the carbon cell, put two parts of a saturated solution of bichromate of
potash, and one part of common sulphuric acid : with the zinc, put a saturated
solution of common salt. A saturated solution is when the water contains so
much in solution that no more crystals can be dissolved.
                    Fig. 18.                          Fig. 19.
    For the bichromate of potash, dissolve in hot water the crystals (it will be
found that about 2 oz. go to a pint), to this add \ pint of common sulphuric
acid. Care must be taken in mixing sulphuric acid. It should be done
 gradually and quietly, for the great heat evolved by it might break the jug or
 jar. When cool, charge the cells. (Fig. 18.)
    This arrangement is excessively useful for all experiments, especially for

                               ELECTRICITY.                                657
those in connection with induction coils, for which I have used it myself, and
find it a great comfort. l certainly recommend it, for various reasons, in
preference to all others.
   The small battery I have just used consists of a large jam-pot ; a piece of
zinc formed into a cylinder, with a wire attached; a porous pot, and a piece
of carbon. It is in action at once, and the arrangement simple.
   Sulphate of Mercury. — This is again a single-liquid battery, and is very
simple. In a glass bottle (Fig. 19) are two elements, consisting of a rod of
zinc and a plate of carbon, passing through a porcelain cover, and terminating
outside in binding-screws. The bottle is charged with about 3 oz. of bisulphatc
of mercury ; water is then poured in up to nearly the shoulder ; the elements
are then inserted. This battery is the most useful of the kind for ringing
household bells, &c, and for purposes where you only require occasional
action, and for no great length of time. Under such circumstances I have
known one of these batteries last over twelve months without being touched;
it then only required some more bisulphate of mercury.
   Bichromate oj Potash Battery. —This is a battery that, for experiments, is
in great request ; it is strong in
action, but does not last so long as
could be wished. It consists of
carbon for the negative, and zinc
for the positive elements, excited by
one part of a saturated (see before)
solution of bichromate of potash, to
about ten parts of sulphuric acid.
A convenient form of this battery is
shown in Fig. 20, where the centre
rod is of zinc, and can be drawn up
out of the liquid when the battery
is not wanted, in order to prevent
waste.
   In the various batteries I have
described there are again variations,
and further description would be
come tedious.
   In connecting up a few cells into
a battery, the arrangement is called
 one of intensity when the zinc of one
cell is connected on to the copper
of the next, and so on throughout
the series; but when the zincs are
all connected together, and the
coppers together, the arrangement
is called one for quantity.
    In the first arrangement, the
 quantity of electricity evolved in the
 battery is the same as that evolved
 by one pair ; but the intensity increases in direct proportion to the number
 of cells used.
    Intensity depends upon the number of cells, and not upon the size of the
 plates ; quantity, on the contrary, depends upon the size of the plates.
                                                                  42

658                                    SCIENCE.
    If you increase the size of the plates six times, you increase in the same
proportion the quantity of electricity evolved.
    On joining up the cells (Fig. 21) for quantity, you practically increase the
                                         Fig. 21.
size of the plates, and consequently obtain proportionately increased quantity ;
but in this case the intensity is the same as with the one cell.
    The accompanying sketch (Fig. 22), showing an elevation of a Bunsert
carbon battery, will place the nomenclature of the various parts of a battery
                                         beyond doubt. Make yourself perfectly
                                         familiar with these terms, and you will
                                         save yourself a great deal of trouble, and
                                         be enabled at once to comprehend the
                                         manner of carrying out experiments which
                                         otherwise you might find a difficulty in
                                         grasping.
                                            When you join the two ends of the wires
                                         from the battery together, allowing a cur
                                         rent of electricity to circulate through, you
                                         establish what is termed a " circuit."
                                            One of the great results due from the
                                         pile was the discovery of CErsted in 18 19.
                                         He found that a magnetic needle sus
                                         pended near a body, placed in the same
                                         meridian, through which an electric cur
                                         rent was passing, tended to place itself at
                                         right angles to that body. He also ob
                                         served that the deviation of the needle de
                                         pended upon the quantity of the current,
                                         and its direction upon the direction of the
               Fig. 22.                  current.
a, negative element ; b, porous cell ;
                                            Some few years after this discovery, it
 e, positive clement ; d, outer cell.    was remarked that increased effects were

                                ELECTRICITY.                                    659
observed in the needle by increasing the turns the wire took round the
needle ; for, at first, a wire was passed above or below the needle, and then
completely round. Instruments were made with many turns of wire round the
needle ; this rendered the needle more sensitive to the presence of electricity.
   These instruments were and are still called Galvanometers : the addition of
a scale of degrees to mark the deviation of the needle to the one side or the
other was a still further improvement. Instruments so constructed are in
•daily use ; they are now made of various shapes, with vertical or horizontal
needles, with various quantities of wire according to the required sensitiveness.
                                      Fig. 23.
   The next discoveries were due to Ampere and Arago, who found that wires
when under the influence of electric currents were magnetic, and attracted iron
filings, &c. Arago further noticed that iron became temporarily magnetic
whilst u8der the influence of electric currents passed near or around it ; steel,
under similar circumstances, becoming permanently magnetic.
                                       Fig. 24.
   This was the origin of the grand invention of Electro-magnets, the use of
•which is now so great, and the principle of which may be found in almost all
the important telegraph instruments of the present time. In fact, in telegraphy
we depend entirely upon the discoveries of CErsted and Arago for enabling us
to produce instruments for detecting electric currents or receiving messages.
   That a bar of soft iron becomes magnetic may be easily tried by experiment.
   Round a bar of soft iron wind some wire in the form of a helix (Fig. 24) ; attach

66o                                      SCIENCE.
the ends of the wire to the battery. If you apply iron filings or nails to either
end of the bar, they will be immediately attracted ; disconnect one of the wires
from the battery, the filings will drop off, and the iron will have lost it attrac
tive power ; connect the battery wire, attraction will again follow. From this
you will perceive that if a bar of soft iron be surrounded with wire, it becomes
                                                   magnetic so long as an electric current
                                                   passes through the wire. The polarity
                                                   of this electro-magnet is dependent on
                                                   the direction the wire is wound round
                                                   it.
                                                       Instead of inserting in the helix abar
                                                   of soft iron, inset a bar of steel : the
                                                   steel, on passing a current through the
                                                   wire, becomes also magnetic; remove
                                                   the steel,and it will be found that, unlike
                                                   the soft iron, it retains its magnetism.
                                                       The bar shows an electro-magnet of
                                                   small power ; they can, however, be
                                                   made of great power, and able to sup
                                                   port greater weights than natural or
                                                   artificial magnets. The common form
                  Fig. 25.                         of electro-magnets is that of a horse
                                                   shoe, with a large quantity of insulated
wire wound in the same direction round each pole.*
  Induction by Voltaic Currents.— If you complete a battery circuit, as in
Fig. 14, and place near it a second wire, forming also a complete circuit but
unconnected with the battery, it will be found that a current of electricity is
induced in the second wire, but with this peculiarity, that the current is induced
momentarily : when the battery circuit is closed, it almost immediately ceases ;
but on breaking the battery circuit, another current is perceived in the second
wire, but in the opposite direction to the first. By increasing the quantity and
proximity of the two wires, an induced current may be obtained of sufficient
strength to produce sparks.
   Induction by Magnetism.—A similar result to the above may be obtained
                                              Fig. 26
(without the use of a voltaic current) by a steel magnet. If a helix of wire
(Fig. 26) be prepared and connected with a galvanometer, a deflection will
be observed immediately a strong bar magnet is inserted within it—this cur
rent is of short duration ; withdraw the magnet, and a current in the opposite
direction will be observed.
   Another method, and that now usually adopted for producing "magneto
     • At page 667 will be found a description of the mode of construction of an electro-magnet.

                              ELECTRICITY.                                   66r
electricity" (as this kind of electricity is called), is by making a small horse
shoe electro-magnet. On bringing it near the poles of a powerful permanent
magnet, a strong current is induced in the wire of the electro-magnet. By
fixing this electro-magnet on a pivot near the poles of the permanent magnet,
and giving it a rapid rotation, intense currrents are induced.
                               Induction Coils.
  An explanation of the above facts is rendered necessary before you could
comprehend the construction of, or results obtained from, a Ruhmkorff's
induction coil; for in this coil, to which I have been gradually leading you,
you will find that induction by voltaic currents and by magnetism plays the
most important part.
   Now, we have seen that one wire induces a current in a contiguous wire ; if
a helix of a second wire of much smaller diameter than that just used be
placed around the helix with the soft iron in it, it will be found that the cur
rents induced in this wire on making and breaking battery circuit are greater
in strength than when the bar is removed, the presence of the bar most mate
rially increasing the induction. This rough arrangement is the foundation of
an induction coil : the helix round the soft iron is the primary coil, the out
side wire is the secondary coil. By increasing the size of the magnet and the
lengths of the primary and secondary wires, instead of a faint spark, we obtain
a flame of light many inches in length ; but the principle of the coil remains
the same.
                                      Fig. 27.
   To M. Ruhmkorff is due the credit of perfecting the induction coil which
now bears his name. The coil consists of the following parts:
   1. The core of soft iron, or electro        3. Secondary coil.
         magnet.                               4. Contact-breaker.
   2. Primary coil.                            5. Condenser.
   In experimenting upon electricity there are no more beautiful experiments
than those performed with Ruhmkorff's intensity coil. I therefore give my
readers a description of a very useful coil, capable of carrying out a great
variety of experiments. For this description I am indebted in a great measure
to a small but very interesting volume on " Intensity Coils," by Dyer, recently
published.
    The core of soft iron consists of a bundle of small iron wires of No. 18

662                                 SCIENCE.
gauge ; the wires should be straight and tied well together, the whole forming
a bundle of # in. diameter and 7 \ in. in length. The ends should be filed
smooth and slightly varnished.
   The Primary Coil is wound on a reel consisting of a cylinder of cartridge-
paper (see section), having an ebonite disc at each end 3.J in. in diameter
and if in. thick ; the tube should be 7 in. long and 1 in. in diameter. Upon this
is wound the primary wire ; but before winding, to prevent damage to the reel,
it should be filled up inside with a wooden roll. Two holes should be made
in one of the discs to receive the ends of the primary wire, which should con
sist of about 1 lb. of cotton -covered wire, No. 15, measuring about 20 yards.
One end of this wire should be passed through one of the holes in the disc and
wound carefully on the reel to the opposite disc, and then back again, so as to
form two layers ; the end should then be passed through the remaining hole
in the disc. The layer should then be well and carefully varnished with several
coats of shellac dissolved in spirits of wine ; a second coat must not be put
on until the first be dry. When dry, the primary wire must then be tightly
covered with cartridge-paper passed several times round and gummed down.
When dry, it must be varnished.
   Secondary Coil. — In this, the opposite disc, one above and the other below,
should be two holes for the ends of the secondary wire, which consists of
about 800 yds. (\ lb.) of No. 32 j;V&-covered copper wire. This wire requires
great care in the handling, and the operation of putting it on is one of great
delicacy. Pass the lower end through the lower of the holes, and then wind
on carefully until the first layer is complete, and then having varnished it, and
covered it with four or five layers of very fine gutta-percha sheet, a second
layer may be wound on : the sheeting must not be put on until the varnish be
dry. And so on, layer after layer, varnish and sheeting between, until the
wire is finished and the coil complete ; the end should then be passed through
the other hole in the disc. As each layer is put on, an observation should be
taken with your galvanometer and battery, to see whether the wire is perfect
and not broken. When the wire is entirely wound on, it should be protected
by a series of coatings of gutta-percha, and with an outside wrapper of leather
or other material. Very often, to increase the strength of the coil and decrease
the danger of the small secondary wire breaking where it comes through the
disc, it is soldered on to a larger copper wire, which is wound round the
secondary, and forms its outer layer. Where the secondary wires come
through the disc, they are usually made into a helix.
   The Contact-breaker, or Interrupting Apparatus, performs a very valuable
part in the performance of the coil ; in fact, it is the arrangement whereby
we are enabled to utilize the wonderful effects of induction. In our previous
experiments we have seen that the effects of induction only took place on
making or breaking battery connection : in order to effect this, we introduce
the ingenious arrangement known as a " contact-breaker." There are various
forms of it, but the principal remains the same—the invention of Dancer.
In Fig. 28, fixed on a brass pillar, c, in connection with one end of the primary
wire, is a spring with a small armature at the end of it, facing the bundle of
wires, and at a small distance from them. Between the armature and the
pillar holding the spring is a small pillar with a screw through the upper part,
the end of which, projecting through, touches the spring, and regulates its
distance from the iron bundle. The end of the screw, and the part of the
spring it touches, should be faced with platinum. The nillar holding the

                                ELECTRICITY.                                 663
screw is in connection with the terminial P, N being in connection with the
other end of the primary wire. Now bring the two ends of a battery into
connection with p N ; a circuit will be at once established through the coil,
the spring and the screw which rests against the spring. But we have seen
that a current of electricity passing round soft iron makes it magnetic, so our
bundle of iron wire becomes magnetic, and attracts to it the armature at the
end of the spring. This action immediately results in severing the connection
between the spring and the screw ; the battery at once ceases to act ; the iron
wires are no longer magnetic ; the spring armature immediately resumes its
original position, but as soon as it does so the battery connection is again
                                      Fig. 28.
established, the armature attracted, the result being that the armature is kept
oscillating between the two points so rapidly as to produce a loud humming
sound and vivid sparks at the point of contact. We therefore obtain the
result we wished, and our battery circuit being so rapidly made and broken,
we are thereby enabled to provide a self-acting arrangement, in order that we
might profit by the induction which takes place in the secondary wire, which
experiment has shown to us only takes place on the making and breaking of
battery contact. The more rapid the action, the greater frequency of the
induced current.
    The Condenser. —This is an invention of Fizeau, and was first applied by
 Ruhmkorff to his coil with great effect. It is, in fact, a peculiar arrange
ment of a Leyden jar, and consists of sheets of tinfoil insulated from each
other by silk, paper, or paraffin. The original appeared to have been made
 of two large sheets of tinfoil, separated by an insulating coating, and then
 placed between two insulating coatings ; they were rolled up into the desired
 size, and connected with the contact-breaker. For a coil of the dimensions
 I have described, Dyer gives the following as the capacity of the condenser :
    " Fifty sheets of tinfoil, 5x5; sixty pieces of varnished paper, 7x5; and
 two mahogany boards, varnished on each side, but rather smaller. Upon the
 lowest board place five pieces of the varnished paper ; upon that one piece
 of tinfoil, overlapping at one side about 1 in. ; then paper ; then a second
 piece of tinfoil, but overlapping at the other side; then paper, tinfoil, and so

664                               SCIENCE.
on to the end ; care being taken that the alternate pieces of tinfoil overlap on
the same side, that is, the odd numbers to the left or one side, the even num
bers to the right or other side. When the last tinfoil is put on, place above
it the remaining pieces of paper and the other mahogany board. It is then
ready to be placed in a box under the base of the coil."
   The various parts being constructed, it is necessary to fix the completed
coil and the condenser upon a proper frame. A wooden base, large enough
to hold the parts, should be constructed, fitted at one end with the contact-
breaker (Fig. 28) ; at the other end, for receiving the wires of the secondary
coil, should be two insulated supports, having at their upper ends two double
binding-screws, the one for the coil wire, the other for the experimental wire.
The condenser should be fixed under the base in a hollow, and tightly screwed
in ; but before doing so a connection should be made between the one set of
plates and the pillar, c, holding the spring armature, and between the other
set of plates and the pillar holding the adjusting-screw. These pillars, to
facilitate their connection, should project through the wooden base. Connect
the primary wires to c N, Fig. 28, and the secondary wires to the terminals
at the other end.
   This coil must not be worked with more than six cells, as it may be hope
lessly damaged.
   If you obtain a coil, or make one, similar to the above, or at any rate if you
wish to try any experiments with the induction coil, I would recommend you
to be careful, as the shocks arc too strong to be taken with comfort, and use
well-insulated wires to connect to the secondary terminals.
   When you have finished any experiment, disconnect one of the battery-wires
from the coil (you can arrive at this result by unscrewing the contact-breaker),
and do not connect it on again until you have the secondary wires ready
connected for another experiment.
   Never keep the battery-wires connected unless you are performing some
experiment, otherwise you allow the battery to run to waste.
   Fig. 29 shows an instrument called a discharger, which is a very necessary
addition to the induction coil.
   On a small stand are fixed two insulated supports, having at their upper
                                         end a small tube ; beneath it a bind
                                         ing-screw for attaching the coil wire.
                                         Through this tube passes a small brass
                                         rod with an insulated handle; at the
                                         opposite end is a screw for attaching
                                         wires, or whatever may be required to
                   Flg- 29-              be experimented with. In the centre
                                         of the stand is placed a small table of
insulating material. By making the top of the supports movable, an improve
ment may be effected.
   The following are a number of experiments that can be performed with an
induction coil.
   1st Experiment. — Connect the battery: an intensely vivid spark will be
seen at the contact-breaker. This is called the primary spark, and appears
continuous, though not so in reality : it is due to the making and breaking
battery contact.
   2nd Experiment. — Join two wires to the terminals of the secondary coil;
bring them close together (hold only one in your hand) : a magnificent spark

                                 ELECTRICITY.                                665
will, immediately you connect the battery, pass from one to the other ; and,
bringing them nearer, the spark or flame will appear to be continuous. It is
called the secondary spark, and is the result of the induced current.
   yd Experiment. —Attach the wires from the secondary terminals to the
discharger, to the ends of which two fine wires ought to be attached. Connect
the battery. By varying the distance between the ends of the discharge, you
can see the extreme distance of air the spark will pass through : the length of
spark will depend upon the amount of battery used. Vary the distance, and
observe the different appearance of the spark, and its varying intensity. When
the two ends are brought near each other, the spark becomes less blue;
approach it still nearer, it becomes red, and is called a calorific spark, as,
under that condition, it is more suitable for deflagrating experiments.
   4/A Experiment. —Arrange the discharger so that sparks of a good length
pass between ; bring the flame of a taper near : the spark will diverge towards
the flame. Let the sparks pass through the flame: under this circumstance
the distance may be increased. If the sparks pass through the upper part oi"
the flame, they will appear as a white ball; if they pass through the lower
part, a thin line will be the appearance.
   5 /A Experiment. — Place some fine copper and steel filings on a card ; pass
the spark through them: the filings will be found separated.
   6th Experiment.—Arrange very fine copper filings alone on some paper : it
will be found that one wire will attract the copper filings, whilst the other
remains apparently inactive.
   yth Experiment. — Substitute for the copper filings powdered plumbago on
glass : a decided repulsion will ensue.
    Sth Experiment. — Place a plate of glass over some hot water so that it
might be covered with vapour : on placing the wires from the secondary coil
at some distance from each other, a long zigzag spark will pass from one wire
to the other along the glass.
   glA Experiment. — Place a piece of paper between the ends of the secondary
wires: the paper will be punctured immediately the battery is connected.
Instead of paper use gold-leaf: it will be immediately deflagrated.
   jot/i Experiment. — Attach to the discharger two fine platinum wires or
two iron wires: the wires will be ignited and deflagrated.
   11 /A Experiment.—Try the deflagrating effects mentioned in page 652.
   12/A Experiment.— Place the two ends of the secondary wires one on each
side of a piece of plate glass. Connect the battery : in a few minutes the glass
will be fractured.
   13/A Experiment. — On the discharger table place a moistened piece of
ebonite or gutta-percha : zigzag sparks, as in Experiment 8, will be seen.
   14/A Experiment.~Remove one wire from the discharger, and fix in its
place a brass ball : the sparks will now assume a brush-like appearance.
   15/A Experiment. —Decompose water by inserting the two ends of the se
condary coil in water: the gases may be collected by using proper apparatus.
   16/A Experiment.—Arrange the two wires of the discharger, and allow a
stream of sparks to pass ; bring in the stream a piece of gun-cotton, held by
a pair of forceps : it will ignite.
   17/A Experiment.— Drop a little sulphuric ether upon a piece of cotton : it
will ignite by bringing it in the stream.
   1 8/A Experiment.—Sprinkle gunpowder on cotton-wool, and bring it within
the stream : the gunpowder will explode.

666                                  SCIENCE.
    lgt/i Experiment.— Upon the table place a glass plate with a small piece of
phosphorus on it : on passing the spark through it, the phosphorus will ignite
    There are many other experiments that can be performed by ignition—firing
of fuses, and so on.
    20/A Experiment. — Disconnect the secondary wires; attach the battery.
On applying the knuckle to one of the supports, you will receive faint sparks
and slight shocks. This is known as a static effect : no result from the other
support. It will be found that these effects are only visible from the outer end
of the secondary wire. Instead of trying with your knuckles, attach one end
of a Geissler tube, it will be found partially illuminated ; by placing the finger
round the glass near the end, the light will be increased ; pass the fingers
slowly down, it will appear as if they attracted the light. This forms a very
pretty experiment, and may be varied.
    list Experiment. —Attach the wire from the ball of a Leyden jar to the
support giving static sparks ; from the other support lead a wire to the outside
of the jar ; connect the batter)', and the jar may be charged. So long as the
battery contact is kept up the jar continues to receive charges ; but it must be
borne in mind that the secondary wire forms a complete circuit, and conse
quently acts as a discharger. According to this arrangement, a jar is con
stantly being charged and discharged.
    It is possible to permanently charge a jar by connecting as before the out
side wire of the secondary (that from which you get static effects) ; attach the
other wire to the discharger, and again the discharger to the outside of the
jar. Keep the points of the discharger some distance apart; connect the
battery, and you will soon find the jar charged.
    There are a variety of beautiful and pleasing experiments to be performed
with the coil in passing the sparks through partial vacuum and through
various gases.
    iind Experiment.— Repeat the experiments given on page 648, with the
apparatus (Fig. 8).
    Relative to the spark in the air, Professor Noad observes: " If the spark
be attentively watched in the dark, it is seen to be surrounded with a sort of
yellow-green atmosphere. It is generally of an ovoid form, and seems to be
collected principally round the negative pole. When a steady current of air
is thrown upon the spark taken between two metallic wires, the luminous
atmosphere becomes expanded into a large mass of irregular violet-coloured
flame, surrounded by brindles of rays, the spark itself not appearing to undergo
 any variation."
    ij,rd Experiment.— Mr. Groves has rendered his name very celebrated for
his experiments of the discharges in rarefied media, especially the peculiar
 effect of stratification in the globe experimented with before (Fig. 22). Exhaust
 it well and introduce some vapour of naphtha ; connect the secondary wires :
the discharge will now be stratified, and not in a stream as before.
    A variety of experiments may be made with glass tubes containing highly
 rarefied gases and vapours. These were formerly made at Bonn, by M.
 Geissler, and are known everywhere as " Geissler tubes." They vary in form
 and give most beautiful and varied results. They can now be obtained at a
 low price at almost any philosophical instrument maker's.
     There are numerous experiments that can be performed with an induction
 coil. I have contented myself with giving some of the principal amongst
 them ; but if you wish to carry out more, you will find a number mentioned,

                                    ELECTRICITY.                                            667
 especially with Geissler tubes, in Dyer's " Intensity Coils," which I have already
 referred to.
    In connecting up a Geissler tube you will find no difficulty, as the platinum
 wire is continued outside. Connect the secondary wires, and then the battery.
  Put out the lamp or gas, and the tube will be seen in perfection.
    Arrangements can be made for giving a number of people a series of shocks
 by attaching by wires to the. secondary terminals metal handles, one of which
 must be grasped by one person, who holds another, and so on, until the last
 person grasps the other handle. Immediately the battery is connected, a series
 of shocks will be felt.
                         To Construct a Galvanometer.
    In carrying out any experiments with current electricity, a galvanometer is
 a most valuable instrument, as it enables you to detect and observe any
 currents that may be flowing through a wire. The following represents a very
 simple instrument. (See Fig. 23.)
    Construct a reel or bobbin of the shape shown in the diagram, and wind a
 quantity (according to the delicacy required) of fine No. 35 silk-covered copper
 wire round it; make the ends into a helix. In the centre of the bobbin should
 be fastened a small pivot for the magnetic needle to rest on. The needle should
be well magnetized and a little shorter than the coil, so as to revolve freely ;
but, as it is necessary that the needle should lie in the same direction as the
wire, it remains hid. In order, therefore, that its deviation should be known,
a needle of copper or some light material is fixed at right angles to it. The
coil is fixed on a board, and the ends attached to the binding-screws. In front
of the indicating needle is placed a scale of degrees (Fig. 23) ; the slight de
viation of the magnetic needle inside will, therefore, be read off by the indicator.
   The delicacy of the galvanometer can be greatly increased by suspending
the needle with a piece of unspun silk from a small curved brass rod, instead
of allowing it to rest on a pivot. In this case it would be necessary to leave
an opening in the centre of the bobbin, in order that the needle and silk might
move freely from the point of suspension.
                       To Construct an Electro-Magnet.
   In page 660 I made allusion to electro-magnets. The following will be
found very simple directions for making an electro-magnet of small size, but
one that would support a weight of some pounds :
   Get some stout iron wire or small rod about J in. diameter, and 5J or 6 in.
long, and bend it into a horse-shoe about 3 in. long, and I \ in. across (outside),
keeping the same diameter all the way up. (Fig. 25.) Make two reels of wood,*
with discs at each end of 1 in. diameter; let the centre of each be just large
enough to admit the horse-shoe. Procure a small quantity of cotton-covered
copper wire (about No. 22), and wind it on each reel ; first pass the end through
one disc and wind one reel full, then pass the other end through. Do the same
with the second reel, but take particular care that you wind both wires the
same way round, leaving the ends of the wires out at corresponding discs.
When the reels are wound, pass the horse-shoe through them, and join to
gether the two inner wires.
          • For this empty crochet-cotton reels will do by increasing the size of the hole.

668                                  SCIENCE.
   On completing the battery circuit with the outside ends, you will find your
horse-shoe turned into a powerful magnet. Construct a small armature with
a hook, so that you may attach weights.
   An ordinary electro-magnet can be made by simply winding some cotton-
covered wire round the naked ends of the iron horse-shoe—about two layers
round each; varnish the whole with sealing-wax varnish, and you will have a
capital magnet. These, I need hardly say, you can make of any size.
                       To Construct an Electric Bell.
   An electric bell may be constructed, similar to the one in the diagram, very
cheaply. (Fig. 30.)
   Make an electro-magnet in the same manner as above described (Fig. 25);
use a similar horse-shoe, but rather smaller reels, and upon them wind in the
same manner until full a quantity of 24 cotton or silk-covered wire ; upon a
small piece of mahogany fix this coil by means of the clamp and screw, C;
lead the ends of the wire to a terminal, and to the spring, s. At the place, H,
is attached with a spring the armature, bent at its lower end and provided
with a round knob for striking the bell, which should be fixed as drawn. The
terminal. B, should be connected with the brasswork to which the hammer is
 fixed. The spring, S, you will see is resting against the armature, and serves
the purpose of a contact-breaker similar to that described for the induction
 coil.
    As soon as battery connection is made, the bell begins to ring, and con
 tinues a rapid noise so long as the battery is on. This bell is called a " tremb
 ling bell." Connect the two points, S and H, and it will become a single-stroke
 bell, that is, it will strike once for each time you make battery contact.
    By lengthening the two wires, you can make the communication all over a
 house. Place the bell and the battery down below, and carry up two wires to
 any place : one from the battery, the other from the bell—the other battery-
 wire being connected to the bell. Now, if at any place you join these two
 wires together, the bell will ring.
    Fig. 31 shows an upright single-stroke bell. The electro-magnet is made the
 same as in Fig. 30, but the bell-dome is fixed on an upright in the centre of

                             ELECTRICITY.                                   669
the magnet ; the hammer is kept up by a spring. The dotted lines show the
position of the hammer when the armature is attracted.
                                     Fig. 31.
  For bringing the two wires (wires making connection) the following diagrams
shows very simple forms :
  The first is what is termed a " button ; " the second a " key." In the button,
b and c represent the two wires. On pressing A, connection is at once made.
                Fig. 32.                                   Fig. 33.
  In Fig. 33 the two wires are represented by the brass key, A, kept up by a
spring against a small bridge, and the stud, B. Immediately A is depressed.
the two wires are joined together, and the bell rings.

670                                  SCIENCE.
                              ASTRONOMY.
   Astronomy is one of the most ancient of sciences, dating back to the earliest
times. It was largely studied in India, China, Chaldea, and Egypt, and has
ever been considered the first of sciences.
   The results of ancient and modern astronomy have shown that our earth is
a sphere, or ball, about 7,926 miles in diameter ; that it is one member of a
group termed the " solar system," and that the other members appear to be
very similarly constituted.
   The Sun is the centre of the solar system. Next to the sun is the planet
Mercury, then the planet Venus, then the Earth. The following table shows
the size, distance, and period of revolving round the sun of the planets belong
ing to the solar system.
                           Diameter in     Distance from Sun in      Length or year
                              miles.         millions of miles.          in davs.
      Sun .        .    . 888,646
      Mercury      .    .      3,089     .    .      36       . .    . 87-9
      Venus .      .    .      7,896                68                   224.7
      Earth        .    .      7,926                93                   365*2
      Mars .       .           4,070     .    .    140        . .    . 686'9
            (Several small planets, termed '" asteroids," revolve round
                       the sun between Mars and Jupiter.)
      Jupiter      .    .    92,164           . 485                    4,332"5
      Saturn       .    .    75,070      .    . 880           . .     10,759-2
      Uranus       .    .    36,216      .    . 1,860         . .    30,686"8
      Neptune .         .    33,610      .    . 2,870         . .    60,1267
   The earth is attended by one satellite or moon ; Jupiter by four satellites ;
Saturn is surrounded by a ring and attended by eight satellites. Both Uranus
 and Neptune are also attended by satellites, the number of which is uncertain.
   As all the planets in the solar system rotate on their axes and thus have a
 day and night, and revolve around the sun and thus have a year, we will
 describe fully these movements in reference to our earth, thus explaining how
our change of season from summer to winter is produced, and how various
 other effects take place during our year, or during, in astronomical language,
 "our annual revolution round the sun."
    The first movement of our planet of which we purpose to treat is the daily
 rotation, and it is one which produces most important results, which are per
 ceptible to every observer. We cannot even direct a telescope towards a star
 and observe it during a few minutes before we become conscious of a change
 in the position of the star, which change is due to the slow turning round of
 the planet on which we stand. The daily rising and setting of the celestial
 bodies are due to the same movement, and hence night and day are merely
 effects of the turning round of the earth.
    So deceptive are mere appearances that we should observe exactly the same
 daily occurrences connected with the sun and the other heavenly bodies if the
 world remained stationary, whilst they travelled round us. Hence in the
 earlier ages of astronomy it was believed that such a condition did prevail.

                                ASTRONOMY.                                    671
and much controversy occurred, and many apparently sound and scientific
arguments were brought forward to prove that the earth was a stationary body,
 whilst the sun, moon, planets, and stars were all in rapid motion around it.
    Referring to our sketch, which represents the earth, we will suppose N and
 S to be the north and south poles thereof ; thus the line N S, passing through
the centre of the earth, represents the axis about which the sphere rotates, so
that whilst N and S remain stationary during a rotation of the sphere, the
point B is carried round to R I T and
over on the other side until the point B
 is again reached, when one rotation
would be completed. The point E
would be carried round from E to Q
and on to O, and again round on the
opposite side until E is again reached.
A in like manner would be carried round
to U and L, and again to A.
    It will be seen upon examining the
diagram that half the sphere is dark,
whilst the remaining half is light, and
that the line between the light and dark
portion coincides with the axis, N S.
This relative position of night and day
is that which prevails on the earth twice during the year, viz., in March and
in September, and at about the 21st of each month.
    If we trace on the earth the course over which each spot would be carried
by the turning round of the sphere, we shall find that an exactly equal portion
 is traversed in darkness and in light, that is, the spot B moves from B to I in
darkness, and from I to T in light. In like manner, E moves from E to Q in
 darkness, and from Q to O in light. In each case the distance travelled in
darkness is equal to that passed over in light, or, in other words, the day is
equal to the night. This equality will exist no matter on what part of the
earth a spot may be ; so that at these periods the day and night are equal, and
hence they are spoken of as the equinox.
    Every person who stands erect upon the earth's surface will occupy the
position represented by the various figures on the sphere ; that is, a line drawn
from his head to his feet would, if produced, pass through the centre of the
earth.
    We are accustomed to speak of "up" as the direction over our heads; but
¦upon examining the diagram we shall perceive that the "up" of each person
on the earth's surface will be different at the same instant of time, and that, in
consequence of the earth's rotation, our "up" will be altering each hour.
Thus B and T, two positions of the same person in the same locality, would
cause the "up" or point overhead to vary considerably. The effect of this
variation in the "up" is that the various celestial objects, which may be quite
stationary, appear to describe circles in the heavens, which circles are large or
small according as the celestial body is near to or far away from that part of
the heavens towards which the axis, N S, points.
   Thus, there will always be two points in the heavens which will seem to be
stationary, whilst all other points will appear to describe circles.
    If a person were at o or E, the fixed points in the heavens would appear to
him to be on his horizon, as will be seen by examining the diagram ; whereas,

 672                              SCIENCE.
if the person were at N or S, then one fixed point would appear exactly over
head. If a person were at T or B, then only one of the fixed points would be
visible, viz., that one above N, the other above S being invisible, in conse
quence of a portion of the earth intercepting our view in that direction. Also
the fixed point above N would be just as many degrees above the northern
horizon as the place of observation was distant from the equator of the earth ;
so that if we can find how many degrees above the northern horizon this fixed
point may be, we can at once obtain our latitude on earth, and this is one
method of finding the position of a ship at sea, or of obtaining the latitude of
places on the earth's surface.
   To enable us to comprehend thoroughly the apparent motion of the stars
produced by the earth's daily rotation, we may call to our aid a common
umbrella.
   First open the umbrella, then point the top of the stick to a spot rather
more than midway between the northern horizon and the point overhead. If
the umbrella have several holes in it, it will do very well, as these holes will
represent stars ; if not, then attach several small pieces of paper to the inside
of the cover, to represent stars : let some of these be near to the top of the
stick, others near the edge of the cover, and we have an excellent representa
tion of the heavens, the stick serving for the axis, the ribs of the umbrella
for meridians, and the paper for stars.
   By turning round the stick whilst it still points to the same part of the
heavens, we shall observe that the pieces of paper will describe circles, which
will be large or small according as they arc far from or near to the top of the
stick.
   The umbrella ought to be turned so as to cause the lowest part to move
upwards to our right hand, and then the course of the stars is imitated.
   If also we place the eye on a level with a table, and allow a portion of the
umbrella to pass below the table, we shall perceive how it is that some stars
never set, whilst others do so; for the table will represent the horizon, and we
shall then see how some stars will follow a course which should cause them
to be nearly over our heads at one time, and then down near the northern
horizon at another. In fact, an umbrella will serve for a cheap but explana
tory kind of orrery, and we can by its aid at once perceive the cause of the
course followed each night by such stars as those composing the constellation
known as the Great Bear.
   If we were situated at the central or equatorial regions of the earth, the
stick of the umbrella should be held horizontally whilst we pointed it at the
north or south point on the horizon ; then, by twisting it as before mentioned,
we should perceive the apparent course pursued by the stars, which we should
 find took place half above and half below the horizon.
    Thus by a very simple contrivance we can readily perceive how the stars
 are apparently moved by the daily rotation of the earth.
    According as a person is near to the equator of the earth, or situated in
higher latitudes, so will he be carried each day over a greater or less amount
 of space. All localities on the equator are carried round about 25.000 miles
 per diem, or rather over 1,000 miles each hour. Not more than half this dis
 tance is moved in consequence of this rotation by those people who reside
 in middle latitudes, such as those of England or the greater part of Europe ;
 whilst people who reside in the high northern latitudes move over a far less
 amount of space.

                                ASTRONOMY.                                   673
   To all individuals who are in the northern portion of the earth, or beyond
liV °f north latitude, the sun appears to move each day from the left hand
round to the right, consequently this is a movement from left to right, and
also from east to west. When, however, our locality is changed to a point in
the southern hemisphere, we then perceive that the sun moves from right to
left. This fact occurs in consequence of the east being on our right hand
and the west on our left when we face the position of the noonday sun from
the southern hemisphere, whereas in the northern hemisphere, under similar
conditions, the east would be on our left.
   These apparently simple terms of east and west are really much more
puzzling than the mere superficial observer would imagine. A comet, for
example, seen from the earth in June to pass from east to west towards the
sun, would, had it been viewed in December, have been announced as passing
from west to east. The satellites of a distant planet called Uranus appear,
when seen from the earth, to be moving from east to west during forty years,
but during the remaining forty they appear to move from west to east. They
would seem, in fact, to move exactly as would the hands of a clock, if we
viewed these hands first from the front and then from the rear of the clock's
face: in the first instance they would appear to pass from the top of the
clock's face round to the right, and then under to the left ; in the second in
stance, viz., from the clock's rear, they would seem to pass from the top round
to the left, and then under to the right. In one instance we should speak of
the movement as a right hand, and in the other as a left hand, rotation. This
planet Uranus taking eighty years to complete his revolution around the sun,
his satellites appear to move during forty years with right hand, and during
the remaining forty years with left hand, rotation. It was formerly supposed
that these satellites moved in a manner different from other satellites in the
system ; the mistake arose in consequence of a confusion in the terms east
and west, &c.
   Those who consider east and west very simple terms may be asked where
the east and where the west would be were they standing at the north pole of
the earth ?
    In the diagram of the earth which we have given, we have taken a sketch
as though the north pole of the world were uppermost, and we obtained a
side view of the earth. We will now represent a plan of the earth as it would
appear were we to look down upon it from a point above London ; we shall
then perceive where the sun would rise and where set during summer and
winter.
    In consequence of the earth's movement around the sun (of which we shall
treat at a future page), the earth is at one time of year considerably above the
sun, whilst at another time it is below it—that is, when we speak of the north
as the uppermost part of the earth.
   This change in the relative position of the sun and the earth causes the
daily rotation to produce a vast change in the length of the days, and conse
quently in the times of sun rising and sun setting.
    Suppose L in the annexed sketch to represent the position of London, or
any locality in the northern hemisphere the latitude of which is similar to
 that of London, and let us suppose that the horizon is clear, like that of the
 sea, and uninterrupted by hills, houses, &c. Then, as represented in the sketch,
 we should find the horizon divided into four equal parts, by the north, east,
west, and south points.
                                                                   43

 674                                 SCIENCE.
    On the 21st of December we should find the sun rising above the horizon
from the point marked w. It would pass the south at noon, and would set
at the point marked d. At this time of year the sun passes over a very small
portion of its course above the horizon, and hence the days are short, for
merely about 102° of the sun's daily course are travelled over above the horizon,
                                           consequently 2580 below it ; and as the
                                           sun occupies twenty-four hours in pass-
             ^^fEjU'                       'nS round the whole circle of 360°, we
        _^^^           ^""N,^-             fin^ ty s'mple proportion that he will
          ^                   ^            traverse the 1020 in about seven and a
                                           half hours, which period is about the
                                           length of the days in winter.
     vv
  Iutf             -
                "VrtC''
                                 \witk         ®n or aDout the 2 1 st of March the
                                           sun will rise from that point on the
                                           horizon marked east, it will pass round
                                           to the south at noon, and will set in the
                                           west. At this time of year exactly 1800
                                           of the sun's course are passed above
                                           tne horizon, or one-half, and hence the
                                           days and nights are equal. On the
                                           2 1 st of June the sun will rise from the
point marked M, it will pass round by w and the " south," which it will again
reach at noon, and will in the afternoon be found above D, and will set below
the point J.
   The distance from M round by the south to J is 2 5 8°, during which part of
its daily course it is entirely above the horizon, that is, during seventeen hours
out of the twenty-four ; hence, in June the days are very much longer than in
December. The cause of these changes will be explained when we refer to
the " Revolution of the Earth."
   The rotation of the earth serves for a measure of portions of time; for
this rotation may be compared to the movements of the hour hand of a clock,
which passes over equal portions of the circle in equal times.
   If we took up our position on the equator of the earth, and could select
twelve stars equidistant from each other, the first being due west, the last due
east, we could at once discover what portion of the twelve hours had elapsed,
by observing which of these stars happened to be overhead or near that point ;
for the whole twelve stars would have disappeared during twelve hours, and
in six hours the star due east when first observed would have reached the
point overhead. Thus the rotating earth is really a sort of large clock, and
in like manner the heavens, and the stellar hosts which appear to move round
us, also serve as measurers of time.
   It may be truly said that there are only two out of the many movements of
our world with which the average observer is acquainted ; these are the daily
rotation, which causes the alternation of day and night, and the annual revo
lution, which produces the change in season and many other singular effects.
In our own experience we have found many well-informed people who had
yet failed to observe that the sun was higher in the heavens at midday in
summer than it was in winter, or. that any change occurred in its place of
rising or setting at the two periods. Many other individuals, again, had ob
served the facts, but were sadly puzzled to account for the cause of them.
   Far more than the average of well-educated people are, however, acquainted

                               ASTRONOMY.                                    675
with the two principal movements of the earth, whilst a very few entirely
comprehend the three additional motions, one of which has not yet, we believe,
been made public, at least not in a popular and comprehensible manner.
   The revolution of the earth round the sun is the cause of the change in
midday altitude of the sun, and hence of the seasons. It is also the reason
why some stars are visible to us only during the summer months, whilst others
are seen merely during the winter season. Conjoined with the movements of
its sister planets in the same system, the earth's revolution round the sun is
the cause of some planets appearing occasionally as evening and then again
as morning stars, whilst others gleam in full splendour upon us from the mid
night sky for at least a few months, and then again approach each evening to
the sun, until at last they disappear amidst his brilliant rays.
   The alternation of day and night, produced by the earth's rotation, takes
place during twenty-four hours. The revolution around the sun is completed
in about 365! days. Other changes are produced by other movements, and
these run through their cycle many thousand years, whilst others, again, re
quire yet longer to pass through their phases. Hence, as might be expected,
the two most obvious movements are those about which the most interest
is displayed, although it may be that the others are not less important in their
effects, although these occur at longer intervals; the only difference being
that the latter may affect the condition of the whole human race, whilst the
former is merely felt by those who now live upon earth.
   Referring to the accompanying diagram, we find four circles, which repre
sent the relative positions of the earth and the sun during four periods of the
year. Fig. 1 represents the earth in December ; Fig. 2 the earth in March ;
Fig. 3 the earth in June ; and Fig. 4 the earth in September.
   In these diagrams the north pole of the earth is represented as uppermost ;
and as, for the present, we may consider that the earth's axis, during its entire
revolution round the sun, remains parallel to its first position, we will speak
                                                               43—2

676                                 SCIENCE.
of the direction of the north as " up," and the south " down ; " therefore the
equator, E Q, we must also assume as horizontal.
    During each year the earth moves round the dotted line, which is called the
ecliptic, and is represented on the diagram.
   About the 21st of December the earth would be at the position indicated
by Fig. 1. It would then be considerably above the sun, so much so, that the
sun could not be seen from any locality in the neighbourhood of the north
pole, which, even as the earth rotated and brought other portions of the sur
face into sunlight, would still remain in darkness ; hence, at this time of year,
there would be perpetual night in those regions immediately around the north
pole.
    Lower down on the same figure, at G, a. line will be seen drawn round the
earth. Upon tracing this line across the sphere, we shall perceive that a very
small portion of it lies in sunlight, whilst the greater length is in darkness.
This portion of light and darkness is the proportion of day and night which
prevail upon the earth in all places situated in such a latitude as G during the
middle of December.
    Upon examining lower down the sphere, we find the line E Q, representing
the equator of the earth. This line, we find, is exactly divided by the light and
darkness, half of it being light and half dark. The days and nights at the
equator will therefore be exactly equal, each consisting of twelve hours, and
this equal division takes place during the whole year, no matter where the
earth may be as regards the sun, as a momentary glance at Fig. 3 will show,
if we examine the line E Q, and see how it is exactly divided by the line sepa
rating the light from the darkness.
    Again, passing below E Q, Fig. 1, we find a point, C, from which we should
see the sun exactly overhead at midday; for as a person standing on the
earth's surface must be at right angles to that surface, so a line drawn from C
at right angles to the surface would pass to the sun, which would therefore be
exactly overhead. This point, C, is found by observation to be nearly 23V
below E Q, so that the sun at midday in December will be vertical at all places
situated in 23j° of south latitude.
    Passing on to the point S (the south pole), we perceive the whole of that
 portion of the earth to be illuminated by the sun, which consequently would
be visible both by night and by day ; in fact no night, properly so called, would
 take place. The distance from the pole at which this effect would be produced
 is also nearly 23!°, and it is dependent upon the distance of those places from
 the equator at which the sun is vertical each day ; so that if the sun were
 vertical at a locality 230 south from the equator, it would not set at any place
 within 230 of the south pole ; also the sun, under the same conditions, could
 not be seen within 230 of the north pole.
    A slight examination of the diagram, Fig. 1, will show how the above-
 mentioned facts really occur in consequence of the earth being, as it were,
 above the sun.
     During the month of December and the earlier part of January, the earth
 at Fig. 1 moves nearly horizontally as regards the sun, the daily altitude of
 which, therefore, does not vary much; in fact, from the 1st of December to
  the 2 1 st the sun merely decreases in midday altitude about three times its own
  diameter, also from the 21st of December on towards January a like gradual
  increase takes place during twenty-one days.
     The earth will then be approaching the position marked Fig. 2 ; and if we

                               ASTRONOMY.                                     677
remember that the dotted line is nearly a circle, only seen by us obliquely in the
diagram, we shall perceive that the nearer the earth approaches the position
of Fig. 2 the more rapidly will it move downwards as regards the sun, conse
quently the more rapidly will the increase in the sun's daily height take place.
  The earth reaches the point Fig. 2 about the 21st of March, and still refer
ring to the north as " up," the earth will be exactly level with the sun at this
period ; the result will be that each pole (N and s) of the earth would be just
illuminated by the sun, which would at midday be vertical at all localities
situated on the equator only, whilst the days and nights all over the earth
would be exactly equal, and would consist of twelve hours each. The diagram
on page 675 will show the relative sunlight and darkness on the earth at this
period.
   The sun at this date varies his midday altitude very considerably, and
also remains a longer time above the horizon, in fact, during twenty-one days
in March he varies his altitude more than sixteen times his diameter, or more
than five times as much as he does during December.
   From the 21st of March to the 21st of June the earth moves still down
wards until the point indicated by Fig. 3 is reached. This is the lowest point
in its orbit, and the sun consequently shines down on the northern portion of
the world.
   The vicinity of N (the north pole) is now shone upon without interruption,
and consequently enjoys a perpetual day.
   The sun would now be found vertical at midday at all places situated in
23J0 north latitude; thus at a point such as L, the sun would be vertical at
midday. If we trace a line on the sphere Fig. 3, and parallel to B Q from the
point L, we shall find that the greater part of this line will be in sunlight ;
whereas a line similarly traced on Fig. 1 would show the greater portion in
darkness. This is the reason why the days in June are so much longer than
in December in localities such as England. We can also perceive why the
sun should rise in June far to the north of east, and set far to the north of
west, because the line joining N and S would represent the cast or west, and
to a person at L the sun would rise just as much north of east as the line of
darkness is on the right hand side of the line N S when referred to a horizontal
line drawn through L.
   In December likewise (see Fig. 1) the sun, we can see, must rise to a
locality like G from a point far to the south of east, and thus we may under
stand the cause of the sun's rising and setting from different parts of the
horizon, a fact pointed out by aid of the diagram on page 674.
   Passing down the sphere, Fig. 3, we find, as before, the line E Q half in light,
half in darkness, showing us equal days and nights at the equator.
   The localities round S (the south pole) are now in total darkness, no day or
night alternating to them ; also the nearer we approach the south polar regions
from the equator, the shorter will become the days, until we cease to see the
sun.
   Thus the earth being low down below the sun causes the bright orb of day
to shine down upon the northern half of the world, and thus to give it a
summer; whereas, when at Fig. 1, the earth is elevated, so that the sun only
shines obliquely on the north, and thus produces winter.
   If we were to take fifty yards of ground for the sake of illustration, and
were to suppose that the heat from the sun came in lines, or fell like snow-
flakes on the earth, then thirteen only of these would fall during winter in

678                                SCIENCE.
England to forty-four in summer. Thus also if the sun poured out degrees of
heat on a certain space in England, thirteen would be poured out in winter
to forty-four in summer. This is one reason for the great variation in tem
perature between the two periods.
   Before leaving the sphere at Fig. 3 on the diagram, we should look at it
with the sketch upside down; we shall then see that it looks exactly similar to
Fig. 1 previous to the tatter's inversion. All the conditions are the same for
each hemisphere, except that they occur at exactly opposite periods of the
year, so that in December (Fig. 1) it is winter in the northern and summer in
the southern half of the world ; whilst at Fig. 3 it is winter to the southern,
summer to the northern half. Thus, in the present day, when steam is so much
used, it would be a very simple matter for a person to travel from one hemi
sphere to the other, so as to enjoy perpetual summer.
   From December to June, then, the sun is vertical at some localities each day
from 23j° north and south of the equator. Thus in December it would be
summer at C, Fig. I, but winter in June at the same locality; at Q, Fig. 1,
however, it would be summer when the sun was vertical at the equator, and
this would take place, as before remarked, when the earth had reached the
point indicated by Fig. 2. But the sun would also be vertical at Q when the
earth had reached Fig. 4, for the same reasons as when it was at Fig. 2.
Hence at the equator there would be two summers during six months, and,
in fact, two summers during a like period in all localities within the limits of
23J0 on each side of the equator.
   Whilst moving round that portion of its orbit near Fig. 3, the daily rate in
the variation of the sun's altitude would be very slight, just as it was at Fig. 1.
After it had passed the lowest point it would then begin to ascend, very slowly
at first, but more rapidly the nearer it approached the position of Fig. 4.
   When the earth reached Fig. 4, the September position, it would be moving
upwards just as quickly each day as it moved downwards during March ; thus
the sun would sink lower each day with great rapidity.
   The days and nights each day about the 21st of September would again be
equal all over the world, just as they were during March, and, in fact, the
conditions are exactly similar, except that the earth is now rising, and conse
quently producing a falling each day in the apparent position of the sun ;
when whereas on the opposite side of its orbit it was sinking lower each day.
    From Fig. 4 the earth moves on to Fig. 1, the rate of rising each day be
coming less after leaving Fig. 4, until at Fig. 1 it moves nearly horizontally.
    Upon again reaching the point Fig. 1, the earth has completed its annual
journey round the sun. It has passed round the dotted circle, and in so doing
 has traversed rather more than 590,000,000 miles. If an express train were
 to start from Fig. 1, and move round the same course at a continuous speed of
 sixty miles an hour, the train would complete the circuit in something about
 1,300 years.
    The earth also moves downwards, or away from a star situated about the
 north pole, about 85,000,000 miles in its transit from Fig. I to Fig. 3, and the
 two extreme points 1 and 3 are about 190,000,000 miles apart. Let us con
 clude our explanation of this portion of the movement, known as the revolu
 tion, by stating that an imaginary line joining Figs. I and 3 is called the line
 of solstices, whilst one joining Figs. 2 and 4 is called the line of equinoxes.
    In the preceding explanation of the earth's revolution we obtained a sort
 of side view of the earth's various positions. We will now examine the same

                               ASTRONOMY.                                     679
movement from a position exactly above the earth's orbit. We shall then
look down upon its positions at the various periods, and can observe the cause
of those effects which must have been noticed by every observer of the mid
night heavens.
   Taking, as before, Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4 to represent the positions of the earth in
December, March, June, and September, we at once perceive that as regards
the distant heavens the sun must appear in different parts at different times.
In order to give some definite boundary to various portions of the sky, the
very earliest Eastern astronomers divided that portion of the heavens over
which the sun appears annually to travel into twelve parts ; these they called
by various names, which will be seen written round the largest circle. Thus
we have Aries, Taurus, Gemini, Pisces, &c, which are called signs of the
zodiac, the zodiac being a belt of the heavens extending a few degrees above
and below the exact path of the sun.
              oiLTjTIE                                          Orion
                                      A Pegui
   In consequence of the sun being comparatively very near when we consider
the distance of the nearest fixed stars, the movement of the earth round the
sun causes a considerable change to take place in the relative positions of the
sun and stars during the year. For example, in December (Fig. 1) we find the
sun and a star marked o Lyrae on the diagram in the same line ; consequently
when the sun was south or east of us, this star would also be south or east.
But if we look at the position of the earth during June (Fig. 3), we find the
sun in one direction, the star a Lyrae in the directly opposite position. Thus
when the sun was now south, this star would be north of us; consequently
the movement of the earth causes the sun to appear in different parts of the
heavens during various periods of the year.
   On or about the 21st of December the sun enters the sign Capricornus;
that is, a line drawn from the earth and passing through the sun would, if
produced, pass to that point in the heavens indicated by the commencement
of the sign Capricornus ; or, in other words, if we could see the distant heavens

680                                SCIENCE.
exactly behind the sun, we should perceive that he was at the commence
ment of Capricornus about the 21st of December.
   As the earth moved from Fig. 1 down to Fig. 2, that is, from December to
March, so would the sun appear to pass over the signs Capricornus, Aquarius,
and Pisces, until, at or about the 21st of March, it would be found at the first
point of Aries.
   The first point of Aries is a very important point in astronomy, and merits,
therefore, a particular description.
   In the first place it is found as follows :
   When the earth has moved downwards from Fig. I to Fig. 2, and to such
an amount that the equator is exactly on a level with the sun, then will the
sun be exactly vertical at the equator, and consequently exactly 900 from the
pole of the heavens.
   There will, of course, be only one instant of time when these conditions
exist, in consequence of the rapid downward movement of the earth, com
bined with its onward movement ; yet, by observation with instruments, and
calculations based thereon, this moment of time can be accurately ascertained.
   When, then, the sun is thus crossing the equator, a line drawn from the
earth through the sun's centre, and produced on to the extreme boundary of
the stars, fixes the position of the " first point of Aries."
   The first point of Aries is the starting-point from which to count the two
very similar terms right ascension and longitude for celestial objects. It is,
in fact, a celestial Greenwich, and a line from this point to the pole of the
heavens is a celestial Greenwich meridian. The further details connected
with these terms will be given presently.
   From the 21st of March to the 21st of June the earth would move from
Fig. 2 to Fig. 3, and its movement would cause the sun to appear to travel
first over Aries, then through Taurus, Gemini, and on the 21st of June Cancer
would be entered upon.
   From the 21st of June until the 21st of September the sun would pass
through the signs Cancer, Leo, and Virgo ; and between the 21st of September
and the 21st of December, Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius are traversed.
   By an examination of this diagram, we can tell in which sign the sun is a/
all times of the year ; for by drawing a line from the position of the earth at th*
time of year mentioned, tracing this line through the sun, and producing h
until it meets the circle on which are indicated the various signs, we see at.
once in which it must be.
   We can, of course, find where the earth will be at any season besides those
exactly indicated by the Figs. 1, 2, 3, 4, which refer to December, March, June,
and September, for we can take proportional parts between these according
to the date ; thus, in the middle of November the earth would be at two-thirds
of the distance between Figs. 4 and 1, the sun consequently in Scorpio and
close to Sagittarius. In May, again, about the 1st, the earth would be nearly
midway between Figs. 2 and 3, the sun consequently near the middle of
 Taurus.
   In connection with the position of the sun in the various signs, a means is
afforded us of telling the date at which many ancient events occurred. The
process is very simple, and can be comprehended by any clear-minded indi
vidual without much mental exertion. Its explanation, however, belongs
specially to the movement of the earth, technically called the " Precession
of the Equinox."

                                ASTRONOMY.                                    681
  We have seen how the sun passes through the various signs of the heavens
during the year, and thus seems to pass in front of different stars at different
periods ; we will now examine in detail, from the same diagram, how various
stars are seen in different positions at certain times of year.
   We have selected four stars, which are situated at nearly four opposite points
of the heavens, and are of sufficient size and note to be generally known, even
to the average observer of the heavens.
   We will suppose that we are seated at a window facing the south, and that
the time of year is December. If we could see, night and day, the signs of
the zodiac, we should find that these, in consequence of the eairh's rotation,
passed our south in the following order, commencing at midday : Capricornus,
Aquarius, Pisces, Aries, Taurus, Gemini. At midnight Cancer would be
to our south, after which Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio, and Sagittarius would
pass. By reference to this order we see in which direction the earth rotates
as regards the sun and fixed stars.
   At noon, in December, we should find the sun south of us, and in the same
direction as the sun, but infinitely farther off, the stars of Orion would be situ
ated. These stars, of course, would be invisible, because the brilliancy of the
sun would prevent their being seen.
   The regular turning round of the earth would cause us, at six o'clock in the
evening, to face the direction of that portion of the heavens in which the star
a Pegasi is marked ; the sun, consequently, would now be on our right hand,
and if we had been observing from a locality such as England, the sun would
now have set, and we might, therefore, be able to perceive the various members
of the stellar host.
   Facing the star a Pegasi, which would now be to our south, we should have
the sun situated on our right hand, whilst on our left the star Sirius and the
constellation of Orion would be found, and they would be just rising above
the horizon from the east.
   As the earth continued slowly to turn round until we faced Orion, we should
experience exactly the same effects as though the whole mass of the heavens
revolved, whilst we remained stationary. The various stars would seem to tra
vel from the east to our south, and to rise as they did so, until, having attained
this position, they would begin to descend towards the western horizon.
   At about midnight in December we should find Orion to our south, whilst
a Pegasi was on our right hand, and sinking below the western horizon. On
our left or east the bright star Arcturus might now be visible, just rising above
the horizon ; and as the morning advanced we should perceive this star to
our south, for at six o'clock a.m. the rotation of the earth would have carried
us round so as to face this star, whilst the same cause would have made Orion
pass on to our right hand, and to be nearly setting in the west.
   When the earth's rotation had brought us round to face Arcturus, we should,
of course, have the sun on our left hand ; whereas, when we faced Orion, it
was behind us ; therefore at midnight in December the sun would be north
of us, as would also the star a Lyrae.
   At this time (six a.m.) the sun would be approaching the eastern horizon,
and at about eight a.m. would begin to be visible, until the continued rotation
brought it again to our south at midday, at which time the star Arcturus,
although invisible, would be setting on our right hand. Thus, referring to these
four stars, we find a Lyrae to our south at noon, a Pegasi about six p.m.,
 Orion at midnight, Arcturus about six a.m.

682                                SCIENCE.
   We will next examine the difference produced by the earth's change in
position to Fig. 2, viz., to March.
   At midday the sun would, as usual, be south of us, and at the same time the
star a Pegasi would also be south, consequently invisible. Now, during
December we found this same star to our south at six o'clock p.m. Since
that period, then, the star has gradually approached the sun ; hence it would
by degrees have passed the south at seven o'clock a.m., then at eight, nine, ten,
and eleven, until in March it passed our south at the same time as the sun.
   The direction of the rotation being the same as before, we should find, at
six p.m., Orion to our south (Fig. 2), whilst the sun would be on our right hand,
and nearly setting. This constellation would also have gained six hours on
the sun, for it passed the south at midnight during December, that is, twelve
hours after the sun, whereas now it passes merely six hours after.
   Arcturus also we should find to our south about midnight, that is, twelve
hours after the sun, whilst Orion would set about this time, instead of at six
a.m., as it did in December, whilst the star a Lyra would at the same time
(midnight in March) be just rising from the eastern horizon.
   At six a.m. a Lyra would be south of us, and the sun just rising in the
east. Hence from December to March we find all the stars have gained six
hours on the sun. for those which passed the south when he did at the former
period, pass at the latter period six hours before him, and so on.
    Referring to Fig. 3, the June position of the earth, we find Orion in line
with the sun, therefore invisible from all parts of the earth. Remembering
also that the sun is south at midday, we should at this period, upon facing the
south, find Arcturus on our left or east, a Pegasi on our right or west, and
 a Lyrae behind us, consequently to our north.
   Without further detailed explanation it will now be evident that Arcturus
will be south at six p.m., a Lyrae at midnight, and o Pegasi at six a.m.
This will show that since December each of these stars has gained twelve
hours on the sun, for a Pegasi in December was south of us at six p.m.,
whereas in June he is south at six a.m.
    In September (see Fig. 4) Arcturus would be nearly in line with the sun,
consequently invisible, a Lyra would be south at six p.m., o Pegasi at mid
night, and Orion at six a.m. The various stars would now have gained
eighteen hours on the sun by the revolution of our earth.
    From Fig. 4 (September) we should find a Pegasi rising in the east at six
p.m., and setting at six a.m. in the west, whilst Orion would be rising at mid
 night, and would be south at six a.m. Thus, taking the rising only of Orion,
 we should find in December that it occurred about six p.m., in March at noon,
 in June at six a.m., in September at midnight.
    A quiet examination of the little diagram to which reference has been made
 will explain the cause of all these variations ; but it will be easily seen how
hopelessly intricate they would appear to a person who had merely observed
 the facts, but had never called to his aid four little circles, a centre, and a
 larger circle, or any similar contrivance to aid him to realize these really simple
 but interesting facts.
    For the sake of avoiding confusion, we have merely referred to four prin
 cipal stars or constellations ; but any person must perceive that we might fill
 in the spaces intermediate between these with any number of stars situated
 as they are in the heavens, and he could then tell exactly where these would
 be found at the different periods of the year.

                               ASTRONOMY.                                     683
   In consequence of the revolution of the earth round the sun, we have, as
has been shown, two singular results : the first is the change in the seasons—
the regular progress from winter to summer, which causes the face of the
country to exhibit an utterly different appearance in all parts of the world,
except immediately in the vicinity of the equator; and we have a less per
ceptible one to. the average person of a change in the apparent position of the
stars, or of a different group of stars, being visible at various times of year.
   Both the above changes, viz., that of the stars and the sun, occur in con
nection with fixed objects, for at present we may consider that both the sun
and the stars are fixed. When we have to deal with moving bodies like the
other planets of the system, we have a joint movement to consider, which will
produce quite different results from those which have already been described.
We will, therefore, now offer a few remarks upon the effects resulting to the
planets from the earth's revolution round the sun.
   The various fixed stars are invariably seen in the same part of the heavens
and at the same time of year. Orion, for example, will always be to our
south at midnight about December, whilst a Lyrae will occupy the same posi
tion during midnight in June. They will all be arranged in the same form or
groups likewise, and to the eye unaided by instruments they appear to occupy
exactly the same position in the heavens. The planets, however, do not thus
appear with regularity in the same places, but they move round over nearly a
similar course to that pursued by the sun, and they may consequently be seen
in any of the signs. Thus we might perceive Mars, for example, in Aries, Libra,
or Capricornus, or in any other sign of the zodiac. The reason of this is that
Mars moves independently and round an elliptical orbit, just as does the earth ;
so that, if we examine the preceding diagram, and notice the letters M, A, R, S,
we should observe four positions of Mars.
   Now let us suppose that Mars is at M in his course when the earth is at
Fig. 4 ; Mars would then appear to be at the commencement of the sign
Aries.
   In about six months afterwards Mars would have reached to the point A,
whilst our earth had journeyed on to Fig. 2 ; Mars at this date would appear
in the sign Gemini.
   In six months more the earth would again be found at Fig. 4, whilst Mars
would be near R in its orbit, consequently invisible, because behind the sun.
   Again, in six months more the earth would have travelled round to Fig. 2,
whilst Mars would have reached s, and would in that position seem to be in
the sign Capricornus. Of course, in consequence of thus appearing in diffe
rent parts of the heavens, Mars would rise, pass the south, and set at entirely
different hours at various times of the year. And this is the case with every
planet, the greatest variations in a short period occurring in connection with
the planets nearest to the earth, because they travel the most rapidly.
   These are a few of the results which take place in consequence of the
earth's revolution round the sun, and of the planets also moving in the same
manner, but at a greater or less speed. Astronomy, however, is so vast a
subject, and is so uninteresting if only learnt in a parrot-like manner, that we
have ventured in the preceding pages to give fully only two principal move
ments of our earth, trusting that the reader, having found these intelligible,
will not be content to stop here, but will search in the many books now pub
lished for additional information in reference to the movements, appearance,
&c, of the different celestial objects seen each night in the heavens.

684                                 SCIENCE.
                             THE WEATHER.
   There are few subjects which become of more practical every-day use than
a knowledge of the weather which is likely to take place during the next twenty-
four hours. At the present time our knowledge of the causes producing a
change of weather is in its infancy. We have, it is true, various kinds of
barometers, and these, in some instances, serve as indicators ; but still we
have not yet arrived at sufficient proficiency to foretell with certainty the con
ditions of weather during the next forty-eight hours.
   In some parts of our world the seasons are so divided that there is a rainy
and a dry season—rain rarely coming at any period except during the rainy
season ; but in the British Islands there is no such arrangement. We may
have a downpour of rain immediately after a bright clear sunny day, and when
we least expect it a thunder-shower bursts upon us. These sudden changes,
however, are foretold in the generality of instances, and by careful observation
we may be able to make preparations for them.
   The conditions which indicate certain changes of weather often differ in
different localities, that which means wind in one place indicating rain in
another. The first step towards becoming weather-wise is, therefore, to study
the changes at certain localities, and not to be too ready to generalize results.
   In judging of coming weather, we will first refer to appearances in the sky.
   During the night, when the stars are distinctly seen and twinkle more than
usual, we may anticipate wet on the following day. When the dew begins to
fall early, and there is much dew in the morning, a fine day may be anticipated.
 When the sky at sunset is red and rosy tinted, a fine day may be anticipated,
even though many clouds prevail ; but when it is so in the morning, rain or wind
is probable. A greenish or pale yellow sky at sunset indicates rain, also when
the sun sets in a heavy bank of clouds. When, during early morning, the sun
rises amidst a haze or fog, above which a blue tint is visible in the sky, a warm
bright day may be anticipated. When, early in the day, masses of pale clouds
of a woolly appearance are piled one above another, heavy rain may be ex
 pected ; but huge mountainous-looking clouds of a yellowish tint may indicate
fine weather or brief showers. Near the coast, inky-looking fleecy clouds
 indicate rain ; as also light scud, but the latter often foretells wind only. When
we find that overhead there are dark masses of cloud, but no rain falls, it is
very likely that most suspicious-looking clouds to windward may also pass
over us without rain. When small clouds are seen to disperse, fine weather
'may be anticipated ; but when clouds seem to increase in size, rain is probable.
   Animals are peculiarly sensitive to coming changes of weather, and by a
study of their habits we may judge of what is coming. During summer-time
spiders usually make a fresh web every twenty-four hours. When the weather
is wet these creatures will not work, but as soon as fine weather is coming they
commence building new webs. When a number of new spiders' webs are
observed, a fine day may be anticipated.
   If we hear a lark ascending in the air and singing when the morning is dull
and showery, a fine day is probable. When swallows fly very low and stay
near home, and when rooks are wild in their flight, rain and wind may be

                             THE WEATHER.                                    685
expected. When swallows and swifts glide about at great heights, fine weather
will probably continue.
   Cats, being highly electrical creatures, are readily influenced by coming
changes, and usually rub themselves frequently, especially behind their ears,
when bad weather is coming.
   Many other creatures, such as crickets, frogs, bats, &c, may be watched
with advantage as indicators of weather.
   From very ancient dates down even to the present day, many persons are
under the impression that the moon's changes are the cause of the changes
in the weather, and immediately the latter is spoken of, they refer to the date
of the former. Any influence which the moon produces ought to influence a
whole district alike, and ought to produce the same effect on so small an area
as England. Experience, however, shows that often when it is calm and fine
say at Dover, it is wet and windy at Plymouth, showery at Liverpool, fine at
Hull, and so on. Forgetting these facts, imperfect observers have often con
cluded that because it began to rain where they were immediately after full
moon, therefore the full moon caused this, whereas a few hundred miles off
directly opposite results occurred. Thus a full inquiry appears to have resulted
in the conclusion that little, if any, effect can be attributed to the moon.
   Many kinds of barometers are in use at the present time, and indicate with
more or less accuracy the coming atmospheric changes : the best of these
is the Aneroid Barometer, which is now made with considerable accuracy.
The large Mountain Barometer, which has a long column of mercury, is also
a very sensitive instrument.
   A barometer should be placed in a convenient position, where it may be
seen at any time of day and with little trouble. It should be set every morn
ing and evening, and a memorandum made of its height.
   The average height of the barometer in England, at the sea level, is about
29/95 inches ; when we rise 100 feet the barometer falls about one-tenth of an
inch, and vice versd.
   The barometer is in itself a study, and its changes require careful observa
tion. To such as desire a knowledge of this instrument we recommend a
study of " The Weather Book," by the late Admiral Fitzroy.
   The heights of mountains can be obtained with fair accuracy by means of
the barometer. Two readings are taken, one at the lower of two stations,
the other at the upper; the difference in altitude can then be found by the
following rule, where D represents the vertical difference in feet :
                                              L—u
                                  D= 55,000 ——
where L represents the reading at the lower station, « the reading of the ba
rometer at the upper station. Thus, if the reading were 29800 at the lower,
and 29-653 at the upper, we should have the following :
                                              ¦147
                                   55,000 X — -1—
                                            59453,
which gives 136 feet for the difference of level between the two stations.
   The weather in England is much affected by what we term an average, that
is, there are about the same number of wet days every year, and about the
same amount of heat each year. Thus, if during January, February, and
March, for example, it is very wet and cold, much more so than usual, then

  686                                SCIENCE.
  we may expect in April or May warmer weather than usual ; so that, by re
  membering past weather, we may predict that which is to come.
     To the various kinds of clouds have been given names, such as Cirrus,
  Stratus, Nimbus, and Cumulus.
     Cirrus is a light fleecy cloud, usually seen after fine clear weather. It is
  sometimes called " mares' tails," it being like hair or feathers.
     Stratus is a smoke-like cloud, very common, with ill-defined edges. Rain
  does not fall from this, though it often conceals the stars or dims the sun.
     Nimbus is the heavy-looking soft shapeless cloud, which may well be termed
  the " rain-cloud."
     Cumulus is a hard-edged, well-defined cloud, the outline of which may be
  well traced.
     It usually happens that these clouds are mixed, and may then be described
  as Cirro-Stratus, signifying a mixture of cirrus and stratus ; Cirro-Cumulus,
  a mixture of cirrus and cumulus ; Cumulo-Stratus, &c Sometimes, for
  brevity's sake, only the first or first and second letters are used, and C or Ci
  stands for cirrus, Cu for cumulus, and so on.
     For a few shillings a barometer and thermometer may now be procured, and
  observations may be made with these morning and evening, so thit, by com
 paring these with the changes that follow, we may become very accurate fore
 tellers of the weather, and may often save ourselves a wetting, or avoid starting
  on a journey in waterproof when, half an hour after leaving home, the sun
  shines brightly on us.
                                 SUN-DIALS.
    The very earliest form of clock or time-measurer was a sun-dial. We read
 of the sun-dial of Ahaz in Scripture, whilst among ancient nations, such as
 the Indians, Chinese, &c, sun-dials were common.
    The principle of the construction of sun-dials depends upon the fact that
 during twenty-four hours the sun appears to move round a circle part of which
 is above and part below the horizon, and to return at the end of twenty-four
hours to the same point from which it started.
    If we resided at the North Pole of the earth, the construction of a sun-dial
would be extremely simple. We should, when the sun was visible, find it
moving round the horizon at a nearly uniform height, and we should then say
that, as the sun moved round the horizon in twenty-four hours—that is, round
3600—it would move over 150 in one hour, and over 1° in four minutes of time.
Thus, by dividing 360 by 24, we obtain this result. A common circle, there
fore, with an upright in the centre, would be our sun-dial.
    When, however, we are situated in any other part of the world, the lines
which are equally distant from each other at the poles will be in some cases
farther apart, and in other cases nearer together. The following diagram will
aid in making this fact manifest.
    Suppose P and S to be the north and south poles of the earth; a, b, c, d, e,f,
and g, meridians or divisions 1 5° apart. These lines, as they cut the equator,
will be equidistant from each other, but they will vary in distance when they
cut the circle A B C D.

                                   SUN-DIALS.                                687
   A B C D is the circle suitable for a latitude equal to the distance of a from
the equator; and the distances apart of the various figures, I., II., III., &c,
may be calculated by spherical trigonometry.
   It being our object, however, to give the most simple means of making a
sun-dial, we shall avoid all calculations which may require mathematical
knowledge, and deal only with the subject in an easy, practical manner.
   Thus we will suppose a sun-dial is required to be made for any part of Great
Britain or Ireland, and we will proceed to make one.
   First examine a map of the county, and look down the side and find what
is the latitude of the place on which your sun-dial is to be placed. Suppose
this latitude to be 52^°. Take a piece of cardboard like the annexed, and
about the position S make a mark, and draw a line, S O, parallel to the sides
of the card. The size of this card may be about eight inches or a foot square.
   Next take a common protractor, or instrument for setting off angles, and
from S on each side of S O set off angles of 12°,
such as are represented by the lines S T and S R.
Again, from the line S O set off angles of 240 37'
in the same manner as the preceding, and draw
these lines as shown by S P and S L. Again, set
off 380 25', and 530 57', and 710 20' on each side
of S O, and finally 90°.
   Upon referring to the table at the end of this
article, these angles will be found opposite 52^°
of latitude. If, however, the latitude were diffe
rent from 52J0, we should set off the angles shown
opposite this latitude, instead of those we have
mentioned : thus for 5 1 J° of latitude 1 1° 5 1' would              A Ia
be the first angles set off, and 240 19' the next
two.
   Having marked off the card, we next cut a triangle in the annexed form,
making the angle cab equal to the latitude of the place for which the sun-

688                                 SCIENCE.
dial is to be constructed. This triangle may be made of cardboard, brass,
tin, &c, according as the dial is made of cardboard, tin, &c
                            Fix the triangle on the dial so that the point A coin
                         cides with the point S on the dial, and the line A B coin
                         cides with the line S O, and take care that B C is exactly
                         perpendicular to the dial.
                            The dial is now completed, and is ready to be fixed
                          in its position, which, for a dial constructed in this
                         manner, is a horizontal position. A horizontal stand,
                         a window-sill, or a post firmly fixed in the ground would
                         do, care being taken that this foundation is horizontal.
                            The line S o must now be placed exactly north and
south, and this may be accomplished in either of the following ways :
    Set a watch by the nearest railway station to true Greenwich time ; find
from a map the difference in longitude between Greenwich and where you
 want to place your sun-dial. Suppose this difference to be i° 16' west. Mul
tiply 1 6' by 4, and it becomes 64 seconds of time—that is, 1111.4s.; also
multiply 1° by 4, and it becomes 4 minutes of time, because degrees become
minutes, and minutes of arc become seconds, according to the proportion of
24 hours for 3600 : thus for 1° 16' difference of longitude there will be 5 m. 4 s.
difference of time.
     The sun at twelve o'clock is due south, and it then casts a shadow from an
upright object due north. To find when it is south, we allow for the difference
of time due to longitude and for the clock being before or after the sun. In
many almanacks (Hannay's and others) the allowance between sun time and
 clock time is given ; and this, as well as the allowance due to longitude, being
 made, we obtain twelve o'clock by the sun at our position, and can then place
 the line S O so that the shadow of the triangle is over it.
     Example.-—On the 21st of November, 1867, I wanted to set a dial north and
 south by the sun at Liverpool. Having set the watch to Greenwich time by
 the railway, I found that there was 1 1 m. 30 s. difference of time due to the
 longitude, Liverpool being west of or after Greenwich.
     There were 14 m. 2 s. difference of time between the sun and a clock on the
 2 1 st of November, as shown by an almanack, the sun being before the clock.
 Therefore at Greenwich the sun would be south 14 m. 2 s. before twelve. At
 Liverpool it would be twelve o'clock when it was 1 1 m. 30 s. after twelve by
 Greenwich ; but the sun would be south at Liverpool 14 m. 2 s. before it was
 twelve o'clock there. Hence, at 2 m. 32 s. by the watch set to Greenwich the
 sun would be south at Liverpool, and the sun-dial might then be placed north
 and south.
     Another method is to place a straight stick exactly upright by means of a
 plumb-line on a piece of level ground ; at about nine a.m. mark where the
 shadow of the top of this dial comes to, and mark this spot : about three p.m.
 the shadow will reach the same length,—and we can tell when it is the same
 length by marking out a part of a circle, the point of the stick in the ground
 being the centre and the length of the shadow the radius. The shadow gets
 shorter up to twelve o'clock, and then longer again till it reaches the part of
 the circle. Halve the distance between the two shadows of equal length, and
 join the point thus found with the point of the stick, and this line will be
 north and south, and the sun-dial may be placed north and south by its aid.
      When the sun-dial has been placed in position, it will then indicate sun

                                  SUN-DIALS.                                    689
time, and we must add or subtract the allowance due for the difference be
tween sun time and clock time, in order to find the true local time.
  The following table, for the 1 st and 1 5th of each month, shows the allowance
to be made to sun time in order to obtain true time.
                                    M. s.                                      M. S.
January 1st                    add 3 43     July        1st           .   add 3 26
    „        15th                   9 37                15th          .     ., 5 36
February 1st                       13 50    August      1st           •    ,,64
              15th                 '4 24        „        15th         •    „ 4    20
March        1st                   12 36                       f neither add
                                            September 1st
              15th                  9 II                      \ norsubtrct.
April         1st                   4 2                  15th           subtr. 4  44
                    f neither add           October 1st                   » 10    14
             15th   (.norsubtrct.                 „      15th             „ 14     6
May          1st           . subtr. 2 58    November 1st                  „ 16    17
             15th                    3 Si                15th             „ 15    18
June          1st                    2 30   December 1st                  „ 10    52
                    f neither add                        15th             »     4 46
             15th
                    \ norsubtrct.                              ( neither add
                                                  „     24th
                                                              \ norsubtrct.
   According to different years, the allowance for seconds will vary slightly.
The dates between those given will require a proportional allowance to be
made.
   Beyond the 900 or six hours on the dial, two additional angles may be set
off for seven and eight hours p.m., these angles being equal respectively to
those for five and four hours. When the sun-dial is completed and placed in
position, as well as figured, it will be somewhat in the following form :
   Various other sun-dials may be constructed, but that described is the most
simple, and is generally useful.
   Such a dial, fixed in the grounds or near the house in country localities, is
a very good check on the clocks, and serves as a time-corrector. We have
calculated the angles for several places in England, drawn the diagram on
cardboard, and given it to a local ironmonger to cut in brass. The dial has
been erected at an expense of a few shillings, and has not only been a useful
instrument as regards time, but has been an interesting ornament in the
grounds.
                                                                     44

690                                  SCIENCE.
      ANGLES FOR CONSTRUCTING A HOriZONTAL DIAL FOR LATITUDE
                                 FROM 500 TO 59|°.
  Latitude.   Morning 11   Morning 10    Morning 9   Morning 8   Morning 7  Mom. 6
              Afternoon 1  Afternoon a  Afternoon 3 Afternoon 4 Afternoon 5  Aft. 6
               deg. min.    deg. min.    deg. min.   deg. min.   deg. min.    deg.
     50 deg.    11   36     23 51         37   27     53    0     70 43
     504 »      11   41     24      1     37   39     53   12     70 51
     51 „       11   46     24 10         37   5'     53   23     70 59
     514 ,,     11   51     24 19         38    3     53   35     71    6
     52   X     "    55     24 28         38   14     53   46     71 13
     524 ,,     12    0     24 37         38   25     53   57     71 20
     53 ,,      12    5     24 45         38   37     54    8     71 27
     534 »      12    9      24 54        38   48     54   19     71 34
     54 „       12   14     25     2      38   58     54   29     71 40
     544 ,,     12   18      25 10        39    9     54   39     71 47
                                                                             "90
     55 »       12   23      25 19        39   19     54   49     71 53
     554 „      12   27      25 27        39   3o     54   59     71 59
     56 „       12   31      25 35        39   4o     54    9     72    5
     564,,      12   36      25 43        39   50     54   18     72 11
     57, »      12   40      25 So        39   59     54   27     72 17
     574 ..     12   44      25 58        40    9     54   36     72 22
     58 „       12   48      26     5     40   18     54   45     72 28
     584 »      12   52      26 13        40   27     54   54     72 33
     59 ..      12   56      26 20        40   36     55    2     72 39
     594 »      13    0      26 27        40   45     55   "      72 44
                          THE MICROSCOPE.
   Whether for amusement or instruction, there is no instrument so deservedly
popular as the Microscope. Other amusements are soon exhausted, but the
little world which the microscope reveals is inexhaustible: there is always
something wonderful or something new to be seen, and the instruction it affords
is unparalleled. Many beautiful objects may be observed by a single lens,
which can be folded and carried in the waistcoat-pocket ; but there is a limit
to the use of such instruments, and the only satisfactory microscope is the
compound microscope, which a good optician will supply at a cost of from three
guineas upwards. It may be said that cheaper instruments can be had, which
appear to do their work well. Perhaps so ; but as we are about to recommend
only what we know to be worthy of recommendation, we should not name a
lower priced instrument than such a one as can be procured of Mr. C. Baker,
of No. 244 High Holborn, for three guineas. It is not with any invidious
spirit that this name is given. Other opticians may supply microscopes as

                              THE MICROSCOPE.                                   09.
good at the price, but this instrument will serve to illustrate all we have to say
about the microscope, and we shall adopt it as the standard of all our observa
tions.
    The microscope we have named is packed in a neat polished mahogany box,
with lock and key. The size of this box is 10 in. high, and 6 in. deep, by 7 in.
wide. At the top is a brass handle by which it may be carried, and when fully
replenished its weight is about 7 lbs. So much for the case and the micro
scope within it. But we must open the case and take out the instrument. On
opening the door we observe at the bottom of the case a neat little mahogany
drawer divided in two parts : one part is " racked " for holding glass slides and
mounted objects, the other portion will contain small articles of apparatus,
which we shall describe hereafter.
    We draw out the stand of the microscope, which is clamped to a square of
mahogany, so as to ensure greater steadiness, an object of importance in
a microscope; from the left side of
the case we take the brass tube or
body, and screw this to the stand, so
that it presents nearly the appearance
indicated in our woodcut (Fig. 1). A
little cylindrical brass box slides into
a hole at the top right-hand corner of
the case. This we take down, unscrew
 the top carefully, take out the combi
 nation of glasses set in a neat kind of
 brass nozzle, which piece of apparatus
 is usually called the objective or object-
 glass. There is a screw at one end of
 this objective and a lens at the other.
 Let us screw this nozzle or objective
 into its proper place at the end of the
 tube or body of the microscope, and
 then, behold ! it is the complete ori
 ginal of which our woodcut is a copy.
 Having put it together, the next step
 must be a careful examination of all
 its parts, and an appreciation of how                       Fig. 1.
 these parts are to be employed in the
 examination of objects.
     It is not our purpose to enter into a dissertation on the science of optics, for
 which we have neither room nor inclination ; what we most desire is to instruct
 our reader how to use the mysterious little piece of machinery which has just
 been unpacked. The " why and wherefore " will be sought by-and-bye, and
 there are plenty of means of acquiring the theory when it is wanted. Big
 boys would be more likely to try and use such an instrument at once than to
 sit down and ponder over " the reason why," and little boys are not a whit less
 curious or impatient than their elders.
    borne one will perhaps read these pages before he has obtained his micro
 scope, and would like to know how high it stands, so that he may imagine
 what its appearance would be under a glass shade. For the especial benefit of
 such a one we have measured the instrument, and declare its full elevation to
 be 1 3 inches.
                                                                   44—2

6qz                                 SCIENCE.
   Place the left hand firmly upon the mahogany slab which supports the in
strument, then with the right hand hold the top of the tube or body ; draw the
tube backwards, and it will be found to move easily to any angle, so that a tall
boy or a short one, a man standing or a man sitting, can either of them look
comfortably down the tube without any danger of dislocating his neck, which
might be the case if the tube were fixed bolt upright
   As the body moves freely on the pivots the lower portion will be seen to
carry with it a circular mirror, which is attached near the bottom; this mirror,
by an admirable arrangement of joints, can be turned in any direction. The
use of such facility of motion will be seen by-and-bye. Above the mirror is
a square brass plate with a round hole in the centre; this is called the stage,
and upon it the objects to be viewed by the microscope must be placed. A
movable bar passes up and down on the upper surface of this plate, which is
useful to retain the slide containing the object in position. Above this stage
is the tube with the object-glass screwed in at the lower end, and the eye- piece
at the upper end. At the side of the tube or body, near the bottom, is a screw
with a milled head, which may be moved by the thumb and finger: this is
called the fine adjustment. It will be time enough by-and-bye to speak of
its uses. Below the tube are two other milled heads, one on each side. Turn
one of them towards you with the thumb and finger : they move easily, freely,
and smoothly, and with their motion, behold ! the tube of the microscope, with
the eye-piece at the top and its object-glass at the bottom, glides up and down
just as the operator wishes ! A firm, steady, gradual motion here is a necessity
in all good instruments. These milled heads and the screws which they move
we call the coarse adjustment. Now, having learnt the names of all the parts
of the microscope which at present we desire to know, let us put it to work.
    Take a slide containing a mounted object, which is transparent, and one
may be purchased of an optician for a shilling, which will serve as a model for
                                       Fig. :
 imitation. (Fig. 2.) It consists of a strip of glass, 3 in. long and I in. wide. In
 the middle, a circular disc of very thin glass is fastened by means of Canada
 balsam, and in the middle of the disc, between the thin glass and the thick
 glass, lies the little object to be examined—perhaps it is the tongue of the
 house-fly. Place the slide upon the stage of the microscope, with the label
 and the thin glass upwards. If the object-glass is in the way, turn it up by
 means of the coarse adjustment, so that the slide containing the object may
 lie flat on the stage, with its bottom edge resting against the movable bar
 which crosses the stage. This bar, you now see, will prevent the slide falling

                           THE MICROSCOPE.                                   693
off the stage, even when the body is bent down to a convenient angle for
looking through the tube. Then with the coarse adjustment bring the end of
the object-glass to within about half an inch of your object. The tube is now
supposed to lean just at the angle you wish, so that you may look down it in
an easy position without bending the neck uncomfortably. If it is daylight,
your microscope will be standing on a steady table by the window ; if it is too
dark for daylight, the microscope will be on a table equally steady, with a lamp,
the flame of which should be only 6 or 8 in. away from the mirror of your
microscope. Take the object off the stage for a few moments. Replace it
by a piece of writing-paper large enough to cover the hole in the stage. Now
turn the mirror with your finger and thumb, in such a manner that the light
which falls upon it from the lamp shall be reflected up, and form a bright spot
on the piece of paper just in the centre of the hole of the stage. When the
light is thus properly adjusted, take off the piece of paper, and place the glass
slide containing the object upon the stage in its place, so that the light
reflected from the mirror falls just in the centre of the object, which may be
kept in place by sliding up the movable bar. Now look down the tube. You see
nothing but a bright disc of light like a full moon, perhaps. That is fortunate,
because it proves that your light is properly managed. Now for the object.
By means of the coarse adjustment you move the " body " of the microscope,
and consequently the object-glass, a little nearer to the object. Proceed
slowly, cautiously, and by no means near enough for the object-glass to touch
the slide. Gradually, as you look down the tube, you will see the shadow of
the object, and at length the indistinct image of the object will appear upon
the bright disc of light at the bottom of the tube. Quit your hold of the
milled head of the coarse adjustment, and apply your
thumb and finger to the milled head of the fine adjust
ment. Turn this also slowly and gradually till the
object appears clear and distinct upon the bright field
or disc of light at the bottom of the tube. Now, if you
have followed the instructions we have given, you will
have overcome the first difficulty of seeing an object
through your microscope. But why quit the use of the
coarse adjustment, and apply the fine adjustment just
as the object became distinct ? For this reason : the
fine adjustment has a much finer screw than the coarse
adjustment, and by turning its head you will more easily
hit upon that desirable point where the object is ex
actly in focus, and can be seen most clearly. A half-
turn of the milled head, up or down, will throw the
object out of focus, make it less clear and distinct, and
convince you that you have hit upon the exact focus of
the lens.
   Whilst you are aamiring the tongue of a fly, seen for
the first time in your own microscope, we have a few
words to offer about the objective, or object-glass, which
you have taken out of the box, and placed upon the
instrument, and used in looking at your first object.             Kig.
  The object-glass is called a half-inch objective, be
cause its magnifying power is about equal to that of a
lens with a focus of half an inch. But this object-glass is itself a compound

694                                  SCIENCE.
of three glasses or lenses. Unscrew it from the tube and take it in your
hand. You will now observe that you can unscrew a portion, and take off the
lower or outer lens (a, Fig. 3). The two left may be used as an object-glass
of 1 in. power. Take it in hand again, and unscrew another portion {b), and
what you have left is now an object-glass of about 1 J in. power {c) ; so that,
you will observe, in one combination of lenses you have three powers, l& in.,
1 in., and I in., which may be represented as follows :
                        One lens — equal to I J inch power.
                        Two lenses         „     I   „    „
                        Three lenses       „       J „    „
   If, however, when purchasing your instrument, you desire to possess glasses
with a higher magnifying power, you may have, instead of the above combi
nation, and at the same price, a triplet, or combination of three powers, the
highest of which will be equal to a J in., and which will divide into two other
powers, one of which will be jf in., and the other J in., which may be repre
sented thus :
                        One lens — equal to § inch power.
                        Two lenses         „    i „      „
                        Three lenses       „    } „      „
Ekher combination, therefore, may be had ; but if our advice were sought, we
should recommend the first or lowest powers to any youth commencing with
the microscope.
    In order that some idea may be formed of the magnifying power of these
glasses, we have ascertained that they magnify objects, each power as many
diameters as are placed opposite to them in the following table :
       I 1 J inch power .        .     (one lens)      .    .     35 diameters.
       { '                            (two lenses)
                                     (three lenses)
                                                                  75
                                                                150
                                       (one lens)                 90
                                      (two lenses)               175
           i » ..                    (three lenses)             300
By 1 50 diameters it is meant that the tongue of a fly, for instance, viewed
with the J-in. power, is magnified so that it appears 150 times as wide or as
long as it really is.
    Having explained how this microscope is to be used, and what it is capable
of performing, we will enumerate the remainder of the appliances which aie
 supplied with the three-guinea instrument.
    There is a pair of brass hand-tweezers for picking up little objects that you
 may desire to examine, which it would be difficult to raise with the thumb
 and finger. (Fig. 4.)
    Then there is a pair of stage forceps for holding a minute insect for exami
 nation under the microscope, which is held fast at b, whilst the arm. a, is placed
 in a hole in the brass stage. The forceps can be turned round freelv in almost
any direction, so that the point, b, at which the insect is held, may be brought
 under the object-glass, and so turned that all parts of the insect may be
 examined readily. (Fig. 5.)
    Finally, there is a " live box," the top of which can be raised (not unscrewed)
 and a drop of water containing any very small water-flea, or other minute
 aquatic insect, can be placed therein, the cap replaced, and when the " live

                             THE MICROSCOPE.                                   695
box " with its contents is put on the centre of the stage, the little prisoner may
be examined, sporting about in its native element. (Fig. 6.)
   There are one or two special recommendations which the instrument we
have been describing possesses, and which will commend it to all who are
acquainted with what is requisite in a good instrument.
   The stand is very firm and steady, so that there is no possibility of its over
balancing itself. The rack movement is smooth and easy, and the rack-bar
is triangular. The screw at the bottom of the tube (for the reception of the
object-glasses) is the " universal screw," so that any of the objectives made by
the very best makers, and, indeed, everybody's
object-glasses, will fit the instrument. The
stage is constructed so as to receive either a
condenser or polariscope apparatus, and the
whole packs conveniently into a neat maho
gany box which may be carried in the hand.
So that, for its price, it is as excellent an in
strument as any one could wish to place in
the hands of a youth, and one that no one
need be ashamed of using himself.
   Hitherto our observations have been con
fined to the examination of objects of a tran
sparent nature, with the light thrown through
them ; but there are many objects so opaque
that they cannot be examined in this man
ner, but must have the light concentrated
upon them by means of a "bull's-eye con
denser." This is a separate piece of apparatus
not included with the microscope above de
scribed, and may be purchased for about six
or seven shillings. It is to be placed between                   Fig. 7.
the lamp and the microscope, and so adjusted
that the rays of light pass from the lamp through the lens, and are condensed
upon the object, which by this means is brightly illuminated. The lamp
should not be more than 6 or 8 in. from the lens of the condenser. Any

696                               SCIENCE.
lamp with a steady flame will answer the purpose. The best of cheap lamps
is the common paraffin lamp at half a crown.
   The next matter for serious consideration is the collection of objects ; and
this need cause no uneasiness, for objects may be found everywhere. The
house and garden will furnish a supply for weeks, especially if during the
summer and autumn months; and when home is exhausted, a short walk is
certain to afford something.
   No one who possesses a microscope should go out without a bottle or box
in his pocket, to contain any object which may come in his way. A very useful
bottle is figured, which costs about \\d. (Fig. 8, reduced.) By all means
eschew stoppered bottles : corks are infinitely better, as well as cheaper. A
                 Fig. 8.                             Fig.
larger bottle will be required for dipping objects out of the water, with a wide
 mouth and a rim—what is called a " two-ounce " bottle—an I ndia-rubber band,
 and a walking-stick. The India-rubber band will fasten the bottle to the end
of the stick, and a collecting-bottle will be ready made. (Fig. 9.) If the bottle
is fitted with a good cork, it may be carried home full of the results of the
 walk. Two or three small pill-boxes in the pocket are often found useful ; but,
 above all, never forget the pocket-lens.
   The structure of plants afford very interesting objects, almost without limit,
 such as the cuticle or outer layer of leaves. This may often be stripped
 from fresh leaves by the finger and thumb ; but there are two more certain
 methods. One method consists in putting the leaves to be operated upon into
 a vessel of water, and allow them to remain until, in consequence of partial
 decomposition, the cuticle will separate itself from the leaf, or may be easily
 removed. By an occasional examination it will be readily determined when
 the soaking has been carried far enough. When such is the case, the cuticle
 may be floated off or removed with a camel-hair pencil. A fortnight is
 generally long enough for this operation.
   A speedier method is to boil the leaves in a test-tube with diluted nitric
 acid for a few minutes ; but we would commend the slower but equally certain
 process of maceration, especially to young people, acids being dangerous fluids
 to experiment with. The forms of cells in the cuticles of leaves are very vari
 able, and any of the ordinary leaves of plants will furnish illustrations. They
 will also exhibit the stomata or orifices of the leaf surface.

                             THE MICROSCOPE.                                  697
   The Lilac is a good leaf to exhibit these, the cuticle of under surface having
a great many, and the upper surface but few. The cuticle of the under surface
                         of the leaf of the Holly, and also of the common Laurel,
                         should be obtained. A commonly cultivated exotic
                         plant, called Yucca gloriosa, affords another form of
                         cell and stomata. Some leaves are clad with very beau
                         tiful hairs, which can be removed with the cuticle. Of
                         these, another cultivated foreign plant, Dentzia scabra,
                         or its companion species, Deutzia gracilis, furnishes
                         star-shaped hairs.      Stalked hairs of this character
                         abound on the woolly leaves of two or three species of
          Fig.           Arabis common in gardens. (Fig. 10.) The mealy
                         Guelder Rose and the Virginia Stock furnish also hairy
cuticles. The cuticles of the petals (or floral leaves) of the Geranium and
Pansy, and many other plants, form exceedingly beautiful objects
   The cellular structure of the pith of the Elder, and even more beautiful
star-like cells of the pith of the common Rush, afford examples of the cellular
tissue of plants.
   The spiral vessels may also be obtained from the stems of herbaceous plants,
such as the Hogweed and Rhubarb. By maceration in water, the spiral strings
may be drawn out easily. The maceration should be continued till the stems
are quite soft. In some cases the spiral is simple, or composed of one single
thread ; in others several threads form a band. The leaf-cells of the common
Bog-moss (Sphagnum) should not be forgotten, though of a different character.
These require no maceration.
   To, transfer these delicate structures to the glass slide requires care. They
should be first cleansed, under water, of all impurities, extraneous tissue wiped
away with a camel-hair pencil, and, in the case of spiral tissue, two needles,
with the heads inserted into wooden handles, may be used to separate the
threads. The glass slide may be passed under the object as it lies in the
water, and then gently raised out of the water with the cuticle or other tissue
floated out smoothly upon it. The slides should first have the water drained
from them by resting a minute or two on the edge or on one end, and then
laid flat to dry. If the objects are to be examined at once, the glass cover
may be placed over them as soon as removed from the water, and the object
transferred to the microscope ; but if the object is to be preserved for future
examination,it must be mounted.
The process of mounting varies
with different classes of objects,
and the manipulation can only
be perfected by experience.
   The dissection of all objects
requires a little help from a lens :
if this is held in one hand, and
only one hand left free, a great
inconvenience will be encoun
tered ; but a simple contrivance                       Fig.
to hold the pocket-lens will leave
both hands free to use the nee
dles. If a penholder, or other rounded rod of wood, be inserted in a heavy
block, and the pocket-lens be made to slide up and down on this, by passing

698                                SCIENCE.
the rod through the hole in the handle of the lens, it may be so elevated or
depressed that the object under the lens will be just in focus, and may be
dissected with both hands at liberty. Some persons use a watchmaker's eye
glass for the purpose of dissection instead of a pocket-lens. (Figs, u, 12.)
                                       Fig. 12.
    Sections of wood and other hard portions of plants, although very instruc
tive and beautiful when well done, are not to be recommended to the young
amateur. It is hardly possible to cut good sections of wood without a section-
cutting machine, and there are hundreds of other good objects which entail
no such trouble, so that we will leave all experiments in wood-cutting for the
 future.
    There are many objects, both in the vegetable and animal kingdom, which
may be mounted dry as opaque objects ; and as this is the easiest method of
mounting, we will describe how it is done. Pieces of wood, 3 in. long, 1 in.
 in width, and about fa in. in thickness, with a hole in the centre about j in.
 in diameter, may be had for about one shilling per dozen (Fig. 1 3). Take one of
 these, and a piece of "dead black " paper 1 in. square, paste the black paper over
 the hole in the wood, with the black side to the wood. Turn the wooden slide
 over, and you have a cell \ in. in diameter, A in. deep, with a black bottom.
 In this cell the object is to be mounted. For this purpose, gum tragacanth
 dissolved to a mucilage in water is preferable to gum arabic The pollen of
 the Hollyhock, or small seeds, or little Beetles may be mounted by placing a
 little gum tragacanth mucilage on the centre of the black paper with a camel-
 hair pencil. Lay the object upon the gum: it will adhere after gentle pressure,
 and must be left exposed till thoroughly dry. Cover the cell with thin glass
  a little larger in diameter than the cell : |th squares will do well enough. A
 little Canada balsam or gold-size under each corner will secure it in its place.

                             THE MICROSCOPE.                                       699
                                        Fig. 13.
When the glass is fixed the slide may be covered
 with ornamental paper, or left uncovered, as taste
may dictate. A small gum-ticket should be fixed
at one end of the slide, and the name of the ob
ject, and any other information, written thereon.
 If the objects and the mounting are not quite
dry before the slides are covered and put away,
then beware of mould, for your best slides may
be ruined. (Pig. 14.)
   We come now to an enumeration of a few such objects, of a vegetable origin,
as may be mounted in cells, to be viewed as opaque objects with power of 1 in.
Vegetable seeds are easily obtained in the autumn, and afford a great variety ;
as, for example, those of the Dandelion, surmounted by the feathery pappus
by means of which they float about like parachutes ; the seeds of the common
Chickweed, of the Sweet William, and the Clove Pink. The seeds of the
Poppy are also characteristic, and those of the Snapdragon, or Antirrhinum,
the Mulleins, and of that favourite garden flower, the Eschscholtzia, must not
be forgotten. To these may be added Coreopsis, the Larkspur, St. John's
Wort, and the less-known Eccremocarpus, Sphcenogyne, and Paulotunia
impertalis. In fact, all small seeds should be examined, for we do not know
yet, except in a few instances, what seeds are suitable and interesting objects.
By all means we would strongly recommend the correct and explicit naming
of all objects which may be mounted. Unnamed objects, or those named
vaguely as " antenna of gnat," " scales of butterfly," or " tongue of fly " are
little better than rubbish. It is not difficult, in these days of scientific journals,
to learn what species of gnat, butterfly, or fly affords the object, and then it
possesses an interest and a value. Objects named only in the vague manner
above indicated would prejudice the possessor in the estimation of any sensible
man.
   Small portions of the leaves of many plants may also be mounted in *ne
cells, and will exhibit the hairs to advantage. Ferns also may have a fragment
of the under surface of the fronds, showing the fructification, similarly treated.
The pollen of the Hollyhock, Mallows, and many other plants; the capsules
of Mosses, some kinds of mould and other fungi, should not be forgotten.
Amongst animal life, small Spiders, Beetles, the Eggs of Butterflies, heads,
wings, wing-cases, small shells, gall-insects, larva: of various kinds, and all
sons of minute insects may be mounted in the same manner ; indeed, all small
opaque objects of any kind, of which Nature is prolific everywhere.

 700                               SCIENCE.
   Mounting objects in fluid for higher powers is a much more difficult opera
tion, and one we should not advise any amateur to attempt until he is well
able to mount opaque objects satisfactorily. It requires a long experience be
fore the difficulties of mounting in balsam or fluid can be overcome. Different
classes of objects also require different modes of treatment, and some a long
course of preparation by soaking in liquor potassae, spirits of turpentine, or
other fluid. If we give an outline of the process of mounting in balsam, it
will be merely with a view of briefly indicating rather than attempting to
teach.
   Canada balsam is the most common medium for mounting. Take a sheet
of paper, and mark thereon with ink the outline of a glass slide, 3 in. by 1 in.
Carefully, by drawing lines from one angle to its opposite, ascertain the middle
of the space, which will be indicated by the crossing of the lines. Having
cleaned a glass slide, lay it upon the ruled space ; let fall a single drop of
Canada balsam upon the slide in its centre, just over the intersecting lines,
which will be seen through the glass. Insert the object—a tuft of hair, a scale,
or whatever else it may be—in the drop of balsam. Having cleaned a cover
of thin glass of the requisite size, say £ in. diameter, place it on the balsam ;
press the cover gently, and the excess of balsam will flow out around it. Care
must be taken that no bubbles of air are left beneath the cover. Place the
object on one side for a week to dry. At this period, if desired, a black line
of cement, asphalte, or varnish may be laid around the edge of the cover with
a camel-hair pencil. Do not omit to attach a label, number, or name to the
slide as soon as mounted, or it may be forgotten. Some persons prefer, and
for some objects it is preferable, to place the object first upon the glass slide,
in the centre, and let the drop of balsam fall upon the object. Some also
prefer, instead of pure balsam, to mix old and thick balsam with chloroform
until of such consistence that a drop will fall easily from a thin rod. Young
persons without experience will find "hard picture copal varnish " better than
either, being less liable to enclose little bubbles of air.
   Some objects are only seen to advantage whilst living, and a good variety
may be obtained from ponds, ditches, or small pools of water, containing
water-weeds. These may be found adhering to the duckweed, anacharis,
myriophyllum, under surface of water-lily leaves, or floating freely in the
neighbourhood, according to their habits. The Green Hydra will be found in
such situations, adhering to weeds, and also the fresh-water Polyzoa and some
Rotifers; the Crown animalcule, Floscules, Melicerta, Plumatella, &c, and,
floating freely, the Water-Fleas, Cyclops, larvae of various kinds, Water- Mites,
and small Annelids. Vegetable organisms of a very interesting kind are to
be collected from floating scum, or coating the mud. Diatoms and Desmids,
the ambition of microscopists in these days, are very widely and generally
distributed, and green Confervae abound in every stagnant ditch. The rolling
Volvox will in itself afford amusement and instruction for many an hour. All
these should be examined whilst still fresh and living.
   Objects to be looked over at leisure are almost unlimited. All insects in
tended for preservation, wholly or in part, should be kept in spirit and water,
about two parts of water to one of spirit. They may be taken out and dis
sected or examined at any time, and in this manner tongues and feet of flies,
claws and mandibles of spiders, stings and mouths of bees and wasps, antenna?
and legs of beetles, and very many others, may be kept in store for wet and
wintry seasons, so that the microscope never need be unemployed for want of

                                   BOTANY.                                     701
objects. A long list of common objects, with short descriptions and a great
many figures, under the name of " One Thousand Objects for the Microscope,"
is sold for one shilling by the publisher of this volume, and contains all that
kind of information which it would be quite impossible to include within the
limits of this article.
   Finally, we would give two or three general precepts, which it is desirable
should never be forgotten. Let your object be presented to the microscope in
the best manner possible for ascertaining what you wish to observe ; let your
light be good, steady, not too glaring, but properly adjusted and directed ; and
always examine every object first with the lowest power, going gradually to the
highest. These are the first elements of success. In addition, we may sug
gest three things which should not be done. The microscope should not be
left exposed to the dust and the chances of accident when not in use; the
glasses must not be wiped with harsh, dirty, or gritty rags or leather, bift with
a soft clean piece of wash-leather, kept specially for that purpose ; and the
microscope should not be lifted or carried by the tube or body, but always by
grasping the lower portion of the stand. Never forget to have plenty of light,
of patience, and of perseverance.
                                  BOTANY.
    There is no royal road to any of the sciences, by means of which the student
can acquire all the knowledge necessary to become its master, and avoid all
the trouble. Neither is it desirable that knowledge should be acquired with
 out labour, for that which costs but little is less valued, and commonly that
which entails on us but little labour to learn is soon forgotten. Those who are
in earnest in their desire to know something about plants will soon find their
difficulties vanish one by one, and at last will have the gratification of looking
back with pleasure on what they have achieved. How often have we heard
grown-up men and women say, " I wish that I had learnt something of botany
when I was young;" meaning thereby that they are sorry at having missed
opportunities and advantages for the study of plants in a regular and method
 ical manner. All sciences must be studied in a regular and methodical man
ner, for there can be no science without method. It shall be our endeavour,
 as briefly and plainly as we can, to show how something may be learnt about
 plants, by explaining their structure, and the method employed in their classi
 fication. The space at our disposal will not permit us to do more than intro
 duce the subject, and prepare the student to take up a book specially devoted
 thereto, and read it with understanding and profit.
    Let us go into the lane, and pluck the first flower that we see blooming on the
hedgerow—it matters not what so long as it is in bloom. It will not answer
our purpose to have the blossom only, with just a few inches of the stalk, but
the whole plant must be taken up, the fragments of mould carefully shaken
from the roots, and the plant laid before us on the table. Hence we do not
require anything very large : it may be a daisy, or a buttercup, or a primrose,
a speedwell, or a dead-nettle, but we must have the whole plant. An oak tree
is a plant, but we require nothing so large ; duckweed is a plant also, but we

    702                                 SCIENCE.
    desire nothing so small. Nevertheless, what we have to say of one will to a
    large extent be true of all, for our first object is to learn something which
    applies to all flowering plants.
       The plant lying before us has a root, a stem—perhaps also branches, which
    are only offshoots or parts of the stem—leaves, and flowers. This is the
    enumeration of the parts of the plant which anyone unacquainted with botany
   would give. The stem may be very short, as in the daisy and primrose, or
    long as in the buttercup and dead-nettle, but to all there is a very decided and
    palpable root. It is often difficult to determine exactly where the stem ends and
   the root begins. The root is, in fact, only the lower and underground portion
    of the stem. Some botanists call the root and stem together the axis of the
   plant ; whatever name is adopted, there is a very close connection between
   them. It will be better for us to regard them as distinct parts in the following
   remarks.
       Before proceeding any further, we must at once assure our reader that we
    are no believers in botany without hard names or technicalities. Hard they
    are not, to any except the ignorant, and may be easily remembered if their
    meaning is understood. All our writing, if we avoided technicalities, would
    be useless, since any other book on the same subject, in which the terms em
    ployed in the science are used, would be just as unintelligible as though we
    had not written at all. The one great object, therefore, which we have in view
    is to make the workman acquainted with his tools, their names, and how to
    use them. The apprentice will learn to distinguish a plane from a hand-saw
    before he constructs a writing-desk or a chest of drawers.
       After this brief digression we come back to our root again, and must ask
    our reader to think of all the different forms of root which he has ever seen,
    and class them together in his own mind under two groups, namely, those
    which are simple, or are merely single continuations downwards of the stem,
    and those which are compound, or composed of two or more parts starting
    from the same point. As, for example, the radish, the carrot, the turnip, the
    dandelion, and the speedwell have all single roots. They may be branched
    as they go down into the soil, but they are only single continuations of the
    stem. On the contrary, the dahlia, the onion, and many of the grasses possess
    a bundle of roots starting from the same point, which are sometimes branched,
   and sometimes are not. Following the plan which we have suggested, our
    pupil will soon arrive at the conclusion that, although the kinds which we
    have suggested, and many more which he may think of, are all roots, they
    have a very different appearance ; and whilst it is quite correct to call them
    all roots, if we would distinguish one kind from another, we must have a name
    for each which would indicate its character, without giving us the trouble of
    making a drawing of the root, or using a long description. Here, then, we
   see the first necessity for the use of words or terms which all botanists will
   understand. Being agreed that for the different forms of roots different words
   should be employed, we will enumerate the most common.
       A carrot or a parsnip are familiar examples of a kind of root which is thick
   and fleshy above, gradually tapering downwards to a point, like an inverted
   cone. Hence such a one is appropriately called a conical root. But if the
   root, instead of being largest at the top, thickens towards the middle and then
   diminishes again downwards, so that it decreases in both directions, like the
   roots of many varieties of radish, it becomes spindle-shaped, and is called a
   fusiform root. The turnip has a root, however, which resembles neither of
"V

                                   IjOaANY.                                   703
these, and when well grown is nearly the shape of a boy's top. This may be
called a turnip-shaped root, but the term generally employed is napiform, the
word " napus" being the Latin for "a turnip." The common form of simple
root, which proceeds downwards as a continuation of the stem, without en
larging, but becoming gradually thinner and thinner, often much branched,
occasionally with only thread-like rootlets issuing from its sides, is known as
a tap-root. It is not distinctly conical as in the root of the carrot, and is the
commonest form of root amongst herbaceous plants.
   Of compound roots, or those in which a bundle of little rootlets proceed
from the base of the stem, a tuft of grass, or, still better, a stem of wheat or
barley, affords an example. These rootlets, or little roots, being thin and
thread-like, the tuft is called afibrous root. When the rootlets are thickened,
so as not to be thread-like or fibrous, but are still clustered together in a kind
of bundle, it is called a. fasciculated root, from the Latin word "fasciculus"
which is often employed in botany, and means " a little bundle." There are
modifications of form in tne rootlets which compose the fasciculated root, as
in the dahlia, in which each rootlet is thick, fleshy, and of a fusiform shape ;
in some others a portion only of the rootlets are thickened or swollen either
once or several times throughout their length.
   It will not be out of place here to remark that the bulb of the onion, the
white lily, and many similar plants, is not a root, but a kind of bud composed
of scales closely overlapping each other, and growing upon a button-shaped
stem, from the under surface of which the fibrous root is produced. The
potato (that portion which is cooked as a vegetable) botanists do not class as
a root, but as a tuber, or swelling of the underground stem. Some roots last
only one year, and are said to be annual; others last two years, and are called
biennial; whilst others continue in vigour a longer period of time, and are
said to be perennial.
   The roots of plants serve a twofold purpose — to attach the plant to the
soil, and to furnish it with the means of sustenance. For the latter purpose,
the extreme ends of the thin fibres of the rootlets are of a more delicate and
spongy texture, and by their means water, and the materials diffused through
water, are taken up and conveyed to the plant. These spongy ends of the
rootlets are called the spongioles.
   Certain plants possess the power of producing additional roots, or organs
having some of the functions of roots, according as they may be required for the
purposes of the plant. These organs are termed adventitious roots, which, in
the ivy, are like suckers growing from the stem to attach it more firmly to the
tree or wall which supports it. In a species of Indian fig called the banyan
these adventitious roots droop like ropes from the branches till they reach the
ground, when the lower, or growing point, buries itself in the soil, makes a
true root, and that which was at first but a swinging rope becomes an addi
tional stem, scores of which may be produced by one tree, furnishing it with
fresh means of support.
   From the root of our plant proceeds the stem. This is another of the parts
to which we have referred as essential to flowering plants. Sometimes the
stem is so short that it can scarcely be distinguished, but it is commonly a
very prominent feature. Whether this stem stands erect, or supports itself by
twining around or clinging to another, or lies prostrate upon the ground, it is
still a stem. If we cut across any stem, branch, or twig of a woody plant, such
as a tree or shrub, we shall find, amid a great variety in detail, a uniformity

704                               SCIENCE.
in plan in all British trees and shrubs. The outer circle or circumference will
be the bark; the inner or central point, the pith; and between this pith or
medulla and the outside bark, the woody portion is deposited in layers, which
appear as rings when a section of the stem is made, with lines called medul
lary rays cutting them from the centre to the circumference.
  This is the structure of all exogenous plants; and as all British trees and
shrubs are exogenous, it is the structure of all British trees and shrubs;
another type of structure exists in the stems of endogenous plants, as in the
palms of hot climates ; and a third type in tree-ferns. Although the latter are
not natives, we cannot on that account omit from a sketch of botany (though
but a brief one) the principal features in the stems of the two groups or classes
of flowering plants which are known botanically as exogens and endogens.
   Having given figures of the section cut across a stem of each kind, it will
be seen that their appearance is very different. There is no true external bark
in that called the endogen, no definite central pith, no rings of wood, and no
medullary rays traversing the wood from the centre to the circumference.
   But why are they called exogens, and why endogens ?
   The circles of wood shown in the section of an exogenous stem disposed
one outside the other, represent periods of growth and repose. In temperate
climes like our own each circle represents the wood which the tree has pro
duced during the growth of one year, and which is deposited outside the
growth of the previous year. Hence the outer circle is always the last formed,
so that the newest wood is on the outside. Additions to the circumference of
the stem, therefore, are made in an outward direction.
   Exogen is a word of Greek origin, meaning "to grow outwards," and is
applied to those plants which make additions to the thickness of their stems
by layers of wood deposited the one outside the other at every period of active
growth. In such stems there is an outer bark which may be separated from
the wood, and between this bark and the wood all additions to the bulk of the
stem are made.
   Endogen is also a word of Greek origin, and its meaning is " to grow in
wards." It was given to the class of plants to which it is still applied upon
the assumption that all additions to the bulk of the stem were made from the
centre. The exterior of such stems have no separable bark, and the interior
consists of a soft cellular substance, in which bundles of a harder and more
woody texture are produced ; these are at first directed to the centre, but after

                                   BOTANY.                                     705
wards crossing the older bundles, pass outside them. The section above given
represents these bundles cut across, and the manner in which they accumulate
towards the circumference of the stem.
   It has been said that all stems are not erect. It may be added that all stems
are not produced above the surface of the soil, for some few have a subter
ranean habit, and others scarcely creep above it. If we watch the growth of
strawberry plants in our garden, we shall observe what are termed " runners "
(botanically flagellar), which are stems running along the surface of the soil,
rooting at the joints, and still running on. Or, if we attempt to root out the
garden-mint, we shall find similar runners under the surface (called in this
case soboles), sending down roots at the joints, and sending up leaf-bearing
branches to the surface. Yet again, the purple flag or common iris affords an
example of another kind of immersed or semi-immersed stem running upon
the surface, or near it, and bearing thread-like roots from the under surface
and tufts of leaves at the extremities of all the numerous branches. This kind
of subterranean stem is a rhizome, though most commonly called a root by all
except strict botanists. The most anomalous of all subterranean stems is that
of the potato, and we doubt if some botanists have their consciences quite at
rest on the subject. The tubers are regarded as swellings of an underground
stem, and this opinion is strengthened chiefly by the fact that these tubers are
capable of producing buds, a power which true roots do not possess. A nega
tive character of roots may thus be noted : they do not possess scales, which
are modified leaves ; or buds, which are rudimentary leaves ; or nodes, joints,
or points, whence buds are developed.
   Having disposed of roots and stems, as far as the limits of this work will
permit, we next proceed to the leaves, and these are so variable in form, passing
into each other by such gentle gradations, that we shall only be able to indi
cate the most prominent types. If we take the leaf of an oak, a lily, and
a hart's-tongue fern, we shall see in each of these, especially if we hold them
up to the light, certain thicker portions like threads traversing the leaf : these
are usually called the veins. In the oak-leaf the veins are much branched
and spread over the leaf in a kind of network : such kinds we will call net-
veined leaves; in the lily-leaf the veins run parallel, side by side, from the
bottom towards the top of the leaf, with finer veins crossing from one to the
other of the longitudinal veins : a leaf with such a veining, or venation, we
will call a parallel-veined leaf. In the hart's-tongue fern the veins, although
all going direct towards the margin of the leaf, divide in a regular manner
into two parts like a fork : such leaves as possess this type are called fork-
veined leaves. Of these three kinds of veining or venation, the net-veined
leaves belong to exogens, the stems of which we have already described, the
parallel-veined leaves to endogens, and the fork-veined leaves to ferns. As
the ferns are not flowering plants, we shall leave them for more special notice
hereafter. The veining of leaves is by no means an uninteresting subject;
there is a beautiful variety in their mode of distribution through the leaf, and
some of the prettiest natural objects ever exhibited under a glass shade are the
skeleton leaves of plants. In the growing leaf all the spaces between the
veins are filled up with cells, which contain, amongst other things, the green
chlorophyl, or colouring matter, of the leaf, and these are covered by the
delicate and transparent cuticle or skin. The hairs of many shapes, the glands,
stings, scales, or other minute appendages of leaves, are all beautiful and worthy
                                                                     45

 7o6                                 SCIENCE.
 of examination under the microscope, but we must reluctantly pass them by.
 From the structure of the leaf we must pass to its form.
    If it is the reader's good fortune to peruse these pages during any of the
 summer months, he will not require to go far or search very diligently for a
 plant of the common scarlet geranium. Let him look at it, and he will observe
 that the leaves are attached to the stem by a long stalk. There is the leafy
 expanded portion, which is the blade, or lamina, and the footstalk, which
 botanically is called the petiole. On each side of the petiole at its base, where
 it joins the stem, is a little, scaly, triangular, leaf-like blade, without a foot
 stalk. These are not leaves, but appendages to the leaves, called stipules, to
 which we shall return presently. Let us go in search of all the different-shaped
 leaves which we can find, and ascertain how far we can give names to the
 principal forms, so that by a name which all botanists can understand we
 may distinguish one kind of leaf from another, as a carpenter knows his Jack-
 plane from his hand-plane or his moulding-plane.
    We shall observe that all our leaves may be classed in two groups. The
leaves of the geranium, dandelion, daisy, holly, maple, hawthorn, hazel, plum,
 apple, &c, we place on our left hand: these are all simple leaves. The leaves
of the horse-chestnut, the ash, the mountain-ash, the acacia, trefoil or clover,
wood-sorrel, &c, we will place on our right hand : these are compound leaves.
 Now let us examine the great differences in the two groups. In the group of
simple leaves on our left hand the blade or lamina of all the leaves, whatever
 their form, or however deeply they may be cut at the edges, are not cut down
 to the mid-rib, or great central vein of the leaf; hence we call them simple.
 In the other group on our right hand, each leaf is divided into two or more
parts or leaflets, which look like smaller leaves clustered together upon the
footstalk or petiole. In the clover there are three of these leaflets; in the
horse-chestnut, five or seven ; in the ash, a great many. But in all these
instances there is but one leaf, which is composed of several leaflets : these
are compound leaves.
    The simplest form of simple leaves are those of fir trees, which are long and
Tiarrow, like needles, sometimes called "pine-needles," three or five bound
together at the base in a little bundle. The name by which such leaves are
known is acicular, from a Latin word meaning " needle-shaped." In the yew
tree the leaves are less needle-shaped, being broader below and coming to a
sharp point at the apex; they are awl-shaped, and the term by which they are
distinguished is subulate, which has that meaning. For our next example we
leave the large trees and descend to grasses, or little plants which possess
leaves resembling the leaves of grasses, such as the grass-leaved stitchwort,
in which the leaves are long and narrow, of the same width throughout, except
.it the two extremities, and these are said to be linear, or resembling a line.
(Plate A, fig. 1.)
    Leaves are called lanceolate when their form resembles the head of a lance,
broadest in the middle and attenuated towards each end ; of such a leaf the
lanceolate plantain affords an example. (Fig. 2.)
    Egg-shaped leaves, which are broadest near the base and narrowed upwards,
are said to be ovate (Fig. 3) ; but if the footstalk is reversed, and the lamina,
though still egg-shaped in outline, has its broadest part at the apex, it is called
obovate (Fig. 4). There are constantly to be found forms of leaves which are
intermediate, and glide insensibly from one to another of those which we have
enumerated ; indeed, the forms of leaves are almost infinite, and all we can

                                   BOTANY.                                     707
                                     Plate A.
hope to do is to establish a few types. There are, for instance, oval and ellip
tical leaves, and leaves which are nearly round. In all such cases it is better
to refer them to the mathematical forms which they most closely resemble,
and call them by their names. Circular or orbicular leaves have generally
the petiole or footstalk attached in the centre of the under side of the disc, and
                                                               45—2

  708                               SCIENCE.
 are called peltate, not from the form of the leaf, but from the mode in which
 the petiole is attached (Fig. 17).
     The few remaining forms of simple leaves with which we can associate
 names are : those which are kidney-shaped, and hence are called reniform
 (Fig. 6); heart-shaped leaves, which are termed cordate when the petiole is
 attached at its broadest extremity (Fig. 5), but obcordate when the smallest end
 is attached to the petiole, as in the case of each leaflet of the wood-sorrel
 (Fig. 7). Other leaves are named after the objects to which they are sup
 posed to bear the closest resemblance, as spoon-shaped, or spathulate, in the
 daisy (Fig. 10) ; arrow-shaped, or sagittate, in the wake- Robin, and especially
 in the water-arrowhead (Fig. 8) ; fiddle-shaped, or panduriform, as exemplified
 in the fiddle-leaved dock.
     All the simple leaves above enumerated have their edges but little, or not
 deeply, cut. There are, however, very many forms of simple leaves which are
 irregular, and so deeply cut as at first to resemble compound leaves. Five-
 angled leaves, such as those of the ivy, are quinquangular "(Fig. 13), and
 those with a larger number of angles are described by the number of angles
 which they possess. Halberd-shaped leaves with two small lobes at the base
 are called hastate (Fig. 1 1). Leaves with lobes at the base are common, and
 vary much in their form (Figs. 21). Three-lobed leaves in which the leaves
 are nearly equal are called trilobate (Fig. 9) ; and with five lobes, palmate,
 because they resemble the fingers and palm of an open hand (Fig. 14). But
 the larger number of these deeply-cut leaves are too complex and variable to
 be named definitely, except by the number and form of their lobes or their
 incisions.
    The group of leaves on our right hand, and which we characterized as com
 pound, must now receive a little attention. The first example which we observe
 is a ternate leaf composed of three leaflets : these leaflets may be obovate as
in clover (Fig. 12), or obcordate as in the wood-sorrel (Fig. 7), or indeed of any
 other form. If each leaflet is again divided into three parts it is biternate, or
if thrice divided in a like manner, triternate. When there are five leaflets
spreading like five fingers, the leaf is called digitate. By far the largest num
ber of compound leaves are more or less of thepinnate type, such as the leaves
of the ash (Fig. 15): the name pinnate is given to them because the arrange
ment of the leaflets on each side of the petiole or footstalk resembles a feather
(Latin "penna")y when the leaflets are in pairs placed opposite to each other
on the footstalk (as in the ash), the leaf is said to be oppositely pinnate, but
when an alternate arrangement is followed it is alternately pinnate.
    The arrangement of leaflets may be still more complex by being further
subdivided. In this case each leaflet of a pinnate leaf is itself pinnate, and
when so divided the leaf is termed bi-pinnate (Fig. 18). If the subdivisions
are carried still further, and each leaflet is again divided, the leaf is called
tri-pinnate (Fig. 19). When the divisions are carried beyond this, the leaf
is called supra-decompound.
   Any attempt at describing more intricate forms of compound leaves would
tire and bewilder the reader, without adding in the least to his botanical know
ledge. The theory and philosophy of leaf-genesis and leaf-structure may be
quite as well postponed till the student has acquired more practical botanical
knowledge, and then he will find it in more advanced books, and be able to
read it with greater pleasure and profit.
    It has been stated above, in more especial reference to the geranium leaf.

           BOTANY.                       709
  Fig. 18.                  Fig. 19.
Fig. 23.           Fig. 21.          Fig. 22.

 7io                               SCIENCE.
that the lamina or blade was supported upon a footstalk or petiole. This is
not always the case. If the common teazle is examined, the leaves (which are
placed opposite to each other on the stem) will be found to have the lamina
or blade of one leaf united at the base to that of the other, forming a kind of
cup or hollow of the leaf around the stem.
    When pairs of leaves unite thus at the base, they are said to be connate.
The upper pairs of leaves in the caper-spurge, and in one species of honey
suckle, are connate (Fig. 20). The blade or lamina of the leaf is, in some
instances, continued down the stem of the plant for some distance, and is
said to be decurrent; in other instances it only surrounds and embraces the
stem, and is amplexicaul (this is derived from a Latin word " amplexus,"
which means in English, "embracing.") (Fig. 21'.)
    Once more we must return to our pile of leaves on the table. This time it
matters not whether they are simple or compound, since our observations will
be confined to their edges, irrespective of their general form. If we take up
the ivy-leaf, we find that the margin is perfectly smooth or entire; but in very
many other instances the edges will be jagged or notched, finely or coarsely,
and in different ways in different plants. In many instances the edges of leaves
are notched or toothed like a fine saw, or serrate; but when the teeth are
larger, and each tooth is again notched or serrated, the margin is described
as bi-serrate. More rarely the teeth around the edge of a leaf, instead of
having one side longer than the other, have both sides equal, and are said to
be acutely crenate. If, instead of being pointed, the teeth are rounded or con
vex, the edge of the leaf is crenate; but if concave depressions alternate with
pointed teeth, in such case the margin is called dentate. The edge of a leaf
may be ciliated, or fringed with delicate hairs like eyelashes, or irregularly
waved and sinuate, like the leaves of the common oak. The leaves of the
dandelion are like none of these, but the large teeth are directed backwards,
not unlike the teeth of a pit-saw, whence they are termed runcinate (Fig. 22).
Usually, if the serratures of a leaf are small, they may be referred to one or
other of the forms above indicated ; but if large, they are more variable, and
described as lobes.
   The arrangement of the leaves around the stem should be carefully observed,
because there is more variety in this than would at first be imagined. We
have already intimated that some leaves are arranged in pairs opposite to each
other, and others singly and alternate. It will also be found that three or
more leaves will grow in a circle or whorl around the stem (Fig. 23), and that
when the stem is square and the leaves in pairs, each alternate pair will be
directly above each other, which is called decussate. If a young branch is
plucked from an oak, and we look down upon it, the leaves will in that position
seem to be in a whorl of five leaves, but examined sideways they will be found
to be single, and so arranged that five consecutive leaves will describe a spiral
passing twice around the stem before a leaf is found placed directly over the
first, and this will be the sixth. In other plants the spiral contains fewer or
more leaves, and goes either once or several times around the stem before a
leaf is reached which is placed directly over the leaf from whence the spiral
is traced.
    Modifications or appendages of leaves take the form of stipules, tendrils,
and thorns. When first alluding to the leaf of the scarlet geranium, we
directed attention to the pair of triangular leaf-like appendages which were
placed, one on each side, between the bases of the petioles of the opposite

                                   BOTANY.                                   711
    Fig. 24.         Fie. 25.   Fig. 26.               Fig. 27.
leaves. These appendages are the stipules, which in some cases are so small
as to be reduced almost to hairs, whilst in others, as in the garden-pea, they
are much larger than the leaflets or leaves. If we pluck a stem of grass, and
remove one of the long narrow leaves, the entire petiole will be found con
verted into a kind of sheath which embraces the stem or culm (Fig. 24). In
such plants as the wood-angelica and the wild carrot the base only of the pe
tiole embraces the stem, and this form is called an ochrea or boot (Fig. 25).
The wild briar, and other wild roses, have stipules adherent to the petiole, or
adnate (Fig. :6), and some plants have no visible stipules. In the hawthorn
they are leaf-like or foliaceous (Fig. 27). When they are present the plant is
described as stipulate, and when absent, exstipnlate.
   Thorns are sometimes alterations of stipules, sometimes projections from
the cushion upon which the base of the petiole rests, and sometimes terminate
small branches.
   The whole blade of a leaf is occasionally absent, and the leaf becomes
transformed into a tendril. In the case of pinnate leaves, only the upper leaf
lets will sometimes become tendrils, and in other cases the stipules may be
converted into tendrils. It is interesting to examine the tendrils of different
plants, and to endeavour to ascertain what other organ has been converted
into these forms. It must be borne in mind that all the parts of plants can
be referred to some change or modification in either the stem or the leaves.
   Flower-buds proceed from the axils of leaves. The axil is the angle formed
by the junction of the leaf with the stem. Such leaves are termed floral leaves
or bracts. Occasionally the bracts are of the same colour and form as the
remaining leaves of the same plant, but generally they are smaller, and altered
in form. In a few instances they are coloured.
   The common arum or wake-Robin, called also "lords and ladies," has a
curious form of bract, which is hood-like, and encloses several flowers. It is
more properly denominated a spathe. If we gather a daisy or a dandelion,
we shall observe just beneath the head of flowers, and closely pressed to the
under side, a whorl or circle of little green leaves or bracts, and this whorl of

 712                               SCIENCE.
 bracts is termed an involucre (Fig. 45). The cap of an acorn is a kind of
 involucre composed of numerous scaly bracts.
    The gayest and most attractive feature in the majority of plants is the flower ;
 and though so variable and in some cases so curious in its form, it is not
 difficult to refer all the parts composing it to four organs, two of which are
 external and two internal : the former are thefloral envelopes, and constitute
 the showy portion of the flower ; the latter are the essential organs, and are prin
 cipally concerned in the production of the fruit and the reproduction of the
 species. If we return again to our scarlet geranium, we shall notice beneath
 the scarlet leaves (petals; of the flower a long greenish tube, expanding at the
 top into five green spreading lobes : this is the calyx. It occupies the same
 position as the involucre of the daisy. Take another example. In the prim
rose the pale sulphur-coloured portion, consisting of a tube and five spreading
rays, is the corolla of combined petals, and the green tube in which the tube
of the corolla is inserted is the calyx. In both these instances the calyx is
green, but if we take another familiar example in the fuchsia, we shall find the
calyx is coloured. The beautiful pendent blossoms of the fuchsia (if we take
the common red and purple variety) has externally a crimson tube with four
 spreading crimson lobes: this is the coloured calyx, and within this is the
 purple corolla or petals. The two external or floral envelopes, therefore, are
called the calyx and the corolla, of which the latter is most usually only
coloured, but in some instances both. The fuchsia may sometimes be seen
with the lobes of the calyx partially or wholly green. The lower portion of the
calyx is either united into a tube, as in the scarlet geranium, or all the parts,
or sepals as they are called, remain separate and distinct. In some instances,
as in the mallow, there is a double series of sepals, forming a kind of double
calyx, of which the outer series is termed the epi-calyx. As might be antici
pated from the variety of form in flowers, the form of the calyx is very vari
able. In the nasturtium it is spurred, in the Chinese primrose it is inflated,
and also in the bladder campion; but in composite flowers, to which the
dandelion and daisy belong, the calyx is reduced to fine hair-like threads.
The bright yellow eschscholtzia, which is such a favourite in gardens, has a
singular kind of calyx. As the flowers open, the conical calyx which encloses
the corolla breaks away at the base, and is bome upwards like a cap or ex
tinguisher on the petals, and is soon thrown off.
   The inner series of floral envelopes or corolla, which is generally the showy
portion of the flower, consists either of several distinct parts or leaves, called
petals, or all these are more or less united together into one piece. When the
petals are distinct, so that they can be plucked off one by one, some of them
are occasionally larger, or of different shape from others in the same flower,
and called irregular. Other corollas have the petals all alike, and are, there
fore, said to be regular. If we take a wild dog-rose, a bramble-flower, or a
strawberry-flower, we can count in each five separate and distinct petals, of
the same size and form (Fig. 28). These flowers have, therefore, a regular
corolla of distinct and separable petals, and botanists would call such a one a
" regular polypetalous corolla." But supposing that we collect a pea-flower,
and pull off the petals, we still find that there are five, and that we can se
parate them one from the other ; yet they differ in size and form : first the one
large erect upper petal called the standard, then the two side petals called
the wings, which are smaller, and finally the keel, of two petals, sometimes
partially united. All these together form an irregular corolla of distinct

                                    BOTANY.                                    7i3
and separable petals, or, technically, an " irregular polypetalous corolla " (Figs.
29 and 58).
   When the petals of a corolla are all united into one piece of a regular and
symmetrical form, as in the bluebell, heather, convolvulus, or primrose, it
constitutes a regular corolla with united petals, or in three words, a "regular
monopetalous corolla." But, though regular, these vary much amongst them-
    Fig. 28.               Fig. 29.                Fig. 30.       Fig. 31.
selves, for the corolla of a bluebell is bell-shaped or campanulate (Fig. 30) ;
that of many kinds of heath is urn-shaped or urceolate, being contracted at the
mouth ; the corolla of the convolvulus is funnel-shaped ; that of the primrose
and phlox flattened or salver-shaped (Fig. 31) ; and some others tubular, with
scarcely any expansion at the mouth. All these are, nevertheless, regular in
their form, but there are others which are irregular.
   If we examine a daisy, we shall find not only that what is commonly called
the flower is a cluster of more than a hundred flowers (Fig. 32), but that these
    Fig. 32.                              Fig. 33.                   Fig. 35.
are of two forms. The yellow flowers in the centre, which are termed " the
florets of the disc," are regular and tubular (Fig. 33) ; whilst the white flowers
(composing the fringe —"florets of the ray") are irregular and ligulate or
strap-shaped (Fig. 34). Let no one despise the little daisy, for it has a good
botanical lesson concealed amid its numerous florets for any who will pluck
it in pieces and master its mysteries.
   A similar structure prevails in the dandelion, and other flowers of the natural
order of Composita (compound flowers). The ligulate or strap-shaped florets

7H                                  SCIENCE.
afford one example of an " irregular monopetalous corolla." That common
garden flower, the yellow calceolaria, has another form in which the lips are
hollowed out like a slipper. The dead-nettle, ground-ivy, and mint have
another form in which the corolla has two unequal lips, and is called labiate
or lipped (Fig. 35). A still closer resemblance to a closed mouth will be found
in the toadflax and snapdragon. All these are forms of an " irregular mono
petalous corolla."
   Before quitting this subject, we will repeat two or three short remarks which
should be well impressed on the memory.
   The corolla of flowers is sometimes all in one piece, and is then called a
monopetalous corolla ; but when divided into separate and distinct petals, it
is called polypetalous. If the form is regular, or the petals all alike in shape
and size (though they may differ in colour), the corolla is called regular; but
if the upper part of a corolla has a different form or size from the lower, or the
petals are unequal, the corolla is said to be irregular. In some plants—the
garden tulip, for instance—there is apparently only one floral envelope, com
posed of six equal sized petals, coloured alike, and hardly to be distinguished
from each other. Three of these are outside the three others, and belong to
the calyx, the inner three petals forming the corolla. In such cases it is not
usual to distinguish the sepals from the petals, or the calyx from the corolla,
but to call the whole six flower-leaves together a perianth. This is another
word which requires to be remembered : it is true there are many of them, but
they are the alphabet of botany, and when once mastered, the rest becomes
comparatively easy.
   We must once more return to our scarlet geranium to help us in under
standing the other two kinds of organs which belong to a flower. If we pick
off the petals from a flower plucked from our pet geranium, we shall see therein,
standing at the top of the tube, six thread-like bodies side by side : five of
these are all alike, the sixth, which stands in the middle, is different. The
five are called stamens, and the one which is unlike any of the rest is the
pistil. There are other flowers, equally common, in which we shall be able
to distinguish them better. Let us try a honeysuckle or a primrose. A stamen
consists of a thread-like stalk, which is called the filament, and a thicker, some
what oblong head, which is the anther (Fig. 36). Sometimes the filaments are
more or less united, either at the base only, or nearly throughout their length,
and in a few instances are so short as scarcely to be seen. The anther is by
far the most important part of the stamen : it contains a mass of fine granules,
which is dispersed like dust when the anther opens. This dust is the fertilizing
 principle, and is called the pollen. In orchids the pollen is compacted to
 gether in waxy masses. The pistil generally consists of three parts: a base,
 more or less swollen, which is the ovary; an apex, variable in form, which is
 the stigma; and an intermediate support called the style (Fig. 37). The last-
 named is sometimes absent, and the style is sessile, or seated upon the ovary.
 The stigma consists of a viscid or sticky surface, to which the pollen-grains,
 when shed from the anthers, adhere. The ovary, which afterwards, when fer
 tilized, becomes the fruit, is a cell containing one or more little bodies called
 ovules, which, when developed, are the seeds. When the pollen is shed from
 the anthers it adheres to the stigma, on which it falls or is conveyed by insects.
 Soon after it is attached to the stigma, each pollen-grain sends a little tube
 down the style into the ovary, and the end of this tube passing into one of
 the ovules, the contents of the pollen-grain are transferred to the ovule, which

                                 BOTANY.                                   715
                Fig. 43.                       Fig. 44.          Fig. 45.
becomes fertilized, and the empty pollen-cases are dispersed. If the ovary is
cut across with a sharp pen-knife, the number of ovules which it contains may
be counted, and the manner in which they are arranged determined ; both of
which are often required to be known in the examination of a plant. Some
times the ovules are attached to the walls of the ovary, and sometimes at the

7i6                                SCIENCE.
centre. Sometimes the ovary has no division, and at others it is divided into
two or more cells. These are called one-celled, two-celled, or many-celled
ovaries, as the case may be.
    Before following the ovary to its development into fruit, we must return
again to the flowers and observe the manner in which they are arranged upon
the stem. This" is called the inflorescence. The stalk which supports a flower
is its peduncle, and when there is no stalk it is sessile, or seated upon the stem.
The most simple kind of inflorescence is a spike, in which the flowers have
scarcely any peduncles, and are grouped around the upper portion of the stem
or axis (Fig. 38). The common plantain, used for feeding caged birds, is a
familiar example. The catkins of the willow, poplar, and hazel are a variety
of spike which is deciduous, or quickly falling away, and containing male
flowers, or flowers with stamens but no pistils. The hop and fir-cones are
also varieties of spikes with scales.
    If the flowers are arranged in a similar manner on the stem, but each flower
has a perceptible peduncle which are all of the same length, the inflorescence
is called a raceme (Fig. 39). The flowers of the currant, berberry, &c, are
produced in racemes. A panicle is a kind of compound raceme in which the
peduncles are branched, each pedicel or branch of which bears its flower (Fig.
40). Several kinds of grasses produce their flowers in panicles. There is a
kind of inflorescence called a corymb, in which the peduncles are simple,
springing from different points on the axis, as in a raceme, but the lower pe
duncles are lengthened, so that all the flowers are brought nearly to the same
level (Fig. 41). If the peduncles are branched, it becomes a compound corymb.
    One of the most complex forms of inflorescence is the cyme, which should
be studied in its mode of development. It is common in the stitchwort family
 (Fig. 42). The stem terminates in a flower, then branches arise from the axils
of a pair of bracts a little lower down : these are each surmounted by a flower.
 In turn each of these secondary flowers are supplemented by branches from
the axils of their bracts, and thus the process is repeated till the shoot is ex
hausted.
    A very characteristic inflorescence is the umbel, in which all the flowers are
 supported on peduncles of equal length, springing from the same point ; but
 if each peduncle supports a secondary umbel, the result is a compound umbel,
 as in the carrot, parsnip, hemlock, angelica, and many other common plants
 (Fig. 43), which are hence called umbelliferous, and constitute a very natural
 and generally easily recognized natural order.
    Another very large group of plants have an inflorescence like the daisy and
 dandelion (called a capitulum) in which numerous flowers are compacted to
 gether upon a button-like receptacle, on which they are sessile. These form
 the natural order of Composite plants (Figs. 32 and 45.)
     It has been already remarked that the ovary when mature becomes the
 fruit, and that the ovules ripen into seed. What is commonly termed fruit
  includes in some instances other parts of the plant, so that " fruit," in its
  botanical acceptation, does not always agree with the fruit of the gardener
  and the cook. For example—the bean and pea are fruits in botanical accepta
  tion, but are not so recognized in the kitchen ; whereas the strawberry includes
  also the pulpy receptacle, and the gooseberry and apple have the calyx and
  ovary united in what is termed the fruit.
     As fruit ripens it may divide or open, as the pea and the wallflower, and is
  then called dehiscent; but if, as the cherry and filbert, it does not open, it is

                                   BOTANY.                                    7i7
termed indehUcent. Of each of these there are several kinds according to
their structure and character; and, as the fruit is of great importance in the
classification of plants, the distinctions should be carefully remembered.
   We will commence with " dehiscent " fruits, or those which open as they
approach maturity. If we confine ourselves to British fruits, these will number
five kinds. The follicle, or little bag, which opens down the inner side (ven
tral suture), and never down the back (dorsal suture), as in the common
                   Fig. 49.                                 Fig. 50.       Fig. 48.
 columbine (Fig. 44) ; the legume, opening either down the front or back, or
 along both sutures, as in the pea and bean (Fig. 46); the capsule, which opens
 by valves or pores (Fig. 47), and occasionally by a lid, of which the foxglove,
 the poppy, and the henbane are examples ; the siliqua, a kind of flat capsule
 opening by two valves (from below upwards), leaving the seeds attached on
 both sides of a central partition (Fig. 48), as in the wallflower, cabbage, and
 shepherd's-purse ; the cone or strobilus—although scarcely belonging to this
 group — consists of a dense scaly spike, each scale with seed at the base ;
 when mature, the scales fall back and permit the seeds to escape.
     It will be observed that all the five kinds above enumerated are dry, and
 not pulpy fruits. Some of the " indehiscent " are pulpy, and some kinds are
 dry. Of indehiscent orunopening fruits which are dry, we may enumerate five.
     Before doing this, it will be necessary to explain that the seed-envelope (or
 that portion of the fruit which enclosed the seed) has three layers, which are
  sometimes blended together and sometimes separable. When these layers are
  distinct, the outer is the epicarp, the inner is the endocarp, and the middle is
  the mesocarp; whilst the whole together, whether divisible or not, is the peri
  carp. If these four kinds of carp are well secured, we may proceed with in
  dehiscent fruit which are not pulpy.

718                                SCIENCE.
   An achene, or achenium, is a dry fruit in which the pericarp nlay be readily
separated from the seed. The fruit of the sunflower is an achenium. A cary-
opsis has the pericarp inseparable from the seed, as in a kernel of wheat. The
bran which is sifted from flour is the pericarp of wheat. A utricle has the
pericarp inflated, as in the goosefoot. A glans has a hardened pericarp, with
bracts at the base or enclosed in an involucre, as in the acorn and chestnut.
A samara has the pericarp winged, as in the elm, the ash, and the maple.
(Fig. 49-)
   The pulpy unopening or indehiscent fruit are very easily remembered. Of
those which contain only one seed there is only the drupe, which includes the
cherry, plum, and all one-seeded pulpy fruits. The raspberry and blackberry
fruits are aggregated little drupes, of which a large number are arranged about
a receptacle (Fig. 50). The pulpy fruits with more than one seed are some
times divided into four kinds, but we shall consider them as two—the berry,
in which the seeds are immersed in a pulpy mass, as in the gooseberry, orange,
and melon, and the pome, in which the seeds are enclosed each in a separate
cell, as in the apple and pear.
   A word or two about the seed, and this portion of our work is accomplished.
The seed contains within its own special covering the embryo, which may
occupy the whole or only a part of the interior. This embryo consists of the
radicle ox young root, the plumule or young stem, and the cotyledons or seed-
leaves of the future plant which is to be developed from the seed. All these
sometimes form but a minute point just distinguishable by the naked eye.
When the seed germinates the plumule proceeds upwards, the radicle down
wards, and the first leaf or pair of leaves which appear above the soil are the
cotyledonary or seed-leaves.
    There has been much talk in the world of science during past years about
genera and species, and we must have a few words on the same topic, but
more in the way of explanation than controversy. It is quite essential (if we
would find readily the name of one plant out of a thousand) that some method
should be pursued, or we shall not succeed. This method is classification, or
the grouping of similar things together.
    When, for instance, we look at a bank of primroses, no two flowers are
absolutely alike, any more than two men or two boys are alike; yet they are
so near alike that we say at once that all are primroses, that is, that all belong
to the same species. To such a species, any number of individuals nearly
alike, a botanical name is given, and it is called Primula vulgaris. The first
 is the generic name, and the last the specific or name of the species. If we
 next go into a meadow which is yellow with cowslips, we soon satisfy ourselves
 that all are cowslips, and not primroses (supposing that they are really dis
 tinct), and conclude that they belong to a different species ; we can distinguish
 them, and call them by another name: botanically they are Primula veris.
  Now, there are very many features in which cowslips resemble primroses, so
 that the botanist unites them, with some others, into a group which he calls a
 genus, under the name of Primula, which is the generic name. The genus
 Primula contains one species called veris or "true," and another called vul
 garis or " common," and a third called farinosa or " mealy."
    The use of botanical names will now become apparent. If we had never
 seen a cowslip, and only knew the primrose, we should not know from its
 name whether it was like a primrose or a daisy; but if we use the botanical
  names, and say we know Primula vulgaris, but although we do not know

                                    BOTANY.                                   719
Primula veris, we know from the name that it is nothing like the daisy, but
resembles the primrose or Primula vulgaris, because it belongs to the same
group or genus, and has the same generic name of Primula.
   This system of classification is carried still further. There is a common
little scarlet flower called the pimpernel or " poor man's weather-glass," which
is named botanically Anagallis arvensis; and another equally pretty but quite
distinct species, the bog pimpernel, which is Anagallis tenella. Both these
plants have the first name alike, so that they belong to the same genus—that
of Anagallis; but the second name is different : hence we infer that they are
different species but of the same genus. There are, however, some few points
of structure in which the plants of Anagallis resemble the plants of Primula,
so these again are united with others into a group of genera, called a natural
order, under the name of Primulacea, or the primrose family. So that, after
all, scientific names have their uses, and the study of a science like this is a
study of order, admirable both for its discipline and its influence, as well as
the certainty of its results.
   We must now endeavour, by means of the knowledge acquired, to compre
hend the distinctions between the principal natural orders of British plants.
   All our plants are of two kinds : flowering plants or Phanerogamia, in which
the flowers are exposed and evident ; and flowerless plants or Cryptogamia,
which appear to be flowerless because the organs which serve the purposes of
flowers are concealed. To the former belong all our forest and timber trees,
shrubs, and garden flowers ; and to the latter ferns, mosses, fungi, lichens, sea
weeds, &c.
   With the Cryptogamia we have at present nothing to do, and therefore all
our remarks will apply to flowering plants. Flowering plants may also be
grouped under the two classes called Exogens and Endogens. Some botanists
recognize others, but we shall adhere to these. The difference in the stems of
woody exogens and endogens has already been indicated, but there are other
general features which may be enumerated, and which will serve to strengthen
each other, and compensate for exceptions.
   In exogens the stem has a separable bark, a central pith, concentric layers
of wood, and medullary rays. The leaves have reticulated veins, which branch
and interlace each other in a kind of network. The flowers usually have both
the calyx and corolla divided into four or five parts, or into twice or thrice,
or some other multiple of those numbers ; and the seed-leaves are produced
in pairs, whence they are termed dicotyledons, or with two cotyledons or seed-
leaves.
    In endogens the stem has no separable bark, no distinct central pith, no
concentric zones of wood, and no medullary rays. The leaves have parallel
veins running side by side from base to apex, or from the midrib to the margin
of the leaf. The flowers are divided upon a tripartite plan, with three sepals
to the calyx and three petals to the corolla, or six parts to the perianth, or
twice, three times, or some multiple of three ; and there is but one seed-leaf,
whence they are termed monocotyledons, or with one cotyledon or seed-leaf.
   Some of these distinctions may fail in certain exceptional cases, but the
whole will not fail together. The first thing we must determine of a plant is,
whether it is an exogen or an endogen, or more accurately, whether it is di
cotyledonous or monocotyledonous. The words are long enough and hard
enough, but the distinctions are easy enough, and soon to be acquired. We
will take it for granted that the plant examined is dicotyledonous, since they

720                                SCIENCE.
comprise the largest number of species, and will pass on to the divisions of
dicotyledonous plants.
    Here we must characterize the four sub-classes into which this class is
divided, and bravely encounter four more long names. The first is called
Thalamifloral exogens, the second Calycifloral exogens, the third Monopetal-
ous exogens, and the fourth Monochlamydous exogens. If we endeavour to
ascertain the meaning of these, although they will not become shorter, they
will seem to be less hard to remember.
    If we were to call the Thalamifloral "disc-flowered," the Calycifloral
" calyx-flowered," the Monopetalous " one-petalled," and the Monochlamydous
" one-covered," we should have names apparently less pedantic, but we would
not by that means come much nearer to their meaning. In the first sub-class
of exogens the petals of the corolla are distinct from each other and from the
calyx or outer circle of floral leaves. The stamens are said to be hypogynous,
that is, the bases of'the filaments are so attached that they seem to spring
from underneath the ovary or basal portion of the pistil. The woodcut may
serve to render these distinctions more comprehensible. (Fig. 51.) It is a
section cut down a thalamifloral flower. / represents the petals, c the calyx,
j the stamens, and o the ovary at the base of the pistil.
    Calycifloral exogens are those in which the petals are also usually distinct,
but the stamens, instead of being hypogynous (as in the above), are either
perigynous or epigynous. Now, by " perigynous " it is meant that the stamens
 stand around the pistil, but that the bases of the filaments do not originate
from beneath the ovary. By "epigynous" is meant that the bases of the
 filaments of the stamens spring from or are seated upon the ovary. Thus
 a similar section of a calycifloral flower has the structure indicated in Fig.
 52. The letters refer to the same organs as in Fig. 51.
     It will be observed that in both these sub-classes the petals are separate
 and distinct one from the other. In a few instances they are absent.
     In the sub-class of Monopetals the petals are united, either at the base or
 all together into one piece or corolla. (See Figs. 30 and 53.)
     In the last sub-class, or Monochlamyds, the perianth is really or apparently
 simple ; that is, there only seems to be one circle of floral envelopes instead
 of two, the calyx or corolla being absent, and sometimes both.
     If we endeavour to place the features of these four sub-classes in a clearer
 light, by eschewing all we can of the technicalities, we should say that in two
 of the four groups the outer and inner leaves of the flower are generally pre
  sent, and that the inner leaves are not joined to each other, but may be plucked
  off separately. We may add that the chief distinction between the two groups
  is the manner in which the stamens are attached. In the first group their
  bases are attached under the ovary, and in the second around or upon the
  ovary.
      In the other two groups one has both kinds of floral leaves or envelopes,
  and the other has but one or none. In the group possessing both calyx, or
  outer circle, and corolla, or inner circle, of floral leaves, the inner circle or
  corolla has the leaves joined together at the base, or form a kind of tube.
  Bearing these distinctions in mind, we shall examine each group separately
   through its subdivisions.
      The thalamiflorals are divided, according to the structure of the ovary, into
   two sections. In the smallest section the ovary is said to be apocarpous, and
   in the other section syncarpous. By an " apocarpous " ovary is meant an ovary

                                   BOTANY.                                    "]2t
in which each carpel, or modified leaf of which the ovary is composed, remains
distinct ; and by a " syncarpous " ovary, one in which all the carpels are united
into one compound ovary. "Thus a buttercup has an apocarpous ovary, which,
looks like a cluster of ovaries, because each carpel is distinct. This is seen
better in the fruit, from its larger size, of which we give a figure. (Fig. 54.)
The poppy has a syncarpous ovary, all the carpels being united into one com
pound ovary. The structure is the same in the fruit, which is a larger and
mature state of the ovary, so that we figure the fruit in preference to the ovary.
Each of these sections of thalamiflorals contains several natural orders ; as,
for instance, the first section, in which the ovary is apocarpous, includes the
                Fig. 56.                  Fig. 57.                Fig. 58.
 Ranunculacea or ranunculus family, the Berberidacea or berberry family, and
 the Nympheacea or water-lily family. Each natural order includes several
 genera—often a great many, sometimes only one or two. The Ranunculaceae
 include a great many different genera, but all of them have a certain number
 of petals to their flowers, with a large and indefinite number of stamens. This
 is true of the buttercup, it is true of the anemone, of the aconite, of the mea
 dow-rue, and of the columbine; yet all these plants differ so much in other
 features that they belong to different genera. The genus Ranunculus includes
 all the species of buttercup or crowfoot, and from this genus the whole order
 derives its name. The common meadow crowfoot or buttercup {Ranunculus
 acris) belongs to the natural order Ranunculace/r, and the apocarpous section
 of thalamifloral exogens. It belongs to exogens because of the net-veined
 leaves and twin cotyledons or seed-leaves ; to thalamiflorals, because the
 petals are distinct, and the stamens spring from under the ovary ; to the apo
 carpous section, because the carpels in the ovary are separate ; to the natural
 order Ranunculacca, because of the definite number of petals and the inde
 finite number of stamens ; and to the genus Ranunculus, because the one
                                                                      46

722                                SCIENCE.
seeded carpels form a globose head, and the petals have a scale, or hollow
thickened spot at the base.
  The section of thalamiflorals with syncarpous ovaries contains a great many
natural orders, so that these are generally divided into two sub-sections
according to the internal structure of the ovary, which must consequently be
cut across with a sharp pen-knife and examined with a pocket-lens (see " The
Microscope," Fig. 11), which can be purchased for is. or is. 6d. If we cut
across the ovary of a poppy, and then look at the section through a lens, we
shall observe that the ovules are clustered upon little projections from the
inner surface of the walls of the ovary. These projections are termed placenta,
and represent the edges of the united carpels. When the placentae project
from the inner surface of the walls of the ovary, but do not reach to the centre,
the ovary contains but one cell or cavity, and the placentae are called parietal,
or projections of the wall (Fig. 57). But if the placentae extend to the centre,
and bear the ovules at the centre (Fig. 55), dividing the ovary into cells or
compartments, or if the ovules are borne around a central column, the ovules
are said to be axile (Fig. 56), as in the pink family. The first sub-section
contains the poppy family, or natural order Papaveracea, the crossworts, with
four petals, as the turnip, cabbage, mustard and cress, &c, which belong to
the natural order Crucifera, the mignonette family, the violet family, and some
others. The second sub-section includes the pink family or natural order
Caryophyllacea, the mallow family or Malvacea, the geranium family or Ge-
raniacea, and some others.
   The Calyciflorals differ from the thalamiflorals in the mannej in which the
stamens are inserted. In the present sub-class the stamens are either placed
around or upon the ovary. Taking advantage of these two modes, we may
recognize one section of calyciflorals in which the stamens are perigynous, or
placed around the ovary, and another in which the stamens are epigynous,
or placed upon the ovary.
   The first section includes about a dozen natural orders represented in Britain,
the second contains only four or five.
  The most prominent orders in the first section are the pea-flower family, or
Papilionacea (this is, in fact, only a portion of the order Le^uminosee, the re
maining tribes of the order not being represented in Britain). The flowers
are irregular, of the papilionaceous type, that is, they are supposed to resemble
a papilio or butterfly at rest (Fig. 58). Then there is the order Rosacete, with
regular flowers and a great number of stamens, as in the rose, blackberry,
strawberry, pear, apple, hawthorn, &c; the gourd or cucumber family (natural
order Cucurbitacede); climbing plants with unisexual flowers, that is, the sta
mens in one flower and the pistil in another ; the gooseberry and currant family
(natural order Grossulariacea), containing shrubs with regular flowers, four
or five stamens, and succulent fruit ; and eight other orders.
  The epigynous section includes the large order of umbelliferous plants,
which may generally be distinguished amongst British plants by the flowers
and fruit being borne on umbels, as in the carrot, parsnip, hogweed, parsley,
&c.; the ivy family (or Araliacete), which only includes the ivy in Great Britain;
the mistletoe family, of which we have only the common mistletoe as a repre
sentative ; and the cornel family (natural order Cornacea), of which we possess
only two species of cornel or dogwood.
  We come now to the third sub-class above named, which contains the
monopetalous exogens, in which the petals are united either at the base or

                                    BOTANY.                                  723
all together into a single corolla. In order to refer a plant readily to one of
the twenty-three natural orders which this sub-class contains, it will be well
to divide them into separate groups, of which two will answer our purpose, viz. :
    1. Those in which the corolla is epigynous, or upon the ovary. (In these
instances the ovary is inferior, or below the corolla.)
   2. Those in which the corolla is hypogynous, or surrounds the ovary. (In
these the ovary is called superior, or above the insertion of the corolla.)
   The monopetalous flowers with an inferior ovary have in some orders the
stamens attached to, and borne upon, the inner surface of the tube of the
corolla, and in others the stamens are not so attached. The stamens are
attached to the corolla in the honeysuckle family (or Caprifoliacecc), the bed-
 straw family (Rubiacea), the valerian family ( Valerianacea), the teazel family
(Dipsacea), and the large composite family (Composite), to which order the
daisy and dandelion belong. The stamens are free, or not attached to the
corolla, in the bluebell family (Campanulacea ) and the heath family
(Ericacece).
   Monopetalous flowers with a superior ovary may have the corolla regular
 or irregular, the orders in which the corolla is regular being the most nume
rous, and includes the primrose family (Primulacea); the holly family (Aqui-
foliacea), which only contains one British species; the jessamine family
(Jasminacea), which is represented in Britain only by the ash and the privet ;
the periwinkle family (Apocynacea), which includes the two species of peri
winkle ; the gentian family (Gcntianaccaz); the polemonium family, with one
British species ; the convolvulus family (Convolvulacea); the borage family,
(Boraginacea); and the nightshade family (Solanaceee). The orders in which
the corolla is irregular are the butterwort family (Lentibulacea), the broomrape
family (Orobanchacca), the figwort family (Scrophulariacea), the labiates, or
mint and thyme family (Labiate), and the verbena family (Verbcnacea), which
contains but one British species. There are also two orders associated with
the monopetals having regular corollas, in one of which (Plumbaginacea) the
ovary is simple but bears five styles, and in the other the flowers are small
and usually borne on dense spikes (the plantain family or Plantaginacece), each
 flower having four stamens.
   The fourth and last sub-class of exogens have apparently but one scries of
floral leaves, the calyx and corolla being united into a perianth, or both are
 absent. This sub-class contains a large number of orders, which include
 most of our forest trees and some herbaceous plants.
   The endogens, or monocotyledonous plants, still claim a passing notice. It
should be observed that in most of the exogens (dicotyledons) the parts of
 the flowers are in fours or fives, or some multiple of those numbers, whereas
 in endogens those parts are usually in threes or some multiple of that number,
 as, for instance, three or six petals and three or six stamens. There is, how
 ever, an exception to this rule in one group, in which there is either no peri
 anth or it consists of four small sepals. This group contains the bulrush, arum,
 duckweed, and grasswrack families. There is also another group in which
 the perianth, or envelopes of the stamens, consist only of chaffy scales, as in
 the grasses and sedges. The rest constitute two groups, in one of which the
 ovary is superior, and in the other the ovary is inferior. Those in which the
 ovary is superior contain one order in which the ovary is apocarpous, that is,
 the modified leaves of which the ovary is composed are all distinct, forming,
 when matured, a compound fruit. This is the alisma family, which includes
                                                               46—2

724                                SCIENCE.
the arrowhead, water-plantain, &c The other orders with a superior ovary
are three : the lily family (Liliacea:), the rush family (Juncacea), and a little
order with but one British species named Restiacea.
   The orders in which the ovary is inferior are five. In one the perianth is
very irregular, and the stamens and pistil are combined into a single column :
this is the orchis family (Orchidacea). Another order consists of water-plants
{Hydrocharidcce), of which the anacharis is one species, the frogbit another,
and the third and last is the water-soldier. One order includes but one species
of climbing plant, the black briony, and the order is named Dioscoridea. There
remain, therefore, only two other orders which require to be distinguished from
each other. In one order (Iridacea) the number of stamens is three, and in
the other (Amaryllidacea) the number of stamens is six in each flower.
   Thus far we have briefly characterized the classification of flowering plants.
The limits of the present work would not permit us to do more; but what we
have accomplished will, we trust, serve as a key to the comprehension of some
book which contains the descriptions of the orders, genera, and species of
British plants, such book being usually termed a " Flora." Until the elements
of botany which we have set forth are mastered, the " Flora " will, for all prac
tical purposes, be a sealed book. Herein is presented the most tedious and
least interesting portion, but essential as letters to one who would learn
to read. After the wilderness cometh a Paradise. Whoever has toiled with
us to this resting-place may take heart, for his future progress in the study of
plants will be comparatively easy and amply reward him for the labour of the
past.
              COLLECTING AND PRESERVING PLANTS.
   A collection of dried plants is not only very useful and instructive, but care
and neatness in the execution may make such a collection very pretty. Such
collections arc usually called a herbarium, and every British botanist is am
bitious to possess a herbarium of British plants. For such a purpose a few
plain rules and instructions are all tfcat is necessary, provided a good will is
ready for the work.
   Having resolved upon forming a collection, it will be prudent to prepare the
tools beforehand, and these should consist of the pocket-lens already described,
a tin box or vasculum, such as a japanned sandwich-box. We once knew an
enthusiastic youth who made extensive collections in an old candle-box, slung
at his back with a piece of twine. A few quires of paper of a spongy nature,
so as to absorb moisture (such as grocers employ for wrapping sugar will
answer the purpose), but the size should be a little larger than that of the paper
on which it is purposed ultimately to mount the specimens. A very good size
for a sheet when folded in half is 17 in. by 11 in., or it may be this size and
not folded, which is perhaps most convenient. A stout deal board for the top
and the bottom, and this also half an inch larger each way than the paper.
should be provided. Three or four bricks tied up in brown paper will serve
as weights, each brick forming a parcel. This will be all that is really essential
until the plants arc dried and ready for mounting.
   As ferns are very good plants to commence with, and perhaps the easiest of
any to preserve, we will apply our remarks to.them, and when the method of
drying is acquired by experiments upon them, other plants may succeed.
   The collection of ferns for transplanting and the collection of fronds for
preservation as botanical specimens are to be pursued at very different periods

          COLLECTING AND PRESERVING PLANTS.                                    725
of the year. It may be premised that for botanical purposes fronds destitute
of fructification are worse than useless, unless they belong to species which
produce distinct fertile and barren fronds, and in which the characters and
appearance of these fronds materially differ. In such cases the two kinds of
fronds should be collected and preserved together.
   The period for collecting ferns for the herbarium is, therefore, manifestly
that when the fructification has nearly attained to maturity, and it is always
better to collect them on a dry day than on a very wet one. The collector
should go out prepared for collecting ferns, if he desires that his herbarium
should present a neat and respectable appearance when completed. Some
recommend a vasculum, some a bag, and some a large book under the arm ;
but commend us to two J-in. deal boards, about 11 in. by 17 in., with a strap
and buckle for each end, and twenty sheets of good bibulous paper, cut to the
same size, and placed between them. Having selected a good frond or two
for preservation, taking care not to break the stipe or stalk, but to separate it
from the rhizome or root-stock, bend back the stipe just below the lowest
leaflets of the frond, breaking the woody portion, but not dividing it from the
rest of the frond, and lay it carefully between a sheet of your bibulous paper,
and secure it with the spare paper between your boards ; then proceed in search
of more. Fronds which with their stalks are not too long for the paper should
be laid in without bending.
   In selecting fronds for preservation, it is not the largest that arc required,
but it is rather advisable to collect such specimens as will lie comfortably
between the papers without bending than to aim at procuring,/?/^ specimens,
which may only prove to be a nuisance. A perfect frond of 9 in. in length is
better than a folded or otherwise mutilated one of 19 in. In selecting fronds,
the fruit should not be too ripe, or instead of spores you will only find empty
cases, not to mention the rusty dust that will continually tint your papers. It
is better that the spores should be scarcely matured. Then, again, it should
be noticed whether the frond is eaten by insects, broken, or in any other way
imperfect. Such specimens are to be avoided if others can be obtained.
Finally, the specimens selected should be well grown, and not distorted, un-
symmetrical, or exhibit a tendency to sporting, or departure from the general
type of the neighbouring fronds.
   Having collected what specimens are required and conveyed them home,
the next process consists of drying them for the herbarium. This is accom
plished by removing them from the papers in which they have been collected
and transferring them to fresh paper. Some persons are content with a stout
unsized paper, such as employed by grocers for wrapping sugar, others will
proceed to blotting-paper, whilst the majority will admit that Bentall's botanical
paper is decidedly the best. The ferns should be transferred to a sheet of drying
paper ; two or three thicknesses, or even four or five, may be placed upon it,
and then another specimen, and thus ad libitum. When all are in this manner
transferred, the pile should be placed in a press, or with a stout board above
and below, loaded on the top with some heavy weights—stones, bricks, old
books, or anything applicable for the purpose. Twenty-four hours at the least,
 and forty-eight at the most, they should remain unmoved. At the expiration
 of this period each specimen should be transferred to a dry sheet of paper,
 with three or four thicknesses of dry paper between each specimen, and again
 put under pressure for the same period. The damp paper from which the
 specimens are taken should be at once dried in the sun or before the fire. It

 726                                 SCIENCE.
is always advisable to change the sheet for each variety. The specimens
should be laid on the paper with the under or fructifying surface uppermost,
and the barren side of the frond applied to the paper. Small strips of gummed
paper, about I in. in length, and not more than jf in. in width, should be laid
across the principal and secondary ribs or branches of the frond, and each
end fastened down to the sheet of paper; other pieces may, in like manner,
be placed across the tips of the fronds, or wherever else appears to be neces
sary to secure the specimen to the paper. It may be suggested that too many
such slips disfigure the specimen, and if there are not sufficient it cannot be
retained in its place. Experience must be the best teacher. Some object to
fastening the specimens to paper at all, others recommend gluing them down
by the whole surface. Both these plans appear to us to be equally objection
able. If the specimens are loose, they are not only in danger of being broken
or damaged, but of being misplaced and dissevered from the label which be
longs to them. If wholly glued down, they cannot under many circumstances
be removed from the paper, either to be transferred to other paper or for closer
examination or comparison.
    Each specimen having been mounted, the label which accompanies it should
be fastened down beside it. This may be pasted. Finally, its generic and
specific name should be written legibly at the lower right-hand corner. All
the specimens belonging to one genus should then be collected together and
placed between the folds of a sheet of paper, \ in. wider and longer when
folded than the half-sheets upon which the specimens are mounted. These
" genera covers " may be of the same paper, or a smooth brown paper may be
employed for the purpose. On the outside of the genera covers, at the lower
&//-hand corner, the name of the genus should be written in a good bold hand.
The whole may be transferred to a deal box, the front of which is movable as
well as the lid, being hinged to the bottom, so as to fall down and lie flat on
 the table. The lid may be so contrived as to hold the front in its place when
 closed. A deal box, 9 in. deep, 13 in. wide, and 20 in. long will hold a good
collection, and if this ever should prove too small for the number of specimens
 obtained, a second box of the same dimensions will remedy the evil.
    If it is considered desirable, a little camphor may be kept with the speci
 mens, but the best preservative will be to look them all over, and thus allow
 the air to have access to them, once in every six months. With such precau
 tions a collection may be preserved uninjured for years, provided always that
it is kept in a dry place— not moderately, but thoroughly dry- -or "mould"
may injure irremediably what insects have spared.
    A neat little collection of ferns, of smaller pretentions, and less clains to be
regarded in a scientific light, may be arranged in a kind of album or scrap-
 book, with " guards " introduced by the binder sufficient to compensate for
 the extra thickness caused by the insertion of the specimens. A tinted paper
 is often used in the manufacture of these books, which good taste may trans
 form into a very interesting volume for the drawing-room table.
    In collecting flowering plants it is essential that the plants should be col
 lected when in flower, and, if possible, specimens in fruit should be collected
 and dried therewith. This will seldom be possible, but a later visit to the
 same spot may furnish fruiting specimens, which may be dried and placed
 with the flowering portion. Wherever the plant is small, or .of moderate sire,
 the whole of it, including the root, should be gathered, as this will make the
 specimens more valuable for reference and comparison, and give a better idea

                                    FERNS.                                    727
of the plant. If the seeds are being shed, they should be collected and placed
in a small envelope, which may be fastened on the sheet beside the plant when
it is mounted for the herbarium. Stems which are too thick to lie flat, espe
cially such as are woody, should be pared down at the back with a sharp knife,
care being taken not to interfere with the front or exposed portion of the
specimen.
   Caution.—Never omit to place a label with every specimen, stating where
it was found, and the date of the month and year in which it was collected.
A good collection in all other points is almost valueless if this caution is not
regarded.
   Never put dried plants away, or enclose them in a box, until thoroughly dry,
or they will become mouldy. Take care to keep them, when dried, in a dry
place.
                                   FERNS.
   Ferns are not flowering plants, but they belong to a class in the vegetable
kingdom distinct from exogens and endogens, in which the flowers are con
cealed, hence called " cryptogamia." We cannot say that they have no repro
ductive organs, although they are destitute of true flowers. Some persons call
the cryptogamia "flowerless plants," including ferns,mosses, liverworts, lichens,
fungi, and algae under that name. It is to the ferns only that we desire to
direct attention, and for this our remarks on the flowering plants will have
prepared us. As the dicotyledonous plants have leaves possessing a network
of veins, or reticulated venation, and the monocotyledonous plants a parallel
venation, so ferns have veins which fork or divide in a regular manner into
two parts like the prongs of a fork, and are said to have a furcate venation.
Amongst foreign ferns this character is not so universal as in English species.
There is another peculiarity in ferns which deserves to be remembered : when
the leaves of a fern first appear above the soil, the upper part is usually coiled
inwards like a watch-spring. (Fig. 1.) There are only two or three British
species which do not fold in this manner. Moreover, the spores or seeds of
ferns are borne on the under surface of the fronds, or, in a few instances, upon
modified or metamorphosed fronds. The leaves of ferns are called fronds,
because they combine the functions of stems with those of leaves.
    The fronds of ferns are borne on a stalk, or " stipe," so that when we speak
of the " stipe " of a fern, we mean thereby what would be called the " leafstalk "
or petiole of a flowering plant. The bases of the stipes are attached to a root-
 stock or rhizome, and it is only in some foreign species, called "tree-ferns,"
 that an erect stem is produced.
    It has been said above that the spores or seeds are borne on the under
surface of the fronds, or occupy the whole surface of special and metamor
phosed fertile fronds. These constitute the fruit or fructification, and appear
as brown dots or lines or in confluent masses. These dots or lines, when seen
by a lens, are found to consist of clusters or tufts of brown capsules, which
are the thecte or spore-cases. A single capsule is called a theca, but a cluster
of them is termed a sorus. These clusters, or sort, are sometimes naked, but
more commonly covered, especially in their early stages, with a membrane

728                                SCIENCE.
called an indusium or involucre. The presence or absence and form of this
cover is of great importance in determining the genus and species to which
a fern belongs. The variations in form and mode of attachment of the covers
(indusa) .will be alluded to by-and-bye. But to return to the thecal or spore-
casts : each spore-case is somewhat globose, generally with a short stalk, and
girt by an elastic ring. This ring may pass over the top of the spore-case
(Fig. 2) in a vertical manner, or around it horizontally or obliquely (Fig. 3).
In some ferns the spore-cases are destitute of a ring, but split down the centre
into two valves (Fig. 4). The interior of the spore-cases are filled, when ripe,
with the minute, brown, dust-like spores or seeds.
   The ferns which we shall have to describe may in the first instance be
divided into two primary groups, each containing several genera or groups of
species. The distinguishing feature in this separation will be that in one group
the thecae, or spore-cases, are not surrounded by any annulus, or ring, which is
much the smallest group, and includes but three genera, and which may be
named exannulate, or " without a ring." The other and larger group has
spore-cases always surrounded or girt by a ring, and this we shall call annu
late, or " with a ring."
   First of all, we will examine the small group which we have called
   Exannulate (without a ring).—As already observed, only three genera
constitute this group, of which two have the spore-cases borne on a special
frond, and in the other the spore-cases are borne on the changed upper portion
of an otherwise barren frond. In this group it will be observed that the thecae
or spore-cases are not borne in clusters on the backs or margins of unaltered,
or but little altered, fronds, but are confined to a special portion of the plant,
in which the whole surface so set apart is devoted to its spore-bearing office.
The spore-cases are themselves globose, splitting across the centre into two
valves, to permit the spores to escape. The principal features which may be
 fmployed to distinguish the three genera which compose this group are : the
 spore-cases are arranged on a simple and unbranched spike in adders' tongues
 (Ophioglossum); the spore-cases arc arranged on a compound or branched
 spike in moonworts (Botrychium); the spore-cases are clustered upon the
branched or metamorphosed upper portion of an otherwise barren frond in
 Osmund ferns (Osmunda). (Fig. 5.)
   The general character of the spore-cases in this group are represented in
 Figs. 4 and 5.
   The second and larger group contains all the genera which are—
   Annulate (with a ring).—That we may render the characters of this
 group plainer it will be necessary to resort to a further subdivision into minor
 groups.
    If the spore-cases of all the species could be examined in succession, it
 would be observed that in a few of them the ring is oblique, whilst in the
 majority of them the ring is vertical. Thus we are enabled to remove the
 sub-group with oblique rings for future consideration, and for the present deal
 only with those genera in which the ring is vertical.
   As the sub-group still reserved is a large one, it will be essential to find
 some other character which is common to a few of the genera and not present
 in the others. If we look at the clusters of spore-cases, which we have already
 observed are called sort, and which are arranged on the back or at the margins
 of the fronds, it will be observed that in some instances the tufts are quite
 naked, whilst in others they are covered with, or surrounded by, a membrane

                                    FERNS.                                       729
         Fig. 1.                                   Fig. 3.               Fig. 4.
               Fig. 5.                    Fig. 6.          Fig.        Fig. 8.
of variable form. This enables us to constitute two sections of our sub-group,
in which
   Suction I.—The tufts of spore-cases are naked ;
   Section II.—The tufts of spore-cases are covered (indusiate).
   The first section, with naked tufts, contains three genera, which may be
distinguished by the following characters: the clusters are circular, and the
margin of the frond is flat (not rcflexed), in the polypodies (Polypodium). The
clusters are at first circular, afterwards spreading one to the other and be
coming confluent, the margin of the frond bent back (reflexed), in the parsley
fern (Allosorus). The clusters are elongated or linear in the Jersey fern
(Gymnogramma).
   By attention to the above characters, it will be easy to refer any fern with
naked sori, which is a native of Great Britain, to its proper genus.
   The second section, with covered or indusiate tufts, or clusters of spore-cases,
contains eleven genera, so that it will be necessary to separate those with true
or evident coverings from those in which the covering is imperfect. If, with
this limitation, we examine the seven genera in which the clusters are truly
and manifestly covered, we shall find that in two of these the clusters are
circular, in four of them the clusters are elongated, and in the seventh they
form a continuous line down the frond. Thus we may state their characters :
   Clusters circular. —Covering kidney-shaped in the boss ferns (Lastrea).
(Fig. 6.)— Covering circular in the shield ferns (Polystichum). (Fig. 7.)
   Clusters oblong or linear.— Covering oblong, kidney-shaped, and fringed at
the outer margin, lady fern (Athyrium). (Fig. 8.)— Covering straight in
spleenworts (Asplenium). (Fig. 9.)
   Clusters in pairs.—Covering opening down the centre between the twin
clusters in hart's tongue (Scolopendrium). (Fig. 10.)— Spore-cases concealed
amongst brown chaffy scales in the scale fern (Ceterach).— Finally, the clusters
of spore-cases form a continuous line along the back of the frond between the
midrib and the margin, with a linear covering, in the hard fern {Blechnum).
(Fig. 11.)

730                                           SCIENCE.
   It will be observed that in all the above seven genera, in which there is a
true covering, the fructification is dorsal; that is, it is borne on the back of
the frond. In the four following genera, in which the covering is imperfect,
the fructification is marginal, that is, it is borne along the edges of the fronds.
In two of these the cover is formed by the bending back of the margin of the
frond. The whole margin rolled back forms a covering in the bracken (Pieris).
(Fig. 12.) —Lobes of the margin folded back form the covering in the maiden
hair (A diantum). (Fig. 15.)
   In the remaining two genera, having an imperfect or modified covering, one
of these has a kind of special indusium attached behind, and covering the
spore-cases as if with a hood, in bladder ferns (Cystopteris). (Fig. 13.) The
other has a roundish, somewhat cup-shaped receptacle, with fringed margins
(Woodsia). (Fig. 14.).
   Thus far we have given the prominent characters of all the genera of
British ferns in which the spore-cases are surrounded by a vertical ring. It
has already been observed that there remains a small group, consisting only
of two genera, in which the ring is oblique, and these are still further charac
terized by the thin membranaceous texture of the fronds. In this group the
tufts of spore-cases are enclosed in a kind of receptacle. This receptacle is
urn-shaped in the bristle ferns (Trichomanes). (Fig. 16.)—The receptacle is
two-valved in the filmy ferns (Hymenophyllunt). (Fig. 17.)
    In order to affix these characters more permanently on the memory, they
are given in the form of a tabic : *
   First Group. —The spore-cases without a ring.
       Spore-cases or seed-vessels borne on a separate frond,
           in a simple spike                                                     Adder's Tongue.
       In a branched spike                                                       Moonivort.
       Spore-cases or seed-vessels borne on the upper part of
          a barren frond, which is branched ....                                 Osmund Ferns.
    Second Group.—The spore-cases surrounded by a ring.
    In the following the ring is vertical:
                                           Spore-cases naked.
       Spore-tufts circular and distinct                                         Polypodies.
       Spore-tufts running together                                              Parsley Fern.
       Spore-tufts elongated .                                                   Jersey Fern.
                                          Spore-cases covered.
    With a proper cover :
       Spore-cover kidney-shaped, attached at the edge                        .  Boss Ferns.
       Spore-cover circular, attached at the centre                    .      .  Shield Ferns.
       Spore-cover kidney-shaped and fringed .                         .      .  Lady Ferns.
       Spore-cover straight, opening towards the midrib .                        Spleenworts.
       Elongated tufts of spore-cases in pairs, side by side,
           covers opening down the middle ....                                   Harfs Tongue.
       Tufts of spore-cases concealed amongst brown scales                        Scale Fern.
       Tufts of spore-cases arranged in a long line                     .     .  Hard Fern.
   * The young botanist must bear in mind that many or the terms employed here are not rigidly and
 scientifically correct, but are the nearest approximation which popular language permits.

                                  FERNS.                                    73i
  With a false or imperfect cover :
     Formed from the reflexed edge of the frond              Bracken.
    Formed from reflexed lobes of the frond .                Maidenhair.
    Spore-cover forming a hood        ....                   Bladder Ferns.
    Spore-cover cup-shaped and fringed .                      Woodsia.
  In the following the ring is oblique :
     Spores contained in a cup-shaped receptacle             Filmy Ferns.
     Spore-cases contained in a two-valved receptacle        Bristle Ferns.
                                                                      Fig. 17.
                    The commonest ferns of lowland districts are the bracken,
      Fie. 12.     male fern, lady fern, common polypody, black spleenwort,
                   hart's tongue, shield ferns, marsh fern, and royal fern, the
two last in marshy places. The Brake or Bracken is so common and well
known that it would be superfluous to enter upon a description. The spore-
cases are arranged in a single narrow line along the edge of the frond, with
the margin of the frond curled back to cover them. The scientific name is
Pteris aquilina.

732                                 SCIENCE.
   The Male Fern is common on hedgebanks, in woods, and all sheltered situa
tions. The fronds are feathery and from two to three feet in length, growing
in a tuft from the top of the rootstock. The footstalk is scaly and the outline
of the frond spear-shaped. The fronds are divided in a pinnate or feathery
manner, and each of the pinnae or leaflets are again subdivided in the same
way. The spore-cases are in tufts on the backs of the fronds, often confined
to the lower portion of the leaflets. These are nearly circular, with a kidney-
shaped covering, or indusium. The scientific name is Laslrita filix-vias.
   The Lady Fern delights in damper situations—moist woods, beside ditches
and streams—and is of a more delicate habit than the male fern. The fronds
average nearly the same size, and are also produced in tufts at the top of the
rootstock. The spore-cases are not so circular as in the male fern, and the
covering or indusium is almost horseshoe-shaped, distinctly fringed at the
outer edge. The latter character (that of the spore-cover) is sufficient to dis
tinguish the present from any other British species. Its botanical name is
A thyrium Jilix-fcemina.
   The Polypody flourishes on old hedgebanks, stumps, pollard trunks, thatched
roofs, and similar situations. The rootstock is creeping, and from the size of
a quill to that of the little finger. The fronds are produced singly on long
footstalks, often aggregated in large patches. The fronds are narrow, and
divided nearly to the midrib in a feathery manner. The tufts of spore-cases
are large and without any covering. By the above features it is easily recog
nised, and can" scarcely be confounded with any other British fern. The scien
tific name is Polypodium vulgare.
   The Black Spleenwort is also common on hedgebanks, especially on a sandy
soil, and a stunted form occurs on old walls. The fronds are usually acutely
triangular, on long blackish wiry footstalks, and produced in tufts, looking
something like a tuft of parsley, but darker in colour and more rigid. The
spore-cases are often profuse, and in the young state are in distinct oblique
lines, but when mature nearly cover the under surface of the fronds. The
botanical name is Asplenium adiantum-nigrum.
   The Hart's Tongue is found on hedgebanks, old walls, the sides of wells, and
 in a variety of situations. The fronds are glossy, smooth, and undivided,
long and narrow, almost strap-shaped, on long footstalks. They are produced
in tufts, the outer ones curling over to the ground, and the central standing
 nearly erect. The spores are arranged in parallel lines, proceeding obliquely
on either side of the prominent midrib towards the margin. Each of these
lines consists of a double series of spore-cases, which are at first covered with
a thin membrane, but which soon ruptures down the centre between the twin
clusters and exposes the spore-cases. The scientific name is Scolopendrium
vulgare.                              *
   The Shield Ferns are perhaps less common than any of the species above
enumerated, but they are by no means uncommon. There are two species
 (the third, or holly fern, is confined to mountains) : one is called the prickly
shield fern, the other the soft shield fern. These two shield ferns greatly re
semble each other, and by some botanists arc regarded as the same species.
They are found in similar localities, on shady hedgebanks, and may be dis
tinguished from the male fern and other species of lastrea by the form of the
indusium, or cover to the clusters of spore-cases. In the shield ferns the cover
is circular and attached by the centre, whilst in lastrea it is kidney-shaped and
 attached at the sinus, or notch at the side. The soft shield fern is of a softer

                                       FERNS.                                   733
 texture than the prickly shield fern, and the leaflets are angular at the base and
 stalked, whilst in the prickly shield fern the leaflets are wedge-shaped at the
 base and not stalked. The botanical name of the soft shield fern is Poly-
 stichum aculeatum, and of the prickly shield fern Polystichum angularc.
    The Marsh Fern is confined to marshes
 and boggy places. (Fig. 18.) Therootstock
 is slender and creeping, and the fronds
 produced singly, but aggregated in large
 patches. The fertile fronds are the largest.
 The leaflets are compound, long and nar
 row, and arranged in a feathery manner ;
 throughout their whole length they are cut
 nearly to the midrib into long narrow lobes.
 The leafy portion is not longer than the
 naked footstalk. In some English counties
 this fern is very rare.
    The Royal Fern is also confined to simi
 lar localities. It is one of the most mag
 nificent of British ferns, sometimes eight
 feet high and upwards. The spore-cases
 are not borne at the back of the fronds, as
 in the other species that we have enume
 rated, but, instead thereof, the upper por
 tion of a frond becomes changed or me
 tamorphosed. The pinnae are shortened
 and contracted at first, appearing as if
 blighted ; ultimately the whole upper por
 tion of the frond assumes a rusty brown
 colour, and seems converted into a panicle
 of closely-packed spore-cases, each of
 which is borne on a short stalk, without a
 covering, and opens vertically into two
 valves.
   There are other lowland ferns which are
plentiful in certain localities, but restricted
in their distribution. Of these may be men
tioned the adder's tongue, spring boss fern,
broad boss fern, crisped boss fern, wall
spleenwort, scale fern, and hard fern.
   The Adder's Tongue has an erect stem
of from 6 in. to 12 in. in height, terminated
by a club-shaped head, in which the spore-
cases are embedded in two opposite rows,
one on each side of the spike. When
mature, the spore-cases split across the
centre and discharge the enclosed spores.
From the side of the erect stipe or stem a
barren frond is borne. This barren frond
is leaf-like, sheathing the stem in its lower                   Fig. :8.
portion, and expanding upwards into a
more or less obtusely ovate or egg-shaped form. The adder's tongue delights

734                               SCIENCE.
in damp meadows and loamy pastures, and is in perfection in June and July.
Its scientific name is Ophioglossumvulgatum.
   The Spiny Fern has a stout branching rootstock, from which the fronds are
developed in tufts of from I ft. to 3 ft. in height. Their outline is long and
narrow, scarcely spear-shaped, with feathery branches of nearly equal length, '
except near the apex of the frond. The footstalk occupies about half the entire
length of the frond, and the leafy portion is flat. The leaflets are arranged in
a feathery manner along the branches ; these are of an elongated oblong out
line, deeply cut into numerous lobes, each lobe being in itself surrounded by
sharp-pointed teeth, or little spines, whence the name of the fern is derived.
The leafstalk is clad throughout with little scattered pointed scales. The tufts of
spore-cases are rather small, and their covering kidney-shaped, with a waved
margin destitute of glands. Its botanical name is Lastrea spinulosa.
   The Broad Boss Fern is found in shady lanes and damp woods. It has a
large rootstock, from which the fronds are developed in tufts, curving outwards
in an arched manner, and forming spreading clumps of long feathery fronds,
from 1 ft. to 4 ft. in length. The footstalk is thick at the base and densely
covered with pointed spear-shaped scales. The outline of the fronds, though
very variable, is usually spear-shaped, and the branches are disposed in a fea
thery manner. The leaflets have an oblong outline, deeply cut and lobed, each
lobe having its margin set with spiny teeth. The covering of the spore-cases
is kidney shaped, and has the margin fringed with stalked glands. The scien
tific name is Lastrea dilatata.
   The Crisped Boss Fern is found on shady banks and damp woods in the west
of England. The fronds are in tufts, from 1 ft. to 2 ft. in length. The foot
stalk is scaly, and the outline of the leaf triangular. The branches are dis
posed in a feathery manner, the lowest pair being the longest, and decreasing
upwards. The leaflets are oblong and disposed also in a feathery manner
along the branches, those on the lower side being larger than those on the
upper. The edges of all are notched, sometimes deeply into lobes, and at
others only into short teeth. The edges of all the leaflets are curled inwards,
so as to give a characteristic crisped appearance to the fronds. The tufts of
spore-cases have kidney-shaped coverings, fringed at the edge with stalked
glands. These glands contain an essential oil, which communicates its odour
to the plant when bruised. It is sometimes called the hay-scented fern. The
scientific name is Lastrea amula.
                                      Fig. 19.
   The Wall Spleenwort occurs on old walls, amid ruins, and in rocky districts.
It bears a great resemblance to the green spleenwort, from which it may be
distinguished chiefly by the blackish leafstalk. The roundish leaflets being
nearly in pairs along the midrib or leafstalk, diminishing in size towards the
apex. The fronds are produced in tufts from the crevices of walls, &c, and
are seldom more than 6 in. or 7 in. in length, often less. Two or three elon-

                                     FEUNS.                                    735
gated tufts of spore-cases are developed on each side of the midrib of the
leaflets. These often become confused together as they approach maturity,
and almost cover the under side of the leaflets. The scientific name is Asple-
nium trichomanes. (Fig. 19.)
   The Scale Fern, sometimes called " rusty-back," is also a lover of old ruins
and crumbling walls. It grows in a close tuft from a short, thick, scaly root-
stock. The fronds are from 4 in. to 6 in. in length, deeply cut on each side
into rounded notches nearly down to the midrib, so as to form a series of
                                       Fig. 20.
rounded lobes. The upper surface is of a dull green, and the under surface a
rusty brown, from the numerous brown scales which conceal the spore-cases.
The fronds are thick and leathery, and the appearance of the fern is quite
distinct from that of any other British species. Its botanical name is Ceterach
officinarum. (Fig. 20.)
   The Hard Fern is not uncommon, but local. It is found on heaths, in woods,
and rocky localities, generally in the neighbourhood of water. The fronds are
of two kinds, the fertile being the longest, and are erect in the centre, the
barren on the outside lying on the soil like a rosette. The outline is long and
narrow, deeply cleft on each side nearly to the midrib into narrow lobes. The
fertile fronds are divided quite down to the midrib, but the lobes are narrower,
with a greater distance between them. The footstalks of the barren fronds
are short, but those of the fertile fronds are nearly half the length of the frond.
The spore-cases form a narrow line on each side of midrib of the lobes of the
fertile fronds. The scientific name is Blechnum spicant.
   The ferns that are confined to rocky and mountainous situations are the
moonwort, beech fern, alpine polypody, oak fern, limestone polypody, parsley
fern, mountain boss fern, wall rue, green spleenwort, brittle bladder fern, and
the filmy ferns. In one or two instances these are found under favourable
circumstances in lowland districts, as, for instance, the moonwort in pastures
and the wall rue on old churches, but they flourish more naturally in higher
stations. Some of the rarer species hereafter indicated are also mountain-
lovers.
   The Moonwort is a very singular-looking little plant, and at first would
scarcely be taken for a fern. It usually occurs in mountain pastures and moors.
The whole plant is from 5 in. to 7 in. in height, sometimes less, the upper por
tion forming a compound spike, bearing the spore-cases, which have neither
ring nor covering, and burst when mature into two valves, somewhat after the
manner of the adder's tongue and the royal fern. From the latter it is readily"
distinguished by its size, and from the former by its compound spikes and
lobed fronds. The barren frond, of which there is usually but one to each
plant, is divided on each side into a series of fan-shaped lobes, of which from
four to six or seven pairs occur upon a frond. The scientific name of this fern
is Botrychium lunaria.

736                               SCIENCE.
   The Beech Fern is found beneath the spray'of waterfalls and in damp rocky
places. It has a wiry creeping rootstock, and the fronds have a nearly tri
angular outline. They are from 8 in. to 12 in. in height, of which the foot
stalk occupies at least one-half. The upper portion of the frond is divided
nearly to the midrib in a feathery or pinnate manner, whilst the lower portion
forms distinct leaflets, deeply notched into lobes. The lowest pair of leaflets
are directed downwards, which gives a peculiar appearance to the frond. The
spore-cases are borne in rounded tufts, without coverings, on the under surface
of the fronds. Its botanical name is Polypodium phegopteris.
   The Alpine Polypody has very much the appearance of a small lady fern.
The rootstock is short, with a tuft of fronds at the crown. These fronds arc
borne on short scaly footstalks, and are from 9 in. or 10 in. to 2 ft. or 3 ft. in
length. They are not only divided into separate distinct leaflets along each
side of the midrib, with a spear-shaped outline, but each of these leaflets is
again divided to the centre in a feathery manner into lobes, or segments,
called pinnules, and is therefore called bi-pinnate. The pinnules, or ultimate
                                     Fig. 31.
subdivisions, are between oblong and egg-shaped, and sharply toothed along
the margins. So deeply cut are the marginal teeth in some cases, that the frond
has the appearance of being again pinnate—tri-pinnaie, or three times divided
in a pinnate manner. The circular spore-cases on the under surface of the
fronds are without coverings. This fern is common in some parts of the
Scotch mountains, often in company with the lady fern. The scientific name
is Polypodium alpestre.
   The Oak Fern is not uncommon in mountainous localities, in the chinks of

                                      FERNS.                                 737
 stone walls by the roadside in Wales, and amongst rocks near dripping springs.
 It has a slender creeping rootstock, from which arise the graceful triangular
 fronds, borne on slender dark-coloured stipes, which are twice the length of
 the leafy portion. The fronds are triangular in outline, divided into three
 nearly equal branches, the outline of which is also triangular. Each branch
 has its lower portion divided into distinct leaflets, which are again divided
 nearly to the central vein in a feathery manner. The upper portion of the
 branches is cleft into lobes, gradually becoming more divided towards the
 base. The tufts of spore-cases are circular and scattered, without coverings,
 on the under surface of the fronds, but many of the fronds are usually barren,
 especially when growing in a'damp favourable situation. The scientific name
 is Polypodium dryopteris. (Fig. 21.)
    The Limestone Polypody somewhat resembles the oak fern in the form of
 the fronds, which are triangular, and the surface has a mealy appearance. The
 clusters of spore-cases are near the margin on the under surface, and destitute
 of coverings. This fern has a predilection for calcareous soils, and is not
 uncommon in the rocky parts of Derbyshire and a few other localities. The
 botanical name is Polypodium Robertianum.
    The Parsley Fern resembles, as its name imports, a tuft of green parsley,
 and is found chiefly in mountainous localities in the north of England and
 Wales. The fronds are of two kinds. The early fronds are barren and about
 6 in. or 7 in. in length, two-thirds of which is occupied by the stalk; the rest
 has a long triangular outline, branched and divided into a great number of
 wedge-shaped leaflets, which are notched at the end. The fertile fronds are
 rather longer, and the leaflets narrowly oblong. The clusters of spore-cases,
 though when young distinctly circular, on the backs of the leaflets, soon spread
 to each other and cover the entire surface. The scientific name is Allosorus
 crispus.
    The Mountain Boss Fern has a thick rootstock,
from which proceeds a tuft of feathery fronds, from
2 ft. to 3 ft. in height, resembling in arrangement the
feathers in a shuttlecock. It has a distinct odour
when bruised, and is hence sometimes called the
Fragrant Mountain Fern. The outline of the fronds
is spear-shaped, with a very short footstalk. The
leaflets diminish in length upwards and downwards,
so that the lower leaflets are almost reduced to a
single lobe. Each leaflet is cut nearly to the mid
rib into long narrow lobes. The lower surface is
covered with minute glands, which contain the bal
samic secretion to which the odour of the plant is
due. The tufts of spore-cases are covered with
kidney-shaped coverings, as in other boss ferns. Its
botanical name is Lastrea oreopteris.
   The Wall Rue is found sometimes on old churches
and ruins in lowland districts, but most freely and
commonly in mountainous localities, forming dull
green tufts, from 2 in. to 4 in. or 5 in. in length. The
tough, wiry leafstalk is comparatively long, and bears
at the apex and on each side wedge-shaped leaflets
in clusters of threes. (Fig. 22.) There is considerable irregularity in the form
                                                                    47

 738                                  SCIENCE.
 of the leaflets, and some deviation in the arrangement of them. The clusters
 of spore- cases are arranged in lines on the under surface of the fronds, and
 the covering splits with a jagged or toothed edge. The name by which it is
 known to botanists is Asplenium ruta-muraria.
    The Green Spleenwort is a pretty little fern, with fronds seldom more than
                                          Fig. 23.
 6 in. or 7 in. in length, with a central wiry green midrib, or leafstalk, and small
 egg-shaped leaflets arranged in pairs along it from within a short distance of
 the root. (Fig. 23.) On the under surface of each leaflet the spore-cases are
arranged in lines, at first distinct, but afterwards more or less blending. The
fronds are produced in tufts, with wiry rootlets. It is chiefly found in moun-
        Fig. 24.                       Fig. 25.                      Fig. 26.
tainous districts, and is not so common as the wall spleenwort, from which it
may be distinguished by the colour of the leafstalk. It is called Asplenium
viride.
   The Brittle Bladder Fern is one of three oritish species in which the covering
of the tufts of spore-cases has the form of a hood. The other two species are
rare. This species grows in tufts, usually about 6 in. or 8 in. in height, of
which the brittle leafstalk occupies nearly half the length. The outline of the
leafy portion is spear-shaped. The branches are usually at some distance
apart, and taper towards the extremity, so as to have an elongated, egg-shaped
outline, deeply cut into narrow lobes, which are notched at the edges. The
tufts of spore-cases are often numerous, rounded, and at first distinct, but by
spreading till they meet each other, the under surface of the fronds occasion-

                                     FERNS.                                       739
ally appears to be completely covered with the spore-cases. It is found in
moist rocky situations in mountain districts, and is known botanically as
Cystopferis fragiiis.
   The Filmy Ferns are represented by two species, often found growing to
gether on dripping rocks or beneath the spray of waterfalls. These little plants
are so diminutive that they are almost as much like mosses as ferns to the
uninitiated, and the delicate texture of the leaves serves to strengthen such
an impression. The characters which separate the two species are so technical
that it is very probable that the amateur will mistake one for the other. The
Tunbridge filmy fern is not more than 2 in. in height, with a creeping, black,
wiry rootstock (Fig. 24). Our figure, which is the natural size, will give an
idea of its appearance. The receptacles which contain the spore-cases are
urn-shaped, and produced at the edges of the fronds. They are flattened, and
toothed at the edge. Wilson's filmy fern is about the same size, and has a
similar habit, except that the leaflets are often all turned towards one side (Fig.
25.) The spore-cases are contained in similar receptacles, which are not at
all flattened, and consist of two valves, the edges of which are smooth, and
not toothed or jagged. The botanical name of the Tunbridge fern is Hymeno-
pkyllum Tunbridgense, and of Wilson's fern, Hymenophyllum Wilsoni.
   The species of British ferns which may be considered rare or local are : the
little adder's tongue, the Jersey fern (Fig. 27), crest fern, stiff boss fern, crisped
boss fern, holly fern, forked spleenwort (Fig. 26), alternate spleenwort, sea
spleenwort, rock spleenwort, bristly spleenwort, maidenhair, royal bladder
fem, mountain bladder fern, the Woodsias, and the Killarney fern.
                                      Fie. »7-
                                                                   47—2

                                        %tti.
                                  SURVEYING.
     Surveying may be defined as the art by. which we represent portions o
   country on a diminutive scale.
      1 1 is very rare to find any person at all educated who cannot understand a
   plan or map, and who, therefore, cannot find his way in a strange country by
   the aid of a map ; but it is not very common to find a person capable of making
   a map or plan. To make an accurate map of a large portion of country is a
   long and laborious work, and requires skilled workmen ; but to make a plan
   of a small farm or park is by no means difficult. We will, therefore, proceed
   to describe the method of making such a map.
                                                             Fig. j.
      We will suppose that A B c D E, Fig. I, is a small farm or portion of ground
   which we require to survey, and of which we wish to make a map.
      We should first walk over the ground, so as to obtain a general idea of the
   shape of the farm. If we can find an elevated point on the farm, so as to
   obtain a bird's-eye view, so much the better. We should then fix upon four
   points within the farm, and which may be seen from each other, and so situated
   that they are near the boundaries we wish to survey, opqr, Fig. 2, are such
   points.
      At these points, termed " stations," we should place flag-staves, or poles with
   paper attached to them, or adopt some means for clearly seeing them, and
-\

                                SURVEYING.                                   74i
between these one or two short sticks should be placed, so as to mark accu
rately the straight line joining them.
  In selecting these stations we should endeavour to avoid obstacles between
them, such as houses, thick woods, &c, so that we could measure between the
two points.
  Having provided ourselves with a measuring-chain, which is 66 ft. long and
divided into 100 parts called links, an arrangement well suited for obtaining
acreage : a measuring-tape, or even a common rope divided into yards, will
do; also take a staff about 10 ft. long, or 10 links long if using a chain; a
note-book with two ink lines down the middle of a dozen or so pages, and we
are provided with all the necessary articles for our survey.
  We will suppose that we are using a chain, with which ten pins or arrows
are used, an arrow beine; placed in the ground by the chain-leader at the end
of each chain, which arrow is taken up by the chain-director as the latter
comes up to it ; thus the chain-director knows how far he has gone by the
number of arrows in his hand.
  Starting from the station, o, we write at the bottom of the page in our note
book, which is termed the " field-book," the name of our station and the line
   Tie Jo
               380
               ZOO
         OP from, 0
                 Fig. 3.                                    Fig. .
along which we are working, thus, " Line O P from O." Before beginning to
measure along O P, we should with our staff measure the distance of the hedge
from the point O, and insert this on the proper side of our double column in
the field-book. Suppose this distance to S to be 20 links.
  Next measure along o P, noting where hedges cross the line, and where the
hedge on the right bends. At each bend measure to the hedge, this measure
being termed an " offset," noting at what distances up the line O P these offsets
are taken.
   Suppose that at no links we measured to the bend T 40 links, at 200 links
to the bend u 90 links; at 280 suppose the hedge crossed our line, and we

  742                                 ARTS.
 measured to v an offset of 20 links. In a similar manner offsets would be
 measured to w, x, and y, till we come to P, where the total length of our line
 we will suppose to be 940 links.
    Referring to the representation of our field-book, we can see how this result
 would be booked.
    We have from this one line and the offsets sufficient information to enable
 us to sketch the hedge from O to P, as well as a portion of the cross hedges.
    In like manner we should measure from P to Q, Q to R, and R to O, and by
 means of offsets we obtain the house, hedges, &c, near these lines.
    Next measure " check-lines," as they are termed, from P to R and from R to
 P, noting as before offsets, crossings, &c
    Before we commence details we should test whether our work so far has
 been done correctly, and this we can discover as follows •
    On a piece of drawing-paper, sufficiently large for the scale we have selected,
 draw the line O Q or P r. Then, taking a distance equal to o p in our com
passes, describe an arc with O as a centre, so as to pass near where ".ve suppose
 P to be ; then, with Q as centre and the distance Q P, describe another arc :
 where this second arc intersects with the first will be the point P. In the same
 manner fix the point R ; then, if the work be correctly done, the distance P R
 will be the same on the plan as it was found by measurement.
    The diagram, Fig. 3, would be the appearance of our plan at this portion of
 our proceedings, and we should now have to fill up details. These details are
 all done in the same manner, so we will give but one example, viz., the method
 of getting the banks of the pond, F, Fig. 1, correctly.
    On looking at Fig. 2, we find in the line O Q the letter H ; this letter repre
sents the position ofa stake in the ground, or a mark cut there, or some station
that we noted as we measured along the line O Q, this mark being registered
in the field-book, and called "bench-mark" (B.-M.), in the following manner:
" B.-M. 320, in line O to Q." In like manner the bench-mark K would be noted.
We could, therefore, plot the line H K, because we know its termination in the
two lines O Q and O R, and we should measure its length and take offsets to the
pond wherever there was a bend. By proceeding in the same manner with the
small line L m, we should by means of offsets get the side that alone remained
to be surveyed.
   In this manner hedges, &c, could be sketched, and thus the whole of the
enclosures could be put correctly on the map.
   In order to make a sketch complete, we should tint the streams and ponds
light blue, the houses red, and the roads a light burnt sienna colour
                       When a plan has been made we should know how to
       ^L            obtain what is called the area of the fields ; that is, how
      / ; n^         many acres, roods, and perches it contains. To do this is
    /       _..\b    very easy, if we have made our survey with a 66-ft. chain,
        i" /         because 100,000 square links are equal to an acre.
            ..&        Suppose CADEFBtobea field, the area of which is
         / :\        required. We cut this field up into triangles, such as A B c,
       / / Jr        A B D, D E C, C F E. Then by dropping perpendiculars,
           ; /       such as C x, we measure A B, and multiply this by half
          y          C x (these measures being taken off our plan), and the pro-
          x          duct will be in square links. Suppose we thus obtain
                     325,674 square links, by striking off five figures to the right
we obtain 3 acres, and the 25,674. will be decimals of acres, which we can mul

                                 SURVEYING.                                   743
tiply by 4 to obtain roods, and 40 to obtain perches, thus obtaining our acreage
in acres, roods, and perches.
   When a hedge bends or twists, we must draw one side of our triangle so as
to make a balance between what we throw out of the field and what we take
in, care being taken that we use so many triangles as to leave this estimate
but for a very small amount.
   A very correct survey of a portion of ground of two or three miles square
may be made by this means.
                           Heights and Distances.
   Under the head of surveying we may fairly class obtaining the heights and
distances of inaccessible objects. To be able to measure the height of a tree
or of a building, or to get the distance across a river, is a very useful pro
ceeding, and as this is a very simple problem, we will describe the method. •
   When the sun shines the tree will, of course, throw a shadow. We can
then either pace the length of the shadow, or measure it with our walking-
stick, the length of which, in feet and inches, we should always know. We
may then place the walking-stick upright in the ground, and should prove (by
means of a plummet-line, which may be easily made with a string and a stone
at the end) that the stick is upright : then measure the length of the shadow
cast by the stick.
   Suppose we found the shadow cast by the tree to be 40 paces, and we know
our usual pace to be 30 in., then the length of the shadow would be 1,200 in.
Suppose, also, the length of the shadow of the stick was 50 in., and the stick
was 36 in. long Then by simple proportion we say, " as the length of the
shadow cast by the stick is to the height of the stick, so is the length of the
shadow cast by the tree to the height of the tree." Putting this in figures it
becomes as 50 : 36 : : 1,200 to the height of the tree. By multiplying, as in
rule of three, the second and third together, and dividing by the first, we obtain
864 in. for the height of the tree, that is, 72 ft.
                         Fig. 5.                                 Fig.
   In case the sun does not shine, or we cannot conveniently make use of the
shadow, another simple method is to place a stick in the ground, then to lie
down and place the eye close to the ground, and so that the top of the tree
coincides with the top of the stick.
   Thus E represents the eye, S K the stick, and T R the tree ; and K, the top of
the stick, and R, the top of the tree, are in line when seen from E.
   Then measure E s, and E T, also S K, the height of the stick. Suppose E s

  744                                 ARTS.
 2 yds., S R, I yd., and E t, 50 yds. Then, as E S : S R : : E T to the height,
 T R; that is, as 2 : 1 : : 50 to 25 yds., or height of tree.
    Another method for obtaining the height of an inaccessible object is to get
 a piece of paper, and by doubling this, cut it into an exact square. Then when
 the square is made and doubled it will be in this (Fig. 6) form, and the two
 lesser sides should be equal in length. Double in a small portion of the paper at
 one end, so that it looks thus (Fig. 7). Then by holding this in the hand, and
 looking at our own height on the stem of the tree along the line c A, with the
 eye at C, walk backwards or forwards till the line C B points to the top of
 the object whose height we require. Then measure from the point on which
 we are standing to the tree, and the height of the tree will be equal to this
 distance added to our own height.
    The reason of this is that the angle B c A is 45°; therefore the side C B is
 equal to the side A B.
    We can practise this method ir. a room, or with regard to a house, and can
 thus impress it on our memory, it is a good plan to have a piece of cardboard
 cut in the manner shown above, and carried in a pocket-book, to be used when
 necessary.
    It often surprises the uninitiated to find how much we can do by the aid of
 a piece of rope in regard to distances. To accomplish anything we must first
 know how to set off a right angle on the ground, and this we recommend to
 be practised with a piece of thread and two or three pins on the floor of a room.
                                                  j...
                >F                      X
                  Fig. 7.                                      Fig. 8.
   First take a piece of thread (or rope) and at the ends make two loops ; then
suppose it is required to set off a right angle from the line joining D and A
and in the direction of E. Make a mark at C in the line A D less than half
the length of the rope, also a mark at B equal to A c and in the same line with
d, C, and a. Make a mark in the middle of the rope, which middle can be
found by doubling the rope in half; then place the loops at the end of the
rope over two pickets to be driven in the ground at c and B, and draw out the
centre of the rope towards E and until the sides C F and B F are equal, when
the line joining a and F is at right angles to the line joining D and a.
   By adopting this method we can always set off a right angle from any
selected station, and the use we may make of this will now be shown.
   Suppose we are on the bank of a river, and wish to know the distance across,

                                 SURVEYING.                                  745
or that we see any far-off object, the distance of which is required. By means
of two right angles set off carefully on the ground we may obtain the distance
in the following manner:
   Suppose X v the distance required across a river, we being on the side Y.
From Y set off, as before mentioned, the right angle X Y A, and let Y A be
nearly equal to X Y (to be obtained by guess). From A set off a b at right
angles to Y A, and at any convenient point down the line A B make a mark at
B, where a point, c, in the line A Y is also in line with B and A. Then measure
A B, a C, and C Y ; by proportion we then have : asCA:AB::CY:XY.
   Suppose C A, 40 yds. ; A B, 70 yds. ; and C Y, 300 yds. ; then, as before,
as 40 yds. : 70 yds. : : 300 yds. : 525 yds., the breadth of the river.
   We may practise this method in a room on a small scale, or on a lawn, and
thus impress the process on our mind, and have it ready for use whenever
required.
   Every person should practise pacing distances, so as to be able to pace cor
rectly, and to know the proportion between his paces and the number of yards
he has gone over. The average walking-pace is about 30 in., or five-sixths of
a yard. If this pace is used, every 120 paces will make 100 yds., and so on in
the same proportion.
   There are three good methods of pacing distances : the first is to pace regu
larly on, and at every 100 yds. to pass a stone or piece of money from one hand
to the other, so as to remember the 100 yards ; the second is to count only when
the left foot comes to the ground, then double the number of paces ; the third
is to use a walking-stick in the usual way, and every time the point comes to
the ground to count one ; then multiply the result by four, and we obtain the
number of paces.
   In connection with pacing, judging distances may be referred to. Every
soldier is now instructed in judging distances, and every volunteer ought to
know something of this subject. The best method is to practise at some known
distance, and judge how much of the details of a man's face we can see at say
50 yards, also at 100, and so on. Another plan we have found very good in
practice is to select a point about 22 yds. in front of us, this 22 yds. being
selected because it is the proper distance between the wickets, and can, there
fore, be easily estimated by all who are cricketers, as all ought to be. Then
take another 22 yds., and so on. We get 12 yds. under 100 yds. by taking four
such measures, and we can then take a half, and reach close to 100 yds. By
this plan we can after a short practice estimate very nearly 100 yds., after
which we may estimate a second 100 yards, and so on.
   Sometimes we may make the dullest walk interesting by guessing at distance
along a road and then counting our paces towards them. We can easily train
ourselves so as to estimate within about five per cenf
   We can ascertain long distances with very fair accuracy by means of the
velocity of sound, so that when a gun is fired and we see the flash, we can
ascertain how many seconds elapse between our seeing the flash and hearing
the report. Sound travels at the rate of about 370 yds. per second ; so that,
if provided with a watch that has a seconds hand, we can count the seconds
and multiply the number that pass between the flash and report by 370, and
we obtain the distance in yards.
   We can by this means tell how far a flash of lightning has occurred from
our position.
   In case we have not a watch, we may count the beats of our pulse; these

 746                                 AJ?TS.
beats number in health about 70 or 75 per minute, so that we should allow
about 305 yards for each pulsation.
   We may also hum the time of a quick march, beating the feet in time and
counting the number of paces ; then multiply the number of paces by 210, and
we obtain the number of yards. This latter method we have found a very
rapid one and very accurate.
   Should the reader be desirous of entering more fully into the subject of sur
veying, sketching, &c, he should procure some work which treats entirely of
this subject, supply himself with a pocket-sextant and a compass, and practise
in the manner recommended in the works he may possess. It is also a very
good plan to practise drawing a plan of the roads between any two places we
know by memory alone, and then comparing our plan with a correct map.
We may thus acquire a knack of representing ground from memory alone,
which in itself is a very useful accomplishment, and one that aids us consider-
ably'when we undertake any regular survey or sketch.
          PERSPECTIVE AND SKETCHING.
   Perspective is the art of representing on a flat surface objects as they appear
in nature, not as they are.
   The first step towards comprehending the effects of perspective is to hold
up a piece of glass, and look through at two parallel lines which are directed
                               /          /B
                               /           /
                                   Fig. ;
nearly towards us. A wall, the side of a house, or a straight road, the sides of
which are well defined, will serve for this purpose. It will then be found that
as these lines approach nearer to each other, if they are traced on the glass,
the farther they are from us.

                 PERSPECTIVE AND SKETCHING.                                    747
   Unless we understand the most simple rules of perspective, all the drawings
or sketches we make are painful to the eye of any real observer of nature.
   The first proceeding in perspective is to fix on the point or points of sight,
the point of sight being the point towards which the parallel lines in nature
will each point.
   The point of sight, as a general rule, is on the same level with the eye, and
directly opposite where we happen to be standing.
   We will first take the simple cube, that is, a block of wood or square box, to
represent in perspective, as an example of one point of sight.
   Suppose A B C d, Fig. 1, to represent a side of a box, this side being placed
opposite to us, but slightly to the left. Having drawn the face A B c D, we will
draw the horizontal line R S on a level with the eye, and mark s, the point on
this directly opposite to us : the sides of the cube, viz., D Q, B Y, A X, will all
be directed to the point S, and if produced would meet there. Supposing the
cube to be transparent, the sides c P, P Q, P x, would be visible, as shown in
the diagram.
   We will next take for example the interior of a room, the floor of which is
boarded, to show the effect in perspective of parallel lines. Suppose we are
standing at F, Fig. 2, then the height of the eye marked at S would be the
                                         FlG.
point of sight. A B being the breadth of the room, and A G the height, the
lines A C, B D, G E, H F, are all directed towards S, and if produced would meet
at S. Each of the boards also has its sides directed towards S, and thus appears
to decrease in breadth the farther it gets off. As an example of the painful
effect of bad perspective, two pictures are shown on the walls, one, P, drawn
 so that the sides, if produced, would meet at S ; the other, Q, so that the sides
 are parallel to each other : the picture Q at once appears unnatural.
   When we have to represent any objects of uniform size on a plane or hori
zontal surface, such as the sea, for example, our horizontal line will be the dis
tant sea horizon ; then this horizontal line will cut the masts of the vessel, or
the shoulders of men, or any objects we may represent, at exactly the same

748                                    ARTS.
height. Thus in Fig. 4 there are four ships of equal size, each farther off than
the other, but the horizontal line must cut the masts of each at the same height,
as shown at A and B.
                        Fig. 3.
   Again, if the vessels are the same length, and are anchored or sailing parallel
to each other, we must draw these between two lines which converge and meet
at the point of sight.
   These are a few of the simple rules of perspective, which must be attended
to in all sketching or representations of nature. Unless we do this all other
portions of a sketch are mere failures as representations of nature, and are
unpleasant objects for a skilled eye to look at. We will next consider
              The Application of Perspective to Sketching.
    Nearly every person cither sketches or would like to be able to do so. To
carry in the pocket a sketch-book, and to be able to represent the country in
which he travels is a very general wish. Too many persons are, however,
deterred from this amusement because their sketches are very unsatisfactory,
or take too much time and trouble. The common error of young would-be
artists is to take too much trouble about their drawing, to put too much on the
 paper, and to think too little about the meaning of their lines. A sketch
 may be made in pencil, and need not take more than five minutes, nor re
 quire more than a dozen lines. Here is an example :
                                         Fig. 5.
    A line of cliffs is here shown, with a portion of beach and the distant horizon.
 The cliff-line where it approaches us is drawn towards the point of sight of our
 sketch, and by this means we obtain the appearance of distance. Again, on
 the beach we have two or three lines, which as they approach us separate
 farther from each other, just as in the example of the boards in a room in
 Fig. 2. If we count the lines in this sketch, we find there are two for the cliffs.
 three for the beach, and one for the horizon, making six in all. Two or three
 strokes on the cliff, showing jutting-out portions, merely add to the form of the
 cliffs ; without these we have a sketch of a coast.

                 PERSPECTIVE AND SKETCHING.                                  749
   Another point to which we may call attention is that all circular lines on the
ground appear ovals when seen from a distance ; thus a circular bay in our
coast sketch becomes a portion of an oval when put on paper.
   When any additional life is required in a sketch, we can give this by many
means—a man or a tree, a boat or an animal, may all serve our purpose. A
flock of birds are represented in our coast sketch, but these are put in in
perspective ; they get smaller and smaller as they are farther off, just on the
same principle that the small vessels did in Fig. 4; and these few items make
up a coast sketch which is, at least, not offensive to the eye—for that which
truthfully represents nature is never unpleasant to look at, whilst that which
falsifies her is ever hurtful to the eye.
   A sketch of an undulating country is usually very attractive, but is con
sidered by the young amateur very difficult. The fault here is usually attempt
ing too much. There is an endeavour made to put in all that is seen, instead
of only the most prominent items.
   We should first draw some six or seven lines across the paper, and meeting
each other, as shown in th,e annexed figure, the lines nearest to us being dark
                                        Fig. 6.
and bold, whilst those more distant are finer, these lines representing the
undulations of the country.
   On these lines we may build up our various objects, taking care that they
 graduate in size according to their distance. The annexed sketch represents
 some filling in added to the lines, and would occupy about four minutes in
 execution.
   The lines of a sketch may be divided into three classes : those for the fore
 ground should be bold, those for the middle distance medium thickness, those
 for the distance very fine and delicate.
    Sketching obliges us to be great observers of nature and of natural objects,
 and we can then represent even from memory such things as vessels or animals,
 vehicles or trees ; but we should, whenever possible, make accurate sketches
 of any objects which indicate distinctly any locality. Thus the fishing-boats
 of seaports, the lobster-pots of the coast, any peculiarly-shaped building, &c,

750                                   ARTS.
are all valuable reserves, for a fishing-boat may be found wonderfully useful
to give life to an otherwise dull sketch, but this boat must be accurately drawn
from any point of view to be of real service. If we have by practice acquired
considerable skill in representing any particular objects, such as horses, cows,
men, or boats, we need not hesitate about placing these in the foreground of
our picture ; if, however, we are not skilful in these details, we should place
these farther off, or not draw them at all.
   Cows and horses add greatly to the life-like appearance of a rough sketch
                      Fig. 8.                              Fig. 9.
and both these can be very readily obtained in the following manner. For
cows draw rectangles, as shown in the annexed Fig. 8, with two detached lines
as there shown. These serve as frameworks on which the cows may be built,
as shown in Diagram 2. Groups of cows may thus be roughly sketched, and
with good proportions, especially if attention be given to details. Again, for
a horse draw three ovals, as shown in the annexed Fig. 9 ; then on these
build an outline as shown in Diagram 2, all the detail being a mere matter of
 care and observation.
   There are few amusements which call forth more observation than sketch
 ing, and few which repay us better. A sketch-book is always interesting: it
 recalls past scenes and country ; explains often better than pages of writing
 the style of country in which we have travelled, and, in fact, is a pictorial
 history in itself. In a long experience we never yet heard any person capable
 of sketching say that he found his skill of no amusement or use, whilst hun
 dreds have stated that they were never at a loss for occupation as long as they
 could sketch. Again, regrets often repeated have come to our ears from those
 who, not capable of sketching, have lamented their want of early attention to
 this art, and who have frequently remarked that, had they only been able to
 sketch, they could have delighted scores of their friends by a representation
 of the strange scenes they had witnessed.
    Young would-be artists are usually fond of obtaining prints, and on these
 daubing brilliant colours, thus defacing what was before worth looking at.
 Let such fancies be put on one side, and in their place let a taste be acquired
 for real art, when a few weeks or months will enable these daubers to produce
 something worth looking at, though it be only half a dozen simple lines.

                                       PHOTOGRAPHY.                                                  751
                                    PHOTOGRAPHY.
    Photography means, as every one knows, " drawing by light." There are
 many different methods or processes by which photographs can be taken, but
 I shall confine your attention to one, as it is best to master one process at a
 time, so as to avoid confusion.
    A sheet of suitable material is impregnated with a substance known as iodide
 of silver, or with bromide of silver, or with a mixture of the two. This is done
 in a room lighted only by a lamp giving a yellow flame, as the yellow rays of
light have no photographic action; or, if by daylight, the light is coloured
yellow by covering the windows with yellow calico. We will call the prepared
material " the plate."
    The plate, when properly prepared, is placed in a camera, and there receives
the image (or picture made by the lens) of the object which is to be drawn or
photographed.
    The camera is a wooden box, of a sue proportionate to the dimensions of
the pictures to be taken. It is usually made in two parts, one of which slides
within the other, so that its length can be adjusted within certain limits.
    At one end of this box is fixed the glass or lens which forms the image, and
 at the other is a movable screen of ground glass, on which the picture or image
of the object is seen. The length of the box is carefully adjusted each time
 the instrument is used, so that the picture is quite clear, or " sharp," or, as it
 is technically termed, " in focus."
    The ground glass screen is removed when it is required to take a picture,
and in its place is inserted a slide, as it is called, which is a small narrow box,
containing the plate prepared in the dark or yellow room. This slide is con
trived with a shutter in front of the plate, so that while being carried about
the room no light can enter it ; but when in its position in the camera the
shutter can be drawn up, and the plate will then be " exposed " to the inside
of the box or camera. The groove into which the slide fits is so contrived
that when the shutter is drawn up the plate shall occupy precisely the same
position as was formerly occupied by the ground glass. After a certain space
of time the plate is removed to the yellow or dark room again, and upon
examination no trace of an image can be seen upon it ; but a solution of pyro-
gallic acid* and other ingredients (technically called "developing solution")
being poured over it, a curious change takes place : metallic silver is pre
cipitated on those parts of the plate on which the light has acted, more silver
being thrown down upon those parts on which light has most acted, and less
upon the parts where the action has been less, so that in a little time a perfect
picture is made, resembling the image which was seen in the ground glass.
The plate is now washed, and those parts of the iodide and bromide not used
in the formation of the picture are removed.
   * In the latter part of this paper, sulphate of iron is the substance used for a developer. Its action,
though of a different nature to that produced by the pyrogallic acid, ends in the same result— the deve
lopment of the picture. Pyrogallic acid is of more general application to all processes, and therefore it
is mentioned here.

 752                                    ARTS.
    Now, as the white and light-coloured parts of the original object must have
 acted most upon the prepared paper, in virtue of their reflecting more light,
 and in our picture the white parts of the original are represented by black, and
 the black parts by white, our picture is now a negative, that is, every tone in
 it is exactly the reverse of what it should be.
    To obtain a copy of this negative, in which all the lights and shades will be
 in their proper position, is our next object. For this purpose a sheet of a sub
 stance, known as carbon tissue, is dipped in a solution of bichromate of potass
 in the dark or yellow room, and then dried also in the yellow light. A piece
 of this is now placed in contact with the negative, and exposed for a little time
 to the light. It is then removed again to the dark room, where, after sundry
 precautions, it is plunged into hot water, when all those parts of the tissue
 which are not wanted to form the picture are dissolved away.
    I must explain this a little. The carbon tissue is formed of gelatine and
 black paint (or there may be a little colour in it if thought desirable). The
 bichromate of potass has this peculiar action on the gelatine—that, by the
 action of light, it renders it insoluble. Now, when the light passes through the
 negative upon the tissue, it will be seen that very little will pass to affect the
 gelatine situated just where the white parts of the picture come, because the
 white parts of the original are black in the negative, and being black they will
 not transmit much light ; but where the dark parts of the picture — that is,
 the light parts of the negative—occurs, much light will pass through to the gela
 tine and render it insoluble ; and so the whole negative will be reproduced, the
 action of the light being exactly in proportion to the density or colour of the
 negative.
    Now, in order to secure all the tones and gradations of colour which have
been imprinted, as it were, upon the tissue, by rendering certain portions of
it insoluble, it is necessary to dissolve away the unaltered gelatine from the
back, and not from the face upon which the light acted. For this purpose the
tissue is cemented, face downward, upon a piece of clean white paper, and
then plunged into warm water; the paper on which the gelatine was spread in
the first instance now soon comes away, and then, at first slowly, but after
wards more quickly, the gelatine not acted upon will dissolve away, and with
it will come all the paint with which it was mixed, until at the last none will
be left but what is wanted to make the picture. The finished print, having
been washed in a little clean water, is hung up to dry, and may then be con
sidered as so far finished.
   A great variety of materials of different kinds, each with its own peculiar
advantages and disadvantages, may be prepared to receive the photographic
image; but the substance on which we are going to work, as being by far the
most generally useful, is known as collodion. It is a liquid composed of ether
and alcohol, in which is dissolved some soluble gun-cotton and iodide of
potassium, with generally a little bromide also ; this, when poured over the
surface of a sheet of glass, forms a perfectly transparent sort of paper of the
most extreme delicacy. It is so delicate, indeed, that it cannot (except with
extraordinary precaution) be removed from the glass without being broken
and torn. Thus glass is always used as a support to the " film," as it is tech
nically termed, of the collodion negative.
   This film is impregnated with the iodide and bromide of silver in the fol
lowing way: In the collodion are dissolved, as I said above, iodide and bromide
of potassium, or cadmium, or ammonium. These are not in any way acted upon

                              PHOTOGRAPHY.                                  753
by the light, and the bottle of collodion may be kept in any ordinary apartment.
When, however, some of the solution is poured upon glass, and a sheet of our
paper is made, upon which we wish to take a photograph, it is removed to the
dark room, and then plunged into a vessel containing a solution of nitrate of
silver. Here a change takes place : the iodide and bromide of silver are formed
in the film, and the nitrate of potassium, cadmium, or ammonium is formed in
the "bath" solution, as it is technically termed. This change or decompo
sition is the result of chemical affinity, and is a matter with which we have
now nothing to do. The glass plate went into the bath clean and clear, and
quite transparent, and in about three minutes, when taken out, the collodionized
surface is impregnated with the required " salts," as they are termed, of silver.
These give it a yellowish cream colour, varying according to circumstances.
   Before describing in detail all the manipulations of taking negatives, it will
be well to say a few words on the dark room, and on the chemicals employed,
in order that the accounts of these things be not mixed up with other matters.
   A room should be provided as large as convenient, all the windows of which,
6ave one, should be permanently fastened up with either thin boarding nailed
up so as quite to exclude the daylight, or thick brown paper pasted over them
for the same purpose. The other window must be covered over first with a
double thickness of thin bright yellow paper, which must bepasted over it on
the inside, and then a blind of two thicknesses of yellow calico must be pro
vided, nailed over the inside of the window, and if the sun ever shine upon
She glass, it is well, especially in summer time, to provide yet another blind
Df yellow stuff outside the window. This will be very soon bleached by the
Bun and air, to say nothing of the rain, so it should be renewed every month
Or two when much work is to be done.
   Near the window a low table must be placed, with a large basin or tray to
catch water, and a jug and pail of clean water will also be required, for a
supply to use for washing plates, &c. If very much work is to be done, the
water should be laid on from a tank fitted up with cock and ball-tap, and a
regular sink made, with a waste-pipe into the drain.
   Besides the apparatus for working just spoken of, there will be required in
the dark room a "dipping-bath," as it is called, full of the "bath solution"
(the solution of nitrate of silver). This is usually a narrow upright vessel, a
little larger than the plate to be used, and provided with a little arrangement
called a dipper, by means of which the glass can be lowered into the solution
and brought up again without wetting the fingers. The chemicals which will
be required are as follows. Collodion : any dealer in photographic materials
will sell it. As it is composed chiefly of very volatile fluids, it must be well
corked or stoppered, and care must be taken not to open the bottle too near a
flame, lest it blow up, a performance to which it is much addicted. The bath
solution consists of 35 or 30 grs. of nitrate of silver in every ounce of water,
but it would be well for beginners to buy this solution also ready made : it will
not cost them more than to make it.
   Developing solution also will be required; this every photographer must
make for himself. Take as many ounces of water as may be thought neces
sary, say about ten ; put them in a bottle, add 10 grs. of sulphate of iron (the
protosulphate sold with the chemicals) for each ounce of water, and also add
 15 minims of glacial acetic acid and 15 minims of alcohol for each ounce of
water. When the iron is dissolved the solution will be ready for use.
   Another developing solution, or, as it is sometimes called, an intensifying
                                                                   48

754                                     ARTS.
solution, will be wanted in some cases. It is made as follows : pyrogallic
acid, i gr. ; water, i oz. ; citric acid, 2 gr. When this solution is used, a small
bottle, with a 25-grain solution of nitrate of silver, must be at hand, as a few
drops of this will be required. A little spoilt bath solution will do very well
for this.
   To make the " fixing solution," as it is called, that is, the one whicK is used
for clearing off those parts of the yellow film which are not wanted to form
the picture, put a quantity of the crystals of hyposulphite of soda into a con
venient wide-mouth bottle, and pour on some water, taking care that more
crystals are present than the water will dissolve.
   Now for work.
   Fix your camera on its stand, and set up the object you want to photograph
in a good light, say near some convenient window, or, if in fine weather, out
of doors will be best. Then without staying for more than a rough arrange
ment of the subject, return to the dark room and " prepare a plate " thus : take
a clean glass from the box (the glasses should be kept clean in the box, being
washed with common soda and, after thorough rinsing, carefully dried with
clean cloths) ; place it on a piece of clean paper on the table, and mind that
the table where you put the paper down is quite dry. Now pour on the sur
face of the glass.a few drops of spirits of wine ; rub them over the surface with
a tuft of cotton wool, and then wipe the plate dry with an old but clean hand
kerchief, and finally polish it well with a wash-leather. Breathe on the surface
to see if clean : the breath should not rest for a moment on the glass, but fly
off instantly. If it rest it must not show any lines or other strange marks,
but must be quite even. Should lines be seen, the glass must be cleaned until
they vanish.
   When perfectly clean, take the plate up by the forefinger and thumb of the
left hand in one corner, the finger under the glass, the thumb over it ; the
point of the glass will dig into the flesh just under the thumb-nail, and the
plate can thus be held quite firmly, but without any danger of contamination
from dirty fingers. Now, having previously removed the cork or stopper from
the neck of the collodion-bottle, and wiped the lip from any little dried pariicles
which may have adhered to it, seize the bottle with the right hand, and pour
upon the centre of the glass (which for this purpose must, of course, be held
in a horizontal position) enough of the collodion to cover about one-third of the
whole surface. Now cease pouring, and very gently tilt the plate so as to flow
the collodion first to the corner right opposite to the thumb, then to the one
on the left of that, then to the one at which the thumb is holding the plate.
 Do not let the collodion touch the thumb if you can help it, and finally pour
it all off again into the bottle, from the last corner, which will be the one
 on the right of the thumb. When the plate is being drained into the bottle,
 you will see the whole surface of the collodion " film," as it is called, covered
 with long streaks in the direction in which the drainage takes place. A slight
 oscillating motion must be given to the glass, just enough to make the little
 ridges close up and give an even surface to the film. This operation of
 " coating the plate," as it is technically termed, seems very difficult from the
 description, but it is really very easy, and will be soon learnt with a little care
 and attention.
    When the collodion ceases to drip, replace the stopper in the bottle, and
 then remove the last hanging drop on the lowest corner of the glass plate,
 either with the finger or with a Utile ball of paper kept for that purpose, and

                                      PHOTOGRAPHY.                                                755
   then the glass is ready for immersion in the nitrate of silver bath. Raise the
   "dipper" from the vessel, and rest the plate on the little ledge provided at
   the bottom ; let the back of the plate be in contact with the dipper ; wait for
   a few seconds to be sure the film is well set, and then with one steady plunge
   lower the glass on the dipper into the solution. The least pause in this opera
  tion will cause a line to be formed across the plate, which will be painfully
  evident in the finished picture. Cover the bath up, either with a black cloth,
  or (if one be provided) with its cover, note the time, and then return to your
  camera and focus the object.
      Point the camera at the object to be copied and put the black cloth over
  your head, and then, first by pushing the sliding body of the camera in or out,
  roughly adjust the focus of the lens, that is, get it into such a position with
  regard to the ground glass that the image or picture there is tolerably clear.
  Now, having clamped the back of the camera with a screw provided for that
  purpose, reach out the right hand, and with it turn the milled head of the rack-"
  work on the lens, watching the image all the time. In this way the picture
  may be got perfectly sharp and clear.* Now withdraw the head, remove the
  ground glass, put the cap on the lens, insert into its place a medium-size stop
  diaphragm, and then return to the dark room. There is no occasion to hurry
  over the arrangement of the camera, but the plate should not be left longer
 than need be in the bath: about five minutes is quite time enough. Having
  closed the door of the dark room and uncovered the bath, move the dipper
  and the plate on it up and down a few times, and then lift it right out, seize
  the plate again in the same corner as before, and having held it a minute or
  so to drip on a piece of blotting-paper, place it face downwards in the dark
  slide of the camera. Before closing the door upon it, put a piece of clean
  blotting-paper at the back.
     Now as soon as possible return to the camera, and insert the dark slide
  in its place, draw up the shutter of the slide carefully with the right hand,
 holding the left so as to prevent the body of the slide rising too, as, if it did
 so, the light would enter underneath, and then the plate would be spoilt.
 Having got the shutter up to the top, bend it forward upon the camera, and
 then carefully remove the cap of the lens, taking care not to shake the camera
 in so doing.
     You have now arrived at the most difficult part of the whole proceeding.
 Up to this point all has been easy enough ; so much so, indeed, that one or
 two careful attempts will be all that will be found necessary to ensure success;
 but now you have a task to perform which is one of real difficulty : you have to
judge of the time during which you will expose the plate to obtain the image
 upon the sensitive surface of the plate you have just prepared. The best I can
 do for you is to tell you some of the causes which will affect the length of
 " exposure " which is necessary to be given.
     First, the colour of the objects. White, blue, and lilac take quickest; red,
yellow, and black very much more slowly, and some tints of them will hardly
"do" at all. Then the time of day has much influence, and the character
of the weather more ; east and north winds make the exposure much longer
than when the wind blows from the west or south ; and, lastly, the amount
   • In taking landscapes, it is a good rule to focus the foreground about 50 ft. from the camera : for
buildings, when parallel with the camera, place the sharpest focus about half-way between the centre
and the edge of the picture ; and, in doing a portrait, focus the eyelashes of the nearest eye.
                                                                                  48    8

 7S«                                   ARTS.
of light which reaches the object has the greatest influence on the time of
exposure.
    With all these elements of uncertainty in the calculation, it may seem to
some surprising that the exact time can ever be hit properly ; but we are for
tunately able to tell during the development, or next stage of the proceedings,
what relation the exposure given has to the one which the circumstances of
the case demanded ; thus, although the first plate may be spoilt, a second
 attempt may with ease be nearly right, and a third will probably be quite so.
    Having thus given some exposure to the plate (say, at a very rough guess,
from ten to twenty seconds, if doing a moderately white object in a fair light),
 replace the cap on the lens, and then shut down the sliding shutter of the dark
 slide, and return with it to the dark room. Having again closed the door, open
the back of the slide, take out the blotting-paper and with it wipe the back of
the glass ; then remove the plate, and holding it again by the same corner as
before, pour upon its surface some of the developing solution. Some little
care is needed in pouring on the developer. It is best to begin to flow it close
to the thumb, and to run the lip of the glass along the edge of the plate nearest
to you, pouring the solution all the time and tilting the plate, so as to make
 the liquid run to the farther side.
    When well covered, restore the plate to the horizontal position, and keep the
 solution flowing backwards and forwards upon it, and while so doing watch
the effect. If no picture appear in about a minute, and then only faint traces
 of one, the exposure has been much too short : try three or four times as long ;
 if the picture all flash out at once and the whole surface of the plate assume
 a grey tone, the picture has been as much oiw-exposed : try one giving only
 about one-third the time.
    The proper effect of the developing solution is as follows : about from ten
to twenty seconds after its first application the whitest parts of the picture
burst into view, then the tones next in order of whiteness, until, in about one
or at most two minutes, the whole picture is developed. When the glass seems
 pretty well covered with "detail," and the picture looks nearly finished, throw
off the solution, and hold it up to the light and note its general appearance.
 It should be clear and brilliant, the light parts of the original of a firm, dark
tone, and the dark parts quite transparent (that is, at this stage only of the
yellow colour of the film, with no dark deposit on them). Return the plate to
its horizontal position, and again pour on the developer and continue its action
till it will act no longer, that is, till it will no more brine out detail in Ike
darkest parts of the picture, i.e., the transparent parts of the negative.
   When the development is concluded, wash the plate with plenty of clean
water, and then carefully examine it. There should not be a streak or a stain
of any kind upon it ; if such should occur in any part, it is almost a sure sign of
imperfect manipulation. The light parts of the picture should be almost opaque,
but not quite ; the extreme black in very deepest shadows should show nothing
but the clear unaltered yellow colour of the film ; all between these two extreme
tints should be filled up with endless minute gradations of light and shade in
the most perfect harmony. It will be a very great help at this stage of the
proceedings to have a first-rate negative to compare your own with. It is of
the most vital importance to secure negatives which shall be all alike in tone.
    Now, the fault that will most likely occur in the negative produced in this
manner, and with the developer above described, is want of " intensity," or
blackness, in those parts which are white in the original. Should such be the

                                     PHOTOGRAPHY.                                                   757
case, the remedy is simple : having well washed the plate by pouring water
upon its surface in a gentle stream, drain it for a moment, and then flood it
with a little of the redeveloping solution,* and when it has well flowed over,
pour it back into the glass, and then mix with it a few—say five—drops of the
plain solution of nitrate of silver, about 25 grs. to the ounce, stir it well up with
a clean glass rod, and then again pour over the plate. Now watch the colour
of the image, and if you have a test negative to work by, you can with care
get the density quite right in a minute or so. Have ready a jug of water to pour
on when the solution has acted as long as required.
     Now well wash it, and put it into a dish with some of the fixing or cleaning
 solution till all the yellow colour has quite gone, and then, after another thorough
 washing, the plate may be dried, and it is complete. If it is to be printed from
 much, it should be varnished. The varnish must be poured on in the same
 way as the collodion, and drained off, as before descnbed. Some varnishes
 require the plate to be warmed before they are applied ; but when this is the
 case the " instructions " on the bottle will always indicate the necessary treat
 ment.
     We have now completed our negative ; but before going on to the third part
 of my paper, I propose to give a few hints, which will be, I hope, of some use
 in aiding the production of perfect results.
     Sometimes the plates "fog" during development, i.e., become enveloped
 in haze and mist, which pervades those parts of the plate which should be
 quite clear. If so, first make quite sure that no white light reaches the plate
 at any time when it should not ; next see that there is not too much yellow
 light in the dark room, and that the sun does not shine on the window ; next
 try a little more acid in the developer; observe also that the collodion is of a
 decided sherry colour, or darker. Should it be colourless, add a very little
 tincture of iodine, which will produce the effect required. If none of these
 succeed, try a new bath solution, or, before you do so, add one drop of nitric
 acid to the bath, and see if it produces the right effect.
      Be sure when you wipe the lip of the collodion-bottle that the little dried
  pieces do not fall inside. Take care there is no dust on the glass plate when
  you pour the collodion on it. If the camera should be placed in sunshine,
  always put a black cloth over the slide before pulling up the shutter, so as to
  be sure that no light strikes into the groove in which it moves.
      When the plate is in the dark slide, care should be taken to keep that end
  downward which is at the bottom when in the camera. The object of this
  precaution is to prevent the drainings of the silver solution from running back
  again over the plate, as they would cause stains.
      " Under-exposure " is a fault much more common than "over-exposure."
      After development the plate should be well washed as directed. It may
  then be taken out into the daylight without injury, but should be taken bacLg
  into the dark room before being " intensified."
      N.B.— Never be tempted to use "cyanide of potassium" for any operation
  whatever connected with photography. It is a deadly poison, and is therefore
  a very dangerous substance to have in the house.
      The nitrate bath is one of the most troublesome solutions with which the
  photographer has anything to do. My advice is to have three distinct bottles
   • This redeveloping solution must U used in a clean glass ; not the one used for the. "iron developer.*

758                                   ARTS.
of it ; one for use, one to try should there be anything wrong with the first,
and one a new solution ready should any emergency necessitate its use. Try and
do as much with the first as possible. When it is quite out of order, set it on
one side, and use the second for the working bath and the third for the spare
solution, and then buy a new one. Never by any chance have less than three
bottles at hand. Always keep the vessel containing the working bath well
covered up. In cold weather use a little warm water to wash out the last
traces of hyposulphite of soda from the film. At all times let the washing
be as complete as possible. When using the camera out of doors, mind that
the light does not fall too strongly on the lens itself. Use a shield roughly
made of a piece of brown paper and string, to protect it if necessary.
   Do not attempt portraiture till you have had considerable practice in other
branches of photography ; and when you do try it, be well prepared for an un
limited series of failures. The best practice for beginners is to photograph a
white marble or plaster statue or bust. Choose a north window, and arrange
a table in it ; set the statue on the table on a nice cloth, then nicely arrange
some neat drapery in the background —a curtain will do very well. The statue
should stand about 3 ft. from the window, and rather on one side of it. The
camera should be placed, not opposite to the window, but nearly in a line
with it ; so that the statue, when seen from the camera, will be lighted from
one side.
                       The Carbon Printing Process.
    I have determined to describe in this paper the carbon printing process,
recently brought to perfection by Mr. Swan, in preference to the old method
of obtaining the impressions from negatives, for two reasons : first, and most
important, because Swan's process gives results which are permanent and
which will not fade; and second, because the process in question is much
easier than the old method, and is therefore, in my opinion, better. Were
there no other advantages, these would be enough : there are many others on
which it is quite needless to enter here.
   The following instructions will, I think, suffice to enable the reader to make
some successful experiments in practice.
    Get some—say ten or twenty— sheets of the prepared "tissue." It looks
quite white on one side and quite black on the other. Besides the tissue you
will want the following—some bichromate of potass—solution strength, 1 oz.
to 12 of water; some solution of India-rubber—strength, 12 grs. of rubber to
 1 oz. benzole ; and a little finely-powdered French chalk. You will also need
a small screw press, or a rolling-press will do, but the other is much less
expensive ; it may be just the size of the pictures you are about to make, or
as much larger as you like. You must also obtain a sheet of Carrier's " ready
sensitive albumenized paper," to be obtained at any dealer's.
 " Now for work.
    Pour into a dish some of the bichromate solution, and then put in a piece of
the tissue, making the solution flow all over it by means of a small brush, or
 by turning it over and over. The solution should be as cool as possible, and
 the fingers should not be put into it more than is necessary. The tissue, having
 been in for about two minutes, is to be taken out and hung up to dry in
 any way that will admit of a free circulation of air about it. The best way,
 perhaps, is to hang it over a round rod, such as a walking-stick. It will, under
 ordinary circumstances, be dry in about from six to twelve hours. Heat must

                                PHOTOGRAPHY.                                        759
not be applied on any account to hasten the drying. When it is quite dry, a
little of the French chalk may be rubbed over it on the black side, and then it
may be kept between the leaves of a book for a few days, or used at once. All
this must be done in the dark room.
   Now put into one of the "printing-frames" a negative with the varnished
side uppermost, and on this lay a piece of tissue, with the black side down
wards next the film of the negative, push the back of the frame in, and carry
the frame out into the light, and there expose it in the shade. At the same
time put a piece of the prepared albumenized paper, about the size of a
postage-stamp, behind the dark part of some other negative (the face of a
small portrait, for instance), and expose this paper close to the tissue in an
other frame, so that both have just the same light to act upon them. In
about half an hour take both frames into the dark room ; note exactly how
much the paper behind the second negative is coloured. Now proceed to
apply to the surface of the tissue (the black surface I mean) a good thick
coating of the India-rubber solution ; apply the same to a piece of paper about
the same size, and leave them both to dry. When quite dry, apply the two
surfaces of the India-rubber together, and rub them well with the hand on a
smooth board. Place the two together for a moment in the press, and then
put them into tepid water, about 8o° or 900 F. In about ten minutes the colour
from the tissue will be seen gradually coming out all round the edges, and now,
if a little corner of the paper that was originally belonging to the tissue is lifted
by a pin or other means, it will come off from the black layer underneath with
great ease. It should not be torn away with any violence ; but if it will not
come with ease, it must be left a little longer to soak.
   Now turn the tissue (or, as it will be in a minute or two, the picture) with its
face downwards in the water, and at the same time increase the temperature
of the water to about 1200 F. This is best effected by an addition of a little
boiling water, or the print may be transferred to another dish with water in it
of the right temperature.* In a few minutes the black stuff in the tissue not
wanted to form the picture will all come away, and on examination the picture
will be seen developed in all its true lights and shades, like the original from
which it was taken. Now you will sec the use of the small test-paper exposed
at the same time as the negative : it will enable you ever afterwards to be quite
 sure of getting a good print, by simply showing you how darkly the image is
 imprinted upon the carbon tissue. If your print that you have just developed
be too dark, try one again, and this time mind you examine the test-paper, and
do not let it get too dark. A little practice will soon enable you to obtain these
 carbon prints with certainty.
    But you have not quite done with it yet. When it is fully developed, wash
it in a little clean cold water, and then hang it up to dry. When it is quite or
nearly dry, apply a coating of clear gelatine solution, made by dissolving
 Nelson's patent gelatine in water, to the proportion of 1 oz. to a pint or a pint
 and a quarter. This may be brushed over. When it is quite dry, cut the print
 square or to the shape required, and then mount it by heavy pressure in the
 screw press upon either damp paper or card. The picture side must, ot course,
 be placed downwards next to the card.                                           , . ,
    When it is again quite dry, moisten the back of the paper on which the
 print was fastened with benzole, and now, after carefully inserting a Unite
                   • Care must be taken not to pour Very hot water on the print.

760                                   ARTS.
round the edges, the paper may be lifted off, leaving the print permanently
fixed to the card. This process is called transferring; there is no difficulty
in performing it, and the prints may, by this means, be obtained upon any
article to which gelatine will adhere.
   A few hints will be of some use to aid in the successful practice of this
process.
   The tissue, before putting it into the bichromate, or as it is technically
called, " sensitizing it," should be kept dry and flat. When sensitized, it may
be kept rolled up, as damp will quickly spoil it. Considerable care should be
taken to keep the sensitive tissue from the action of light, except, of course,
that which is needed for the production of the picture. So long as the tissue
is well covered with the India-rubber solution, it does not seem to matter much
about its being applied evenly. Care must be taken, however, not to fasten
the paper on to the tissue before the two India-rubber surfaces are well dry:
about half an hour seems to be the time necessary for the evaporation of the
solvent.
   When the prints are in the water to be developed, the " covering " paper, as
it is called, should not be removed by violence before it is ready to come away
with ease, nor should it be left on after the time of its being loose. Not less
than fifteen minutes' washing in cold water should be given before the prints
are hung up to dry. Several prints may be developed in one dish, but care
must be taken not to rub their surfaces, as they are tender while warm.
   The best way to wet paper or cards for transfer is as follows : dip them one
after another into a dish of water, and then place them in a pile on a sheet of
glass, putting another piece of glass on the top, apply a weight, and so equalize
the moisture.
   The proper condition of moisture for effecting a transfer is seen by the
surface of the paper being not wet, but just slimy with the water. Great
brilliancy and finish may be given to the prints by giving them a final wash
with Newman's sizeing solution.
    Carbon printing is a thing of easy performance, but, like all other photo
 graphic processes, it cannot be learnt without practice.
    Since the above was written, there have been great improvements made in
 carbon printing. Mr. J. Johnson has brought out a new patent, and those of
 our young friends who wish to do much photography, should communicate
 with him. He has written an excellent work upon the subject, in which the
 experience of a practical man is given with much clearness. Mr. Johnson's
 address is 36 Rathbone Place, Oxford Street, London. There is a company
 formed for the more successful carrying-out of carbon printing, and for the
 supply of all the materials and instructions necessary. For all other informa
 tion upon matters photographic—materials, chemicals, apparatus, &c, &c—I
 can confidently recommend Mr. Jabez Hughes, of 379 Oxford Street, London.
    In conclusion I say, " Go in and win ! If you fail, try again !"

                               GLASS BLOWING.                                 761
             GLASS-BLOWING                  AND      WORKING.
    A great deal of the apparatus used by chemists is made from glass tubing ;
and though such apparatus can be bought ready made, it is not only much
cheaper, but much more convenient, to make it oneself; for the expert glass-
blower can often construct for himself in a few minutes the exact piece of
apparatus which he requires for an experiment, and thus avoid the delay and
trouble which would be occasioned by sending for it to a shop. We therefore
recommend our readers, before beginning the chapter on chemistry which
follows this one, to acquire some dexterity in this useful and elegant art.
    The glass tubing itself must, of course, be bought. It is sold in sticks of
about a yard or two in length, and of widths varying from an eighth of an inch
to an inch or more. It costs about is. 4//. per pound. A pound or two of
different widths may be procured to commence with, and a great deal of good
work can be done even with this small quantity.
    To Cut Glass Tubes.— For this purpose a small triangular file is necessary.
The tube is laid on a table, and a firm, sharp, short scratch made on it with
the edge of the file at the point where it is to be divided. It is then held in
both hands, one on each side of the scratch, and gently bent away from the
side where the scratch is. The tube flies into two pieces, and if the operation
has been dexterously performed the edges are perfectly level and smooth.
These edges may then be held in the blowpipe flame, described below, until
they are neatly rounded.
    Melting of Tubes: the Blowpipe.—Very small and thin tubes may
Fig.                     Fig. 2.                            Frg. 3.
be worked tolerably well in the flame of a spirit lamp ; but for many purposes
this heat is not sufficient, and it is necessary to have recourse to the useful
little implement called the blowpipe. The simplest kind of blowpipe is that
used by gasfitters, and shown in Fig. 1.
     It consists of a tapering brass tube, eight or ten inches long, bent near the
 small end, and terminating in a fine jet. It may be bought for &/., and answers
very well for most purposes, though better kinds may be obtained. If this
 little instrument be held in the right hand, the jet brought into the flame of a
 spirit lamp or candle, just above the wick, and a current of air blown through
 it, the flame will be found to be curiously altered. The current of air will bend

 762                                 ARTS.
it down at a right angle, it will lose nearly all its brilliancy, and will present
the appearance shown in Fig. 2. In the centre a blue cone will be perceived,
and this will be surrounded by a pale yellow cone or envelope of flame. The
blue or inner flame is the hottest, and is therefore the best for melting most
kinds of glass. English flint glass is, however, blackened when heated in this
flame, because it contains lead, and the flame reduces this lead to the metallic
state, and so blackens it. The blackness will disappear if the glass is heated
in the yellow outer flame ; but it is best to avoid this kind of glass, and to buy
German or Bohemian glass, which is somewhat more difficult to melt, but
which contains no lead.
   Some little practice will be required before a steady stream of air can be
kept up through the blowpipe. If, when the blowpipe is in the mouth, the
cheeks are puffed out, it will soon be found easy to breathe through the nose
without stopping the blast. The cheeks act as a sort of gas-bag, give the air
out steadily, and are from time to time refilled from the lungs.
   With this simple apparatus a great variety of most important chemical
experiments may be made, and the heat so produced is quite sufficient for
any of the processes of glass working here described. But it has this great
disadvantage : one hand is always required to hold the blowpipe, and there
is, consequently, only one left with which to manage the glass. This difficulty
may, however, be got over by a variety of mechanical contrivances, some of
them of a very simple character.
    Table Blowpipes. — Fig. 3 represents a little piece of apparatus which
                        Fig. 4.                                  Fig. 5.
 any one can make, and which is very convenient and efficient. A little wooden
 stand, a a, is made by nailing two pieces of board together, and a small hole
 is drilled through the upright piece at b. A common gasfitters blowpipe,
 bent to the shape shown in the figure, is passed through this hole, and a small
 glass spirit lamp, c, which can be bought for is., is placed on the other side.
 The spirit lamp can easily be raised up to the requisite height, and a steady
 blowpipe flame can then be maintained. For the spirit lamp an oil lamp
 may advantageously be substituted, and lamps suitable for the purpose can
 readily be obtained ; but a candle is useless, because its height is constantly
  changing. If you are fortunate enough to be able to use gas, you will find it
 immensely superior to every other source of heat for this purpose, as it is for
  nearly all chemical operations. It is very easy to adapt the gas, if only you

                                GLASS-BLOWING.                               763
can procure it. From the tap which yields it, a vulcanized India-rubber tube,
d, Fig. 4, must carry the gas to the bottom of the brass pipe, c, which works
pretty stiffly in a hole in the support, a. The India-rubber tube must be slipped
on to the lower end of this brass tube, and, if necessary, tied on with string.
The brass tube may be about eight inches long and one-third of an inch wide,
and the upper end should be beaten fiat with a hammer, so as to present the
edge of a flat flame to the blowpipe, and filed smooth. By turning the gas
up or down, a blowpipe flame of any desired size may be obtained. Of course
there must be a hole in the table through which the brass tube is to pass.
   Gas Blowpipe.— A still more convenient arrangement is shown in Fig. 5.
It can be made at a very trifling expense, and gives a most powerful and
manageable flame. The tube b conveys the gas to the T-shaped brass tube
c, the longer limb of which fits tightly in a hole in the upright wooden support.
This brass tube is made in the manner shown in Section 1 , Fig. 6. The limb
which passes through the support may be about six inches long, and the
shorter limb about three inches. About half an inch of the short limb rises
                                                  I i
                                                U
                                          Fig. 6.
above the point where the long one joins. The width should be rather less
than half an inch. Into the lower end of the short limb slides tightly a some
what smaller tube, b, about four inches long, and closed at the upper end, with
the exception of a jet or orifice, c, about the size of a small pin. This smaller
tube is fitted with another piece of India-rubber tube, through which air can
be blown through the centre of the gas-flame. The gas and air meet at the
point where the two limbs of the tube a join, and the result is that the flame
which rushes out is intensely powerful. By varying the supply of gas and the
strength of the blowing, any flame, from a pencil of light an inch long to a
torrent six inches long, may be produced. With this apparatus tubes of an
inch in diameter can, with practice, be drawn out or bent. If the current of
air is supplied by a pair of double bellows, worked by a treadle under the table,
the apparatus is complete. The double bellows are, however, expensive to
buy and rather difficult to make.
   Manipulations with Glass: Bending Tubes. — Glass tubes of not
more than a quarter of an inch in width are very easy to bend. It is only
necessary to hold the tube in a rather large blowpipe flame, turning it round
and round constantly until it softens, and then to bend it gently and slowly
upwards. The bend should not be too sharp, and the heat must, therefore,
not be confined to one point of the tube. It is better to bend the tube a little
way, and then to heat the next portion and bend that, and so on. a, in Fig. 7,
shows the form of a well-bent tube, and b that of one which is too angular.
   Large tubes are much more difficult to bend than small ones, and it is almost

764                                   ARTS.
impossible to bend one of three-fourths of an inch diameter without the outer
corner of the angle becoming flattened. The proper form may be obtained
             Fig. 8.                                 Fig. 9.
by corking one end, softening the flattened corner in the flame, and blowing
gently at the other end, so as to force the glass out. The operation requires
some practice.
    The Sealing of Tubes : Making Test-Tubes.—Begin with thin tubing,
a quarter of an inch wide. Take a piece about eight inches long, and hold the
centre of it in the smallest flame that will melt the glass, turning it constantly
round until the glass is quite soft. Then draw the two ends apart, in the
manner shown in Fig. 9, keeping the flame directed to the point marked a.
If this be done slowly the two halves will soon divide, and one of them will
have a blunt end with a little knob at the point of it. It is shown at the right
                   Fig. 10.
hand in No. 3. This end must now be heated separately in a somewhat larger
flame until it is quite soft, and air blown in until the little knob disappears,
 and a smooth round end, such as is shown in No. 4, Fig. 9, is obtained. It
 is necessary to heat the end very uniformly and to blow very gently in order
 to obtain the right form. The edges of the open end of the tube may now be
 softened and turned outwards a little with an iron wire, and that most impor
 tant piece of chemical apparatus, the test-tube, will have been manufactured.
     When it is necessary to seal one end of a tube, a short piece of waste tubing
 may be melted to it and used as a handle for drawing it out at a point close
 to the end. A great saving of tube may be effected by this means.
     Blowing Bulbs. — Seal one end of a narrow tube in the way described
 above. Thicken the end by keeping it melted for a short time, and then, when
  it is quite soft, blow pretty strongly into the other end. The soft glass will

                             GLASS-BLOWING.                                    76s
 expand into a beautiful little globe (Fig. 8) which will be found useful for a
 variety of purposes. Thermometer bulbs can be made in this way.
    Long FUNNELS. — Blow a good large bulb on the end of a piece of tube
 of three-sixteenths of an inch diameter. Apply a pointed flame to the end of
 the bulb, and when it is quite liquid blow strongly through the tube. A round
 hole will be made in the end of the bulb (a, Fig. 10), and if the ragged glass
 is removed and the edges carefully melted, a long and very valuable funnel,
 of the form shown at 6, Fig. 10, will be obtained. Funnels of this kind are
 called " thistle funnels," from the shape of their heads. They are used for
 introducing acids into flasks in making gases, and for many other purposes.
    Pipettes. — Draw out a thick tube, about half an inch in diameter, into the
 form shown at a, Fig. 1 1 ; close the small end by melting, and heat the tube
 strongly at the point where it begins to get smaller. When it is very soft, blow
 gently through the open end, taking care to have the glass equally heated all
 round, and to keep the fine end in a straight line with the other. A bulb will
 thus be made, and the tube will have the form shown at b. The point which
 had been closed may now be cut off with a file, and you will have a pipttte, an
 instrument by which liquids may be sucked up from one vessel and transferred
 to another.
    Other Tube Operations. —Tubes of equal size may be joined together
 by bringing the two level edges in contact in the flame, and pressing them
 together when soft. If one tube is larger than the other, the end of the smaller
 one must be expanded with a rod, and the end of the larger drawn in (Fig. 12)
 before they are melted together.
    A T-shaped tube, which is often very useful, may be made in the following
 manner :
                                a
                                       Fig. 13.
    A small blowpipe flame is brought against the side of a tube. When the
glass at that point is melted, the point of a tube previously drawn out is pressed
to it, so as to adhere. The soft glass is then pulled out in the manner shown
at a, Fig. 1 3. The edges of the hole are filed smooth, and the end of another
tube, which has been slightly opened out, melted on to it. The tube will then
have the appearance seen at b.
   This last operation is a difficult one, and requires a good deal of practice ;
but it will serve as an example of the variety of apparatus which can be con
structed with a little patience and skill. It is astonishing how easy these
manipulations become after a time, and every true chemist feels a pride in
performing them well and quickly. He likes to do things for himself as much
as possible, and is never better pleased than when, by the use of a little
mechanical dexterity, he has fitted up an efficient piece of apparatus which
has cost him valuable time, and would have cost him still more valuable
money had not he made it for himself.

766                                  ARTS.
   PHILATELY, OR POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.
    Collecting the postage-stamps of all countries has been for some time past,
and still is, a very favourite pursuit in leisure hours. In almost every family
there is some member who has a collection of stamps, in which all the others
take an interest, and to which every visitor and friend is asked to contribute.
It is astonishing how many ladies, how many gentlemen, how many girls, and
especially how many boys are collectors ; and the number is daily increasing.
There is scarcely a parent who has foreign correspondence that does not care
fully remove the coveted stamps from his letters before they are destroyed,
and cause joy at home by presenting them to those of his children who collect.
Formerly, the merchant, the banker, the diplomatist, or the member of Her
Majesty's Government, broke open his foreign communications, and consigned
the envelopes, stamps and all, to the fire or to the waste-basket. Now, how
ever, the fire has to consume the envelopes without their stamps, and the waste-
basket finds all stamps detached from the fragments it receives. They are
destined for a better use than destruction—they find a home in the gay albums
that adorn many a drawing-room table, and are there the admired of many
admirers.
                          Its Uses and Advantages.
   With boys especially stamp collecting is very popular. They have so many
opportunities of obtaining stamps, both at school and at home, that by per
severance they can in a reasonable time make a nice and interesting collection.
Few amusements are more instructive and useful. Independently of the ex
cellence of engraving and elegance of design of many of the stamps, useful
instruction is almost inseparable from the collection of them. It is of very
frequent occurrence that the boy who has the best collection in a school is
the head of his class. He has generally the widest knowledge of geography,
the greatest acquaintance with the relative value of coinage, a considerable
amount of historical information, and is most remarkable for neatness, judg
ment, and perseverance. He obtains a stamp of some country or island he
has seldom, if ever, heard of before, such as Virgin Islands, Nevis, Heligo
land, Turk's Island, Bolivia, or St. Salvador ; and his curiosity prompts him
to consult an atlas as to the whereabouts of these said places. It is a rare
case that a boy fails to answer any question respecting a country of which he
has a stamp : geography has especial attractions for the stamp collector.
   Then, again, he may have a Mexican stamp of the value of i real (Fig. i),
a Papal States' stamp of the value of a scudo (Fig. 2), and a Russian stamp
of the value of 1 kopeck. He is anxious to know what these foreign denomina
tions are worth in English money. By inquiry and by search, he soon finds
out that the Mexican real is worth about 6'jd., the Papal States' scudo, 4s. za\,
and the Russian kopeck not quite a halfpenny. This information once ob
tained, he does not soon forget it.
    The boy, too, who has a fair collection, will have a considerable knowledge
of history. For instance, he will remember that the postage-stamps of Saxony
were first used in the reign of King Frederick Augustus, in 1850, and that it
 is his head which appears on the set of adhesives that have the head turned

                POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                   767
Mexico.              Roman States.                 Saxony.        Portugal.
         Fig. 13.              Fig. 14.
   Argentine Confederation.             Austrian Newspaper stamp.
Fig. 16.                Fig, :                    Fig. 18.

768                                    ARTS.
 to right on a black oval (Fig. 3), and that the next king was John, whose head
 is depicted on a set turned to left, in an oval shaded only on one side. He will
 know that the first stamps used in Portugal were those that have a queen's
 head turned to left (Fig. 4), and that Donna Maria was at that time Regent.
 He will tell you that the set with the king's head to right are those issued by
 Don Pedro, who succeeded to the throne in 1853, and that those with head
 to left belong to the reign of Don Louis, who was made King in 1861. He
 has stamps which remind him of the struggle of the Southern States of
 North America for their independence; and, from the fact of these being no
 longer in use, he knows that the Confederates failed in their attempt. He
 has stamps of Naples (Fig. 5), Tuscany, Sicily, Parma (Fig. 6), Modena, and
 Romagna (Fig. 7); but he knows that in these countries the stamps of Italy
alone have been current since 1861 : a memorial of that brave battle for liberty,
in which the people of these portions of the Peninsula freed themselves from
the burdensome yoke of their rulers, and now form a part of Italy under Victor
 Emmanuel. The present German stamps, which have inscribed on their sur
face Norddeutscher Postbezirk, tell him plainly of that short and sharp conflict
in which Prussia so signally defeated Austria, became the first power in Ger
many, and substituted these stamps for those of Bergedorf (Fig. 8), Bremen
 (Fig. 9), Brunswick (Fig. 10), Hamburg, Holstein, Lubeck (Fig. 11), Mech-
lenburg Schwerin, Mechlenburg Strelitz, Oldenburg, Schleswig, Saxony, and
Thurn and Taxis. He will, moreover, be at this very time curiously inspecting
the new issue of that country of which he has so many different sets, illumin
ated with the anything but handsome profile of what once was Queen Isabella
of Spain.
    On the pages of his album set apart for the stamps of the United States of
America will be found a 1 5 cents, with the head of Lincoln portrayed ; and
on the page for Servia will be seen a set on which the head of Prince Michael
is roughly represented (Fig. 19). He will know and denounce the means by
which these two men were hurried from this earth, and will tell you that both
fell by the hand of an assassin—Lincoln in a theatre, Prince Michael in his
garden. He will show you, too, another melancholy page. He will point to
the stamps which exhibit what is considered a striking likeness of the amiable
but unfortunate Maximilian, and he will recount most minutely the details of
his mock trial, the circumstances of his wife's absence in Europe, and the
tragedy of his being mercilessly shot by his bloodthirsty enemies. Nor are the
reminiscences of woe yet complete. While displaying his specimens of the
issues of Peru (Fig. 35), he will tell you that they remind him of that terrible
earthquake which so lately destroyed a whole town, and launched into eternity
thousands of souls. Perhaps, too, he will turn to the stamps of the Virgin
Islands, mementoes of another disaster. The suspense caused in England a
short time ago, by the brief telegraphic intelligence that one of these islands
had been submerged, will be present to his mind; and though this report proved
to be incorrect, yet he will not soon forget the accredited account, how lives,
and ships, and property were destroyed by a hurricane of unexampled severity.
   Such are a few examples of the way in which stamp collecting is useful,
instructive, and amusing to boys; and the further they proceed, the more
attractive and interesting the pursuit becomes. The knowledge of dates, of
wars and victories, of the commerce and produce of countries, of armorial
bearings, of laws and improvements, that is derived from the study of postage-
stamps, is astonishing in the extreme. Moreover, patience, perseverance, and

                   POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                769
judgment are learnt by the efforts to obtain stamps, and the arrangement of
them after they have been obtained will develope and often create ideas of
taste and neatness. No wonder, then, that so many boys are collectors, or, as
they are now termed, " philatelists."
                    Origin and Development of Posts.
   It is very advisable that every boy should know something about the history
of posts. The first time we find a post mentioned is by the Greek historian
Herodotus, who tells us that stations were established on the chief Persian
roads by Cyrus, King of the Medes and Persians, and that mounted couriers
conveyed from one to the other the royal messages, which were received by
word of mouth. The next historian from whom we gather any information
respecting posts is Suetonius, who says that Augustus, the Roman Emperor,
revived the plan of dispatching messages by relays of couriers. The expression
revived, suggests the probability that the idea was known and put in practice
before the time of Augustus. These posts, however, were only used by royal
personages —private individuals derived no benefit from them. Probably
Charlemagne, the famous Emperor of the West, who died A.D. 814, was the
first to enable private individuals to correspond with one another by means
of public messengers.
   In the present day it would be considered a strange thing if any of our
seats of learning were to organize and undertake a system of postal service ;
but in former times the University of Paris obtained from Louis X. of France
permission to convey to the different towns of the kingdom the letters and
property of its scholars. Afterwards it extended this privilege to the general
public, and it is said that it profited more by its postal services than by the
teaching of those who resorted to it for instruction.
   In our own country, as far back as the fifteenth century, mounted couriers
carried letters to the various towns, and it was a common exploit of the high
waymen in those days to waylay these couriers and seize the contents of their
letter-bags. Couriers, however, were in time superseded by the mail coach,
and in 1784 the first mail coach left London for Bristol. For some years this
was the general mode of postal communication, till at length the marvellous
power of steam was discovered, and railway carriages took the place of mail
coaches.
   The postage of letters was formerly paid in money, but members of Parlia
ment were exempt from any payment if their signature was attached to the
envelope. This privilege was afterwards much abused, for people who had
friends members of Parliament used to get as many envelopes signed as would
last them a considerable time. The prepayment, too, of letters was compulsory
until the year 1794, from which time persons were allowed to pay the postage
beforehand or not, just as they pleased.
    Franking letters by means of postage-stamps first originated in England.
 Mr. Rowland Hill, now Sir Rowland Hill, was the means of causing the
project to be adopted, though it is generally thought that he was not the first
who conceived the idea. He advocated a great change of postal arrangements
in a pamphlet which he published in 1837, wherein he proposed to reduce the
postage of letters, which on an average cost gd., and to fix the rate at id. for
every letter weighing not more than £ oz., to be prepaid by means of stamped
envelopes or covers. It was thought at first that this reduction would cause
a great loss to the revenue of the country, and consequently, like all reforms,
                                                                  49

77o                                  ARTS.
it met with great opposition. So many thousand petitions, however, were
presented in support of the proposal, that Parliament at last consented to
appoint a Commission to examine the plan. The Commission approved of
the idea, which was adopted in 1839, and on the 27th April. 1840, what are
now well known as the Mulready Envelopes and covers made tl eir appearance.
The design on them was etched by W. Mulready, a member of the Royal
Academy, and represents England engaged in correspondence and commerce
with the world. The Canton of Zurich in Switzerland was the first to follow
England's example in 1843. France, Bavaria, and Belgium did not adopt
the idea till 1849, and all the States in Europe had experienced the utility of
postage-stamps before Turkey thought fit to issue them in 1863. Among the
latest to adopt them are Sarawak, the South African Republic, and Gambia.
Nearly every Government in the world now makes use of them, with one very
prominent exception : in Persia, where posts were first instituted, postage-
stamps are still unknown.
          Two Systems of Collecting—English and French.
   The collector may enrol himself under either of the two schools, the English
or the French, which from their peculiar ideas of what constitutes a postage-
stamp may be respectively called " Conservative " and " Liberal." The English
school is eminently Conservative, and only collects those stamps which have
a plain and perceptible difference from each other, either in design or colour.
If any marked change is made by sanction of a- Government in the design, or
in the colour in which it is printed, or on the paper on which it is printed, the
English school maintains that these alterations alone constitute a distinct
stamp. The French school, on the other hand, is decidedly Liberal, and holds
that everything connected with a stamp should be taken into consideration. It
carefully studies, in addition to minute variations of design and colour, water
marks, perforations, texture of the paper, and errors of printing, acknowledging
besides every variety of these. The English school makes no distinction be
tween a perforated and unperforated stamp, and does not care about preserving
stamped envelopes uncut ; the French school even counts the number of dents
in the perforation, and collects every stamped envelope entire. It makes a
distinction also between those envelopes which have threads or inscriptions
across, and those which have neither of these, and it considers as a variety a
difference in the colour of the inscriptions. Thus, some of the old Prussian
envelopes have a thread running through the embossed stamp, and some with
exactly the same design have not this thread. The English school selects
either one or other of these, the French makes a point of possessing both.
Again, there are two varieties of the set of Prussian envelopes with arms in a
small oval, one with the inscription passing through, and the other with the
inscription not passing through the stamp. The English school is content
with one of these sets, the French collects both. There is also a set of the now
obsolete Thurn and Taxis envelope stamps (Fig. 12) with a lilac inscription
running across the envelope of each value ; and there is a set of the same
designs, having the inscription on each envelope the same colour as the par
ticular stamp. The English school thinks it sufficient to have either of these
sets, the French considers them so different that both ought to be collected.
   The Watermark, or filigranc, as it is called in Franee, is a transparent
mark in the paper of some stamps, which may generally be seen by holding
them up to the light. Thus, the watermark of our own penny label consists oV

                   POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                     771
a crown (Fig. 13), that of our tenpenny is a rose (Fig. 14), and that of our five-
shilling is a Maltese cross. It often happens, probably in consequence of
error or necessity, that different watermarks are found on stamps that have the
same design and are of the same value. Take the twopenny of the present
issue of Victoria as an example. Without taking into consideration the nume
rous shades of lilac, it is found watermarked with a figure of I, 2, 4, 6, 8, a " V "
over a crown, and the value, " Twopence," written in full. The errors 1, 4, 6, 8,
were occasioned by the twopenny being printed on paper intended for stamps
of the value of id., 4J., 6d., and 8d. Then, again, the New South Wales two
penny with " Twopence " overarched, is found watermarked with a thick nume
ral 2, a thin numeral 2, a thin numeral I, and a 5, besides being unwatermarked.
All these and such-like are collected by the French school.
   The Perforation, or dentation, is the name given to the fringe round many
stamps, caused by the method adopted by which a stamp may be easily de
tached from a whole sheet. Formerly the stamps had to be separated by means
of a pair of scissors, until a certain Mr. Archer, about 1853, invented a mode
of perforating, and sold the idea to Government for some ,£4,000.
   There are at least seven distinct kinds of perforation (Fig. 15), and of most
of these there are several varieties of size, &c. No. 1 was the first used, and
may still be seen on our own stamps ; No. 2 may be seen on such of the stamps
of Hanover as are perforated; No. 3 is found on the stamps of Finland; No. 5
is used on the stamps of South Australia, Prussia, and many of the German
States; No. 6 may be seen on the La Guaira locals. No. 7 may be seen on
some specimens of the 15 kreuzer and 30 kr. of Thurn and Taxis. No. 5 is
made by what is called a roulette, that is, a revolving wheel ; the others are
 produced by a stationary machine. It sometimes happens that a stamp of the
 same value and of the same design are found perforated in several ways, as well
 as unperforated. For instance, the 3 grote of Bremen (Fig. 9) exists unper
 forated, with the serrated perforation (No. 4), and with the common perforation
 (No. 1). So, too, the Victoria sixpenny yellow issue of 1858 is found perforated
 with roulette (No. 5), with large serpentine (No. 3), with small serpentine, and
 with a combination of these, namely, with large serpentine at top and bottom
 and small serpentine at sides. It is also unperforated, thus making five varieties
 with respect to perforation.
    Also there are from fourteen to sixteen different kinds of paper, such as
bluish, white, wove, laid, machine-made, yellowish, &c. When a stamp of the
 same value and design is found on several kinds of paper, each variety is
 eagerly admitted into the album of the collector of the French school. The
 New Zealand twopenny is an example of the same design and value existing
 with different perforations and watermarks, and on different kinds of paper.
 It is found :
    I. Unwatermarked: I, unperforated on blue, thick, yellowish, and pelure
 paper (i.e., very thin, nearly tissue) ; 2, perforated by machine.
    II. Watermarked with the letters " N.Z." : 1, unperforated ; 2, perforated by
 machine, two sides having sixteen, and two thirteen dents each.
    III. Watermarked with a star : 1 , unperforated on thick and on pelure paper;
 2, perforated by roulette ; 3, perforated by machine, sixteen by thirteen ; 4, per
 forated by machine, twenty-four by eighteen.
    It will be seen by these examples to what an extent the French school studies
 stamps ; in fact, they raise postage-stamp collecting almost to the rank of a
 science. Every boy can please himself whether he become a pupil of the
                                                                  4y—2

772                                   ARTS.
English or of the French school, whether he be a Conservative or a Liberal
philatelist; but under any circumstances he should make himself acquainted
with all the varieties, since, among other advantages, he will often find this
knowledge of use in detecting forgeries and reprints. Probably the greater
number of collectors will choose a middle course, and not adopt the entire
tenets of either school, but be Liberal- Conservatives, combining the good points
of both systems.
                        Modes of Arranging Stamps.
   The collector can place his stamps in one of the published albums, which
have ruled spaces, or he can arrange them for himself in a book whose pages
are blank. Those who collect according to the French style must almost
of necessity have an unruled album, unless they have other books on purpose
for all varieties. The favourite printed albums are those of Moens, Lallier,
Oppen, and Stafford Smith : of these M oens' is considered the best. One objec
tion to Oppen's is, that it is ruled so that the stamps should be fixed on both
sides of a leaf; and this is not so convenient, nor do the stamps look so well, as
when they are placed on one page only of a leaf. Lanier's has ruled spaces for
those worthless Hamburg and American locals; but instead of disfiguring a
collection with such trash, new issues might be arranged on those pages. The
great objection to a ruled album is, that there is no place for new issues which
may come out after the album has been printed. In a blank album the stamps
may be arranged in any order to suit the taste of the collector. They may be
placed in the same order as the printed albums, that is, partly geographically
and partly alphabetically, or they may be arranged entirely alphabetically; in
either case special care should be taken that two or three pages be left vacant
 after every country in anticipation of new issues. Some, perhaps, would prefer
 to divide the blank album into five parts : Europe, Asia, Africa, America, and
 Oceania, arranging the countries of each in alphabetical order, and including
under Oceania, Australia (with its five divisions, New South Wales, Queens
land, South Australia, Victoria, and Western Australia), Dutch Indies, New
 Caledonia, New Zealand, Philippine Islands, Sandwich Islands, and Tasmania
or Van Diemen's Land. Others, again, might like best to have every country
 in alphabetical order, without regard to their geographical position, placing
 Antigua first, then Argentine Confederation, and so on. There are, also,
 several other ways of arrangement, but every one can please himself which
 he will adopt, and suit his own particular taste or fancy.
                             Method or Mounting.
    Another very important point to be considered is, how to affix, or, as it is
 sometimes called, mount the stamps. Many young collectors are very apt to
 smear the backs of the stamps with thick gum or paste, and then press them
 firmly on the spaces allotted to them. This is a very bad plan in every way.
 In the first place, both gum and paste turn brown after a time, and so dis
 colour the stamps; neither of them, therefore, should be used, if possible; but
 if gum is used, let it be the best and clearest, and made very thin. India-
 rubber cement, white starch, or a composition called dextrine, are, either at
 them, much to be preferred, since they do not turn brown with age. In the
  next place, stamps should never have the whole surface of their backs gummed
 to the paper, as is the case when they are affixed to envelopes ; first, because
  they cannot be removed, if required, without being torn or damaging the

                  POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                  773
album ; and, secondly, because the watermark and texture of the paper can
not be examined. The best method of mounting stamps is as follows, which
is very simple, but rather difficult to describe clearly. Take a slip of thin
white paper about half an inch in breadth. Smear it on one side with India-
rubber cement, white starch, dextrine, or thin clear gum. When dry, fold the
slip in two lengthways, keeping the gummed side outermost. Next, cut it into
pieces rather narrower than the stamps required to be mounted ; each of these
pieces will then be in shape like a hinge, the two outer sides being gummed.
Attach one side, by moistening, to the stamp ; and, when this is dry, attach
the other side to the album : the stamp can then be moved up and down like
the lid of a box. The advantage of this plan is very evident. If it is wished
to remove a stamp, the greatest damage that can be done by the most clumsy
person is to tear the piece of paper which acts as a hinge ; and, of course,
another hinge can be easily attached, and no injury is done to the stamp.
Then, again, the watermark, texture of paper, and perforation can be examined
and referred to at any time : this is especially a great convenience to philate
lists of the French school. The hinge should be rather narrower than the
width of the stamp, in order that, in the case of perforated labels, the perfora
tions may be clearly seen ; and it should also be fixed to the top of the stamp,
just below the perforation. A narrower hinge would also do, if rather thicker
paper be used.
   The excellence and convenience of this hinge plan will amply repay any
one for the trouble it may occasion ; but if any boy should not have time, or
think it too much trouble to adopt it, he might slightly gum a very small por
tion of the two upper corners only of his stamps, and then attach them to
the page. If care is taken, they can be removed without much injury : it will
be found much the best, however, to make use of the hinge method. Very
often it is required to replace an inferior with a good copy, or to alter the
arrangement of the album in consequence of obtaining more varieties and
new issues, or to move the stamps into another book. Hinges, with the use of
any of the adhesive compositions mentioned above, will enable any one to do
this easily, without injuring or soiling the stamps in the slightest degree.
                                    Cautions.
   The best assistance that can be given to a young philatelist is to point out
to him as many as possible of the traps and snares that are laid to catch him
on every side. At the very commencement he must be cautioned with respect
to—A, forgeries ; B, reprints ; C, locals ; D, essays and proofs ; E, impostors;
F, photographs; G, revenue stamps; and H, changelings.
                                 A, Forgeries.
   Since collecting has become so general, and stamps are in such demand,
numerous dishonest dealers in postage-stamps defraud to a very great extent in
experienced collectors by selling imitations of rare stamps at very low prices.
They insert in boys' magazines and papers some such advertisement as this:
" A bargain ! A Packet of Thirty very Rare Stamps for Sixpence ! including
Pony Express, Sandwich Islands 13 c, Costa Rica, Due di Parma, Yellow
Austrian Mercury, View of Sydney, Old Lubeck, Swiss Zurich, Monte Video,
Buenos Ayres, and many others. Only 6d., post-free!" Many a boy has
spent his pocket-money on such packets, and finds afterwards, to his dismay,

774                                    ARTS.
that all these mentioned rarities are worthless forgeries. If a boy wishes to
purchase packets of stamps, let him be careful to go to a known and respect
able dealer.     Collectors must not suppose, because some dealers in their
advertisements warrant all their stamps to be genuine, that therefore all their
stamps are genuine. Very often these very dealers advertise rare stamps at so
low a price, that this very fact is proof that all their stamps are not genuine. It
is necessary to be very cautious both in buying and exchanging : examine well
and carefully, and, in a case of doubt, consult, if possible, an experienced friend
before finally accepting. Very many rare and very many common stamps
are forged. An observant collector may often know them by their smudginess,
and the inferiority of their execution compared with the originals ; but some
times they cannot be detected without a closer and more critical examination.
 Forgeries, or, as they are sometimes called, facsimiles, are so plentiful that
some have counselled young collectors to aim at obtaining no stamp issued
earlier than 1 861 ; there are, however, imitations of many stamps emitted since
that date, and the only safeguard against being duped is cautiousness and
careful study. The few descriptions following will serve as an example of how
stamps should be studied; forgeries will differ in some respect from the genuine
characteristics mentioned here.
   Argentine Confederation. Issue I.—One stamp was issued in April,
1868, namely, a 5 c, large figure, rectangular, and block-printed in vermilion
on white paper, un-watermarked (Fig. 16). The rays around the head, repre
senting the rising sun, are made of very fine dots, which do not get thicker at
the centre; the fingers of the hand on the left-hand side can be counted, the
thumb only of the hand on the right side can be seen ; there is a full stop
after the figure 5., and also after the word Centav.; in the Greek border round
the stamp there are eleven complete dents at top, the same number at bottom,
fourteen on the left, and sixteen on the right side. (See also " Reprints.")
   Issue II. — Three stamps were issued towards the end of 1858, namely,
5 centavos, red; io1r., green; 15 c, blue; with figures smaller than first issue
(Fig. 17). The inner portion of the rays is composed of dots not so fine as
in the former issue, the outer portion of short lines ; two large thumbs are seen
on the hands; in the Greek border there are seven complete square dents at
top, the same number at bottom, and nine on each side ; there is a dot after
Centav.; the 5 e. is found sometimes with one, sometimes with two dots after
the figure 5 ; the 10 e. and 1 5 e. have only one dot after the 10. and 15. respec
tively. Unlike the former issue, the oval touches the frame on both sides. {See
also " Reprints.")
   Austria. Newspaper Stamps. — I. 1850. Head of Mercury, blue, yellow,
and light rose, all from one die (Fig. 18). The light rose is, perhaps, the
rarest stamp in existence. The blue franked one newspaper ; the yellow, a
parcel of ten ; and the light rose, a parcel of fifty. The letters of the inscrip
tion are very unevenly printed, and are not all of the same size; the down-
stroke of the Z is broad, and the s is small in the word Zeitungs; one line in
the background looks as if it were a continuation of the outline of the cap,
ending between the letters « and «.
   II. 1853. Square, 1 kreuzer, black, 1 kr., blue, 2 kr., vermilion, 2 kr., brown
(Fig. 36), 4 kr., brown, 4 kr., vermilion ; all these are from the same die, with
merely the figure of value changed : the 2 kr., green, was of a different design.
They are all finely engraved, and the printing is very regular. Of the 1^.,
black, and 4 kr., brown, postmarked copies are rare. (See also " Reprints,")

                   POSTAGE STAMP COLLECTING.                                            775
Un. States afNtm Granada.
                        Granada Confederation           Nenv Granada. Granada Confederation.
          Fig. 20.                 Fig. ax.
 Mauritius Envelope.           Prussian Enz'rfofle.
                                                                                Hanover.
                                     Fig. 25.
                                           Shanghai
                           i,.-   m    SHANGHAI L. P. 0 •|±
                          K- — K^SSSSS^ *
                          t. — ¦»
                                                         0
                          <- «
                           *.. ft
                                        1 CA.VD.U1FKX.
                                                         \x
                                            Fig. 29.
                              Corrienies
      Fie. 31.                  Fig. 3a.                  Fig. 33.           Fig. 34.

  776                                   ARTS.
    BERGEDORF.—This town was under the joint protectorate of Lubeck and
  Hamburg, hence the arms on its stamps are half Lubeck (an eagle), and half
  Hamburg (a castle); the letters in the four corners, L. H. P. A., stand for
 Lubeck, Hamburg Post Amt (post-office). The first issue comprised two
 stamps, namely : £ schilling, black on violet (Fig. 8), and 3 sen., black on rose ;
 they were only in use a very short time, and are consequently very rare. The
 second issue comprised five, of which the £ sch., blue, was off the same die as
 the \ sch. of the first issue. The number of rings, intersecting each other right
 and left, which compose the circle surrounding the arms, is fifty-five in all the
 stamps ; the circle touches the four sides of the border, the horn touches the
 tail of the eagle, the summits of the towers do not touch ; the arms of the
 letter E are very short, and the lines of the background are waved but unbroken.
 (See also " Reprints " and " Changelings.")
    Brazil.— In 1843 three stamps were issued with large figures of value,
 namely, 30, 60, and 90 reis, on paper not purely white. The background is
 very finely engine-turned, and there is a single line round the shaded parts
 of the figures ; between this line and the figures the background is also plainly
 seen : in the forgeries, which are lithographed, this space is white.
    British Guiana.—The issues of 1850 and 1853 are described under
 " Reprints." At times some of the English stamps were used until another
 issue in 1860, and after these had been in use awhile, the stock of some of the
 values ran out, and several 1 c, pink, 2 c, yellow, and 4 r.,dark blue, were issued,
type printed in black on coloured paper, with borders of different patterns, and
 perforated by roulette on two opposite sides only. The letters R., M., Ac., B., G-,
 are signed on nearly all, on the pink in black ink, on the yellow in red, and on
the blue in white. Sometimes parts of two different types occur on the same
 stamp, and occasionally on some of the 4 e. the lines inside the border are
 wanting.
    Granada Confederation, or New Granada, or United States of
Columbia.—There are no less than eleven issues of the country which has
these three appellations, and as young collectors are often puzzled to know the
order of some of them, the first four are described and illustrated.
   I. 1859. (Fig. 23.) The background is composed of thin wavy lines, the
shield is unshaded, the figures of value are small, and in the side of the octa
gonal frame at the left hand top angle, there are the letters adin of the word
GRANADINA in the 2\ c, and adi in all the other values.
   II. 1860. Similar design to the former issue, but the figures of value are
larger above, and below the shield containing a shield the letters of inscription
are smaller, the background is of fine straight vertical lines, and the letters
AD are in the left hand top side of the frame (Fig. 21).
   III. 1861. Large rectangular stamps, inscription in an oval, ESTADOS
UNIDOS DE nueva Granada, meaning United States of New Granada ;
in the lower part of this oval there' are nine stars (Fig. 20). On the 1 peso
stamps the value is printed in full, " Un Peso."
   IV. 1862. The background consists of dark wavy lines, on which are nine
stars, five above the circle and four below. The printing and colouring of
these are inferior to the former sets (Fig. 22).
   Liberia.—Of these elegant stamps there are various imitations. There
are three varieties of the genuine, namely, unperforated, perforated, and per
forated with a single line round the whole stamp. In the genuine 6e. the toe
of the foot of Liberty does not touch the circular border, and the C of CENTS

                    POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                    777
  is under the IB of LIBERIA. In the genuine 12 c. the foot of Liberty does not
  touch the border, the part of the spear above the knee is shaded, and the C
  of CENTS is under IB. In the genuine 24 c. (Fig. 26), there are only two
  breaks in the stone on which Liberty is sitting, and the lower one, which is
  very small, is just above the level of the bottom of the letter A ; nor does the
  foot touch the border. The genuine postmark is LIBERIA MONROVIA, the
  forgeries have LIBERIA MONROWA.
     Mauritius.— The genuine shilling envelope of this country is very rare, and
  has been obsolete some time. There is a dangerous forgery in existence,
  which has the the Queen's head and inscription too large, and small balls in
  the diadem instead of stars. The paper also is of a different sort, and the
  colour is too dull, the original being a bright rich yellow (Fig. 24).
     Spain.—The three rare locals for Madrid, 1 cuarto (Fig. 34), 2 c, and 3 c,
  have been variously forged. The forgeries of 1 c. and 3 c. may be detected by
  studying the wreath round the oval containing the bear and tree. In the for
 geries the small lines down the centres of the leaves are plain and unbroken ;
 in the genuine these lines are uneven all along, and in many places are broken
 up into dots. (See also " Locals.")
     Two Sicilies: Naples.— The issue for the Two Sicilies was the rose-
 coloured set, with the Sicilian and Bourbon arms. In September, i860, the
  Provisional Government printed the \ grano (Fig. 5) in blue, instead of rose,
 engraving on the die first a T upon the G, thus making it into the value of
 \ iornese. Part of the G remained visible under the T. In October, i860,
 another alteration was made in the die, by erasing the arms in the centre, and
 engraving instead the cross of Savoy. The colour remained the same (blue),
 and very slight traces of the old arms could be seen through the cross, and
 part of the letter G is visible. Both these stamps are rare and valuable, and
 have, therefore, of course, been extensively forged. Besides other discrepancies
 in the forgeries, the thick portion of the remains of the G is never accurately
 imitated. Also, in the genuine, with a magnifying glass may be seen under
" \ " a very minute G, which is not found in any of the forgeries.
                                    B, Reprints.
    Reprints are impressions taken from the die after the stamps have become
obsolete. Sometimes these dies are obtained in some way by enterprising
dealers, who print off impressions, and sell them as original, genuine, unused
stamps. Occasionally the officials of the country in which the stamps were
once current reprint obsolete issues, and supply dealers with a large number
at a very reduced price. Reprints are generally exact copies of the originals,
and some have thought they ought to be collected, as showing the last state of
the die ; but they are of little value, and should be avoided, unless they can
in seme cases be procured for a small amount, and are kept as the best repre
sentations of the originals, if the originals are so rare that they cannot be
obtained. Many obsolete issues are reprinted in colours the stamps never bore
when current; these are, of course, no better than impostors.
    It is requisite to guard against purchasing, or receiving in exchange, as
genuine originals, the reprints of the stamps of the following countries :
    Argentine Confederation. — The first issue, 5 c, with large figure of
value; also the second issue, with smaller figures (Figs. 16 and 17).
    AUSTRIA. —Newspaper Stamps: 1. Head of Mercury, blue, yellow, rose
(Fig. 1 8). 2. Square arms, 1 kr., black, 2 kr., brown (Fig. 36), 2 kr.t red, 4 kr.,

778                                   ARTS.
brown, 4 kr., vermilion. The issues also of 1850, 1858, and 186 1 have been
reprinted. The use of studying perforations is exemplified in the detection of
these, for the current issues of 1850 and 1858 were perforated with fifteen dents,
whereas the reprints have only twelve ; and the originals of 1861 had fourteen,
but the reprints have twelve dents. All the old envelopes, too, have been
reprinted.
   Austrian Italy.—The issues of 1850, 1858, and 1861 have been reprinted
with the same discrepancies in perforation as in those of Austria.
   Bergedorf. —The first issue, \ sch., violet, and 3 sch., rose. These are too
dull in colour, and not clear enough impressions to represent stamps only in
circulation ten days.
   BriTISH Guiana. — I. Issue of 1850: large rectangular ; ship sailing to right
in shield, value above, BRITISH GUIANA at sides, and the motto DAM US PATI-
MUSQUE vicissim below; black ink on coloured paper; 1 c, magenta, 4 c, blue.
   II. Issue of September, 1853: small rectangular; date 1853 in four comers,
 ship sailing to left in oval, motto round oval DAMUS patimusque viciSsrM,
impressed in colour on white paper ; 1 c, red, 4 c, blue. Many of the reprints
of both these issues are perforated, a fact which leads to their detection at
once, since perforation was not at that time applied to the stamps of foreign
countries.
   III. Issue of 1860: 1 c, rose. The genuine has twelve dents on each upright
side, the reprint thirteen.
   Brunswick.—The local envelope, hand-stamped in red " St. P. Fr." in a
circle. The paper of the reprints is too white, and the colours too bright.
   Confederate States of North America.— The greater part of these
are reprinted, but the colours are generally brighter and the impressions clearer
than the originals. The genuine rare 1 c, with portrait of Calhoun, is yellow ;
the reprint is of a reddish shade, and much more finely printed.
   Corrientes.—(Fig. 32). The blue of the reprints is brighter than that of
the originals, and the stamp that was yellow-green is reprinted blue-green.
   Finland.—The originals of 1845, with inscription porto stempel, have
thirty-nine lines in the shield, the reprints thirty-seven. The original oval of
1856 has point of sword between ninth and tenth lines on the shield, the re
prints have point of sword between eighth and ninth.
   France.—The stamps of the Presidency and Republic are reprinted, and
some of these reprints are even postmarked ; many too are reprinted in colours
differing from the originals, and sold as proofs.
   Granada Confederation. — First issue with figure of value small, and
shield not shaded (Fig. 23) ; also the second issue with figures of value larger
(Fig. 21).
   Hanover.—The old sets are reprintea with white gum at the back, instead
of the original rose-coloured. Also the device on the local envelope, RESTELL-
GELD frf.i, is stamped on sheets gummed at the back, instead of being on
envelopes (Fig. 27).
   Italy.— The old sets of 1851 and 1852, in too bright colours.
   MoDENA.--The 1 lira, and the Provisional set with inscription PROyINCIE
MODONESI, and the newspaper stamp with inscription tassa GAZZETTE.
   Naples and Neapolitan Provinces.—All reprinted.
   Natal. —The oldest set embossed on coloured paper, like blotting-paper.
   New Caledonia.—The type of each of these differs in some respect, since
each stamp is engraved separately (Fig. 31).

                  POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                             779
    Parma.— The Provisional set with inscription STATI PARMENSI, and the
 three with inscription DUC Dl PARMA, (Fig. 6.)
    Pony Express.— In more, colours than are found in the originals (Fig. 40).
 (See also " Locals.")
    Portugal.—The first set with head of Donna Maria (Fig. 4).
         Peru.           Austrian Newspaper. Provisional stamp, Naples. Schlesivig-Holstein.
                       Fig. 39.                            Fig. 40.
    PRUSSIA.— The first issue of envelopes. The reprints of 4, 5, 6, and 7 silber-
groschen have no threads running across the stamps, as is the case in the
originals.
    Reunion.— 15 e. and 30 e., black impression on bluish paper (Fig. 33).
    Romagna; Saxony, Issue of 1850; Sicily; and Schleswig-Holstein,
Issue of 1850, 1 sch., blue, and 2 sen., pink (Fig. 38).
   Tuscany. —The genuine issue with the lion are on blue paper with water
mark of lines and a loop horizontally across, and also on white paper with
watermark of curved vertical lines intersecting. The rare 2 soldi and 60
crazic, however, are only found on blue paper. The reprints are on unwater-
marked paper, but the 2 soldi is imitated by a smudgy impression from the
altered die of another value, with a watermark of a circle in one corner ; the
original is very fine and distinct.
   United States.—All the envelopes of 1853 and 1857. In consequence of
the stamps of these countries being reprinted, all unused copies should be
carefully examined ; and if there is not strong evidence of their being originals,
reject them, and accept only those that are genuinely postmarked.
                                     C, Locals.
   Though collectors should be cautious about these, yet there are some which
may be accepted as strictly coming under the term postage-stamps. Locals
may, therefore, be divided into two kinds: those which ought to be collected,
and those which ought not to be collected.
   I. Locals which ought to be collected, because they are stamps issued for

 7«o                                   ARTS.
         local use, either by a State, or by private companies under the sanction
         of a State.
    Brunswick.—The local for this city consists of the device of "St. P. Fr." in
 a circle hand-stamped in red, sometimes on the right, sometimes on the left,
 of an envelope. St. P. Fr. stands for " Stadt postfriemarke," and the envelope
is found in various colours.
    Cashmere.—These stamps are used only in the territory of Cashmere,
 chiefly in the towns of Serinagar and Jumnoo, and the Government of that
 country is allowed by our Indian Administration to make a uniform charge of
one anna, irrespective of weight, for the conveyance to the frontier of each
letter destined for another country, and also for conveying from the frontier
each letter arriving from another country. They are the most primitive-looking
stamps in existence, and it was a considerable time before the blotchy inscrip
 tions on them could be deciphered. The type of the first issue was circular,
and consisted of \ anna, black (Fig. 30), 1 a., blue, and 4 a., blue. These are
generally postmarked with such a daub of red or black colour that it is often
difficult to see the device in the centre ; but in the centre of the § a. there are
three white strokes in a circle, thus Q ; in the centre of the I a., a white crescent
and stroke, thus 0; and in the centre of the 4. a., one white stroke, thusQ.
The second issue was a rectangular issue of six, namely, "Spies, or J a., black;
6p., or \ a., blue (Fig. 28) ; 1 a., red ; 2 a., yellow ; 4 a., green ; 8 a., deep red.
The characters in the upper pirt of the outer oval are Guzaratf, the lower
half is Persian. Guzaratf has been called a dialect of the Sanscrit language ;
but it is in no sense a dialect of Sanscrit, any more than Norman-French is a
dialect of Oscan or Umbrian ; nor are any of the characters on these stamps
Sanscrit. All the stamps have the same characters in the outer oval ; but in
the inner oval they vary according to the value of the stamp. Of the four
lines in the inner oval of the \ a. (Fig. 28), the first two are Persian, for the
value and the date ; the last two are Guzaratf, for the value and date. The
last two lines of the inner oval read in Guzaratf, "ddk dna, 1924," i.e., "ha]f
anna, 1867." There have been also issued two other labels of the same rect
angular type, namely, \ and 1 a., both blue.
   Confederate States.— It is doubtful whether any of these should in
strictness be admitted, since they are supposed to have been issued by the
local postmasters before the Confederate Post-Office was fully established;
but those of Baton Rouge, Charleston, Memphis, Mobile, Nashville, New
Orleans, and St. Louis are generally considered genuine. Original postmarked
copies are very rare, and the collector must beware of reprints and forgeries,
   Constantinople.—A series of three stamps was issued for this city in
1866, namely, 5, 20, and 40 paras. They may be obtained postmarked, but are
now obsolete.
   Corrientes.—Three stamps were once used solely in this province, which
is now a part of the Argentine Republic, namely, I real, M.C., blue (Fig. 32), a
blue without indication of value, and a yellow-green without indication of value.
M. C. stands for "Moneda Corriente" and means "current money." Genuine
postmarked copies are very rare ; beware of forgeries and reprints.
   Danubian Steam Navigation Company.—This company holds a con
tract for conveying the Austrian mails up the Danube, and is allowed to charge
extra for their own benefit. Consequently it issued two stamps, a 10 soldi,
mauve, and a 17J., rose, both of the same design. They are found post
marked on the same envelope with the Austrian stamps. The 17 s. is obsolete.

                 POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                     781
   Finland.— Two towns in Finland, namely, Helsingfors and Tammerfors,
have local stamps, issued by a private company with the sanction of the State.
The 10 penni for Helsingfors is printed in rose and green, the 12/. for Tam
merfors in blue and green. Standspost is the Swedish, and Kapungin Posti
the Finnish, for " City Post."
   Hanover.—There are three varieties of the stamps used only for this city.
1. 1850. A post-horn, encircled by the words bestellgeld frei, hand-stamped
in blue on a yellow envelope. (Fig. 27). The device was generally impressed
on the left-hand lower corner of the envelope. This local being rather rare
now, odious reprints and forgeries have appeared (see " Reprints").—2. 1858.
The arms of the city, namely, a post-horn with a shamrock above it, encircled
by bestellgeld FREI, impressed in green on a yellow envelope on the left
side.—3. 1861. The royal arms, namely, a horse running towards the left, with
BESTELLGELD frei round it, green impression on yellow envelope. Each of
these varieties was of the value of \ groschen.
   La Guaira. —These stamps are issued by a company that conveys the
mails between the ports of La Guaira and Puerto Cabello, and the island St.
Thomas, under a contract with the Venezuelan Government. There are seven
values—5, 1, 2, 3, 4 centavos, roughly engraved with figure of value in centre;
and \ and 2 reales, finely engraved and of a different design. The \ r. exists
both in rose and light blue, and the 2 r. in green and yellow. These last are
very much forged, but may generally be detected from the coarseness of
engraving.
   Madrid.—There were three locals for Madrid. A 3 cuartos bronze, bearing
the arms of the city (a bear climbing a tree) in an oval, with a crown above
it, was issued in 1852, and this was superseded by a 1 cu. bronze in 1853
(Fig. 34). This 1 cu. was used till 1854, when a 2 cu. green, on which was
impressed the arms of Spain, took its place. These stamps have been forged
in several ways, and no copy should be accepted unless there is a certainty
of genuineness. (See " Forgeries.")
   Pacific Steam Navigation Company. — The Peruvian Government
gave to this company the contract to carry mails to all places on the coast of
the Pacific Ocean. There were only two values—a 1 real for half an ounce
weight, and a 2 rls. for the weight of an ounce, and they were beautifully
engraved. It is not accurately known what were the original colours, but
probably at first the 1 r. was blue, and the 2 r. carmine, and afterwards the
colours were reversed, and the 1 r. was carmine and the 2 r. blue. They
have been reprinted in pairs in various colours. They have also been exten
sively imitated, but on a close inspection the inferiority of the engraving of
the forgeries is easily perceived. A genuine original copy of either value is
now very difficult to meet with.
   Shanghai.—These strange-looking labels were issued for Shanghai by the
Municipal Council, under the protection of the British. There are three
issues. I. Eight large roughly-printed square stamps on thin unperforated
paper, with value in candareens, 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 8, 12, 16, respectively each of a
different colour. II. Four, rectangular, better engraved, smaller sire than
former issue, and perforated, with value in can., 2, 4, 8, 16 respectively ; the
design of each value is different. III. Four, of the same size as preceding
issue, but with variations in the designs, value in can., 1, 3, 6, 12 respectively,
colours differing with each value. The Chinese characters are alike on each
stamp of the same value in the three issues, and the explanation of them

782                                    ARTS.
affords both amusement and instruction. The illustration (Fig. 29) represents
a 1 can. of the first issue. The Chinese language reads from rig-fit to left,
or perpendicularly sometimes. The characters in right top angle {a), and left
top angle (b), read respectively, shang, hai, and signify, as is evident, the
name of the town. The characters in right lower angle (c), and left Iowa
angle (d), read respectively, KUNG, POO, and mean "Office of Works." The
characters on right-hand column (e f g), read SHOO SHIN rowan, meaning
" Book Letter Company." The third character on the left-hand column {k\
reads YIN, meaning silver, and the second (/), fun, signifying candareen. All
these characters (a, b, c, d, e,f, g. h, i) are the same on every stamp, with the
one exception, where mace, t'sien, occurs by error instead of candareen, FUN,
at (/'), in a 4 can. stamp. The remaining characters on the left-hand column
vary according to the value of the label, since, they express the value.
    It must be borne in mind that the Chinese transact their business by weight
of metal, and that the candareen is a weight, the value of which is shown by
the following table :
          1 3 cash        make 1 candareen, amounting to about or. o&/.
          10 candareens „ I mace                   „         „     o 7^
          10 mace           „ I tael, about I oz. of silver „      63
    In the illustration (Fig. 29), the character (at k) reads YIH, and represents
the figure 1 ; therefore all the characters in the left column read yih fun yi.v,
and signifies 1 can. silver. In Chinese, yih is one, uhr or liang two, san
three, si four, loo %va,pa eight. In the 12 can. and 16 can. there are three
characters at k, of which the middle one reads T'SIEN, meaning mace.- the
left-hand column of the 12 can. reads yih t'sien uhr fun YIN, signifying
 1 m. 2 can. silver, i.e., 12 can.; the left-hand column of the 16 can. reads
yih t'sien loo FUN yin, meaning 1 m. 6 can. silver, i.e., 16 can. It is to
be observed that the value in English on many of these Shanghai stamps is
printed candareen in the singular, when it ought to be candareens, plural;
 that stamps of the same value are found on numerous kinds of paper and in
 different shades of colour ; that t'sien {mace) occurs by error for fun (can
 dareen) on some 4 can.; that there are great differences in the formation of
 the figure on stamps of the same value, besides some small errors of printing;
 and that all these variations are much prized by collectors of the French or
 Liberal school.
    Stockholm.—Two stamps were issued for this city of the same design,
 and both bearing the incription frimarke for localbref: a black one
 in 1855 of the value of 1 skilling banco, and a brown one in 1862, of the value
 of 3 ore< In 1 863 a stamp of a different design was issued, of a brown colour,
 with the value 3 ore inscribed on it.
     United States.— Probably two local stamps only were issued by Govern
 ment authority.— I. A 5 c, black, with head of Washington, and inscribed New
  York Post-Office. —2. yc. and 10 c, black, oblong, with inscription, Post-Ojfict,
 Prov., /?./.—*>., Providence, Rhode Island. All three have been reprinted
 in various colours, so only genuinely postmarked copies should be accepted.
    Wells, Fargo, and Co.— In the early days of collecting, no collection was
 considered of any value unless it contained a " Pony Express." The stamps
 that bore this name were those issued by this company while it held from the
  United States Government the contract for the postal service to California
  (Fig. 40). The contract expired in 1864, but since then stamps belonging

                  POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                   7 S3
to this company have been found on the same envelope with United States'
stamps, and postmarked : they also had an oblong label for newspapers. All
have been reprinted, and also forged. In the genuine, the tail of the pony
comes nearly to a point.
   II. Locals which should not be collected, because they are not sanctioned
         by any Government.
   American Locals.—The greater part of these are base fabrications ; some
few are reprints. There is no doubt that some locals were at one time in use
for prepaying letters from one town to another, or to different parts of the same
town, and were employed in consequence of the heavy postal charges of the
Government ; but they were not sanctioned, though not interfered with, and
were soon discontinued when the Government rates were lowered. It is said
that the first stamps used in America were some locals issued by D. O. Blood
and Co., of Philadelphia, in 1843, the Government not issuing any till 1847.
This proved such a successful speculation, that several other firms followed
the example. They were all, however, withdrawn when the Government re
duced its charges, and declared that it had the sole right of conveying letters
along the streets of towns. A few of them are finely engraved, with elegant
designs, but the greater part are very inferior in design and printing, chiefly
resembling the labels found on cotton-reels. Of those issued by D. O. Blood
and Co. (Fig. 39), it would now be impossible to obtain a copy, except on the
breaking-up of an old collection.
   Canada.— No private post-offices are permitted in Canada, so that all
pretenders to the position of local stamps in that country are forgeries and
impostors. Beware, therefore, of the following, which are constantly sold as
genuine, namely, " Bancroft's City Express," " Bell's City Post," " Kcr"s City
Post," " Winslow and Co's. Express."
   Hamburg Locals.— All these are most atrocious fabrications. They are
one hundred and sixteen in number, with inferior designs, bad printing, and
ugly colours. Their price is so low, and many young philatelists are so anxious
to swell the number of their stamps, that they are enticed into purchasing
them. Let no one disfigure his collection by admitting one of these counter
feits. Although in several favourite printed albums spaces are ruled for both
Hamburg and American locals, it ought not therefore to be considered ne
cessary to obtain this trash in order to fill up those spaces. As was before
mentioned, new issues may occupy the pages intended for those impostors.
   Norway.—The stamps for Drontheim and Bergen are private speculations,
without the sanction of the Government.
   Saxony.—A considerable number of stamps, bearing the inscription Saxony
Express and Dresden Express, are sold as genuine Saxony locals. They are
printed on various coloured papers, some being adhesives, some envelopes :
avoid them.
   Suez Canal Company.—Four stamps arc said to have been issued by this
company for use in the towns springing up during the making of the canal.
Canal Maritime de Suez is inscribed round an oval enclosing a ship.
    Switzerland.— Many are puzzled as to what country the red stamp in
scribed Rigi Kaltbad belongs. It is used by the proprietor of the hotel on
the Rigi to prepay his charge for conveying the letters of his guests to the
nearest post-office at Weggis, about fifteen miles distant. It is not strictly,
therefore, a postage-stamp. There is also another of a similar kind, green, and
inscribed RIGI SCHEIDECK, j. muller.
    Besides all these, care should be taken not to accept as postage-stamps the

784                                  AUTS.
labels of circular-delivery companies, or telegraph or railway companies.
Should any one wish to collect these, they ought not to be placed in the same
album with postage-stamps, since they are not strictly postal. Many young
collectors are not aware of their nature, and are induced by their low price to
buy them. The present English telegraph forms may be collected, since the
telegraphs are now under the management of the Post Office. Nor should any
one admit the Bavarian Instruction or Interpostal stamps, although there are
spaces ruled for them in Lallier's album. They are only used to indicate the
kind of stamps that are inclosed in the envelopes sent to the different Bavarian
post-offices.
                            D, Essays and Proofs.
   Essays are designs for stamps, printed and proposed to a Government in
the hope that they may be finally adopted. If they could be obtained genuine,
they would perhaps be interesting, though it may be questioned whether they
should rank in an album as fit companions for postage-stamps. The English
school would decidedly deny them admission. Unfortunately, real essays are
difficult to obtain, and what are often sold as such are base attempts upon the
credulity of eager philatelists. Some short time ago a pretence was made
that a few sheets of a very rare essay were accidently discovered. This was
what has since been known as the Prince Consort Essay. It resembles the
old penny black of Great Britain, but in the place of the head of Queen Vic
toria, the head of Prince Albert, her Consort, was engraved. Many believed
the tale of accidental discovery, and eagerly purchased a wished-for specimen.
The deception, however, did not last long, and it was found that the high-priced
and much-coveted Consort Essays were valueless fabrications.
   For a considerable period in the earlier days of philately, two rare stamps
were thought to have been once in actual circulation. These were the English
V.R., so called because the letters V.R. were in the two upper crowns, and the
J anna, red, of India. It has now been ascertained that both these were
essays ; and when genuine they are still very valuable. The English V.R.
was intended to defray the postage of official correspondence, but was
never really employed, so that genuine copies are unpostmarked. Every
device has been tried to produce an imitation. One plan was to take a black
penny stamp, cut out the top corners, and cleverly and neatly insert an R in
the right-hand top corner, and in the left an A, with the little bar scratched
out, and turned upside down to resemble a V. Another method was to scrape
off the little Maltese crosses in the upper corners, and to print V on one, and
R on the other corner. Both may be detected by close examination : the
originals, too, are on rough watermarked paper, which is not the case with the
 forgeries. Attempts have also been made to imitate the Indian &a., red.
   Another essay much prized by those who fancy such things is what is known
as the Connell Essay. This was designed by the Hon. Charles Connell, Post
master of New Brunswick, to fill the place of the ordinary 5 c, green, the
stock of which had been exhausted. The device very much resembled the 5 c.
 of the regular issue, with the exception that ConnelFs head appeared in the
 oval instead of Queen Victoria's. Connell was dismissed from his position
 before the essay became a current stamp.
    Two more may be mentioned, as having given rise to great discussions as
 to whether they were ever really issued, namely, the 10 e. of Dutch Guiana,
 and the \od. of Van Diemen's Land. No convincing evidence has been
 given of their having been in circulation, and they are now generally looked

                   POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                                     785
 upon as essays. Forgers reap a great harvest by pretended essays. It is often
difficult to prove whether so-called essays are genuine or not, and moreover
 there is no end to the number of them. Of Holland, for instance, there are
nearly 1,000 varieties of essays ! It is hardly likely that all these are genuine,
 but if they are, they form a collection in themselves.
   Proofs are impressions, in various colours, of designs that have been adopted.
They are on thin cardboard, and are generally beautiful specimens of engraving.
After being submitted to the approval of the Government for which they were
designed, one of the colours is finally decided upon for a particular stamp.
 Proofs, therefore, hardly come under the designation of postage-stamps, how
 ever interesting they may be in other respects. Some consider that they ought
 to be collected because they are the earliest impressions of dies. The English
 Conservative school would certainly object to their occupying a place in a
 postage-stamp album. Like many essays, several stamps that are sold as
 proofs are quite fictitious. The most successful way in which some designing
 dealers have duped those who collect proofs is by reprinting obsolete stamps
 on thin cardboard in different colours, and selling these as proofs. Perhaps
 the best rule with regard to essays and proofs is to avoid them unless they
 are unquestionably genuine, and can be obtained as a bargain ; under these
 circumstances, they can, if not retained, be exchanged advantageously with
 those who collect them.
    The collector has always to be on his guard lest he should be deceived.
 Every now and then stamps appear, professing to be new or lately-discovered
 issues of different countries. After several have purchased them, it is found
 that these pretenders are mere fabrications. Care should be taken, therefore,
 neither to buy or take in exchange any stamps about which there is any doubt,
 until authentic information concerning them has been received. Among those
to be avoided as the speculations of dealers maybe mentioned the following:
                                   E, Impostors.
   Argentine Confederation.— The large figure, 10 centavos and 15 c.
 The first issue was a 5 c. large figure (Fig. 16), and it is alleged that a \oc. and
 15 c. large figures were also designed and printed, but never, for some reason
or other, circulated. It was pretended that several sheets of these were found
lately, and great controversies have taken place as to their genuineness. It is
now generally believed by the best and largest collectors that they are impostors.
   Austria.—St. Andrew's Cross.—These consist of a white St. Andrew's
cross on grounds of various colours. They are merely impressions of the
wood-blocks which filled up the frames from which the old Austrian stamps
were printed. For this reason they are generally termed complimentary labels,
and it is evident they are not postage-stamps at all, though often sold as such.
Of the issue of 1 861 of Austrian Italy there are only two values, 5 and 10
soldi, perforated fourteen ; the 2, 3, and 1 5 s., perforated twelve, pretended to
have been discovered lately, are impostors.
    Berlin Express. —There is a set of roughly-executed labels of various
colours with this inscription. The Prussian Government has never issued
anything of this kind, and it allows no private establishment to issue stamps ;
these should be looked at, therefore, only to be rejected.
    Bolivia.— The values 15 c, 20c, and 1 peso.
    Breslau Express.—These profess to be locals for the Prussian town of
Breslau. They are entirely fictitious, and are only designed to take in young
and unsuspecting collectors.
                                                                        60

786                                   ARTS.
    Caprera.— No authentic stamps were ever issued for this island.
    Confederate States. —The blockade stamps, pretended to have been
used to prepay letters on board the vessels that ran the blockade of the Con
federate ports during the Civil War in America. The " Richmond Postage,"
Nashville, 5 cents, lilac, 10 c, green.
   Iceland.—There never was a genuine stamp for this island.
   Jerusalem.— No accredited stamp for this city was ever current.
    Kissengen and Schweinfurt.—Pretending to frank letters between the
two towns.
    Leitmeritz.—The production of some speculator named Ed. A. Hofer.
    Mekka.— No genuine stamp for this city was ever issued.
    Moresnet. —The set of labels for a Republic of this name, asserted to be
the smallest State in Europe. They made their appearance on the 1st of April.
1867, and were merely the jocular invention of some witty engraver making
merry on All Fools' Day.
    PeKIN.—All pretended stamps for this city are impostors.
    REPUBLIC of Ireland.—This is a green rectangular stamp, with REPUBLIC
OF IRELAND inscribed on left and right sides, postage above, and 24 cents
below; within this rectangle is an oval garter containing the motto libertas
ET NATale SOLUM, encircling a harp. The Fenian attempt to free Ireland
from its allegiance to England having failed, and no Irish Republic having
been established, this impostor was premature in coming into existence.
    Romagna.—The 6 bajocci. It only existed in the reprinter's imagination.
    Sandwich Islands.—The 13 cents figures on blue paper.
    Spain.—The 12 cuartos, same type as issue of 1857.
    St. Thomas and Porto Rico.— A set with clara rothe on a label
under a ship.
    Tahiti.— No such stamps ever in use.
    Utah.— This professes to have been issued by Brigham Young for circula
tion in his Mormon State. The Mormons have never been favoured with the
use of any such stamp.
    Wenden.—Ever since 1864, two oblong stamps, green and pink, and two
rectangular, rose with green centre, all four inscribed wendenschen kreises.
have been considered a genuine issue for Livonia, in Russia. Even forgeries of
them made their appearance, and the oblong pink was often difficult to obtain.
 It is now believed that they were the fabrication of a St. Petersburg dealer.
                                 F, Photographs.
    Even the art of photography is called in to assist in imitating stamps.
 Photographs are easily detected when they profess to represent stamps of any
 other colour than black ; but even when they simulate those that were origi
 nally black, their glazy appearance and brownish tinge betray them. Among
 the Brazil slanting figures, the Oldenburg \ groschen of 1861, the Connell
 Essay, and the English V.R., may be mentioned as being photographed.
                               G, Revenue Stamps.
    Receipt stamps of all sorts, and stamps belonging to the revenue of different
 countries, often find their way into the albums of collectors, in consequence
 of their being mistaken for, or purchased as, postage-stamps. Cases have
 been known in which revenue stamps have passed through the post and been
 postmarked, and there can be no objection to preserving such specimens as
  curiosities; but fiscal stamps in general have certainly no right to a place is

                  POSTAGE-STAMP COLLECTING.                               787
a postage-stamp album. They are, as a rule, very elegantly designed. Among
those often thought to be postal may be mentioned the revenue labels of the
following countries :
   California, bearing value, and the inscription, California State Revenue.
   Canada, very similar in design to the present postal issue.
   Cape of Good Hope, with The Stamp Act, 1864, inscribed on them.
   India, part of inscription being, Government of India.
   Italy, large rectangular stamps, with inscription, Marca da Bollo.
   Ireland, inscribed, Ireland Petty Sessions, used on summonses.
   Jamaica, lilac, with value, Three halfpence.
   Magdalena. — It was pretended for some time that this was a postage-
stamp, issued more than a year ago, but only lately discovered. Magdalena
is a part of New Granada, or, as it is now called, United States of New
Columbia. The inscription on the fiscal stamp is, Estados Unidos de Columbia,
¦20 cenlavos. Estado Soberano dei Magdalena, 1867.
   New South Wales, with Stamp Duty as part of inscription.
   Peru, with large figures of value.
   Portugal, long stamps, with Imposto do Sella, part of inscription.
   Prussia, with the word Stempelmarke at the bottom.
   Switzerland.—Those with bear on shield, inscribed Kanton Bern; those
of various colours and values, inscribed Craduirter Stempel; and those with
Geneve Estample on the right-hand side.
   United States.—These are very numerous, of all sizes, values, and colours.
   Venetia.—Those sold as Venetian Declaration Stamps.
   Wurtemburg, with value in a white square in a circle occupying the upper
part of the stamp.
   Besides these revenue labels, the stamps impressed on newspapers are con
sidered by many unfit to be occupants of a postage-stamp album, because they
cover both the tax and postage.
                               H, Changelings.
   This is the name given to those stamps whose colours have been changed
by chemical or other means. Among those to be avoided are the following :
   Baden.—<)kr., with figure in centre, white paper instead of pink.
   Bergedorf.—The \ schilling, blue, of the second issue is made lilac, to
represent the rare \sch. first issue, both being from the same die. By closely
examining the back of this changeling, it will be seen that the colour is not
even over the paper, but spotted and in patches.
   Canada.—The 12J cents, packet postage, blue instead of green.
   French Republic.—The 1 franc, carmine, is washed in saffron to imitate
the very rare 1 f, vermilion.
   New Zealand.—The unperforated twopenny, green instead of blue.
   United States.— 10 cents of the old issue, blue instead of green.
   Victoria.—The sixpenny Queen on throne, black instead of blue.
   WURTEMBURG.—First issue with figure in centre, 6 kreuzer, blue instead
of green, and 9 kr., white instead of pink.
                          Hints and Suggestions.
   It is said that postage-stamp collecting first commenced at a boys' school
on the Continent somewhere about fourteen years ago. At that time, and for
several years after, stamps could only be occasionally obtained in small
numbers by exchanging or asking friends to exert themselves to procure them.
                                                             50—2

788                                    ARTS.
Perhaps some very ardent collector might once in a way write to the post
master of a town in some foreign country, or commission some friend in that
country to obtain its stamps for him ; still, buying stamps was almost unknown,
and under any circumstances additions to an album were few and far between.
After awhile the number of collectors increased to such an extent that it
became evident it would be a very profitable trade to sell and exchange
stamps. Consequently there is now every facility for making a good collec
tion in a comparatively short time, for in addition to there being more with
whom to exchange, there are numbers of dealers from whom the stamps of
almost every country may be purchased. With greater advantages, how
ever, we must not be surprised that there are some drawbacks. In the
early d_ays of philately there were few opportunities of getting stamps, but
when they were obtained, there was no doubt about their being anything but
what they professed to be. Such a thing as a forgery or counterfeit was not
even dreamt of, much less known.
    But at the present time, although the means of increasing a collection arc
very numerous, yet whether we exchange, or receive as presents, or buy, the idea
uppermost in our minds must always be, are what we obtain genuine ? Decep
tion in every fascinating form, and counterfeit in every conceivable phase, way
lay our footsteps. The young collector must not expect always to escape the
meshes of roguery, but he should not be disheartened at a few mistakes at first
A careful reading of the cautions given above, and a continual reference to them,
will prevent many a disappointment, and foil the attempt of many a forger.
    There is always great rivalry between collectors with respect to the excel
lence of their collections. Emulation is very praiseworthy, if exercised in the
right direction. Boys, however, too often think that numbers is the test of the
superiority of a collection, and encouraging this idea too much, they are not
particular about what they accept, provided they can add to the number of
their stamps. To estimate a collection by the amount of stamps it contains
is very erroneous. Its value depends not on the quantity, but on the quality
of the contents. It is unwise to prefer several common stamps to a few good
ones. An album containing a quantity of inferior specimens would not be
worth nearly so much as one with a smaller number, but those well selected
and in good condition. After being satisfied of the genuineness of stamps,
and their legitimate claim to a place in the album, the next strict rule to be
observed is to accept none that are not as perfect specimens as can be obtained.
It is necessary, therefore, to consider what constitutes this perfection. No
stamps should be clipped, all should have wide margins, and in the case of
perforated stamps, these only should be selected in which the perforation is
perfect, and does not intrude on any part of the design. Many specimens are
quite spoilt from being clipped, and this system was formerly so common
that it is now often difficult to obtain with a margin an old Indian \a., and
many old envelopes. Envelopes, if not collected entire, should be cut square,
with plenty of margin, never clipped round. Brightness of colour and fineness
of impression should be looked for, and of postmarked stamps those should be
preferred on which the obliteration is as slight as can be had, and does not
deface any important part of the design. If the stamps in an album are well
selected and genuine, and are remarkable for cleanness, clear impressions,
bright and decided colours, completeness of watermark, perforation and mar
gin, and if they are arranged neatly and orderly, and mounted according to
the hinge plan, so as to admit of easy removal and inspection, everything that
 is desirable in a collection is attained.


GAMES OF SKILL.
                            (games of Skill.
                                  CHESS.
                                     Black.
                           Li t;fli i *
                                     White.
                         ORDER OF THE MEN ON THE BOARD.
                                Introductory.
   Chess is one of the most ancient of known games of skill. Mr. Drummond,
a writer on the game of draughts, asserts that draughts is the " elder sister of
chess," which he properly describes as " the thinking game ;" but, however
that may be, there is indisputable evidence that chess was known in the most
remote periods. Various theories are advanced as to its origin. One account
states that the wife of Ravan, King of Ceylon, devised it in order to amuse
her royal spouse with an image of war while his metropolis was closely be
sieged by Rama. There are at least a dozen claimants for the honour of the
invention, but all the accounts of the origin of " the thinking game " are
attended with more or less uncertainty.
   We will now proceed to give the necessary directions for playing the game.
   The game is played on a board divided into sixty-four squares, coloured
alternately black and white. It is the same as that used at draughts. Eight
pieces of different denominations and powers, and eight pawns, are allotted
to each competitor. As a necessary distinction, each set is coloured in a

 79o                        GAMES OF SKILL.
 different way, one commonly being white, the other red or black. The pieces
are named as follows :
 ^ W. & 11
     King.       Queen.
    Every player, therefore, is provided with one king, one queen, two bishops,
 two knights, and two rooks, besides the eight pawns. They are placed, at the
 beginning of each game, in the order shown at the head of this article.
    In placing the board, care must be taken that a white corner square be at
 the right hand of each player. It should also be observed that the queen must
 be placed upon a square of her own colour.
            The Pieces: their Powers and Mode of Action.
   The king can move in any direction—forward, backward, sideways, or di
 agonally, provided always, of course, that he does not move into check. The
 king possesses one great prerogative—that of never being taken; but, by way
 of counterbalancing the advantage of this exemption, he is restrained from
 exposing himself to check. He can move only one square at a time, except
when he cast'es, which he may do once during each game. He may then mo\e
 two squares. He cannot castle when in check, nor after he has once moved,
 nor with a rook that has been moved, nor if any of the squares over which he
 has to move be commanded by an adverse piece.
    The queen can move either horizontally or diagonally. She combines the
 powers of the bishop and the rock. She can, at one move, pass along the
 whole length of the board, or, if moving diagonally, from corner to comer.
Although she can move and take in the same manner as a bishop or as a rook,
she must make the whole of one move in one direction, and cannot combine
in one move the powers of these two pieces : in other words, she cannot move
round a corner at one step.
   The rook (sometimes called the castle) may pass along the entire length of
 the board at one move. It may move backwards, or forwards, or sideways—
but always horizontally, never diagonally.
   The bishop can move only in a diagonal direction, but can go any number
of squares, from one to eight, or as far as the space be open. The bishop can
 never change the colour of his square. Thus, the white king's bishop bein^
on a white square at the beginning, remains so throughout the game. This is
a necessary consequence of his move being purely diagonal.
   The knight has a power of moving which is quite peculiar, and rather diffi
cult to explain. He moves two squares at once in a direction partly diagonal
and partly straight. He changes the colour of his square at every move. The
knight is the only piece that possesses what is styled the "vaulting motion."
He is not precluded from going to a square between which and his own other
pieces intervene. Thus, instead of moving your king's pawn two, as your first
move, you might, if good play permitted it, move out either of your knights
right over the row of pawns in front. This power is possessed by the knight
alone, all the other pieces being obliged to wait until there is an opening ir
front of them before they can emerge.
   The pawn moves in a straight line towards the adverse party. It cannot
move out of its file except in capturing one of the opposing pawns or pieces,
when it steps one square in a diagonal or slanting direction, and occupies the

                                       CHESS.                                  791
square of the captured piece. It can only be moved one square at a time,
excepting in the first move, when the player has the option of advancing it
two squares. The pawn is the only piece which cannot retreat, and which
does not take in the direction in which it moves. For full explanations rela
tive to " queening the pawn," and taking a pawn en passant, see instructions
on those points.
                                    Abbreviations.
   The abbreviations which are invariably used in chess publications are the
following : K. for king, Q. for queen, B. for bishop, Kt. for knight, R. for rook,
P. for pawn, Sq. for square, and Ch. for check. The pieces on one side of
the board are distinguished from those on the other in the following manner:
Those on the same side as the king are named after him, as K.'s B. (king's
bishop), K.'s Kt. (king's knight), K.'s R. (king's rook) ; while those on the same
side as the queen are named Q.'s B. (queen's bishop), Q.'s Kt. (queen's knight),
Q.'s R. (queen's rook). The pawns are distinguished in like manner. The
pawn occupying the square in front of the K.'s B. is called K.'s B.'s P. ; that
in front of the K.'s Kt. is called K.'s Kt.'s P. ; that in front of the Q.'s R. the
Q.'s R.'s P., &c
                                   Chess Notation.
   It is very necessary that the beginner should thoroughly understand the
system of notation which is invariably used throughout England, for without
it he could never make any use of book games.
   The following diagram fully explains it. It will be seen that the moves are
reckoned both for black and white.
                                           Black.
              bs-j£0  bsixo    bsa0     bs-o    .bsX  bsaX fasiJIJl    dsHx
              Q.R.8. Q.Kt.8. Q.B.8.    Q.8.      K.8. K.B.8. K.Kt.8. K.R.8.
               *HO    «1S'U     *ao    T-6       "va   •ini    ciX'JI  ¦I'JI
              Q.R.7. Q.Kl7. Q.B.j.     Q-7.      K.7. K.B.7. K.Kt.7. K.R.7.
              •E'HO    E.XO     E'HO             E"H           E'X^    eHx
                                       <0              £a-H
              Q.R.6. Q.Kt.6. Q.B.6.    Q.6.      K.6. K.B.6. K.Kt.6.   K.R.6.
                               .<U+2666>•H'O            <U+2666>-x
               >HO *>3TO               .»O            .t'I'J .TJXT!    *'HX
              Q.R.5. Q.Kt.5. Q.B.5.    Q.5-      K.5. K.B.5. K.Kt.5. K.R.5.
              •S-H-0   S'lXO   .S'H-O   •sO      •«TI •S.aTI   S'rM:H  SHTI
               Q.R.4. Q.Kt.4. Q.B.4.   Q.4.      K.4.  K.B.4. K.Kt.4. K.R.4.
               9 HO
                      •9xXO
                                9a5     •9b      •9'X •93 X •9TH"5!
                                                                       9H5I
               Q.R.3. Q.Kt.3. Q.B.3.    0,3-     K.3.  KB. 3. K.Kt.3. K.R.3.
               'a!)    'THO     i-ao    .tft     .Lyl  'as     iijlX   '*.«•»
               Q.R.2  Q.Kt.2.  Q.B.j    Q.,.     K.S.  K.B.2. K.Kt.2. K.R.2.
              •8HO
                      .8'OI O   830     TO       .s"x  sax    .8 1JI'X nim
              Q.R.sq. Q.Kt.sq Q.B.sq.  Q.sq.    K.sq. K.B.K1. K.Kt.sq K.R.sq.
                                           W> ite.
                      CHESS N 0TAT10N FROM E ACH EN[ OF THI BOARD.

 792                        GAMES OF SKILL.
     Suppose the white queen's bishop moves one square, it is then said to stand
 on its second, which is the black queen's bishop's seventh. The white king's
 eighth is the black king's first, and vice versd all through the pieces.
                    Technical Terms used in the Game.
     The Move. —Whichever player opens the game by making the first move
 is said to have " the move."
     Check.—When your king is attacked by any piece, he is said to be " in check,"
and it is your opponent's duty to give you warning of such an event by crying
" Check," when he makes the move. You must then put your king out of
check by moving him, by taking the checking piece, or by interposing one of
your own men between the checking piece and your king, thus "covering"
check, as it is termed.
    Checkmate is the term used when the king is in inextricable check, i.e., when
none of the above means avail to place him beyond the range of the attacking
pieces. When a checkmate is obtained, the game is at an end, that being the
sole object.
    Discovered Check is when the player moves a pawn or piece from before
another piece, thereby opening or " discovering " check : e.g., the black rook
may be on a line with the opposing king, the only intervening piece being a
black pawn. The removal of this pawn " discovers check."
    Double Check is when check is discovered as above, the king being also
attacked by the piece moved.
    Perpetual Check is when the king of one of the players can be checked
almost at every move, and when he has little else to do but move out of check.
When the game has reached this stage, the weaker player may demand that
checkmate shall be given in a certain number of moves, in default of which
it may be declared a drawn game. (See Rule 8.)
   Drawn Game.—A drawn game may arise from several causes :
    1. As above.
    2. Stalemate. (See " Stalemate.")
    3. Equal play. " Between very good players," remarks Phillidor, " it some
times happens that the equipoise in force and position is constantly sustained
in the opening, in the intermediate stages, and in the last result ; when either
all the exchangeable pieces have been mutually taken, or the remaining forces
are equal—as a queen against a queen, a rook against a rook, with no advan
tage in position, or the pawns are mutually blocked up."
   4. Absence of mating power, i.e., when neither player possesses the force
requisite to obtain a checkmate. (See " Mating Power.")
    5. Unskilful use of a sufficiently strong force. If one player is superior in
force to his adversary, and possesses the requisite mating power, the game
may still be drawn by the unskilful use of that superiority. If he cannot
effect a checkmate in fifty moves it may be declared a drawn game.
   Stalemate describes that state of the game when one of the players has
nothing left but his king, which is so placed that, although not in check, he
cannot move without going into check.
    Castling is a double operation, accomplished by moving the king and one
of the rooks at the same time. When the removal of the bishop and the
knight on the one side, or of the bishop, knight, and queen on the other, has
cleared the intervening squares, the king may castle with either of his rooks.
If it should be done on the king's side of the board, the king is to be placed

                                    CHESS.                                    793
on the knight's square, and the rook on the bishop's ; if in the queen's section,
the king must be moved to the bishop's square, and the rook to the queen's.
In other words, the king, in either case, must move two squares, and the rook
be placed on the opposite side of him to that on which he stood before.
   En Prise.—A piece is said to be en prise when under attack.
   En Passant (in passing).— If your adversary has advanced one of his pawns
to the fifth square, and you move one of your pawns in either of the adjoining
files two squares, he is entitled to take your pawn, en passant, as though you
had only moved it one square. This peculiar mode of capture can only be
effected by pawns.
   Banks and Files.—The lines of squares running from left to right are known
as ranks, and those perpendicular to them, running from one player to the
other, are called files.
   Passed and Isolated Pawns—A pawn is said to be " passed " when it is so
far advanced that no pawn of the adversary's can oppose it. An isolated
pawn is one that stands alone and unsupported.
   Double Pawn.— Two pawns on the same file.
   " y'adoube" (signifying / adjust or / arrange) is the expression generally
used when a player touches a piece to arrange it without the intention of
making a move. Perhaps it is not absolutely necessary that he should say
" y'adoube," but he must at any rate use an equivalent expression.
   To Interpose.— This term explains itself. If your king or one of your pieces
is attacked, and you move another of your pieces between the attacking piece
and the piece attacked, either for the purpose of covering check, or as a means
of protection, or with any other object, you are said to " interpose."
    Witining the Exchange.—You are said to " win the exchange " when you
gain a rook for a bishop, a bishop for a knight, or, in short, whenever you
gain a superior piece by giving an inferior.
   Queening a Pawn.—You are said to " queen a pawn " when you advance it
to the eighth square on the file. You may then claim a queen or any other
piece in exchange for it. Formerly the rule was, that you might substitute for
it any piece you had previously lost, but according to the modern game three
 or more rooks, or bishops, or knights may be obtained in this way.
   Gambit.—This term, which is derived from the Italian, describes an opening
in which a pawn is purposely sacrificed at an early stage of the game, in order
subsequently to gain an advantage. Several gambits are distinguished by the
names of their inventors, such as the Cochrane gambit, the Muzio gambit,
the Salvio gambit, &c. ; there are also the bishop's gambit, the queen's gambit,
&c, &c.
   Mating Power.—The force requisite to bring about a checkmate : a king
and queen against king and two bishops, king and two knights, king and
bishop and knight, or against king and rook, can effect checkmate. King
 and two bishops can mate against king and bishop, or king and knight. King
with two bishops and knight can mate against king and rook. King with
 rook and bishop can mate against rook and king. King can always draw
 against king and bishop, or king and knight. King and rook against either
 a king and bishop, or king and knight, makes a drawn game, &c.
                              Laws of the Game.
    The following laws are in force in all the principal clubs in this country:
    i. If a player touch one of his men, unless for the purpose of adjusting it,

794                           GAMES OF SKILL.
         when he must say " J'adoube" (see Law 4), or it being his turn to
         move, he must move the piece he has so touched.
    [Walker gives the following remark on this law : " When you touch a piece
with the bond fide intention of playing it, the saying J'adoube will not exone
rate you from completing the move. A chess-player's meaning cannot be
misunderstood on the point ; and were it otherwise, you might hold a man in
your hand for five minutes, and then saying ' J'adoubcj replace it, and move
elsewhere."]
    2. If the men are not placed properly at the beginning of the game, and
         this is discovered before four moves have been made on each side, the
         game must be recommenced. If the mistake should not be found out
         till after four moves have been made, the game must be proceeded with
    3. Where the players are even, they must draw lots for the first move, after
         which they take the first move alternately. When a player gives odds,
         he has the option of making the first move, and the choice of men in
         every game.
   [In giving odds, should it be agreed upon to give a pawn, it is customary to
take the K. B. P. If a piece is to be given, it may be taken from either the
king's or queen's side.]
   4. If a player should accidentally or otherwise move or touch one of his men
         without saying " y'adoube," his adversary may compel him to move
         either the man he has touched or his king, provided the latter is not in
         check.
    5. When a player gives check, and fails to give notice by crying " Check,"
         his adversary need not, unless he think proper, place his king out of
         check, nor cover.
   [If it is discovered that the king is in check, and has been so for several
moves past, the players must move the men back to the point at which they
stood when check was given. If they cannot agree as to when check was
first given, the player who is in check must retract his last move, and defend
his king.]
   6. The player who effects checkmate wins the game.
   7. Stalemate constitutes a drawn game.
   8. So long as you retain your hold of a piece you may move it where you
        will.
   9. Should you move one of your adversary's men instead of your own, he
        may compel you to take the piece you have touched, should it be as
        prise, or to replace it and move your king; provided, of course, that
        you can do so without placing him in check.
  10. Should you capture a man with one that cannot legally take it, your
        adversary may compel you either to take such piece (should it be en
        prise) with one that can legally take it, or to move the piece touched:
        provided that by so doing you do not discover check, in which case you
        may be directed to move your king.
 11. Should you move out of your turn, your adversary may compel you
        either to retract the move, or leave the piece where you placed it, as hs
        may think most advantageous.
 12. If you touch the king and rook, intending to castle, and have quitted
        hold of the one piece, you must complete the act of castling. If you
        retain your hold of both, your adversary may compel you to move
        either of them.

                                     CHESS.                                  795
   13. The game must be declared to be drawn should you fail to give check
         mate in fifty moves, when you have
      King and queen against king.             King and pawn against king.
      King and rook           „                King and two pawns „
      King and two bishops „                   King and minor piece „
      King, bishop, and kt. „
   14. Drawn games of every description count for nothing.
   15. Neither player may leave a game unfinished, nor leave the room with
         out the permission of his adversary.
   16. Lookers-on are not permitted to speak, nor in any way express their
         approbation or disapprobation while a game is pending.
   17. In case a dispute should arise on any point not provided for by the laws,
         a third party must be appealed to, and his decision shall be final.
                      Hints for Commencing the Game.
   To open the game well, some of the pawns should be played out first. The
royal pawns, particularly, should be advanced to their fourth square : it is not
often safe to advance them farther. The bishop's pawns should also be played
out early in the game ; but it is not always well to advance the rook's and
knight's pawns too hastily, as these afford an excellent protection to your king
in case you should castle. Phillidor describes pawn-playing as " the soul of
chess." When they are not too far advanced, and are so placed as to be
mutually supporting, they present a strong barrier to the advance of your
adversary, and prevent him from taking up a commanding position. If you
play your pieces out too early, and advance them too far, your adversary may
oblige you to bring them back again by advancing his pawns upon them, and
you thus lose time.
   Do not commence your attack until you are well prepared. A weak attack
often results in disaster. If your attack is likely to prove successful, do not
be diverted from it by any bait which your adversary may purposely put in
your way. Pause, lest you fall into a snare.
   Beware of giving check uselessly—i.e., unless you have in view the obtaining
of some advantage. A useless check is a move lost, which may, particularly
between good players, decide the game.
   It is generally injudicious to make an exchange when your position is good,
or when, by so doing, you bring one of your adversary's pieces into good play.
Never make an exchange without considering the consequences. When your
game is crowded and ill arranged and your position inferior, it is advantageous
to exchange. Sometimes also, when you are much superior in force, it is worth
your while to make an equal exchange.
   The operation of castling often relieves a crowded game. A lost opportunity
of castling, or castling at the wrong time, is a disadvantage which may be
turned to account by your adversary.
   Never put your queen before your king in such a way that your adversary
may bring forward a bishop or rook and attack her, and the king through her.
In such a case, unless you can interpose another piece, you will inevitably lose
your queen.
   It is good play to " double " your rooks—i.e., to make them mutually support
ing. Don't bring your rooks into active play too soon. They can generally
operate most effectively at a distance, and they are therefore of most value
towards the end of a game, when the board is comparatively clear.

796                          GAMES OF SKILL.
    From time to time take a review of the game. Although an incurably
tedious p ayer is a general nuisance, it is mere folly to play without " knowing
the reason why." To take an occasional review of the game gets you into a
systematic habit. When near the close, take notice of the position of your
adversary's pawns, and if you find that you can queen before him, make all
haste to do so ; if not, attack his pawns so as to prevent him from queening.
If your adversary possesses a decided advantage, look out for a means ol
drawing the game.
    Do not stick to one opening, but learn as many as you can.
    Always be willing to accept odds of a better player, so that the game may
be interesting to him. If you should lose, it is natural that you should feel
inwardly chagrined, but do not let your disappointment be perceived. " Keep
your temper" is a golden rule. Do not throw up the game before you are
quite sure it is lost. On the other hand, you should not too hastily jump to
the conclusion that you have won it.
    It is necessary that you should occasionally study some of the best book
games, but without actual practice proficiency can seldom be attained.
    Endeavour to understand the reasons which lead to your adversary's moves,
and take measures accordingly.
    "Openings" of Games. —The principal openings are the king's gambit,
the queen's gambit, the king's knight's opening, the king's bishop's opening,
&c. From these spring the various gambits, known as the Evans, the Muzio.
the Cunningham, the Allgaier, the Cochrane, the Giuoco piano, &c, most of
them deriving their names from the inventors. All these gambits have a
 variety of subdivisions, and openings not founded on any of them are termed
 irregular openings. We shall, after defining each of the most celebrated of
 these openings, give illustrations of thein.
     The King's Gambit.— In this gambit, the first player advances his K. B. P
 two squares at his second move.
     The Queen's Gambit is when the first player, at his second move, advances
 his Q. B. P. two squares.
    King's Bishops Gambit is so styled because the first player brings out the
 K. B. at his second move.
    King's Knight's Gambit. — In this much-used opening the first player brings •
 out his K. Kt. at his second move.
     The Evans Gambit, so styled from its inventor, Captain W. D. Evans.
 R.N., is when the player advances Q. Kt. P. two at his fourth move, and
 sacrifices it, with the object of recovering at least its equivalent, at the same
 time obtaining a decided lead.
     Besides the above, there are the queen's pawn-two-opening, the queen's
 bishop's pawn's opening, the Lopez gambit, the kings's pawn-one-opening,
 the queen's counter-gambit, the king's rook's pawn's gambit, the Allgaier
 gambit, the Muzio gambit, the Cochrane gambit, the Cunningham gambit, the
 bishop's gambit, the Damian's gambit, the Greco counter-gambit, &c, &c.
     In an article of such limited scope as the present, it would be impossible to
  treat at any length upon every one of these openings. We shall therefore
  content ourselves with making a selection which will be at once interesting and
  suitable for beginners. In every case we have preferred to give those varia
  tions which are considered the best and most legitimate, believing that the
  study and practice of such positions will be more advantageous to the learner
  than giving, as some writers do, inferior play and positions, and then after
  wards giving the correct ones.

                                    CHESS.                                   797
   The King's Gambit.—
                      White.                             Black.
                1. K. P. 2.                        1. K. P. 2.
                2. K. B. P. 2.                    2. P. takes P.
                3. K. Kt. to B. 3.                3. K. Kt. P. 2.
                4. K. B. to Q. B. 4.
   There has been much difference of opinion as to the move which black should
now make. Some writers prefer advancing K. Kt. P., whilst Walker and a
whole host of authorities think it better to place the K. B. at Kt. second ;
" Although," says Walker, " playing the pawn is productive of more brilliant
situations." He advises both moves for practice.
   King's Bishop's Opening. —This opening is considered by the great chess
master, Phillidor, as the very finest opening for the first player, as it brings
out the bishop at the second move, and immediately attacks black's K. B. P.,
his weakest point. From this opening spring some of the finest and most
difficult combinations known. It commences thus:
                      White.                             Black.
                1. K. P. to K. 4.                 1. P. to K. 4.
                2. K. B. to Q. B. 4.              2. K. B. to Q. B. 4 (best)
                3. P. to Q. B. 3.                 3. Q. to K. 2 (good).
                4. K. Kt. to B. 3.
   Some prefer to play the Kt. to K. 2, but in our opinion this is not so good
as to B. 3, because in the former case black could take K. B. P. with his
bishop (check) ; and if white K. takes bishop, black queen gives check at her
B. 4, and white loses bishop.
                      White.                             Black.
                                                 4. K. Kt. to B. 3.
                5. Q. to K. 2.                    5. P. to Q. 3.
                6. P. to Q. 3.                   6. P. to Q. B. 3.
   If black plays his Q. B., pinning Kt., white will advance R. P., which will
cause black either to retire bishop (which will be losing time) or force an
exchange, which will open the game to white's queen. Therefore it will be
better for black to play P. to Q. B. 3, as we have given it, which will leave the
game pretty equal up to this point. If black, at his third move, replies as
follows—which is an inferior move—then the game proceeds thus:
                      White.                             Black.
                                                  3.  K. Kt. to B. 3.
                4. P. to Q. 4.                   4.   P. takes P.
                 5. P. to K. 5.                   5.  Kt. to K. 5.
                6. Q. to K. 2.                   6.   Kt. to Kt. 4.
                 7. P. to K. B. 4.               7.   Kt. to K. 3.
                 8. P. to K. B. 5.
 If black now play                                8. Kt. to K. B.,
white has the best of the game, and ought to win ; but if black play Kt. to
 Kt. 4, white will play Q. to K. R. 5, and then P. to K. R. 4. If white at his
third move should play Q. to K. 2, attacking K. B. P. and threatening ch.
with Q. and capture of bishop, and if black advance Q. P. one, it may then
become the Ruy Lopez gambit by white playing as his fourth move P. to
 K. B. 4. If the gambit referred to be not properly met, it leads to strong

798                          GAMES OF SKILL.
positions of attack. It is better for the second player to refuse the pawn
offered.
   King's Knight's Opening.—This is a sound opening, and has been largely
treated upon by many writers. Some fine situations spring from it. At the
second move, white directly attacks K. P. with K. Kt. We will give the
opening, and a few brief remarks thereon, together with a game arising from
k:
                      White.                             Black.
                1. P. to K. 4.                     I. P. to K. 4.
                2. K. Kt. to B. 3.
   For black, in reply to this, to move P. to K. B. 3, would only show weak
play, and would enable white to win in a few moves, or at any rate to obtain
a rook and a pawn in exchange for a knight. Black's best answer is the fol
lowing :
                                                     2. Q. Kt. to B. 3.
   Black thus defends his pawn, and has the advantage of a counter-attack.
   King's Knight's Gambit.—This is a variation of the king's gambit, brought
about by white at his fourth move advancing the K. R. P. before bringing out
his K. B. This variation brings out some fine play, but is not so strong for
the first player as the king's gambit proper. The Allgaier gambit springs
from this opening.
                      White.                             Black.
                1. P. to K. 4.                      I.  P. to K. 4.
                2. P. to K. B. 4.                   2.  P. takes P.
                3. K. Kt. to B. 3.                  3.  P. to K. Kt 4.
                4. P. to K. R. 4.                  4.   P to K. Kt 5 (best).
                5. K. Kt. to K. 5.
By white's last move the game merges into the     Allgaier.      Black's best move
now is
                                                    5. P. to K. R. 4.
                6. K. B. to Q. B. 4.               6. R. to K. 2.
This move of black's is considered better than K. Kt. to R 3.
                7. P. to Q. 4.                      7- P to Q. 3-
                8. Kt. to Q. 3.                     8. K. B. P. advances.
If white now plays K. Kt. P., black has the best of the game by keeping
the gambit pawn. If white attacks queen with bishop, black will give check
with pawn, and have the stronger game. Most authorities consider this
opening weak for the first player.
   The Allgaier Gambit.— This opening, the invention of a noted German from
whom it takes its name, arises out of the king's knight's gambit, as detailed
in the preceding paragraph. It is not a safe opening, although, if successful,
it will prove a strong one. When properly met, the siege is soon raised, and
the second player will stand in the better position. It is, however, a fine open
ing, and requires cautious play on both sides. It is as follows:
                      White.                              Black.
                 1. P. to K. 4.                     1. P.   to K. 4.
                2.  P. to K. B. 4.                 2.  P.  takes P.
                3.  K. Kt. to B. 3.                3.  P.  to K. Kt 4.
                4.  P. to K. R. 4.                 4.  P.  to K Kt 5.
                5.  K. Kt. to Kt. 5.

                                    CHESS.                                    799
White's fifth move constitutes the Allgaier gambit, white intending to sacrifice
the knight if attacked by the pawns. Black may reply in several ways, but
in our opinion his best move is the following :
                                                   5. P. to K. R. 3.
Black by this move wins the knight.
                6. Kt. takes K. B. P.             6. K. takes Kt.
                7. Q. takes P.                     7. K. Kt. to B. 3.
                8. Q. takes B. P.
   The last move is much better than giving check with the bishop, which
would only have the effect of involving white's game. Walker says, " No
better move can be played at this crisis." It will be good practice for the
student to continue the above opening, and exercise his ingenuity by finishing
the game.
   The Muzio Gambit.—This is another variation of the king's gambit, and
is produced by white offering to sacrifice knight in order to gain a strong
attacking position. It is the invention of Signor Muzio, an Italian player of
some eminence. Walker says this may be classed as the most brilliant and
critical opening known, and recommends the student to play it at every oppor
tunity ; he also throws out the warning that an incorrect move may irrecover
ably lose the game. The defence is most difficult to discover in actual play.
                      White.                             Black.
                 1. P. to K. 4.                      1. P. to K. 4.
                2. P. to K. B. 4.                    2. P. takes P.
                3. K Kt. to B. 3.                    3. P. to K. Kt. 4.
                4. K. B. to Q. B. 4.                4. K. Kt. P. advances.
                5. Castles.
This move constitutes the gambit; for, instead of white withdrawing his Kt.,
or moving it to Q. 4, he allows it to remain and be taken. It now rests with
black whether he will accept the gambit. Walker says he cannot do better.
                                                     5. P. takes Kt.
                6. Q. takes P.                       6. Q. to K. B. 3 (best).
This last move is Sarratt's defence, which is clearly shown to be the best.
                7. K. P. advances.                   7. Q. takes K. P.
This is black's best move, for if he did not take P., white at once obtains
the advantage by playing P. to Q. 2, defending K. P. If black play Q. to
Kt. 3 (ch.), white moves K. to R. sq., and ought to win.
   The Scotch Gambit, or Queen's Pawn Two Opening.—This gambit has a
fine, dashing attack, and one of its advantages is, that in case it should mis
carry, the disaster is comparatively slight. " It is," as Walker says, "one of
the most attacking yet safe methods of commencing the game which can pos
sibly be adopted." Again, " It is alike fertile in resource and safe in results."
                      White.                             Black.
                 1. P. to K. 4.                    1. P. to K. 4.
                 2. K. Kt. to B. 3.               2. Q. Kt. to B. 3.
                 3. P. to Q. 4.
   The third move of white gives it the name of the Queen's Pawn Two
Opening. White plays the pawn for the purpose of opening the game, espe

800                          GAMES OF SKILL.
cially for his bishops. Black may now take the pawn either with his P. or
Kt. We will suppose him to do the former, which we consider best :
                                                  3. P. takes P.
                4. K. B. to Q. B. 4.
    Some players now give black's fourth move as B to Q. Kt. 5 (ch.) ; but this
lis a decidedly bad move, and with an indifferent player would lose the game.
Black's best move is that introduced by Macdonnell, and described by Walker
as a sound defence. We give it below :
                                                 4- Q- to K. B. 3.
White may now castle, or play P. to Q. B. 3 ; either of which is better than
Kt or B. to K. Kt. 5.
                           How to Finish the Game.
    Having now considered the " Hints for Commencing the Game," and studied
most of the principal openings, we must say a few words with regard to finishing
the game. It is often very difficult to checkmate when you have a king, bishop,
and knight against a king. Although possessing the requisite mating power,
good players have often failed to accomplish the mate within the stipulated
fifty moves. The only way in which it can be done is by driving the adverse
king to a corner commanded by your bishop. The better to convey our
meaning, we give an illustration. Suppose the men to be placed thus:
                              White K. at K. B. 6.
                                 „ K. B. at K. B. 5.
                                 „ Kt. at K. Kt. 5.
                              Black K. at K. R. sq.
Then, in eighteen moves, white may effect checkmate :
                      White.                             Black.
               I. Kt. to K. B. 7 (ch.).          1. K. to Kt. sq.
              2.  B. to K. 4.                    2. K. to K. B. sq.
              3- B. to K. R. 7.                 3- K. to K. sq.
              4- Kt. to K. 5.                   4- K. to K. B. sq.
              5- Kt. to Q. 2.                   5- K. to K. sq.
              6. K. to K. sq.                   6. K. to Q. sq.
              7- K. to Q. 6.                    7- K. to K. sq.
              8. B. to K. Kt. 6 (ch.).          8. K. to Q. sq.
              9- Kt. to Q. B. 5.                9- K. to Q. B. sq.
             10. B. to B. 7.                   10. K. to Q. sq.
             11. Kt. to Q. Kt. 7 (ch.).        II. K. to Q. B. sq.
             12. K. to Q. B. 6.                12. K. to Q. Kt. sq.
             13- K. to Q. Kt. 6.               13- K. to Q. B. sq.
             14. B. to K. 6 (ch.).             14. K. to Q. Kt. sq.
             •5- Kt. to Q. B. 5.               IS- K. to Q. R. sq.
             16. B. to Q. 7.                   16. K. to Q. Kt. sq.
             17. Kt. to Q. R. 6 (ch.).         17. K. to Q. R. sq.
             18. B. to Q. B. 6, checkm.
    As will be observed from the above example, one of the important objects
is never to let the king escape into the middle of the board.
    In our chapter on checkmate we should not omit to give the " Fool's Mate*
and the " Scholar's Mate."

                                     CHESS.                                  801
   The former shows that it is possible to effect mate in as few as two moves.
 It is easy to understand why it should be named the " fool's mate ;" but why
 a checkmate which may be effected in four moves should be termed " scholar's
 mate " is probably less capable of explanation.
   Fool's Mate.—
                       White.                             Black.
                 1. K. Kt. P. 2 sq.                  1. K. P. 2.
                 2. K. B. P. I sq.                   2. Queen mates
    Scholar's Mate.—
                       White.                             Black.
               1. K. P. 2.                            1. K. P. 2.
               2. K. B. to Q. B. 4.                  2. K. B. to Q. B. 4.
               3. Q. to K. R. 5.                     3. Q. P. i.
              4. Q. takes K. B. P.,, giving " scholar's mate."
   King and Queen against King.—Several examples of this checkmate might
 be given, but the one below will probably be sufficient. The principal point
 upon which the learner need be warned is against allowing his adversary to
 effect stalemate. Suppose the pieces to be placed thus :
                               White king at K. sq.
                                  „ queen at Q. B. sq.
                               Black king at Q. 3.
 The game may then proceed as follows :
                       White.                             Black.
               1. Q. to K. Kt. 5.                    1. K. to K. 4.
               2. K. to K. 2.                        2. K. to Q. 3.
               3. K. to K. 3.                        3. K. to K. 3.
               4. K. to K. 4.                       4. K. to Q. 3.
               5. Q. to K. Kt. 6.                    5.
               6. K. advances.                       6.
               7. Q. mates.
    King and Queen against King and Rook.—Suppose the men to be placed
thus:
                               White king at K. B. 3.
                                   „ queen at K. sq.
                               Black king at K. R. 7.
                                  „ rook, at K. Kt. 7,
supposing white to have the first move, the game may be completed in three
moves :
                       White.                             Black.
                1. Q. to K. 5 (ch.).                1. K. to R 8
               2. Q. to Q. R. (ch.).                2. K. moves.
               3. Q. to K. sq., and wins.
                                     Problems.
    The following problems are selected from various sources, and are given
because they are just sufficiently difficult to exercise the ingenuity of the
learner. At the same time, we would caution him against too close a study of
problems until he is well up in the game, for, if followed up, it will only tend
to weary and tire him, and the result may be that he will throw up the game
with dislike.
                                                                    61

  802                                GAMES OF SKILL.
             PROBLEM No. i.                                    PROBLEM No. i.
                  Black.                                             Black.
                                                    '>'''"'y/t _t-
   ~m '..:,          .,..,. .,..,   ¦ ^^W";                                 I    !
                 *                L \ ,L
                                                                   51
                                                                                 4
                                                                            . a
                                            .
                                          .5;
 -J        i
                 White.                                             While.
White to move, and mate in two moves.         White to move, and mate in two moves
             PROBLEM No. 3.                                    PROBLEM No. *.
                  Black.                                            P.Hr-1:
                 Wmic.                                             VVnilo
White to move, and mate in three moves.       White to move, and mate in threemorei-

                                     CJI£SS.                                    803
            PROBLEM No. 5.                           PROBLEM No. 6.
                  Black.                                   Bhck.
                 White.                                    Wnitc.
 White to movc, and mate in three moves.  White to move, an d mate in three moves.
            PROBLEM No. 7.                           PROBLEM No. B.
                  Bhrk.                                     Black.
      ¦mm                i                                          11^1
                                           Up 0                         !
  i                                                                     ;;¦• ;j
           *il*JBUgL                           ¦J       M%kmr^
                                           mm       HI
                  White.                                   White.
Vhite to move, and mate in three moves.   White to move, and mate in four moves.
                                                                51 —2

   8o4                                   GAMES OF SKILL.
                PROBLEM No. 9.                                         PROBLEM No. 10.
                                                                      (The Indian Praiirm.)
                         Black.                                               Black.
                                                                Bini        bmh         HHfl         ^'^
                            mm
                     L™„, ^»^ ~ us/////
       mm m m
                                          ¦f
  pVi f wmr                 r"            wB.r
                        White.                                               White.
White to move, and mate in four moves.                White to move, and mate in four moves.
                                    Solutions of the Problems.
                      Problem                                             Problem 2.
        White.                         Black.                 White.                    Black.
  1. Q. to B. 4(ch.).           1. P. takes Q.        1. R. to Q. 8(ch.)              K. lakes R.
 a. R to Q. 8, mate.                                  2 Q. to Q. 7, mate.
                      Problem 3                                           Probllm 4.
        White.                        Black.                  White.                     Black.
     R. to K. sq.                  . K. to B. sq.         K. R. to R. 6.              K. to K. B. 4.
     R. to K. Kt. sq.              . K. to K. sq.    2. Q. R. to K. Kt. sq.           K.10K.4.
     R. to Kt. 8, mate                               3. R. to Kt. 5, mate.
                                                        There are two other solutions to this probled
                      Problem 5.                                          Problem 6.
        White.                        Black.                White.                        Black.
 1. Q. to K. R. 7.               1. Q. Kt. tak~s Q.  1. Q. to Q. 2.                     K. moves.
 2. Kt. to Kt. 6 (ch.) .        2. K. to Kt. sq.    2. Q. to Q. sq.                     K cakes Kl
 3. B. to Q. 5, mate.                               3. Q. mates.
                      Problem 7.                                          Problem 8.
        White.                        Black.                  White.                   Black,
 1. B. to Q. B. 2 (dis. ch.). 1. R. takes R.        1.   Kl to K. B. 6.            t. P. advances.
 2. R. to Q B. 4 (ch).           2. P. takes R.     a.   Kt. toK. 4(ch.)           2. K. to R. 8.
 3. B. mates.                                       3.   K. to B. sq.             3. R. P. 1.
                                                    4.   Kt. to B. 2, mate.
                      Problem 9.                                         Problem to.
                                                                   (Tfo Ittditut ProHtm.)
        White.                        Black.               White.                      Black.
 1.  R. to K. Kt. 2 (ch .).     1. K. to B. sq.     1.   B. to O. B. sq.          J. P. moves.
 2.  Kt. to Q. 7 (ch.).         2. R. takes Kt.     2.   R. to Q. 2.              2. P. moves.
 3.  R. to K 8 (ch.).           3 K. takes R.       3.   K. moves.                3. K. moves.
 4.  R. to Kt. 8, mate.                             4.   R. to Q. 4 (dis checkm.)

                                 DRA UGHTS.                                  805
                THE GAME OF DRAUGHTS.
   Draughts is a game that is very often underrated, because it is supposed
that there is little or no play in it, and thus when a person is asked if he play
draughts, his reply is not unusually, " No, it is such a stupid game; there's
no play in it."
   Whenever this remark is made to us, we challenge the person to a series of
games, when, having beaten him some half-dozen in succession, we prove that
there must be some play in the game, or such a result would be improbable.
   When playing chess, there are so many pieces, each having a different
moving power and a relative value, that one oversight, caused probably by a
momentary relaxation of memory, loses a game, whereas in draughts such a
result is less probable, and the attention can be more completely devoted to
some plot, through which the opponent does not see. As a rule, a good draught-
player is a more acute person on every-day subjects than is a good chess
player, and thus we strongly recommend draughts as a game likely to call into
action very useful qualities.
                                         White.
    Draughts is played on the same board as is chess, the men, however, being
placed entirely on squares of one colour.
   There are twelve men on each side, arranged on the squares from I to 12
 and from 21 and 32.
    The two squares marked I and 5, and 32 and 28, are called the double corners,
 and these must always be on the right hand of the player, whilst the left-hand
 lowest square, 4 and 29, must always be on the left-hand side.
    Having arranged the men, the first move is arranged between the players
 by lot.
    The men move one square at a time; thus, the man on 22 can move either
 to 18 or 17; the man on 23 can move either to iq or 18. The men can only

8o6                          GAMES OF SKILL.
move forwards, not backwards, until they have succeeded in reaching the
bottom row of the adversary's squares, when they are crowned by having a
second man placed above them. They are then termed kings, and can move
either forwards or backwards as desirable.
   A man may take an opponent's man by leaping over him and taking up the
vacant square beyond him, the piece taken being removed from the board.
   A man may take two or three men at one move, provided he can leap over
each in succession. To understand this, place a white man at 18, 1 1, and 25.
and a black man at 29, all other pieces being removed from the board. The
black man can move and take the three white men, as he can leap to 22, 15.
and 8, thus taking the men on squares 18, 11, and 25. A king can take both
backwards and forwards any number of men, as long as a square is open.
Thus, place a white man on 25, 26, 27, 19, 10, 9, and 17. A black king at 20
could take all these men at once, for he could leap from 29 to 22, taking 25
man ; to 31, taking 26; to 24, taking 27; to 15, taking 19; to 6, taking 10; to
13, taking 9; and to 22, taking 17, and taking all these in one move.
   If a man take other men, and in the taking reach the bottom row, he canno:
go on taking, as a king, until the adversary has moved.
   Example. — Place a white man at 24, 7, 16, and 8, a black man at 28. The
black man takes 24 by leaping to 19, takes 16 by leaping to 12, takes 8 by
leaping to 3, and is there crowned ; but cannot leap to 10, thus taking the man
at 7, until the adversary has moved.
   The game is won when all the adversary's men are either taken or blockaded
so that they cannot move, and it is drawn when two kings or less remain able
to move, in spite of the adversary.
   Laws.—The following are the established laws of the game, which should
be learnt by every person who is desirous of becoming a draught-player.
                      Rules of the Game of Draughts.
   The chief laws for regulating the game of draughts are as follows:
   1. Each player takes the first move alternately, whether the last game be
        won or drawn.
   2. Any action which prevents the adversary from having a full view of the
         men is not allowed.
   3. The player who touches a man must play him.
   4. In case of standing the huff, which means omitting to take a man when
         an opportunity for so doing occurred, the other party may either take
         the man, or insist upon his man, which has been so omitted by lr;
         adversary, being taken.
    5. If either party, when it is his turn to move, hesitate above three minutes.
         the other may call upon him to play; and if, after that, he delay above
         five minutes longer, then he loses the game.
   6. In the losing game, the player can insist upon his adversary taking a3
         the men in case opportunities should present themselves for their beiry
         so taken.
   7. To prevent unnecessary delay, if one colour have no pieces but two kins?
         on the board, and the other no piece but one king, the latter can caiJ
         upon the former to win the game in twenty moves; if he does no(
         finish it within that number of moves, the game to be relinquished as
         drawn.

                                 DRA UGHTS.                                  807
    8. If there are three kings to two on the board, the subsequent moves are
         not to exceed forty.
    Advice. —The men should be kept as much as possible in a wedge form
towards the centre of the board. Avoid moving a man on the side square,
for when there he is deprived of half his power, being able to take in one
direction only.
    Consider well before you touch a man, for a man once touched must be
moved.
    Avoid the cowardly practice of moving a man, and then, when you discover
by your adversary's move that you have committed an error, taking your move
back. Stand the consequences though the game be lost, and next time you
will be more careful. A game, even if won after replacing a man, is unsatis
factory, and not to be counted a victory, and often leads to disputes. The rules
are made to avoid all argument and dispute, and the more closely, therefore,
you obey these, the more harmonious will be your games.
    Do not talk during a game, or whistle, or fidget by drumming with the fin
gers, or in any way act so as to annoy or worry an adversary. A game of
draughts, though only a game, may be made a training process for much more
important matters. A careless, thoughtless, or worrying draught-player will,
undoubtedly, be the same character in worldly matters.
    Never allow the loss of a game to cause you to lose your temper, for such
a proceeding shows you to be more self-sufficient than intellectual. If beaten,
it proves your adversary to be more experienced or quicker sighted than your
self, and you should, therefore, use all your faculties to discover how he beats
you.
    As a rule, seek to play with a better player than yourself rather than with a
 worse, which is merely saying, " endeavour to improve your own game rather
 than to instruct a worse player."
     When you lose a game, avoid all disparaging remarks, such as, " Oh, I
 should have won that if so-and-so had not occurred," &c. Your adversary
 who defeats you will think more highly of you if you say nothing, or merely
 acknowledge his greater skill.
     If you find a person who defeats you easily, remember how much thought
 and time he must have devoted to the subject in order to obtain this advantage,
 and bear in mind that it is only by a similar process that you can gain like
 results.
                                       Games.
     Draughts is a game in which one is particularly called upon to estimate the
 skill and style of play of one's adversary. One person may very easily be
 drawn into a trap, where another more cautious could not be thus defeated.
 Again, a too cautious player may be defeated by a dashing move, whereas
 another opponent would win the game in consequence. We will now give one
  or two examples of games, calling attention to the points in each. The men
 are supposed to be arranged as before mentioned— white's men from 21 to 32,
  black's from 1 to 12; black moves first.
                       Black.                            White.
                     II tO 15.                         22 to  l8.
                     15 to 22 (takes).                 25 to  18 (takes).
                      8 to 11.                         29 to  25.
      Now, at this point of the game, if white were   a very  young or incautious

808                               GAMES OF SKILL.
player, he might be easily tempted into a false move by black moving 1 1 to
16, for white, seeing a supposed advantage in position, might move 24 to 30.
Let us suppose these moves to have been made, and black wins at once, for,
moving 3 to 8, he compels white to take 20 to 11, and then with the man at 8
takes 11, 18, and 25, and procures a king at 29, thus gaining a majority of two
men, an advantage equivalent to the game, for by exchanging man for man
on every occasion, he would soon reduce the odds to 4 to 2, or 2 to o.
    If however, black play a more cautious game, he should move 4 to 8.
   White again might lose the game if he moved either 24 or 23 to 19, for
black would respond by 10 to 15, when white must move from 19 to 10, black
from 6 to 29, taking these men as before.
    Black's best move is, perhaps, 25 to 22.
   At this period of the game exchanges of men usually take place, the object
being an advantage of position, as follows :
                          Black.                                         White.
                       9 to 14.                                        18 to 9.
                        5 to 14.                                       24 to 20.
                        6 to 9.                                       22 to 18.
                        I to 5.                                        28 to 24.
    Up to the present time no great advantage is gained on either side, the game
being, perhaps, slightly in favour of black, who may cause a separation in
white's men by the following :
                          Black.                                         White.
                        9 to 13.                                      18 to 9.
                        51014.
White may reply by—                                                   23 to 18 ;
Then,                 14 to 23.                                       27 to 18.
    Now, unless black moves 2 to 6, or 10 to 15, white could procure a king as
follows: Suppose black had moved 12 to 16, then white 18 to 14,
                          Black.                                         White.
                       10 tO 17,                                      21 tO 14,
and whatever black now does, white must procure a king. It is under such
conditions as this that the acute player often wins a game ; for we shall find
that the eagerness for gaining this king may cause white to be in a difficult
position. Carrying on the game under this supposition, we have
                          Black.                                         White.
                        16 to 19.                                     24 to 15.
                        II to 18.                                     13 to 9.
                         8 to 1 1.                                      9 to 5.
                        18 to 22.                                     26 to 17.
                        13 to 22.                                       5 to 1 (king).
                         2 to 6.                                        1 to 10.
                         7 to 14.                                     32 to 28.
                        14 to 17.                                     28 to 24.
                         3 to 8.*                                     31 to 27.
                         8 to 12.                                     27 to 23.
   * This move of black's will very likely lose him a man, or at least allow his adversa<y to make a Idas
 rapidly.

                                    DRA UGHTS.                               809
   Black must now lose a man, and therefore the game, as follows :
                             Black.                    White.
                    22 to 26, or 17 to 21.            23 to 18.
                    26 to 31, or 22 to 25.            19 to 15, and white wins.
   The Double Corners. —When there is one king against two, the rule is that
the game is drawn unless it be won in at least twenty moves. If the player
does not know how to block up in the double corners, this may easily be a
drawn game. We will now show the moves for blocking in the double corners,
giving the case that will require the greatest number of moves.
   Black's kings at 1 and 5 ; white's at 10.
                        Black.                            White.
                      5 to 9.                      •   10 to 1 5.
                      9 to 14,                         15 to 19.
                     14 to 18.                         19 to 24.
                     18 to 23.                         24 to 28 (reaches double
                      I to 6.                          28 to 32.    comer).
                      6 to 10.                         32 to 28.
                     10 to 1 5.                        28 to 32.
                     15 to 19.                         32 to 28.
                     23 to 27.                         28 to 32.
                     19 to 23.                         32 to 28.
                     27 to 32.                         28 to 24.
                     23 to 18.                         24 to 19.
                     32 to 28.                          19 to 16.
                     18 to 15.                          16 to 20.
                     15 to 11, and wins in fifteen moves.
    Had black moved from 15 to 19 at last, white could have gone to 24, and
 the game would have been prolonged. There is no position on the board
 where two kings cannot defeat one in fifteen moves.
    It is usual with two experienced players to pronounce the game drawn when
 there are two kings only on each side, one of which is enabled to reach the
 double corners. There are, however, two or three chances of catching an in
 cautious player.
    The following example will serve to illustrate cases. White's positions are
 king at 28 and at 30; black at 24 and 19. Black moves.
                        Black.                            White.
                      24 to 27.                          28 to 32.
                      19 to 23.                          30 to 26.
                      23 to 30.                         32 to 23.
                      30 to 25.                         23 to 26.
                      25 to 30.                         26 to 22, and wins.
    Another case may be tried with caution, and which is as follows, two kings
  each: black at 15 and 23 ; white at 16 and 25. White moves.
                        White.                             Black.
                      25 to 22.                          23 to l8.
                       16 to 11.                         18 to 25.
                       II to 18, and wins next move by blocking.
     These are not positions likely to entrap very good players, but succeed very
  often with average hands.

810                          GAMES OF SKILL.
   The game in these instances resulted in the winner having what is called
" the move." To ascertain whether you have the move of any one of your
adversary's men, examine the situation of each. If your opponent has a
black square at a right angle under his man, you have the move, and vice vcrsd.
   Draughts is in reality a deeply interesting game, and one that is very rarely
appreciated.
                      The Losing Game of Draughts.
   The losing game of draughts is rarely understood, and therefore rarely ap
preciated. We believe that there is even more foresight required in the losing
than in the winning game of draughts, for it is equally as necessary to sec
several moves on ahead, and the game may be almost instantly lost by a
thoughtless move.
   To win at the losing game we must compel our adversary to take all our
men, and the novice usually commences by losing as many men as possible.
This proceeding is an error : the player has the advantage who has the most
men on the table, as will be instanced by one or two examples.
   Suppose white to have a king on each of the four squares, I, 2, 3, 4; black,
one on 31. First, we will suppose that white commences thus:
                    White.                               Black.
                    4 to 8.                           31 to 27.
                    3 to 7.                           27 to 23.
                    2 to 6.                           23 to 18.
                    1 to 5.
Black must now retreat, for if he moves to 14 or 15 the game is lost, as he
may be compelled to take each of his opponent's men in succession. Thus,
suppose he move to 14:
                     White.                             Black.
                    5 to 9.                           14 to 5.
                    6 to 9.                            5 to 14.
                    7 to 10.                          14 to 7.
                    8 to 11, and wins.
Thus black's move must be a retreat in answer to wnite's 1 to 5.     Then
                      Black.                           White.
                   18 to 22.                           5 to 9.
                  22 tO 26.                            9 to 14.
                  26 to 31.                           14 to 18.
                  31 to 27.
At this point, if white advanced from 18 to 23 to be taken, he would lose ths
game unless very careful, as the lost man would have the move against him.
His best move, therefore, would be 18 to 15. If black move to 24, he loses.
Black had better move to 32, and white 6 to 10.
                     Black.                              White.
                   32 to 28.                           8 to 11.
                   28 to 32.                          13 to 19.
                   32 to 28.                          19 to 24.
                   28 to 19.                          10 to 15.
                   19 to 3.                           11 to 7, and wins.
   We will now point out the best " traps " for the losing game.
   Suppose white's men to be placed from 21 to 32. If then we can secure one

                                                                                m X
                                   DRAUGHTS.                                   811
 of the adversary's men at 21, we arc almost certain to lose all our men first,
 and thus to win the game, for by keeping this man blocked until required, he
 can be made use of at the right time. Let us take an example, white moving
 first.
                       White.                               Black.
                    22 to l8.                              9 to 14.
                    18 to 9.                               5 to 14 (very bad play
                    21 to 17.                             14 to 21   this: ought to
                    24 to 20.                             11 to 16.  have been 6 to
                    20 to I1.                              7 to 16.  13).
                    23 to 18 (not a good move, but will 10 to 15
                    18 to II    serve to illustrate the 8 to 15
                    28 to 24. advantage of man at 2 1 ) . 1 5 to .
                    24 to 15.                              6 to 10.
                    15 to 6.                                1 to 10.
                    26 to 22.                              4 to
                    27 to 23.                             16 to 19.
                    23 to 16.                             12 to 19.
                    22 to l8.                             10 to 15
                    18 to 4.                               3 to 8.
                     4 to 11.                              2 to 7
                    II to 2.
    White now has six men on the board, whilst black has only two ; but white
can reduce this number at any time by moving 30 to 26. Black can only move
 19 to 24 or to 23.     Suppose he move it to 23, then it will be better for white
to reduce black to one as follows :
                     White                                  Black.
                    31 to 27.                             23 to 26.
                    30 to 23.                             2 1 to 30.
                    29 to 25.                             30 to 21.
                    32 to 28.                             21 to 17.
                    28 to 24.                             17 to 14.
    If black move to 18, 10, or 9, he loses at once, so 14 to 17 is the best move.
If white move 27 to 23 he loses the game, for black would move 17 to 22, from
which white could not escape. Hence the game would be best played by
                      White.                                Black.
                     2 to 6.                              17 to 21.
                     6 to 10.                             21 to 25.
                    10 to 14.                             25 to 30.
                    14 to 17.
    The game might now be prolonged, but still to win the losing game with
the four against one is almost a certainty, as it can only be lost by an over
sight.

• 8l2                            GAMES OF SKILL.
         NINE MEN'S                 MORRIS,               OR       MORELLES.
     This game, also known by the name of the " Shepherd's Game," is a pecu
  liar rustic amusement, and flourishes in many parts of England, where it is
  played on hill-sides and glades, on the rustic " public " table, on the door-step,
  on the slate on the way from school, and on the highly-finished board from
  London in the squire's drawing-room.
     The published rules of the game are very imperfect, and do not by any
  means give an idea of the art of the game, or of its variations. There seem
  also to be different ideas as to the formation of the board to be used, at least
  among those who know the shepherd's game only from books. To avoid the
  confusion which necessarily arises from different rules being used, we will
  explain how the foresters and countrymen in Hampshire and Wiltshire play
  the game, and their principle we believe to contain in it the original law and
  best board.
     Shakspeare, in "A Midsummer Night's Dream," speaking of the overflowing
  of rivers caused by fogs and rains, says :
                         " The folds stand empty in the drowned field,
                           The crows are fatted with the murrain flock;
                           The nine men's morris is filled up with mud."
     The countrymen then, as now, evidently played the game out of doors.
  Their board was cut out of the turf, and thus, when heavy rains set in, it was,
  as Shakspeare asserts, " filled up with mud."
      Until we ourselves became devotees to morris, we wondered to see the
  excitement over a game played on three squares with nine dark pebbles against
  nine bits of chalk, the performers little ruddy foresters, who knew better how
   to trail a deer to its lair, or to spot a badger, than how to make pothooks and
   hangers. At length we were initiated into the laws of the game, and having
   thought over it for some time and practised " right hand against the left," we
   became so skilled as to be a " caution," and few foresters would have ventured
   to risk a " pint " on the result of a combat with us.
      So easily is a board made, either on a slate, piece of cardboard or wood ;
   so easily can men be enlisted, either by means of pebbles, bits of chalk, paper,
   wooden chips, &c, that the game need not wait long because no board has
   been brought, or men have been lost ; but whenever there is half an hour to

                           NINE MEN'S MORRIS.                                    813
spare and nothing else to do, a game of morris will fill up the gap.           Now,
therefore, we will commence our description.
                                    The Board.
   Draw three squares, one within the other. The inside square ought to have
its sides about 3 or 4 in. in length, or as much larger as suits. The next square
ought to have at least an inch space all round, and the same distance between
its sides and the outside square. Four lines joining each square, as shown in
the diagram below, complete the board.
   In some boards we have seen lines along the angles of the squares, as if
3, 6, 9, &o, were joined ; but this is not the board now used by the experienced
rural player, and we, therefore, do not recommend its adoption.
   Each player is provided with nine men, which may be anything—draught-
men, or the leaves of a tree, or bits of paper, or pieces of chalk—as long as
there is so marked a difference between each player's army of men that the
one can be easily distinguished from the other. We have seen the game played
on the turf, the men on one side being peeled sticks (very small), on the other
sticks with the bark on, each player pegging his men into the ground. The
board and men being ready, the game may commence.
                                     The Game.
   Each player places alternately a man on any one of the intersections marked
from 1 to 24. The first move or placing to be arranged between the players.
The great object in placing is to get three men in a line, the three men belonging
to one player.
   Three men are said to be in line when they are on three stations, such as
7, 8, 9, or 13, 14, 15, or 1, 10, 22, &c. ; but not at the angles, as at 18, 21, 24.
   If either player succeed in placing three men in line, he may pound one of
his adversary's men, that is, he may remove one from the board. In this
pounding, one of three men in line cannot be pounded, provided there are
other men to pound ; but if the men on the board are all in lines of threes,
then one of these only can be pounded. We will first place our men on the
board, explaining the reasons as we proceed, and then advance with the game,
which may fairly be divided into three portions, each of which calls for a dif
ferent style of ingenuity. We will suppose the players' men to be black and
white, and that black commences placing his men.
                                      PLACING.
                      Black.                              White.
                        9.                                 II.
                       13.                                 18.
                       14.                                 15.
                         8.                                 7.
                         S-                                 2-
                        6.                                  4.
                       21 (line, and pounds 11).           16.
                       12.                                 17 (pounds 12).
                       12.                                 24.
   White has by far the best of this game, as will be evident to the reader when
he becomes acquainted with the next portion of the game, which is termed
the moving.

814                          GAMES OF SKILL.
                           MOVINg, OR NO. 2 PorTION.
   The moving consists in moving alternately a man from intersection to inter
section, or, as our board is numbered, from number to number. Thus, a man
at ii might move to 10, 19, 4, or 12, provided there were no men on those
stations. A man at 6 could move only to 5 or 14. Thus a man can move
only along the lines from number to number. The first placing having been
accomplished, the playing commences, each move being alternate. \Vc will,
for the sake of illustration, continue the game above, in which we said white
had the best of the game. White's last place was at 24, and black, therefore,
moves first. Black can only move one man, viz., 21, all the others being
blocked. The moves, therefore, will be
                        Black.                         White.
                      21 to 20.                        2 to 3 (pounds 20).
   Now comes the question, why should white pound 20 in preference to any
other man? The reason was, because, unless either 6, 14, or 20 had been
pounded, a line would have been made, 7 pounded, and black's game opened.
Then it must be considered which is it best to pound, 6, 14, or 20? and we find
that if 20 be pounded black can move only 14 to 21, when white can reply by
15 to 14, thus preventing black from lining, and being ready to line by re
turning again 14 to 15.
   Trifling as seemed this matter about which to pound, the game mainly
depended on the selection, as we will show, first by carrying on this game,
then starting from white's first move and pounding another man.
   We would remind the reader that one game worked out in this manner will
teach him most of the art of the game.
   Starting, then, after white's first move, in which he pounds 20, we have
                       14 to 21.                    15 to 14.
                      21 to 20.                       3 to 2.
   This is good play on the part of white, as he can make his line at 3, 15, 24,
in spite of black, whenever he chooses, and by his last move he imprisons
black's man at 5, and compels him to move 20: thus white can improve his
position considerably. Black 20 to 21. White now has the option of " draw
ing" the game by moving 17 to 20, and thus blocking up black; but a safer
move, though it opens black's man at 5, is 2 to 3 ; then
                         Black.                       White.
                        5 to 21.                     4 to 5.
                      21 to 20.                    14 to 15 (pounds 20).
                      13 to 14.                    17 to 20.
                        9 to 13.                   24 to 23.
                       14 to 21.                   18 to 17 (line and pounds 21).
                        8 to 9.                    23 to 24 (line and pounds 12).
                        6 to 14.                   24 to 23 (line and pounds 13),
thus reducing black to three men, when a new phase of the game comes into
practice, of which we will treat presently ; now, however, we will show the
result of pounding another man instead of 20 at white's first move. Replacing
the men according to the third example of placing, we will recommence the
moves thus :              .                                   ,    ,    ..
                      21 to 20.                     2 to 3 (pounds 14).
                      13 to 14.                     4 to 11 (not to break line).
                        5 to 2.                    1 1 to 19.

                         NINE MENS MORRIS.                                  815
                        Black.                    While.
                      20 to 21 (pounds 7).      19 to 20.
                        6 to s (pounds 20).     24 to 23 (must break line now).
                        5 to 6 (pounds 23).
And so on, reducing white to three men.
                                  HOPPING.
  We will now pass on to the third and last part of the game, which is as
amusing and interesting as any.
  When either party is reduced to three men, instead of being obliged to move
his men from station to adjoining station, he can "hop" to any part of the
board instead of " moving." Thus a man at 1 might hop over to 24, or to 19,
or to 13, or anywhere, provided a man is not on the station. In order to illus
trate this hopping, let us place white's men at 3, 6, 8, 9, 11, 17, and 18, thus
giving him seven men to three of black, whose men we will place at 7, 12, and
15, and let white move first.
                      White.                              Black.
                     6 to 14.                            7 to 13.
                    17 to 20.                           15 to 7.
This last move of black's is a good one, as it will enable him to hop to 16,
make a line, and pound one of white's men.
                     White.                              Black.
                    3 to 15.                           13 to 16 (and pounds 14).
When black is reduced to two men he loses the game ; and this would have
occurred had he pounded any man except 14, as white could have completed
a line next move, as will be evident on looking at the board. Then the game
may be continued as follows :
                     White.                              Black.
                    15 to 14.                         16 to 13.
                    20 to 21.                         13 to 16 (pounds 9).
                     8 to 9.                           7 to 13.
                    11 to 19.                        13 to 7 (pounds 9).
                    18 to 17.                          7 to 20.
   We now come to a very difficult part of the game, for when white is
reduced to three men, he can hop, and thus may complete a line at once, as
will be evident were white to move 14 to 6, and black 20 to 7, pounding any
man ; for white could then either complete line in one or two moves, in spite
of black, as follows: Suppose white to move 14 to 6, and black 20 to 7,
pounding 21. Black then hops from 6 to 20, and must, next hop, complete
line at either 21 or 23. Thus black must try a different game, and must work
for move and position.
                     White.                              Black.
                    14 to 6.                           12 to 18.
                    21 to 14.                          l6 to 21.
                    17 to 16.                          18 to 17.
                     6 to 5.
   Black dare not yet complete his line by hopping to 23 from 21, for if he
pounded one of white's men, white could immediately complete line in two
moves, either by hopping to 6, 12, or 11, and if both play well the game ought

816                           GAMES OF SKILL.
to be drawn. Supposing, however, we allow white to place his men badly, we
will show how he may be made to suffer.
                     Black.                                 White.
                         9-                                    7.
                       21.                                    12.
If black did not place his next man at 16, of course white would do so with
his man, and make a line, thus :
                     Black.                                 White.
                        16.                                   i1.
    Again, black must place a man at io, and white has now the worst of the
placing, as will soon be evident : no matter where he goes, black must obtain a
line in a very few placings, or a very good position. Thus again :
                     Black.                         White.
                        io.                           1 8.
                        14.                             6 (compulsory or block lines).
                        19.                          20.               „
                        J 5.                          13-
                       24.                              3-
                       23.                           22.
    The placing is here completed, and white played cautiously. Thus, al
though black's game is a trifle the best, still it is tolerably even. We will now
take an example in which white shall not play well, and we will show where
his false moves occur, and their result, black commencing as before:
                       Black.                                   White.
                       18.                                        22.
                         7.                                       IO.
                          1.                                      I1.
    This last move of white was a bad one, for black can not only defend him
self against the threatened line by placing a man at 12, but can at once
compel his adversary to place a man at 16, after which he obtains a line in
two placings. Let us place the men.
                      Black.                                    White.
                       12.                                        l6.
                         9 (making a line certain).                 8.
                       13 (line> and pounds 16).                  16.
White's man on 16 being removed, he must place another there to avoid the
line.
                       1 5 (a very good place).                   14.
                         3 (must make another line).              24.
                         2 (pounds 24).                           24.
    Here is a second placing completed, during which white lost two men, and
now has to fight black with seven against nine—rather heavy odds. We
 pvill take one more example of this early part of the game before proceeding.
                      White.                                 Black.
                    14 to 15.                              21 to 14.
                    15 to 24.                              14 to 4.
                    12 to I1.                              17 to 12.
                    II to IO.                              12 to 17.

                            NINE MEN'S MORRIS.                                817
                       White.                             Black.
                      5 to 8.                            4 to 23 (pounds 10.)
                     19 to 9.                           23 to 7.
                     24 to 13.                          18 to 17.
                      8 to 16.                           7 to 20.
                     13 to 23.                          17 to 21.
                      9 to 19.                         '20 to 13.
                    23 to 9.                            18 to 14 (and wins).
   White might have won this game immediately after black pounded 10.
   Before giving examples of games from beginning to end, we will offer a few
hints on the best play.
   1. Avoid crowding all your men together on two squares.
   2. Place first on the corners, if you are first player, and endeavour to form
a cross with three men, as a line follows this.
   3. Block your adversary's men as much as possible, whilst your own are
free to move.
   4. Do not devote all your attention to merely obtaining a line during the
placing, for a cautious antagonist will prevent this, and whilst you are intent
on this one point, will so arrange his men that when the moves commence he
will easily defeat you.
   5. When possible, arrange to make two lines in successive moves, or three
lines, not merely one at a time ; obtain also what is called an " open and shut,"
which is as follows: Men on 9, 13, 18, 20, and 23. Then 18 can move to 17
and complete line; back again to 18 and again complete line, and soon.
Again : men at 9, 13, 18, 6, and 21. The man at 13 moves to 14, back to 13,
again to 14, completing line each time.
   6. Avoid moving one of three men when an adversary's man may block
your station, but when you have a choice move another. Example : Black
men at 13, 14, 15 ; one of white's at 3, another at 18, the other men on the
other side of the board. Move 14 rather than 13 or 15, as you could recom-
plete line with 14, whilst 3 to 15, or 18 to 13, would prevent you if you had
moved 13 or 15.
   7. Before reducing your adversary to three men, and thus allowing him to
hop, endeavour to arrange two or three means by which you can complete
lines in successive moves.
   Example: Black's men, eight in number, at 2, 11, 13, 15, 16, 19, 21, 24;
white's men, four in number, at 3, 9, 12, 22.
                 Black's first move.                      White.
                     24 to 23.                          22 to IO.
   If black completed line either at 14 or 20, white, being thereby reduced to
three, could hop either to 20 or 14, whichever was vacant, and so prevent the
second line being formed. If, however, black move 2 to 5, white cannot then
prevent him from completing line, either at 4, 14, or 20, even though he can
hop. Thus suppose
                        Black.                            White.
                      2 to 5.                            12 to 7.
                     23 to 20 (pounds 9).                 3 to 14 or 4.
                      5 to 4, or 21 to 14, and wins. •>
 If black had moved 21 to 14, instead of 23 to 20, he would have limited his
power of making a line to one instead of two points. Of course 23 to 20 wins
the game, as after this white's sixth man is pounded, and he is reduced to two.
                                                                      52

818                         GAMES OF SKILL.
                 • o
                 •• ••                   •
                 • • • • ••• • • •         • •                  • •!
                 •• ••                   • • •       •          • •1
                                           •
                                                               • *l
                                                               » »l
                                DOMINOES.
                                  Introductory.
   The game of dominoes is frequently looked upon as a trivial amusement,
but those who are well acquainted with it agree that it affords room for much
curious calculation. It is by no means a mere game of chance. Let any
ordinary player enter the lists against an old and experienced hand, and he
will soon discover that it requires something besides good weapons to come
off victorious in this as in most other contests. In fact, it is as much a game
of skill as any of the card games. A moderately good player can generally
tell what his adversary has in his hand, by his style of play ; and by calcu
lating two or three moves in advance, he may either block the game or leave
it open, just as he finds it will suit his purpose.
   The ordinary game — technically termed "double sixes"—is played with
twenty-eight dominoes. In some parts of England—chiefly in the North—
they use " double nines " and " double twelves." But it signifies little how
many dominoes are used, the rules and principles of the game, as here laid
down, will, in most cases, equally apply.
                       How to Commence the Game.
   In the English game it is usual to play a rubber of three games; but this,
of course, is subject to arrangement.
   After the dominoes have been well shuffled, each player draws one, and he
who draws the domino containing the smallest number of pips wins " the
down ;" in plainer English, he wins the privilege of playing first. Sometimes
a different method of deciding who shall have " the down " is adopted. One
of the players draws a domino, and without showing it, asks if it is odd or
even. If the adversary guesses right he wins " the down ;" if, on the contrary,
he guesses wrong, he loses it. The latter method is the more common of the
two. A third method is in use on the Continent. The person holding the
 highest double has the "pose " or " down," and he commences by playing that
 domino. If there should be no doubles, then the person holding the highest
 domino has the pose. However, it is quite immaterial which of these plans
 is adopted. The dominoes having been shuffled, each player takes six or
 seven, as may be agreed upon.
    If it is found that one of the players has drawn more than the number
 agreed upon, his adversary withdraws the extra number, and puts them back
 on the heap, keeping the face downwards, of course. Each player then takes
 up his dominoes, and the first player commences by putting down one of his
 dominoes, after which his adversary joins one to it, containing on one of its
 sections the same number of pips as are marked upon adjoining of the domino

                                 DOMINOES.                                   819
first played. They thus play alternately till the game may become so "blocked "
that one of the players cannot "go." His adversary will then continue to
play as long as there is an end open. If he should succeed in getting rid of
all his men he wins the game ; but if the game should be blocked at both
ends before either player has played out, they compare the aggregate number
of pips on all the dominoes in each hand, and whoever has the smallest
number wins the game.
                                GENERAL MAXIMS.
   1. Endeavour to play so as to keep both ends open, so that you may be
sure of being able to " go " next time.
   2. Play out your heavy dominoes first, because if the game becomes blocked,
you will then have fewer pips to count.
   3. Contrive to play so that the numbers at both ends shall be those of which
you hold the most. By this means you may often block your adversary till
you are played out.
   4. If you have made both ends alike, and your adversary plays, follow him
at that end, as the chances are that he cannot go at the other, which you may
keep open for yourself until you are unable to play at- his end.
   5. It is sometimes an advantage to hold heavy dominoes, as they not unfre-
quently enable you to obtain what is called a good "follow;" and if your
adversary should hold none but low dominoes, he would not be able to go,
thus enabling you to play five or six times consecutively, or even to play out.
   6. When you have sole command over both ends you are generally in a
position to " block " the game or not, as you think most expedient for your
own game. In such a case, you must be guided by the number of dominoes
vou hold compared with those in your adversary's hands ; and another element
for your consideration would be whether yours are light or heavy. If they
are light, and fewer in number than your adversary's, of course your best
policy is to close the game at once and count. But in this you must learn to
calculate from your adversary's style of play whether his hand is light or
heavy.
   7. At the commencement of the game it is better to have a variety in hand.
   8. If you hold a " double," with two of the same number, it is better to play
the double before either of the others. Sometimes you will be obliged to play
one, in which case you must endeavour to force the double.
   9. If you hold a double, and one other of the same number, , .ay both con
secutively; but if "ou are unable to do that, endeavour at any "rate to let the
double go first.
    10. In playing against " the down," endeavour to deceive your opponent by
playing a domino or two at each end indifferently. This is better than playing
to his last domino, as it leads him to believe you cannot go at that end, while
at the same time you may be simply keeping both ends open.
    1 1. If your adversary has possession of one end, make the other of a number
of which you hold several, with a view of forcing him to play at his end, and
 shutting it against the dominoes he was keeping it for.
    12. If you hold several doubles, wait till your adversary makes the number
for them in preference to making them for yourself; otherwise, a good player
will see what you are aiming at, and will block the double. But if you hold
a double with several duplicates, and can bring that number at both ends, dr
so.
                                                               52—2

820                           GAMES OF SKILL.
   13. If your adversary cannot go at one end, and you hold the double of
that end, it is better that you should play at the other as long as you can.
When you are blocked at that end, you may then play your double, and your
adversary will then in most cases be obliged to open the other end for you.
   14. It is generally considered that a light hand, yet with no number missing,
is the best for ordinary play. The following, for example, would be a very
fine hand : J, f , f, ^, |, g. An example of a bad hand would be : #, f, f, f, f,
i ; but the worst possible hand would be the following : #, f, J, g, 5, {." The
latter, however, would seldom occur in actual play.
   15. It does not necessarily follow that because a hand is heavy it must
therefore lose. Provided it is equally varied, it has an equal chance of success
with a light hand. The disadvantage of a heavy hand is shown when the
game becomes blocked, and has to be decided by counting.
   16. In leading "the down" from a hand consisting of a high double and
several light dominoes, lead the double, and afterwards endeavour to obtain
command of both ends. Suppose, for example, you hold the following hand :
|, |, 8, £, J, # ; it would be better to play the |, as your other double can be
forced by the aid of the J and <j.
   17. It will at all times be found a difficult thing, in an equal game and
between equal players, for the second player to win.
   18. Endeavour to bring both ends as often as you can to a number of which
you have several duplicates, for by that means you may block your adversary.
   19. In blocking the game, you must be cautious that you do not block it
to yourself, and leave it open to your adversary.
   20. During the game look over the dominoes which have been played, so
that you may calculate what numbers are likely to be soon run out, and what
numbers your opponent is likely to be short of.
   21. Do not push the game to a block if you hold a heavy hand, but play
out your heaviest first, and keep both ends open.
   22. Use your judgment freely. It is not always the best policy to adhere
too strictly to the rules laid down in books. In fact, a wily player will often
times find it expedient to play a speculative, eccentric game, apparently quite
at variance with the ordinary " laws."
   23. Keep perfectly quiet, attentively watch your opponent's moves, and
prevent him, if you can, from obtaining an insight into your play.
   24. Last (though not least), don't lose your temper.
                                    All Fives.
   This game stands next in popularity to the preceding one. The same
number of dominoes are taken, or as many as may be agreed upon, and in
many points it is similar. The object of the game is to contrive so to play
that the aggregate number of pips on the dominoes at both ends shall number
5, 10, 15, or 20. If they number 5, the player who makes the point counts
one; if 10, two; if 15, three; if 20, four.
   In order to make our meaning clearer, we give an illustration. Suppose
that at one end there is g, and at the other a five. The next player then plays
$ to the single five, and scores two, because the aggregate number of pips on
the dominoes at both ends is ten. If the opponent should follow up by play
ing the § to the %, he of course scores three.
   To give another illustration. Suppose at one end is £, and the next player
places at the other end J, he scores four for making twenty.

                                 DOMINOES.                                  821
   If the game becomes blocked, he who holds the least number of pips counts
one.
   The custom as to what number shall be " up " is different in different parts
of the country. In some places it is ten; in others, fifteen; in others again,
twenty. The number ought to be agreed upon at the commencement of the
game. In our opinion it adds to the interest of the game to select the low.er
numbers.
   Sometimes the game is so played that he who makes five counts five ; ten
is made to count ten, and so on ; but in that case not fewer than 50 and not
more than 100 points should constitute the game.
   As we have shown, the material point in which this game differs from the
previous one is that you count the fives, from which circumstance it derives
its name.
   The next best thing to making fives yourself is to prevent your adversary
from doing so ; and when you do give him the opportunity of making a point
it should only be in order that you may make two or three points yourself.
   When your adversary fails to avail himself of a good chance, you may
presume that he does not hold such and such dominoes, and from that and
like indications, which you must carefully store up in your memory, you will
be able to form a tolerably accurate estimate of his hand. You should never
omit to turn these indications to good account.
   There is only one domino in the whole pack which can be led without the
next player being able to make a point from it — namely 3. Always lead that
if possible.
   If you must play one of two dominoes, either of which you fear your adver
sary will turn to his account, of course you must play that by which you think
you will be likely to lose the least.
   It is good practice occasionally to take a survey of the game as far as it
has gone, not only in order to refresh your memory as to what has been
played, but also that you may form an opinion, if possible, of what your
opponent's "little game" is. If there are good grounds for coming to the
conclusion that he holds heavy numbers while you hold light ones, block up
the game as speedily as you can, and proceed to count. To understand your
opponent's hand is a most important matter, and we do not think we have
insisted on it too much. Good players will tell you that they have won many
games by watching closely the opponent's moves, and drawing therefrom
inferences respecting the dominoes he holds in hand. We need not add, the
greatest caution must be used in forming these inferences.
                           The Drawing Game.
   The same number of dominoes are used, and the lead is drawn for in the
same manner in this as in the previously described games.
   The difference is that when a player cannot go, he must draw a domino
from a pack. If he cannot then go, he must draw another, and so on until
he is able to continue the game.
   He who plays out first, or in case the game becomes blocked, he who holds
the smallest number of pips, wins.
   The French have a different way of playing this game. The player who
holds the highest double, or in the event of there being no double, the highest
domino, has the pose or lead. The second player, should he be unable to go,

822                          GAMES OF SKILL.
may draw all the remaining dominoes except two, which must remain untaken.
If he leave more than two, the first player, should he require them in order
to continue the game, may appropriate the surplus, still leaving two on the
table.
   If a player cannot go, it is compulsory that he draw till he gets hold of a
domino that will enable him to continue the game.
   Each player may take the pose alternately, or the winner in the first instance
 lay retain it, as agreed upon.
   The French method of counting is also different. When a player has
played out, he counts the pips in his opponent's hand, and scores them to his
own account. In case the game should become blocked, the player holding
the fewest pips scores the number of pips in his adversary's hand to his own
account, each pip counting one. A game consists of from 20 to 100 points,
according to agreement.
   With respect to the English method of playing this game, the general
instructions and maxims given on the other games apply equally to this. But
a few words must be added with regard to the French play. He who has the
highest double is compelled to play first, and cannot draw any more dominoes
until it is his turn to play again, but his opponent may draw all but two, which
two must retain untaken during that game. But the second player should
not draw more than half the dominoes, unless really compelled by the badness
of his hand, as by this means it will leave a chance of his opponent having as
many to draw. A good player at times might be justified in taking all but two,
for by the calculation and judgment obtained by having them, he might be
enabled to play them all before his opponent could play his five or six domi
noes, as the case may be. Should the second player hold a good hand, com
prising dominoes of every denomination, he should not draw until compelled.
If he should happen to draw high doubles, he ought to continue to draw until
he holds several of that number.
   It is not always the player holding the greatest number who gets out first,
because as he has some of almost every denomination, his adversary will keep
playing to him, and the odds are that he (the adversary) will be able to play
out first. Still, in many games, the one holding the largest number of domi
noes possesses this advantage, that he has the power to keep both ends open
to himself but closed to his opponent, and he may thus run out.
   In order to be able to play out first with the largest number (supposing that
only two dominoes remain untaken,), you should by all means, and in the first
place, endeavour to ascertain what those two are. You may arrive at this in
two ways. Suppose you hold so many of a particular number that with those
already played they make six out of the seven of that denomination, you must
by all means keep playing them.
   As an illustration, we will suppose you hold in your hand four threes, and
that two other threes have already been played. Now, if you play your threes,
and he, not being able to play to them, becomes blocked, it is quite clear that
one of the dominoes on the table is a three. Then, if those you hold in your
hand are—§, J, $, and %, and you find among the dominoes played $ and f, it
is, of course, quite safe to conclude that the domino which is left is the J.
   The second plan is this. If during the course of the game you have given
your opponent opportunities of playing a certain double which you do not
yourself hold, you may be certain that is one of the left dominoes.
   A little experiment, in order to test the nature of your adversary's hand, so

                                   DOMINOES.                                    823
as, however, not materially to injure your own, would often be found more
expedient than groping all the while, as it were, in the dark.
   By carefully looking over your own hand, you may judge pretty correctly
as to whether your adversary's is light or heavy.
   It is only by taking into account all these and other nice points that a player
can possibly be successful.
   Having formed an idea of. your opponent's hand, you should make it an
object to " run out," or play so that he may be blocked, or that he may be
obliged to leave both ends open for you to play out.
   Having given some instructions to the player who holds the larger number
of dominoes, we must now proceed to give a few hints to the lesser hand.
   If, holding the lesser hand, you can contrive to play a few moves at first
without being blocked, you. ought to be pretty sure of winning; because, by
that time, your hand will have become so disproportionately small, that your
opponent will have some difficulty in preventing you from playing out without
blocking himself. This, therefore, must be one of your main objects.
   If the game goes pretty equal, bring out your strong suits. Wherever you
are short of a particular suit, if you find that many of that number have already
been played, you need not fear that your adversary will be able to block you
in regard to it, for you will, of course, infer that they are as scarce in his hand
as in your own. Endeavour to bring these rules to bear, reserving to your
discretion as to whether you should in anywise depart from them, or use such
modifications as the contingencies of the moment require.
                              The Matadore Game.
   This is a foreign game, and each player takes only three dominoes. You
can only play when your domino, added to the one previously played, would
make seven. Those dominoes which themselves make that number are termed
" matadores," and may be played at any time, regardless of the numbers played
to. The double blank is also a matadore. The matadores, therefore, are four
in number, viz., \, %, ^, g.
   The highest domino leads, and if the next player cannot go, he must draw
from the heap until he can. He must cease, however, to draw when there are
only two dominoes left. He who plays out first wins, and if the game is blocked,
he who holds the least number of pips counts those held by his opponent, and
scores them to his own game. The number of points constituting the game
is subject to agreement: it varies from 20 to 100.
                 MAXIMS FOR PLAYING THE MATADORE GAME.
   This game differs widely from any of the other varieties of dominoes. The
element of chance is more largely introduced. The player who happens to
obtain more matadores than the other is almost certain of winning, provided
the parties be pretty evenly balanced in skill and experience.
   The blanks are very valuable at this game — the double blank being the
most valuable of all the matadores. It is impossible to make a seven against
a blank, so that if you hold blanks you may easily block the game and count.
   When you have the worst of the game, and indeed at other times as well,
guard against your adversary's blanks, and prevent him from making them ;
which you may do by playing only those dominoes which fit with the blanks
already down.

824                         GAMES OF SKILL.
   Never play a blank at ihefose unless you have a matadore or a corresponding
blank.
   Keep back your double blank till your opponent makes it blanks all ; you
can then force him to play a matadore, or compel him to draw till he obtains
one. It is better to have a mixed hand.
                                 Domino Pool.
   This game is played either by partners or by separate players. If played
singly by three or four players, each must draw a domino, and he who draws
the highest number of pips but one sits on the left of him who draws the
highest, the next highest to the left of the second, and so on. If the game is
played by partners, the two lowest are partners and the two highest. The
partners must sit opposite to each other. The players must draw afresh at
each game, and the stake to be played for, called " the pool," must be placed
on the table.
   Each player takes five dominoes, and he who holds the highest leads. When
one player cannot go, the next in turn plays, and so on. The maxims given
in reference to the English game apply equally to this.
   The game is scored in the following manner : When one player has played
out, the one keeping the score counts the number of pips on each player's
remaining dominoes, and puts down the number under each of their names
or initials respectively. The same is done if a player cannot go. When the
number of any one player reaches 40, 50, or 100, or any limit previously agreed
upon, he is out of the game ; but he comes in again by what is called "starring."
In other words, he must pay over again the amount he originally put into the
pool. The method of " starring" is the same as at billiards, from which the
game is taken. He who " stars " recommences at the number which the player
holds who is in the worst position. Suppose, for example, there were three
players—one at 20, one at 40, and the other at 60, 100 being up, the player
who " stars " must recommence at 60. He can only " star " once, and that
must be at the time he is out. Each player has the option of " starring," ex
cept the last two, who must divide the pool, or they may agree to play it out.
Still, unless an agreement to play out is made beforehand, the last two must
divide.
                  INSTRUCTIONS FOR PLAYING DOMINO POOl.
   When this game is played by separate players, and one becomes greatly
ahead, the other three can combine, so as to render his chance of winning un
certain. The necessity of this combination is clear. If he is allowed to win,
the competition for that game is over; but if, by combining, the other players
can keep him back a little, they obtain for themselves a better chance of success.
The player who is ahead will also do his best to throw obstacles in the way
of the player in the next best position, as he becomes a dangerous competitor.
The two in the worst position will in like manner combine against the two
ahead. The necessity for this combination does not arise till the game is
somewhat advanced, as at the beginning all the players are on a level ; and
the relative position of the others is of no moment till the game becomes
advanced. It is of very little use for one player to attempt to stop the pro
gress of another who is too far ahead, unless the others combine with him.
If, through ignorance or anything else, they continue to play for their own
hands, you must do likewise. Although, if you attempted by yourself to stop

                                  DOMINOES.                                     825
 the player who was ahead of you, you might succeed, that success might be
 purchased at the risk of your own chance in the game. As in this game you
have only five dominoes out of twenty, your power of influencing the game is
very much diminished, and there is not quite so much scope for the exercise
of your judgment as in other single games where you hold six dominoes out
 of twelve. Your opponents are sure to hold some of the remaining numbers
in which you are strong ; so that the injury you can in other games inflict by
having a preponderance of a particular number will be greatly diminished
here. Therefore it is scarcely worth your while endeavouring to retard your
opponent's game when you have three of a number, unless some of that number
have already been played ; because if you keep those numbers until you are
called upon to play to them, you would do infinitely more towards crippling
their game than if you were to lead from them. On the other hand, should
you hold more than three of a particular number, do not wait for this chance,
but lead it on the first opportunity. If you find that you and one of the other
players hold nearly all of a particular number, combine with him, in order to
exhaust the hands of the other two. In doing this, you are of course only
studying your own interest. It is better to adopt this plan when you have
reasons to believe you are already on the safe side. If you hold one or two
doubles, with duplicates of either, retain the latter until you first get rid of the
doubles ; but if you hold three or four duplicates along with a double, play the
duplicates at once, as you will be able by your own hand to force the double
at any time. If you are short in any particular number, get rid of your heavy
dominoes as quickly as possible. In playing off you may lead with a light
domino, if you hold one or more of the number; but if not, you must lead a
higher domino, in order to diminish the number of pips in your hand. If you
hold a heavy hand with high doubles, or a hand which admits of little or no
variety, or without any particular preponderance, you must play a safe game,
and sustain as little loss as you possibly can under the circumstances. Endea
vour to balance the inferiority of your hand by drawing the other players along
with you.
   When there are only three players left, and one is greatly ahead, while
another has starred, it should be the object of the third player to prolong the
game as much as possible, as he still has a chance to star.
   When two players are in advance, the two behind must avoid embarrassing
each other in their combinations against the other two. It is better for them
to use their joint efforts against one at a time, as the attack, if concentrated in
that way, would be stronger and more effectual. Should one of the advanced
players get embarrassed, endeavour to embarrass him still more, for you may
be sure his competitor will not assist him.
   It will be perfectly understood, however, that in playing with partners, the
object of each partner will be to play as much as possible into his partner's
hands and to cripple his opponents. If it is your lead and you have a good
hand, you must try and win with it, regardless of your partner's position. So,
on the other hand, if it is your partners down, and you have a bad hand, you
must be content to sacrifice your own chance in order to increase his. In the
partner's game it is generally good play to lead from a strong suit, for as this
is a generally understood rule, your partner will accept the hint, and will not
fail to "return your lead," or, in other words, to play into your hands as much
as possible. If you hold some doubles, with others of the same number, you

 826                          GAMES OF SKILL.
 may—contrary to the single game—play the latter first if it suits your hand,
 as your partner will be sure to assist in getting out your doubles.
    We might continue these directions and hints ad infinitum, but experience,
 after all, is the best teacher; and—recommending the learner to practise assi
 duously and play carefully—we dismiss this portion of our subject.
                                The Whist Game.
   This game resembles in some points the game of cards from which it takes
its name. It is played by four persons—two partners on each side. The
partners, as usual, sit opposite to each other. The whole of the dominoes are
taken—seven by each player.
    It is best to lead from your strongest suit. By this and such other indica
tions you will enable your partner to form an opinion as to your hand, by which
he will be guided very much in his play, and as the game proceeds each must
tax his recollection as to who played such and such a domino, and how the
game stood at that particular time, so as to form a judgment as to the motive
of such play, &c The general instructions given in previous chapters will
apply in great measure to this game, particularly those given in reference to
the Pool Game.
                               The Four Game.
   In this game, which is played by four persons, each player takes seven
dominoes ; and he who plays out first, or, if the game becomes blocked, holds
the least number of pips, wins the hand, and draws a certain stake from the
other three.
   Very little in the way of instruction is required in this game. If you- have
the pose, you should play out as far as possible, and then endeavour to block
the game.
   Endeavour to keep your hand even, so as to be ready at any number, or
(and in this you must be guided by the nature of your hand) play to keep your
strongest suit in hand until those of the same suit held by other players are
out. By this means you may oftentimes be able to play out or shut the game,
as you find most expedient.
                                Sebastopol Game.
   This game is played by four players, each taking seven dominoes. The
player holding the double six plays it, and takes the lead. Each player must
play a six to it. He who cannot loses the turn. The dominoes are played in
the form of a cross the first round, after which the players alternately play at
either of the four ends. He who has the last domino, or in the event of more
than one player being left with dominoes when the game is shut, he who holds
the greatest number of pips, pays a certain amount to the winners.
   Endeavour to get rid of your heavy dominoes, and put obstacles in the way
of your adversaries running out.
                              Tiddle-a-wink Game.
   This is a very amusing game, and suitable for a round party.
   If six or more play, each takes three dominoes. . The § is then called for.
as in the French game, and the person holding it leads with it. If it is not
out, the next highest double is called forth, and so on downwards until a start
is made.

                  FOX AND GEESE—SOLITAIRE.                                     827
   In this game, he who plays a double, either at the lead or at any other part
of the game, is entitled to play again if he can—thus obtaining two turns in
stead of one. The game then proceeds in the ordinary way, and he who
plays out first cries "Tiddle-a-wink !" having won. In the event of the game
being blocked, he who holds the lowest number of pips wins.
                             FOX AND GEESE.
   In this amusing game the four geese are placed in a row upon the board,
and the fox may station himself wherever he likes, the fact of placing himself
being counted as a move. The geese can only move forward on the diagonal
as in draughts; but the fox may move backwards or forwards, like the king
in draughts. The object of the geese is to pen up the fox, so that he cannot
move, while the object of the fox is to break through the line of the geese, so
as to reach either of the squares which the geese occupied.
            POX AND GEESE—TWO MODES OF PLAYING.                   SOLITAIRE.
    There is only one drawback to the game : if the geese be played properly,
 they must win. The best play of the geese is to keep themselves as much as
 possible in a line across the board, and of the fox to manoeuvre so as to pre
 vent the line from being formed.
    Another mode of playing this very variable game is by means of a board
 pierced with holes arranged in a certain order. The fox is represented by a
 red peg, and the geese by white pegs. The object of the geese is to pen up
 the fox ; but if the fox can place himself next to a goose behind which is an
 open hole, he may hop over and take the goose, as is done in draughts. If
 the geese can pen the fox, they win ; and if the fox can take a certain number
 of the geese, he wins
                                  SOLITAIRE.
    This rather popular game is, after all, nothing but a modification of draughts,
 the chief difference being that the men can move in any direction. The men
 being placed, one is removed, so as to expose a vacant hole, into which any
 man can jump by passing over the head of the man next the hole. The man
  thus jumped over is removed from the board, and the object of the game is to
 leave only one man on the board. Skilful players will begin by removing any
 man that may be pointed out, and will not only take all the men, but finish by
  placing the last man in the hole from which the first was removed.

           Conjuring, |)u^lfs, ittobles, i.rrostirs, #c
                            PARLOUR MAGIC.
   A few preliminary hints are necessary in order to enable an amateur to per
 form the tricks he attempts with effect and success.
   A conjuror should always be able to " palm " well. That is done by holding
a coin in the fingers, and by a quick movement passing it into the middle or
palm of the hand, and, by contracting the muscles on each side of the hand,
to retain it there, making the hand appear open and as though nothing were
in it. After a little practice this will become comparatively easy, but it will
require the exercise of great perseverance in order to become perfect. The
pains, however, will be well bestowed, as this is one of the principal means by
which prestidigitators deceive their audiences.
                                 Making ttie Pass.
   In many of the tricks with cards it is necessary to "make the pass," as it
is termed, which is a very neat and simple movement. The operator shows
a card, which he wishes his audience to believe he can change by simply using
the mysterious words, " Presto, begone !" While, however, he is saying these
words, he gives a sharp blow on the pack he holds in his hand, and at the
same time slips the card under the pack and takes off the top one, or vice
vcrsd. Practice, in this as in other matters, will impart great dexterity to the
operator ; and as the hand can be trained to move more quickly than the eye
can see, he will be able to go through the movement without it being perceived
by his audience.
   The following mode of "making the pass" should be well studied: Hold
the pack of cards in your right hand so that the palm of your hand may be
under the cards ; place the thumb of that hand on one side of the pack, and
the first, second, and third fingers on the other side, and your little finger be
tween those cards that are to be brought to the top and the rest of the pack.
Then place your left hand over the card in such a manner that the thumb
may be at 5, the forefinger at 6, and the other fingers at 7, as in the accom
panying figure :
                                                     Left hand.
                  Right hand.
                   Bottom
                   Little finger

                                CONJURING.                                    829
The hands and the two portions of the pack being thus disposed, you draw
off the lower cards confined by the little finger and the other parts of the right
hand, and place them with an imperceptibly quick motion on top of the pack.
   But before you attempt any of the tricks that depend upon " making the
pass," you must have great practice, and be able to perform it so dexterously
and expeditiously that the eye cannot detect the movement of the hand, or
you may, instead of deceiving others, expose yourself.
                               Forcing a Card.
   In card tricks it is frequently necessary to " force a card," by which you
compel a person to take such a card as you think fit, while he imagines he is
taking one at haphazard. The following is, perhaps, the best method of per
forming this trick :
   Ascertain quietly, or whilst you are amusing yourself with the cards, what
the card is which you are to force ; but either keep it in sight, or place the
little finger of your left hand, in which you have the cards, upon it. Next,
desire a person to select a card from the pack, for which purpose you must
open them quickly from left to right, spreading the, cards backwards and for
wards so as to perplex him in making his choice, and when you see him about
to take one, open the pack until you come to the one you intend him to take,
and just at the moment his fingers are touching the pack let its corner pro
ject invitingly a little forward in front of the others. This will seem so fair
that in nine cases out of ten he will take the one so offered, unless he is him
self aware of the secret of forcing. Having by this method forced your card,
you request him to examine it, and then give him the pack to shuffle, which
he may do as often as he likes, for you are of course always aware what card
he has taken. A perfect acquaintance with the art of forcing is indispensably
necessary before you attempt any of the more difficult card tricks.
                              The "Long Card."
   Another stratagem connected with the performance of many of the follow
ing tricks is what is termed the " long card," that is, a card a trifle longer or
wider than the rest of the pack, so as not to be perceptible to the eye of the
spectator, but easily distinguished by the touch of the operator. Good
 operators sometimes have both cards in the pack. Any bookbinder will
 shave the edges of your pack so as to leave you a long and a wide card.
    Having laid down what we may be allowed to term the " leading principles"
 which rule the art of card conjuring, we now propose to explain the various
 tricks which may be performed with a pack of ordinary playing cards. They
 depend to some extent for success on manual dexterity, a knowledge of the
 science of numbers, and some simple apparatus, easily procured or made by
 an ingenious youth. For instance, all the court cards may be made to come
 together by relying upon the doctrine of chances. Thus : take the pack,
 separate all the kings, queens, and knaves, and place them all together in any
 part of the pack you choose. There are five hundred chances to one that a
 stranger cannot in twelve cuts disturb the order in which they are placed.
 This trick is easy, and when successfully carried out is amusing. It may be
 made more so by placing one-half of the above number of cards at the bottom
 of the pack and the other half at the top. Of a very similar character is the
 famous trick of

830                            CARD TRICKS.
                        Guessing a Card thought of.
   To do this well you must attend to the following directions : Spread out the
cards in your right hand in such a manner that, in showing them to the audi
ence, not a single card is wholly exposed to view, with the exception of the
king of spades, the upper part of which should be clearly seen without any
obstruction either from the fingers or from the other cards. When you have
thus spread them out, designedly in fact, but apparently at random, show
them to one of the spectators, requesting him to think of a card, and at the
same time take care to move the hand a little, so as to describe a segment of
a circle, in order that the audience may catch sight of the king of spades with
out noticing that the other cards are all partially concealed. Then shuffle the
cards, but in doing so you must not lose sight of the king of spades, which
you will then lay on the table face downwards. You may then tell the person
who has thought of a card that the one in his mind is on the table, and request
him to name it. Should he name the king of spades, which he would be most
likely to do, you will of course turn it up and show it to the company, who, if
they are not acquainted with the trickLwill be very much astonished. If. how
ever, he should name some other card- -say the queen of clubs—you must tell
him that his memory is defective, and that that card could not have been the
card he at first thought of. Whilst telling him this, which you must do at as
great length as you can in order to gain time, shuffle the cards rapidly and
apparently without any particular purpose until your eye catches the card he
has just named (the queen of clubs). Put it on the top of the pack, and,
still appearing to be engrossed with other thoughts, go through the first false
shuffle to make believethat you have no particular card in view. When you
have done shuffling, take care to leave the queen of clubs on the top of the
pack ; then take the pack in your left hand and the king of spades in your
right, and while dexterously exchanging the queen of clubs for the king of
spades, say, "What must I do, gentlemen, that my trick should not be a failure?
what card should I have in my right hand ?" They will not fail to call out
the queen of clubs, upon which you will turn it up, and they will see that you
have been successful.
   This trick, when well executed, always has a good effect, whether the spec
tator thinks of the card you intended him to think of, or, from a desire to
complicate matters, of some other. It requires considerable presence of mind,
however, and the power of concealing from your audience what your real
object is.
   Another method of making the spectator think of any particular card is the
following : Pass several cards under the eye of the person selected, turning
them over so rapidly that he sees the colours confusedly, without being able
to distinguish their number or value. For this purpose take the pack in your
left hand, and pass the upper part into your right, displaying the front of the
cards to the audience, and consequently seeing only the backs yourself. Pass
one over the other so rapidly that he will not be able to distinguish any one
of them, until you come to the card which you desire to force—presuming, of
course, that you have made yourself acquainted with its position. The card
you select ought to be a bright-looking and easily distinguishable one. such
as the king of hearts or the queen of clubs. Contrive to have this card a little
longer before your audience than the rest, but avoid all appearance of effort,
and let everything be done naturally. During the interval watch the counte

                               CARD TRICKS.                                   831
nance of the spectator, in order that you may be sure he notices the card you
display before him. Having thus assured yourself that he has fixed upon the
card you selected, and that he is not acquainted with the trick, you then pro
ceed as before. Should you come to the conclusion that he has fixed upon
some other card, you will then have recourse to the " exchanged card " trick,
as explained in the previous trick.
                     To tell a Card by Smelling it.
   A very clever trick, and one which never fails to excite astonishment at an
evening party, is to select all the court cards when blindfolded ; but before
commencing it, you must take one of the party into your confidence, and get
him to assist you. When all is arranged, you may talk of the strong sense of
smell and touch which blind people are said to possess, and state that you
could, when blindfolded, distinguish the court cards from the rest, and pro
fess your willingness to attempt it. The process is this : After you have satis
fied the company that your eyes are tightly bound, take the pack in your hands,
and holding up one of the cards in view of the whole company, feel the face
of it with your fingers. If it is a court card, your confederate, who should be
seated near to you, must tread on your toe. You then proclaim that it is a
court card, and proceed to the next. Should you then turn up a common card
your confederate takes no notice of it, and you inform the company accord
ingly ; and so on until you have convinced the company that you really possess
the extraordinary power to which you laid claim.
             TO TELL ALL THE CARDS WITHOUT SEEING THEM.
   Another good parlour trick is to tell the names of all the cards when their
backs are turned towards you. Perhaps this is one of the best illusions that
 can be performed with cards, as it not only brings the whole pack into use,
 but can never fail in the hands of an ordinarily intelligent operator. This
trick, which is founded on the science of numbers, enables you to tell every
card after they have been cut as often as your audience please, although you
only see the backs of them. It is thus performed: A pack of cards are dis
tributed face uppermost on a table, and you pick them up in the following
order—6, 4, 1, 7, 5, king, 8, 10, 3, knave, 9, 2, queen. Go through this series
until you have picked up the whole of the pack. It is not necessary that you
should take up the whole of one suit before commencing another. In order
that the above order may not be forgotten, the following words should be
 committed to memory :
          641                                 7      5                  king
   The sixty-fourth regiment beats the seventy-fifth ; up starts the king, with
   8      10            3 knave          9    2 queen
eight thousand and three men and ninety-two women.
   The cards being thus arranged, the cards must be handed to the company
 to cut. They may cut the cards as often as they like, but it must be under
 stood that they do it whist fashion, that is, taking off a portion of the cards,
 and placing the lower division on what was formerly the upper one. You then
 take the pack in your hands, and, without letting your audience perceive, cast
 a glance at the bottom card. Having done this—which you may do without
 any apparent effort—you have the key of the whole trick. You then deal out
 the cards, in the ordinary way, in thirteen different sets, putting four cards to

832                              CONJURING.
each set ; in other words, you deal out the first cards singly and separately,
and then place the fourteenth card above the first set, the next upon the second
set, and so on throughout,, until you have exhausted the whole pack. You
may be certain now that each one of these thirteen sets will contain four cards
of the same denomination —thus, the four eights will be together, and so with
the four queens, and every other denomination. The thirteenth, or last set,
will be of the same denomination as the card at the bottom which you con
trived to see, and as they will be placed exactly in the reverse order of that
in which you first of all picked them up, you may without difficulty calculate
of what denomination each of the sets consists. For example, suppose an 8
was the bottom card, you would find, after a little calculation, that after being
dealt out in the manner above described, they would be placed in the following
order: king, 5, 7, 1, 4, 6, queen, 2, 9, knave, 3, 10, 8; and repeating in your
own mind the words which you have committed to memory, and reckoning
the cards backwards, you would say—
         8      10             3 knave            9     2 queen        6     4
    " Eight thousand and three men, and ninety-two women ; sixty-fourth
       1                 7     5                  king
regiment beats the seventy-fifth; up starts the king with," &c, &c
    You observe the same rule whatever the bottom card may be.
                        To tell a Card thought of.
    By a certain pre-arranged combination of cards, the conjuror is enabled—
apparently to guess, but really to calculate—not only the card that is thought
of by any member of the company, but to tell its position in the pack You
take the pack and present it to one of those present, desiring him to shuffle
the cards well, and after he is done, if he chooses, to hand them over to some
one else to shuffle them a second time. You then cause the pack to be cut by
several persons, after which you select one out of the company whom you
request to take the pack, think of a card, and fix in his memory not only the
card he has thought of, but also its position in the pack, by counting 1, 2, 3, 4,
and so on from the bottom of the pack, as far as, and including, the card
thought of. You may offer to go into another room while this is being done,
or remain with your eyes bandaged, assuring the company that, if they desire
it, you will announce beforehand the number at which the card thought of
will be found. Now, supposing the person selecting the card stops at No. 13
from the bottom, and that this thirteenth card is the queen of hearts, and
supposing also that the number you have put down beforehand is 24, you will
return to the room or remove your handkerchief, as the case may be, and
without putting any question to the person who has thought of a card, you ask
for the pack, and rest your nose upon it, as if you would find out the secret by
smelling. Then, putting your hands behind your back or under the table, so
that they cannot be seen, you take away from the bottom of the pack twenty-
three cards—that is, one fewer than the number you marked down beforehand
—and place them on the top, taking great care not to put one more or less, as
inaccuracy in this respect would certainly cause the trick to fail. You then
return the pack to the person who thought of the card, requesting him to count
the cards from the top, beginning from the number of the card he thought of.
For example, having selected the thirteenth card, he will commence counting
 14, 15, 16, and so on. When he has called 23, stop him, telling him that the
number you marked down was 24, and that the twenty-fourth card which he is

                                CARD TRICKS.                                  833
about to take up is the queen of hearts, which he will find to be correct. In
performing this trick it is necessary to observe that the number you name
must be greater than the number which your opponent gives you, describing
its position in the pack.
                To Change a Card by Word of Command.
   It at first sight seems singular that any one should be able even to appear
to change a card by word of command ; yet it can easily be done, and under
different titles, and with slight variations, the trick is constantly performed in
public. To do it, you must have two cards alike in the pack ; say, for example,
a duplicate of the king of spades. Place one next to the bottom card, which
we will suppose to be the seven of hearts, and the other at the top ; shuffle the
cards without displacing these three, and then show one of the company that
the bottom card is the seven of hearts. This card you dexterously slip aside
with your finger, so that it may not be perceived, and taking the king of spades
from the bottom, which the person supposes to be the seven of hearts, lay it
on the table, telling him to cover it with his hand. Shuffle the cards again
without displacing the first and last cards, and shifting the other king of spades
from the top to the bottom, show it to another person. You then contrive to
remove the king of spades in the same manner as before, and taking the bot
tom card, which will then be the seven of hearts, but which the company will
still suppose to be the king of spades, you lay that also on the table, and tell
the second person to cover it with his hand. You then command the cards
to change places, and when the two parties take off their hands, they will see
to their great astonishment that your commands are obeyed.
                               "Twin-card" Trick.
    Another trick performed by means of " twin," or duplicate, cards, as in the
 previous case, is to show the same card apparently on the top and at the bottom
 of the pack. One of these duplicate cards may be easily obtained ; in fact,
 the pattern card which accompanies every pack may be made available for
 that purpose. Let us suppose, then, for a moment that you have a duplicate
 of the queen of clubs. You place both of them at the bottom of the pack, and
 make believe to shuffle them, taking care, however, that these two keep their
 places. Then lay the pack upon the table, draw out the bottom card, show it,
 and place it on the top.
    You then command the top card to pass to the bottom, and on the pack
 being turned up, the company will see with surprise that the card which they
 had just seen placed upon the top is now at the bottom.
                                Magic Tea-caddies.
    This, like some of the tricks we have previously explained, requires suitable
 apparatus for its successful performance. Two cards, drawn by different
 persons, are put into separate tea-caddies and locked up, and the object of
 the operator is to appear to change the cards without touching them. This
 may be done without the aid of a confederate. The caddies are made with a
 copper flap, which has a hinge at the bottom, and opens against the front,
  where it catches under the bolt of the lock, so that when the lid is shut and
  locked, the flap will fall down upon the bottom. The operator places the two
  cards he intends to be chosen between the flap and the front, which may be
                                                                      63

834                             CONJURING.
handled without any suspicion ; he then requests one of the persons to put the
card he has selected into one of the caddies, taking care that he puts it into
the caddy into which you placed the other card ; the second person, of course,
puts his card into the other caddy. The operator then desires them to lock
the caddies, and in doing this the flap becomes unlocked, falls to the bottom,
and covers the cards, and when opened, the caddies show apparently that the
cards have been transposed.
                            The Vanishing Card.
   Another good trick is thus performed : Divide the pack, placing one-half in
the palm of the left hand, face downwards ; and taking the remainder of the
pack in the right hand, hold them between the thumb and three first fingers,
taking care to place the cards upright, so that the edges of those in your right
hand may rest upon the back of those in the left, thus forming a right angle
with them. In this way the four fingers of the left hand touch the last of the
upright cards in your right hand. It is necessary that the cards should be
placed in this position, and that once being attained, the rest of the trick is easy.
These preliminaries having been gone through, one of the company, at your
request, examines the top card of the half-pack that rests in the palm of your
left hand, and then replaces it. Having done this, you request him to look at
it again, and to his astonishment it will have vanished, and another card will
appear in its place. In order to accomplish this, having assumed the position
already described, you must damp the tips of the four fingers that rest against
the last card of the upright set in your right hand. When the person who has
chosen a card replaces it, you must raise the upright cards in your right hand
very quickly, and the card will then adhere to the damped fingers of your left
hand. As you raise the upright cards, you must close your left hand skilfully,
and you will thereby place the last of the upright cards—which, as we have
explained, adheres to the fingers of your left hand— upon the top of the cards
in the palm of your left hand, and when you request the person who first
examined it to look at it again, he will observe that it has been changed.
Rapidity and manual dexterity are required for the performance of this capital
sleight-of-hand trick.
               To Tell the Number of Cards by Weight.
   The apparently marvellous gift of telling the number of cards by weight
depends on the use of the long card. Take a portion of a pack of cards —say
forty— and insert among them two long cards. Place the first — say fifteen
from the top and the other twenty-six. Make a feint of shuffling the cards,
and cut at the first long card ; poise those you hold in your hand, and say,
 " There must be fifteen here ; " then cut at the second long card and say,
 " There are but eleven here ;" and poising the remainder, say, " And here are
 fourteen." The spectators, on counting them, will find that you have correctly
 estimated the numbers.
             To Produce a Mouse from a Pack of Cards.
    Cards are sometimes fastened together like snuff-boxes. If you posses*
 such a pack, or can procure one, you may without difficulty perform this feat.
 The cards are fastened together at the edges, but the middles must bo cut out,
 leaving a cavity in the pack resembling a box. A whole card is glued on to

                               CARD TRICKS.                                  835
the top, and a number of loose ones are placed above it. They must be skil
fully and carefully shuffled, so that your audience may be led to believe that
it is an ordinary and perfect pack. The card at the bottom of what we may
term the "box" must likewise be a whole card, but must be glued to the box
on one side only, so that it will yield immediately to internal pressure. This
bottom card serves as the door through which you convey the mouse into the
middle of the pack. Being thus prepared, and holding the bottom tight with
your hand, request one of the company to place his open hands together,
telling him you intend to produce something very marvellous from the pack.
Place the pack in his hands, and whilst you engage his attention in conversa
tion, affect to want something out of your bag, and at the same moment take
the pack by the middle, and throw it into the bag, and the mouse, which you
had previously placed in the box, will remain in the hands of the person who
held the cards.
                    To send a Card through a Table.
   Request one of the company to draw a card from the pack, examine it, and
then return it. Then make the pass— or, if you cannot make the pass, make
use of the long card— and bring the card chosen to the top of the pack, and
shuffle by means of any of the false shuffles before described, without losing
sight of the card. After shuffling the pack several times, bring the card to
the top again. Then place the pack on the table, about two inches from the
edge near which you are sitting, and having previously slightly damped the
back of your right hand, you strike the pack a sharp blow, and the card will
adhere to it. You then put your right hand very rapidly underneath the table,
and taking off with your left hand the card which has stuck to your right
hand, you show it to your audience, who will at once recognize in it the card
that was drawn at the commencement of the trick. You must be careful
while performing this trick not to allow any of the spectators to get behind
or at the side of the table, but keep them directly in front, otherwise the
illusion would be discovered.
       To Knock all the Cards from a Person's Hand except
                                THE CHOSEN ONE.
    With a little care a novice may easily learn this trick. It is not new, and
is called by some the " Nerve Trick." Force a card, and request the person
who has taken it to return it to the pack and shuffle the cards. Then look at
the card yourself, and place the card chosen at the bottom of the pack. Cut
them in two, and give him the half containing his card at the bottom, and
request him to hold it just at the corner between his finger and thumb. After
telling him to hold them tight, strike them sharply, and they will all fall to the
ground except the bottom one, which is the card he has chosen. An improve
ment in this trick is to put the chosen card at the bottom of the pack and
turn the face upwards, so that when you strike, the card remaining will stare
the spectators in the face.
                        Another Clever Card Trick.
    This trick, commonly called the " Turnover Feat," is easily performed, and
yet is difficult of detection. Having forced a card, you contrive, after sundry
shufflings, to convey it to the top of the pack. Make the rest of the cards
perfectly even at the edges, but let the chosen card project a little over the
                                                               63—2

836                               CONJURING.
others. Then, holding them between your finger and thumb, about two feet
above the table, let them suddenly and quickly drop, and the projecting card
in the course of its descent will be turned face uppermost by the force of the
air, and exposed to the view of the whole company.
               TO TELL THE NAME OF A CARD THOUGHT OF.
   One of the company must, at your request, draw seven or eight cards pro
miscuously from the pack, and select one from among them as the card he
desires to think of. He then returns them to the pack, and you, either by
shuffling or in any other way which will not be noticed, contrive to pass the
whole of them to the bottom of the pack. You then take five or six cards off
the top of the pack, and throw them on the table face upwards, asking if
the card thought of is among them. Whilst the person is examining them,
you secretly take one card from the bottom of the pack and place it on the
top ; and when he tells you that the card he thought of is not in the first
parcel, throw him five or six more, including the card you have just taken from
the bottom-—the denomination and suit of which it is presumed you have
 taken the opportunity to ascertain—so that should he say that his card is in
 the second parcel, you will at once know which card is indicated, and in order
to " bring it to light," you may make use cither of the two foregoing tricks, or
any other you think proper
     TO TELL THE NAMES OF ALL THE CARDS BY THEIR WEIGHTS.
   The pack having been cut and shuffled to the entire satisfaction of the
audience, the operator commences by stating that he undertakes, by poising
each card for a moment on his fingers, to tell not only the colour, but the sua
and number of spots, and, if a court card, whether it be king, queen, or knave
For the accomplishment of this most amusing trick we recommend the fol
lowing directions: You must have two packs of cards exactly alike. One of
them we will suppose to have been in use during the evening for the perform
ance of your tricks ; but in addition to this you must have a second pack in
your pocket, which you must take care to arrange in the order hereinafter
described. Previous to commencing the trick you must take the opportunity
of exchanging these two packs, and bringing into use the prepared pack.
This must be done in such a manner that your audience will believe that the
pack you introduce is the same as the one you have been using all the evening,
which they know has been well shuffled. The order in which the pack must
be arranged will be best ascertained by committing the following lines —the
words in italics forming the key :
                       Eight kings threa-ten'd to save.
                       Eight, king, three, ten, two, seven,
                        Nine fair ladies for one sick knave.
                       Kine,five, qucen,Jour, ace, six, knave.
These lines thoroughly committed to memory will be of material assistance.
The alliterative resemblance will in every instance be a sufficient guide to
the card indicated. The order in which the suits should otherwise be com
mitted to memory,—viz., hearts, spades, diamonds, clubs. Having sorted your
cards in accordance with the above directions, your pack is " prepared B and
ready for use ; and when you have successfully completed the exchange, yo«

                               CARD TRICKS.                                  837
 bring forward your prepared pack, and hand it round to be cut. The pack
may be cut as often as the audience please, but always whist fashion,— i.e.,
 the lower half of the pack must be placed upon the upper at each cut. You
now only want to know the top card, and you will then have a clue to the rest.
You therefore take off the top card, and holding it between yourself and the
light, you see what it is, saying at the same time, by way of apology, that this
is the old way of performing the trick, but that it is now superseded. Having
once ascertained what the first is, which, for example, we will suppose to be the
king of diamonds, you then take the next card on your finger, and poise it for
 a moment, as if you were going through a process of mental calculation. This
pause will give you time to repeat to yourself the two lines given, by which
means you will know what card comes next. Thus :—" Eight kings threa-te«'rf
 to" &c ; it will be seen that the three comes next.
                     The Queen's Dig for Diamonds.
   Taking the pack in your hands, you separate from it the four kings, queens,
knaves, and aces, and also four common cards of each suit. Then laying the
four queens, face upwards, in a row on the table, you commence telling your
story somewhat after this fashion :
   " These four queens set out to seek for diamonds. {Here you place any
four cards of the diamond suit half over the queens.] As they intend to dig
for diamonds, they each take a spade. [Here lay four common spades half
over the diamonds.] The kings, their husbands, aware of the risk they run,
send a guard of honour to protect them. [Place the four aces half over the
spades.] Hut fearing the guard of honour might neglect their duty, the kings
resolve to set out themselves. [Here lay the four kings half over the four
aces.] Now, there were four robbers, who, being apprized of the queens'
intentions, determined to waylay and rob them as they returned with the
diamonds in their possession. [Lay the four knaves half over the four kings.]
Each of these four robbers armed himself with a club [lay out four clubs half
over the knaves] ; and as they do not know how the queens may be protected,
it is necessary that each should carry a stout heart." [Lay out four hearts
half over the knaves.]
   You have now exhausted the whole of the cards with which you commenced
the game, and have placed them in four columns. You take the cards in the
first of these columns, and pack them together, beginning at your left hand,
and keeping them in the order in which you laid them out. Having done this,
you place them on the table, face downwards. You pack up the second column
in like manner, lay them on the first, and so on with the other two.
   The pack is then handed to the company, who cut them as often as they
choose, provided always that they cut whist fashion. That done, you may
give them what is termed a shuffle-cut; that is, you appear to shuffle them,
but in reality only give them a quick succession of cuts, taking care that when
you are done a card of the heart suit remains at the bottom.
   You then begin to lay them out again as you did in the first instance, and
it will be found that all the cards will come in their proper order.
         Mysterious Disappearance of the Knave of Spades
   Fixing your eye upon the stoutest-looking man in the room, you ask him if
he can hold a card tightly. Of course he will answer in the affirmative ; but

838                             CONJURING.
if he should not. you will have no difficulty in finding some one who does.
You then desire him to stand in the middle of the room, and holding up the
pack of cards, you show him the bottom one, and request him to state what
card it is. He will tell you that it is the knave of spades. You then tell him
to hold the card tightly and look up at the ceiling. While he is looking up
you ask him if he recollects his card ; and if he answer, as he will be sure to
do, the knave of spades, you will reply that he must have made a mistake, for
if he look at the card he will find it to be the knave of hearts, which will be
the case. Then handing him the pack, you tell him that if he will look over
it, he will find his knave of spades somewhere in the middle of the pack.
   This trick is extremely simple and easy of accomplishment. You procure
an extra knave of spades, and cut it in half, keeping the upper part, and
throwing away the lower. Before showing the bottom of the pack to the
company, get the knave of hearts to the bottom, and lay over it, unperceived
by the company, your half knave of spades ; and under pretence of holding
the pack very tight, put your thumb across the middle, so that the joining
may not be seen, the legs of the two knaves being so similar that detection is
impossible. You then give him the lower part of the knave of hearts to hold,
and when he has drawn the card away hold your hands so that the faces of
the cards will be turned towards the floor. As early as possible you take an
opportunity of removing the half-knave.
                    SLEIGHT-OF-HAND TRICKS, &c.
   Having completed our catalogue of card feats, we now proceed to give a
short selection of other conjuring tricks.
                    A Cheap Way of being Generous.
   You take a little common white or bees'-wax, and stick it on your thumb.
Then, speaking to a bystander, you show him sixpence, and tell him you
will put the same into his hand ; press it down upon the palm of his hand
with your waxed thumb, talking to him the while, and looking him in the
face. Suddenly take away your thumb, and the coin will adhere to it ; then
close his hand, and he will be under the impression that he holds the sixpence,
as the sensation caused by the pressing still remains. You may tell him he is
at liberty to keep the sixpence ; but on opening his hand to look at it he will
find, to his astonishment, that it is gone.
                     The Famous Mountebank Trick.
   In the days when merry-andrews and mountebanks met with a hearty wel
come on every English village green, no conjuring trick was more popular
than this; yet there are few that can be performed with less difficulty. You
first of all procure a long strip of paper, or several smaller strips pasted to
gether, two or three inches wide. Colour the edges red and blue, and roll up
the paper like a roll of ribbon. Before doing so, however, securely paste a
small piece of cotton at the end you begin to roll. Then, when the proper
time has arrived, you take hold of this cotton, and begin to pull out a long roll
which very much resembles "a barber's pole." In order to perform this trick
with good effect, have before you some paper shavings, which may easily be
procured at any bookbinder's, and commence to appear to eat them. The

                     SLEIGHT-OF-HAND TRICKS.                                 839
chewed paper can be removed each time a fresh hand-full is put into the mouth;
and when the proper time and opportunity have arrived, put the roll into
the mouth, and pull the bit of cotton, when a long roll comes out, as before
described, to the astonishment of the audience.
   A more elegant but similar feat is the following, which we will style
             Bringing Coloured Ribbons from the Mouth.
   Heap a quantity of finely-carded cotton wool upon a plate, which place
before you. At the bottom of this lint, and concealed from the company, you
should have several narrow strips of coloured ribbons, wound tightly into one
roll, so as to occupy but little space. Now begin to appear to eat the lint by
putting a hand-full in your mouth. The first hand-full can easily be removed
and returned to the plate unobserved while the second is being " crammed
in." In doing this, care should be taken not to use all the lint, but to leave
sufficient to conceal the roll. At the last hand-full, take up the roll and push
it into your mouth without any lint ; then appear to have had enough, and
look in a very distressed state, as if you were full to suffocation; then put
your hands up to your mouth, get hold of the end of the ribbon, and draw,
hand over hand, yards of ribbon as if from your stomach. The slower this
is done, the better the effect. When one ribbon is off the roll your tongue
will assist you in pushing another end ready for the hand. You will find you
need not wet or damage the ribbons in the least. This is a trick which is
frequently performed by one of the cleverest conjurors of the day.
                      Catching Money from the Air.
   The following trick, which tells wonderfully well when skilfully performed,
is a great favourite with one of our best-known conjurors. So far as we are
aware, it has not before been published. Have in readiness any number of
silver coins, say thirty-four ; place all of them in the left hand, with the ex
ception of four, which you must palm into the right hand. Then, obtaining
a hat from the audience, you quietly put the left hand with the silver inside ;
and whilst playfully asking if it is a new hat, or with some such remark for
the purpose of diverting attention, loose the silver, and at the same time take
hold of the brim with the left hand, and hold it still so as not to shake the
silver. Now address the audience, and inform them that you arc going to
"catch money from the air." Ask some person to name any number of coins
up to ten, say eight. In the same way you go on asking various persons,
and -adding the numbers aloud till the total number named is nearly thirty;
then looking round as though some one had spoken another number, and
knowing that you have only thirty-four coins, you must appear to have heard
the number called, which, with what has already been given, will make thirty-
four: say the last number you added made twenty-eight, then, as though you
had heard some one say six— and twenty-eight and six make thirty-four—
" Thank you, I think we have sufficient." Then, with the four coins palmed
in your right hand, make a catch at the air, when they will chink. Look at
them, and pretend to throw them into the hat, but instead of doing so palm
them again ; but, in order to satisfy your audience that you really threw them
into the hat, you must, when in the act of palming, hit the brim of the hat
with the wrist of the right hand, which will make the coins in the hat chink
as if they had just fallen from the right hand. Having repeated this process

840                              CONJURING.
several times, say, " I suppose we have sufficient," empty them out on to a
plate, and let one of the audience count them. It will be found that there
are only thirty, but the number which you were to catch was thirty-four. You
will therefore say, "Well, we are four short; l must catch just four, neither
more nor less." Then, still having four coins palmed in your right hand, you
catch again, and open your hands, saying to the audience, " Here they are."
        How to Fire a Loaded Pistol at the Hand without
                                   HURTING IT.
   This'extraordinary illusion is performed with real powder, real bullets, and
a real pistol ; the instrument which effects the deception being the ramrod.
This ramrod is made of polished iron, and on one end of it is very nicely
fitted a tube, like a small telescope tube. When the tube is off the rod, there
will, of course, appear a little projection. The other end of the rod must be
made to resemble this exactly. The ramrod with the tube on being in your
hand, you pass the pistol round to the audience to be examined, and request
one of them to put in a little powder. Then take the pistol yourself, and put
in a very small piece of wadding, and ram it down ; and in doing so you will
leave the tube of the ramrod inside the barrel of the pistol. To allay any
suspicion that might arise in the minds of your audience, you hand the ram
rod to them for their inspection. The ramrod being returned to you, you hand
the pistol to some person in the audience, requesting him to insert a bullet,
and to mark it in such a way that he would recognize it again. You then take
the pistol back, and put in a little more wadding. In ramming it down, the
rod slips into the tube, which now forms, as it were, an inner lining to the
barrel, and into which the bullet has fallen ; the tube fitting tight on to the
rod is now withdrawn along with it from the pistol, and the bullet is easily got
into the hand by pulling off the tube from the rod while seeking a plate to
"catch the bullets;" and the marksman receiving order to fire, you let the
bullet fall from your closed hand into the plate just as the pistol goes off.
                            Curious Watch Trick.
   By means of this trick, if a person will tell you the hour at which he means
to dine, you can tell him the hour at which he means to get up next morning.
First ask a person to think of the hour he intends rising on the following
morning. When he has done so, bid him place his finger on the hour, on the
dial of your watch, at which he intends dining. Then—having requested him
to remember the hour of which he first thought—you mentally add twelve to
the hour upon which he has placed his finger, and request him to retrograde,
counting the hours you mention, whatever that may be, but that he is to com
mence counting with the hour he thought of from the hour he points at. For
example, suppose he thought of rising at eight, and places his finger on twelve
as the hour at which he means to dine, you desire him to count back twenty-
four hours; beginning at twelve he counts eight, that being the hour he thought
of rising, eleven he calls nine, ten he calls ten (mentally, but not aloud), and
so on until he has counted twenty-four, at which point he will stop, which will
be eight, and he will probably be surprised to find it is the hour he thought of
rising at.
                              The Magic Funnel.
   This trick is capable of being varied in many ways. You place a small

                     SLEIGHT-OF-HAND TRICKS.                                84r
funnel inside a larger one, the two being united at the top. There will be an
open space between these two figures, as shown
on the accompanying figure at I and I, and a
small aperture at 2. The handle must be held in
one hand, and the opening, 3, stopped by a finger
of the other hand. The funnel is then filled so
as to allow the liquid to flow over from the
interior to the space marked 1,1. The thumb
is then placed upon the aperture 2, and the finger
withdrawn from 3, when all the water in the open
part of the funnel will run out ; but the liquid in
the outer compartment, 1, 1, will be retained by
the pressure of the thumb on 2, the weight of the
 atmosphere below the aperture 3 not being coun
 terbalanced by any corresponding pressure above.
 Immediately the thumb is removed from 2, the air above forces out the water,
and it will appear as if a fresh supply had been obtained by magic, to which,
 of course, allusion must be made by the operator.
                             The Flying Shilling.
    This is a purely sleight-of-hand trick, but it does not require much practice
to be able to do it well and cleverly. Take a shilling between the forefinger
 and thumb of the right hand ; then, by a rapid twist of the fingers, twirl the
 coin by the same motion that you would use to spin a teetotum. At the same
 time rapidly close your hand, and the coin will disappear up your coat-sleeve.
 You may now open your hand, and, much to the astonishment of your audi
 ence, the coin will not be there. This capital trick may be varied in a hundred
 ways'. One plan is to take three shillings, and concealing one in the palm of
 your left hand, place one of the others between the thumb and forefinger of
 the right hand, and the third between the thumb and forefinger of the left
 hand. Then give the coin in the right hand the twist already described, and
 closing both hands quickly, it will disappear up your sleeve, and the left hand,
 on being unclosed, will be found to contain two shillings. Thus you will make
 the surprised spectators believe that you conjured the coin from your right
 hand to the left.
                            Plumes for the Ladies.
    The following very clever trick was a favourite with M. Houdin, and was
  performed by him at St. James's Theatre, where it drew forth a good deal of
  admiration. When known, however, it appears, like a great many other tricks,
  extremely simple and easy.
     Procure two or three large plumes of feathers, or a lot tied together. Take
  off your coat, and hold one lot in each hand, so that the plumes will lie in a
  parallel line with the arms. Put your coat on again, and press the feathers
  into small compass. Ask some one to lend you a large silk handkerchief,
  throw it over one hand and part of the arm, and with the other quickly draw
  the feathers from that arm. The plumes, being released from their imprison
  ment, will spread out and resume their bulky appearance, and the onlookers
  will be completely baffled as to where they could have come from. Then
  repeat the process with the other arm.

 842                             CONJURING.
             The Borrowed Shilling in the Worsted Ball.
    This easily-performed trick should be in the rt'pertoire of every amateur
 magician. A large ball of worsted is obtained, and a marked shilling having
 been borrowed from the audience, the worsted is unwound, and out falls the
 shilling which but a moment before was supposed to be in the hands of the
 operator.    It is done in this way: Procure a few skeins of thick worsted;
 next, a piece of tin in the shape of a flat tube, large enough for the coin to
pass through, and about four inches long. Then wind the worsted on one
end of the tube to a good-sized ball, having a shilling of your own in your
right hand. You may now show the trick. Place the worsted anywhere out
of sight, borrow a marked shilling, and taking it in your left hand, you put the
one in your right hand on the end table farthest from the company. While so
doing, drop the marked shilling into the tube, pull the tube out, and wind a little
more worsted on in order to conceal the hole. Then put the ball into a tumbler,
and taking the shilling you left on the table, show it to the company (who will
 imagine it to be the borrowed shilling), and say, " Presto ! fly ! pass !" Give
the end of the ball to one of the audience, and request him to unwind it, and
on that being done the money will fall out.
                           The Ink and Fish Trick.
   This trick, originally introduced by M. Houdin,has been performed by every
wizard since. A large goblet is placed on the table, containing apparently
several pints of ink. A small quantity of ink is taken out with a ladle, anil
being poured out into a plate, is handed round to the company to satisfy them
that it really is ink. A handkerchief is then covered over the goblet, and
upon being instantly withdrawn, reveals the glass now full of water, in which
swim gold and silver fish. The trick is thus performed : A black silk lining
is placed inside the goblet, and kept in its place by a wire ring. It thus forms
a bag without a bottom, as it were, and when wet adheres close to the glass in
which are the water and the fish. The next part of the deception is the ladle,
which must be capable of containing as much ink as will induce the audience
to believe that it was got from the goblet before them. The ink must be con
cealed in the handle of the ladle, so that when it is lying on the table it will
not be perceived; but on being elevated, it must run into the ladle through a
small aperture made for the purpose. The black silk is easily withdrawn by
the thumb and finger at the time the handkercief is removed. It must be
concealed within the folds of the handkerchief.
                 Silver changed to Gold— Flying Money.
   Before commencing this trick you must provide yourself with two shillings
and a sovereign, and one of the shillings must be concealed in the right hand.
Lay the other shilling and the sovereign on the table, in full view of the
audience. Now ask for two hankerchiefs, then take the sovereign up and
pretend to roll it in one of the handkerchiefs ; but instead of that, roll up the
shilling which you had concealed in the right hand, and retain the sovereign.
Then give the handkerchief to one of the company to hold. Now take the
shilling off the table, and pretend to roll that up in the second handkerchief,
but put up the sovereign instead. Give this handkerchief to a second person,
and bid him " hold it tight," while you command the sovereign and the
shilling to change places. On the handkerchiefs being opened the coins will
appear to have obeyed your command.

                     SLEIGHT-OF-HAND TRICKS.                                 843
                     The "Twenty Halfpence" Trick.
   This trick may be performed with any number of cither shillings, sove
reigns, or half-crowns ; but following the traditional rule, we will suppose that
you borrow at random twenty halfpence from the company, and display them
on a plate, having previously concealed five other halfpence in your left hand.
You take the halfpence from the plate into the right hand, mix them with the
concealed five, and then give them to one of the company to hold. You then
ask the possessor to return five to you, which he will do, under the supposition
that he only retains fifteen, while in reality he retains twenty. You must now
have another halfpenny palmed in your right hand, so that when you give the
five halfpence to another person to hold, you add one to the number, and in
reality put six in his hands. You then ask him, as in the previous case, to
return one to you, reminding him, as you receive it, that he has only four left.
Then pretending to put the halfpenny you have just received into your left
hand, you strike the left hand with your magic wand, and bid the coin you
are supposed to be holding to fly into the closed hand of the person holding
five, or, as he supposes, four halfpence. On unclosing his hand he will find it
to contain five halfpence, and he will believe that you transferred one of them
thither. Now, taking the five halfpence, you must dexterously pass them into
the left hand, and bid them fly into the closed hand of the person holding the
supposed fifteen ; and he, in like manner, will be astonished to find, on un
closing his hand, that it contains twenty halfpence instead of, as he supposed,
fifteen.
                            The Mysterious Bag.
   Mr. Philippe, when appearing before his wonder-struck audiences, used to
excite the most profound amazement by means of a mysterious bag, from
which he produced nearly every conceivable thing, from a mouse-trap to a
four-post bedstead ; and its capacity was so prodigious, that it swallowed even
more than it produced. A similar but less pretending is the one which we
give under the title of "The Mysterious Bag." Make two bags, each about
a foot long and six inches wide, of some dark material, and sew them together
at the edge, so that one may be inside the other. Next make a number of
pockets, each with a cover to it, which may be fastened down by a slight
elastic band. Place these about two inches apart, between the two bags,
sewing one side of the pocket to one bag, and the other side to the other.
Make slits through both bags, about an inch long, just above the pockets, so
that you can put your hand in the bags ; and by inserting your thumb and
finger through these slits you may obtain entrance to the pockets, and bring out
of them whatever they contain. It is, of course, necessary that a variety of
articles should be put in the pockets. Before commencing the trick you may
turn the bag inside out any number of times, so that your audience may con
clude that it is quite empty. You can then cause to appear or disappear any
number of articles of a light nature, much to the amusement of your audience.
              To make a Sixpence Disappear at Command.
   This simple and well-known, but often amusing trick, enables the operatot
to cause a small coin to disappear after it has been wrapped up in a handker
chief. Borrow a sixpence or a small coin, or use one of your own, and secretly
place a small piece of soft wax on one side of it ; then spread, a pocket-hand

844                               CONJURING.
kerchief on a table, and taking up a coin, show it to your audience, being very
careful not to expose the side that has the wax on it. Having done this, place
the coin in the centre of the handkerchief, so that the waxed side will adhere.
Then bring the corner of the handkerchief over, and completely hide the coin
from the view of the spectators. All this must be carefully done, or the
company will perceive the wax on the back of the coin. You must now press
very hard on the coin with your thumb, in order to make it adhere. When you
have done this, fold over successively the other corners, repeating the operation
a second time, and leaving the fourth corner open. Then take hold of the
handkerchief with both hands at the opened part, and sliding your fingers
along the edge of the same, it will become unfolded, and the coin adhering to
the corner of the handkerchief will, of course, come into your right hand ; then
detach the coin, shake out the handkerchief, and to the great astonishment of
the company the coin will have disappeared.
   In order to convince your audience that the coin is still in the handkerchief
after you have wrapped it up, you can drop it on the table, when it will sound.
                 To produce a Cannon-ball from a Hat.
   This is a very old trick, though it still finds favour with most of the con
jurors of the present day. You borrow a hat, and on taking it into your
hands you ask a number of questions about it, or say it would be a pity for
you to spoil so nice a hat, or make use of some such remark. This, however,
is only a ruse for the purpose of diverting attention. Then, passing round to
the back of your table — (where, by the way, you have arranged on pegs a
large wooden " cannon-ball," or a cabbage, or a bundle of dolls, trinkets, &c,
loosely tied together, so that they may be easily disengaged)— you wipe, in
passing, one or other of these articles off the pegs, where they must be very
slightly suspended, into the hat so rapidly as not to be observed.
   Returning to the gentleman from whom you received the hat, you say to
him—" You are aware, sir, that your hat was not empty when you gave it to
me"— at the same time emptying the contents in front of the audience. Sup
posing you have, in the first instance, introduced the dolls and trinkets, you
may repeat the trick by wiping the " cannon-ball " or one of the other articles
into the hat, and again advancing towards the gentleman from whom you
received it, say, " Here is your hat ; thank you, sir." Then, just as you are
about to give it to him, say, " Bless me, what have we here?" and turning the
hat upside down, the large cannon-ball will fall out.
                              Evanescent Money.
   " 'T is here, and 't is gone ! " This simple but effective trick is done in the
following manner : Stick a small piece of white wax on the nail of your middle
finger ; lay a sixpence on the palm of your hand, and state to the company
that you will make it vanish at the word of command, at the same time
observing that many perform the feat by letting the sixpence fall into their
 sleeve, but to convince them that you have not recourse to any such deception,
 turn up the cuffs of your sleeves. Then close your hand, and by bringing
 the waxed nail in contact with the sixpence it will firmly adhere to it. Then
 blow upon your hand, and cry, "Begone!" and suddenly opening it and
 extending your palm, you show the sixpence has vanished. Care must be taken
 to remove the wax from the sixpence before you restore it to the owner.

                      SLEIGHT-OF-HAND TRICKS.                                 845
                            The Winged Sixpence.
    Take a sixpence with a hole on the edge, and attach it to a piece of white
sewing-silk, at the end of which is a piece of elastic cord about twelve inches
in length. Sew the cord to the lining of your left-hand coat-sleeve, but be
careful that the end of the cord to which the coin is attached should not
extend lower than within two inches of the end of the sleeve when the coat
is on. Having done this, bring down the sixpence with the right hand, and
place it between the thumb and under finger of the left hand, and showing it
to the company, tell them that you will give it to any one present who will
not let it slip away. You must then select one of your audience, to whom
you proffer the sixpence, and just as he is about to receive it you must let it
slip from between your fingers, and the contraction of the elastic cord will
draw the coin up your sleeve, and its sudden disappearance will be likely to
astonish the would-be recipient. This feat can be varied by pretending to
wrap the coin in a piece of paper or a handkerchief. Great care should be
taken not to let any part of the cord be seen, as that would be the means of
discovering the trick.
                               The Aerial Coin.
    The following will furnish the key to many of the stock tricks of professional
conjurors. Having turned up the cuffs of your coat, begin by placing a half
penny on your elbow (your arm being bent by raising the hand towards the
shoulder), and catching it in your hand—a feat of dexterity easily performed.
Then say that you can catch even a smaller coin in a more difficult position.
You must illustrate this by placing the sixpence halt-way between the elbow
and the wrist, and by suddenly bringing the hand down, the sixpence will fall
 securely into the cuff, unseen by any one, and it will seem to have disappeared
 altogether. Take a drinking glass or tumbler, and bidding the spectators to
 look upwards, inform them that the lost coin shall drop through the ceiling.
 By placing the glass at the side of your arm, and elevating your hand, the
 coin will fall from the cuff into the tumbler.
                               The Magic Rings.
     This trick has been exhibited everywhere : who has not seen it?—yet what
 causes more wonder to the uninitiated? It is a
 regular stock trick with conjurors, and a very
 pretty trick for the amateur. You must have
 seven iron rings about a foot in diameter. Three
 of the rings must be firmly linked by the maker,
  also two others, and two left separate, as c D.
     Hold these all up together, and they appear
 separate rings. Then throw the rings A, B, and
 C upon the floor, keeping D in the left hand, in
 which there is a joint, which must be concealed
 by the fingers or thumb; pick up c and link it to
  D, then B and a are linked on to D also. By a
  little practice many variations of a chain may be
  formed with rapidity, according to which ring of
  the set is linked on to D. You may in a careless
  manner give C and B to the audience to examine.

   846                              CONJURING
                               The Traversing Ring.
      Provide yourself with a silk handkerchief and a small ring. With a needle-full
   of silk, doubled, sew the ring to the middle of the handkerchief, but let it be
   suspended by the silk within an inch or two of the bottom of the handker
   chief. When the handkerchief is held up by the two corners, the ring must
   always hang on the side facing the conjuror. The handkerchief may now be
   crumpled up to " show all fair." Obtain a ring from one of the company, and
   retain it in the hand with which you receive it, but pretend to pass it to the
   other. Then pretend to wrap it up in the handkerchief, and taking hold of
   the other ring through the folds, request some one to hold it. Ask them if
   they can feel it, and as soon as they are satisfied that this is the identical ring
   which you borrowed, you put a plate on the table, and request the person
   holding the handkerchief to place both it and the ring on the plate. You then
   inform the company that you will cause the ring to pass through the plate and
   table into a little box, which you show round, and which you will place under
   the table. You can easily slip the ring in as you are doing so. Then partly
   unwrap the handkerchief, so that the ring will chink upon the plate, and with
   the words, " Quick ! change ! begone ! " or some expressions of similar import,
   take the handkerchief by two corners, and put it in your pocket, saying, " It
   is now in the box." You then request some one to pick it up and take out
   the ring.
                                 The Cooking H.<t.
      Have cakes or pudding previously made, and procure a jar, or doctor's
   gallipot, and a tin pot, made straight all the way up, with the bottom half-way
   down, so that both ends contain exactly the same quantity. The ready-made
   pancakes are previously put into the one end of this pot, which must be
   dexterously slipped into the hat. Then take some milk, flour, eggs, &c,
   and mix them up in the jar. Having done so, deliberately pour the mixture
   into the hat, taking care that the pot previously deposited there receives it.
   Put the jar down into the hat, press it on the tin pot, which exactly fits inside
   the jar, and brings away the pot containing the mixture, leaving the pancakes,
   which you pretend to fry over the candle, using the hat as a frying-pan. Then
   turn out the pudding or pancakes, show that the hat remains unsoiled, and
¦' restore it to its owner.
                                An Aviary in a Hat.
      This excellent but well-known trick requires the assistance of a confederate.
   A hat is borrowed as before from one of the audience, and turned round and
   round to show there is nothing in it. It is then laid on the operator's table,
   behind a vase or some other bulky article ; after which, as if a new idea had
   occurred to you, perform some other trick, during which the confederate
   removes the borrowed hat, substituting one previously prepared. This sub
   stituted hat is filled with small pigeons, placed in a bag with a whalebone or
   elastic mouth, which fits the inside of the hat. The bag containing the birds
   is covered with a piece of cloth, with a slit in the top. The operator, taking
   up the hat, puts his hands through the slit, and takes out the birds, one by
   one, till all are free. The hat is then placed on the table, for the ostensible
   purpose of cleaning it before handing it back, and the confederate again
   changes the hats, having in the interim fitted the borrowed hat with a bag
   similar to the other, and also filled with pigeons. This having been done, you
    call out to your confederate, and request him, so that all your audience may

                     SLEIGHT-OF-HAND TRICKS.                                  847
hear to "Take the gentleman's hat away, and clean it." He takes it up, and
peeps into it, saying, " You have not let all the birds away," upon which, to
the surprise and amusement of the spectators, you produce another lot of
birds as before. In brushing the hat previous to restoring it to the owner, the
bag may be adroitly removed.
                   A Bank-note concealed in a Candle.
   Ask some one to lend you a bank-note, and to notice the number, &c You
then walk up to the screen behind which your confederate is concealed, pass
the note to him, and take a wax or composite candle. Then, turning to the
audience, you ask one of them— a boy would be preferred — to step up on the
platform. At your request, he must cut the candle into four equal parts.
You then take three of them, and say you will perform the trick by means of
them, passing the fourth piece to the other end of the table, where your con
federate has already rolled up the note in a very small compass, and thrust it
into a hollow bit of candle, previously made ready. You take up this piece,
and, concealing it in your hand, you walk up to the boy, and appear acci
dentally to knock one of the bits of candle out of his hand, and while you
are stooping to pick it up off the floor, you change it for the bit which contains
the note. You then place it on the table, and say to the audience, " Which
piece shall I take—right or left ? " If they select the one which contains the
note, ask the boy to cut it carefully through the middle, and to mind that he
does not cut the note. When he has made a slight incision, tell him to break
it, when the note will be found in the middle. If the audience select the piece
which does not contain the note, you throw it aside, and say the note will be
found in the remaining piece. When this is done with tact, the audience will
naturally believe that they have really had the privilege of choosing.
                               The Doll Trick.
    The Doll Trick, although common in the streets of London and at every
fair throughout the country, is without exception one of the best sleight-of-
hand tricks that was ever performed, and must not be omitted here.
    The conjuror produces a wooden painted doll, about 6 in. long ; he then
places it in a bag of very dark material, and tells his story. "The little tra
veller, ladies and gentlemen, you see before you, is a wonderful little man who
has been all over the world ; but as he has grown older he has become very
nervous. One evening lately, at a small cabaret in the south of France, he was
stating how nervous he was and how much he dreaded being robbed, when a
Jew who sat in a corner of the room undertook to impart to him the means of
making himself invisible at any moment, for a sum to be agreed upon. The
bargain was struck, the money paid, and the Jew placed at his disposal a
 small skull-cap, which, as soon as it was placed upon his head, rendered him
 at once invisible; and I will now show you, ladies and gentlemen, the power
 possessed by this cap." The doll is then introduced into the bag, which has
 a small opening at the smaller end sufficiently large to admit of the doll's head
 passing through it. When the head has been shown, the lower part of the
 bag is turned over the doll and its body shown, " so that there can be no de
 ception !" The conjuror then says (still showing the head above the top of
 the bag), " I will now show you the wonderful cap by which the old gentleman
 is at once rendered invisible;" and producing it from his pocket, he places it
 upon the head of the doll for a moment, and then removes it ; the head then
 disappears in the bag, which is then turned inside out, and no trace of the

848                              CONJURING.
doll can be perceived, though the bag be thrown on the floor, stamped upon,
&c
    And now for the secret and the method of performing this really surprising
though very simple trick. The head is removable and only fastened to the
neck by a peg about f in. long; the bag or dress is made full at the bottom,
i.e., about the size of a hat, and has an opening at the top just large enough
to allow the doll's head to pass through it : at the lower edge of this bag must
be made a small pocket, just large enough to contain easily the doll, and on
the outside of the bag must be a red streak, by way of ornament, coming from
the top directly down to the pocket, so that it may be seen exactly where the
pocket is. This side of the bag must be held nearest to the performer.
    In performing the trick the doll is introduced at the bottom of the bag, and
passed upwards until the head is shown through the opening at the top ; and
when the performer says, " I will now show you the cap," he, holding the head
of the doll in his left hand, quickly passes the body into his pocket where he
has the cap, which he produces, leaving the body in its place. He then for a
moment places the cap on the doll's head, and replaces it in his pocket ; then
placing his right hand in the bag, he slowly draws down the head, which he
slips into the small pocket in the bag, and shows his hand open and empty.
He then catches hold of the lower edge of the bag at the pocket, holding, of
course, the head of the doll in his hand, and strikes the bag against the table,
ground, &c, and says, " I told you the old gentleman would become invisible."
He then says, " I will try to bring him back again ;" and introducing his hand
into the bag, he takes the head from the pocket and shows it through the
opening at the top of the bag, and retaining it in his hand, he throws the bag
on the floor and tramples upon it.
    If well done, we consider this trick, though common, one of the best that is
performed. It will be as well to have two dolls made exactly alike, one with
the head fixed, to be handed round, and the other with the movable head to be
used in the trick. We sometimes use a pocketjess dress, and " palm " the head.
   To pass a Shilling, or other small article, through a Table.
   This trick, like the preceding one, is very amusing, and if well and what we
may call cleanly done, is really very astonishing. The conjuror, seating him
self at a table, borrows two articles of any kind sufficiently small to be con
cealed in the hands : these he places on the edge of the table before him, and
says, " I take this one, as you see, in my right hand, and hold it at arm's
length, and the other I take in my left hand—my hands never meet. I now
place my left hand under the table and my right hand above it, and upon my
giving the word ' Pass !' the shilling which you saw me take in my right hand
will pass through the table to the ball of cotton in my left ; which you see is
the case."
   This trick is very easy of accomplishment if but a little time and patience
be bestowed upon it. The shilling, piece of India-rubber, or any other small
article, must be placed on the edge of the table, and the fingers must be
placed over it exactly the same way as if it were really desired to take it in
the hand; but instead of doing so the fingers merely push it over the edge ol
the table, and, the knees of the performer being closed, it falls into his lap.
It is then picked up with the left hand, and the right hand being brought
sharply upon the upper surface of the table, the shilling appears to have
passed through it.

                      SLEIGHT-OF-HAND TRICKS.                                 849
                          The Cup and Halfpence.
   This, too, if well performed, is a most astounding trick. Three-pennyworth
of halfpence are shown, and a small cap or cup. The halfpence are thrown
on the table, picked up again, arranged one on the other, and the cap placed
over them. A hat is then introduced, and shown to be empty : this is then
held in the left hand under the table, the cap removed with the right hand,
the halfpence shown and re-covered. The conjuror then says " Pass !" when
the halfpence are heard to fall in the hat ; the cap on the table is raised, and
they are gone, and in their place a small die or threepenny-piece appears.
The halfpence are then taken in the left hand, held under the table, and com
manded to pass ; and on raising the cap they again appear beneath it.
   This trick is very simple though ingenious, and the solution of it is as fol
lows : The cap is of leather or any similar stiff material, and made to fit over
three-pennyworth of halfpence easily; and the "trick" halfpence are six
riveted together, the upper one being entire, but the other five being turned
out, leaving nothing but their outer rims. Three-pennyworth of genuine half
pence are shown, as also the cap; and after showing the halfpence, while
gathering them in the hand, " palm " them and place the " trick" halfpence
(inside of which is the die) on the table, and cover them with the cap. Then
taking the hat in the left hand, command the halfpence to pass, and at the
word drop the genuine halfpence into the hat, at the same time raising the
cap on the table, and by pinching the sides of it rather tightly the " trick "
halfpence are raised with it, and the die or threepenny-piece appears ; then
covering the die or threepenny-piece with the cap and the "trick" halfpence
concealed in it, show the genuine halfpence in the hat, and command them
to return ; and holding the genuine halfpence in the left hand, lift the cap, and
the halfpence again appear. Therf taking the cap in the right hand, adroitly
drop the "trick" halfpence into it, and tender the cap for scrutiny.
   The table-cloth should be a thick and soft one, to prevent the spectators
from hearing the die fall as the "trick" halfpence are placed on the table.
                        The Shower of Sugarplums.
   This is a capital finale to an evening's amusement, particularly with young
children. A small bag, capable of holding about a pint, must be made of a
piece of figured calico, of a conical shape, but open at the bottom or larger
end, on each side of which must be inserted a flat thin piece of whalebone ;
at the upper or smaller end must be a small hook made of wire—a lady's hair
pin will answer the purpose perfectly. The trick is performed in this way:
   The bottom of the bag must be opened by pressing the opposite ends of the
two pieces of whalebone, when, of course, they will bend and divide, and the
bag must then be filled with sugarplums, care being taken to put the small
bonbons at the top of the bag, and the large ones at the bottom next the whale
bone, which will prevent the small ones from falling out. The bag when filled
must on the first opportunity be suspended by its hook at the back of a chair
having a stuffed back, so that it cannot be seen.
   When the trick is to be performed, a large handkerchief must be shown,
with a request that it may be examined. It is then laid over the back of the
chair. A little girl must then be asked if she is afraid of being out in the
rain, and on her answering in the negative she must be requested to kneel
                                                                    5*

  850                              CONJURING.
 down in the middle of the room. The performer must then place his left hand
 on the handkerchief, and feeling the hook which supports the bag, he raises
  it with the handkerchief, and holds it above the little girl's head ; then pass
 ing his right hand from the finger and thumb of the left hand which hold the
 handkerchief and bag, downwards, he can easily feel the bottom of the bag,
 and on pressing the opposite ends of the whalebone, they bend and open, and
 the contents of the bag of course fall out in a shower, and a general scramble
 among the children takes place.
    TO REMOVE AN EGG FROM ONE WlNE-GLASS TO ANOTHER WITHOUT
                 TOUCHING EITHER THE EGG OR THE GLASSES.
     Place two wine-glasses touching each other and in a direct line from you,
 and in the one nearer to you must be placed an egg with its smaller end down
 wards. Then blow with the mouth suddenly and sharply and strongly against
 the side of the egg, but in a downward direction, when the egg will be lifted
 up, and falling over, will lodge in the other glass.
                              The Egg in the Bag.
     This, too, is a capital trick if quietly and neatly performed, and the more
 slowly the better.
     A small bag is produced, rather larger than a sheet of note-paper, into
 which an egg (or rather the shell of one out of which the contents have been
 blown) is dropped. The corner of the bag must then be squeezed round it to
 show that it is there, and it may be felt by any one present. The comer of
 the open end of the bag is then held by the finger and thumb of the left
 hand, and the right placed in the bag, which is then held open end down
 wards, and the right hand withdrawn empty. The bag is then seized by the
 right hand, and struck violently against the table, and then crumpled up in
 the hands. It is then held with the mouth upwards, the right hand is again
 placed in the bag, and the egg unbroken produced.
     The trick is performed in this way : The bag is made double on one side,
 thus forming a second bag, the mouth of which is at the bottom of the other.
 After the egg has been dropped in the bag and felt to be there, it is held in
 the right hand, while the bag is held bottom upwards, and then dropped in
 the second bag. The right hand is then withdrawn. When the edge of
 the bag is seized by the right hand, the egg must be also held in the same
 hand in the bag, and it is thus preserved from being broken when the bag is
 struck against the table, &c The mouth of the bag being thus held upwards,
the egg of course falls into the first bag, and is then taken out and shown.
    To Fix a Penknife by its Point in the Ceiling, and afterwards
       place a Shilling so exactly under it that when dislodged
       by striking the ceiling the knife shall fallon the shilling
    This is a most ingenious trick, and is done in this way: Mounting a table,
stick the penknife by its point in the ceiling, but only sufficiently to support
it. Then, after a deal of examination of its position, &c, place a piece of
brown paper on the floor, on which put the shilling, and then say you wfll
undertake to place the shilling so exactly under it that, when dislodged, the
knife shall fall upon it. When wonder is excited, and it is declared to be fan

                                     PUZZLES.                                851
 possible, call for a glass of water ; then mounting on the table, dip the pen
 knife in the water and withdraw the glass : a drop of water will soon fall on
 the paper, and on that very spot place the shilling. You then strike the ceiling
 with your fist, when the knife will fall, of course, on the shilling. The knife
 chosen for the purpose should be one having rather a heavy pointed handle,
 as the drop of water will then fall from the most central point.
                 To Produce a Cannon-ball from a Hat.
    A ball must be turned out of any kind of soft light wood, and must have
 a hole bored in it large enough to admit the middle finger, and it should be
 painted black. The trick is performed in this way : On the front of the con
 juring table, i.e., the side next the spectators, should be placed a few layers
 of books, high enough to conceal from view the ball or any other apparatus
 with which it is intended to perform. On the side of the books next the per
 former the ball should be placed, with the hole in it towards him. The hat
 should be placed on the books on its side on the left-hand end of the table,
 with its crown next the spectators. When the trick is to be performed, the
 hat should be shown to be entirely empty, and then returned to its position
 on the books ; then, having placed a hat-brush or silk handkerchief at the
 right hand of the table, say, " This trick cannot be performed unless the hat
 is perfectly smooth," and while leaning to the right to reach the brush or hand
 kerchief, which diverts attention to that end of the table, the middle finger of
 the left hand must be placed in the hole in the ball, which is thus slipped into
 the hat, which must then be carefully brushed and held crown uppermost.
 The brush should then be put down, and the right thumb placed on the rim
 of the hat, with the fingers extended underneath so as to support the ball in
 the hat, and the left hand should then be placed in the same position, and the
 hat, with the ball in it, carried and placed upon another table. A small ball
 must then be produced, and a boy asked if he thinks he can hold it in his
 mouth, and told to try. The ball is then taken in the right hand, pretended
 to be thrown against the hat, " palmed," and concealed in the pocket. The
 boy should then be asked if he will again take the ball in his mouth, and
 while opening it the cannon-ball is suddenly taken from under the hat and
 placed in front of his face.
                                   PUZZLES.
    Puzzles are so numerous that to give the shortest possible description of
every known puzzle would occupy an entire volume, and many of them are so
complicated that to describe them fully would be impossible.
   A few only have been selected, and those which have been well known for
the last thirty or forty years have been intentionally omitted. As a brief key
to most puzzles, it may be observed :
   That, when a string is used, the key is generally to be found in a loop which
can be drawn through a hole and slipped over a knot or a ball (see the balls
and rings puzzle) ;
   That, when a mechanical puzzle has a number of similar parts, such as a
                                                                5i —2

«S2                                PUZZLES.
row of dots, pegs, or holes, one of them is tolerably sure to contain the key
 (see the cage and ball and the sceptre puzzles).
                            The Numerical Puzzle.
   This will be found an excellent mental exercise. The puzzle consists in
placing the balls, which are numbered from I to 9, in such positions that any
line of the numbers, when added together, amount to the same.
   Fig. i shows the manner in which the board is constructed : it consists of
a circular frame of wood, over the centre of which green cloth is stretched.
and on it lines in the form seen in the cut ; at the angles are holes for the
numbered balls to rest in. To change the position of these balls to the places
in Fig. 2, it will be seen that the numbers are the same in all the lines if reck
oned together.
                              The Cage and Ball.
   This consists of four pillars fixed at cither end into circular pieces of box
wood, which form the cage. The ball, which is kept imprisoned (as will be
seen in the illustration), is not capable of being removed through the spaces
between the pillars, it being too large. The puzzle is, therefore, to find out a
means for the ball to escape. After trying in vain to move the pillars up or

                                    PUZZLES.                                 853
 down, liberty seems impossible; but one of the pillars unscrews upon being
 twisted from left to right, when the cage is opened and the ball free.
                            The Balls and Rings.
   This is a very ingenious puzzle. It is a round frame of mahogany 2 in.
 wide and \ in. thick ; in this at regular intervals are holes, between which are
 placed rings on one side and balls on the other, as shown in the cut. These
 are made fast with cord, which passes through each and then through the
holes in the frame ; the ends of the cord arc then tied in the form of a cross
from one side of the frame to the other (B, Fig. 1).
   The puzzle is to remove the balls into the places of the rings without untie
ing the string—i.e., from one side of the frame to the other.
   It is done thus. In Fig. 2 at A the cord is pulled up tight, when it forms a
loop through which the ball will pass, still remaining on its own string, and
then over the edge of the frame, the rings being removed in the same way
one by one into the vacant places, until the whole have changed position from
one side of the frame to the other.

  854                                PUZZLES.
                               The Sceptre Puzzle.
     This puzzle is of French origin, and consists of two rings on a rod, the ends
 of which prevent the rings from coming off. Fig. I shows the ends, which
  arc ornamented with small black knobs.
     To release the rings is the puzzle, which is done thus : Upon testing the
 fixture of all the black knobs, it will be found that one unscrews, the screw
being of sufficient length to enter the groove in the end of the rod : unscrew
 it, and the end is detached (see Fig. 2), when the rings may be thus removed.
                                The Staff Puzzle.
    This is formed of a staff made of box-wood, through the centre of which is
a hole lengthways, and through this is passed a double cord ; at the distance
x>( i\ in. are knots, and at each end a button (Fig. 1). To free the staff from
the buttons and cord is the puzzle.
    (^
    It is attainable thus (Fig. 2): The knot separated is a slip-knot—it is shown
loose at Fig. 3. If the button is passed through the loop of the loosened knot
it will free itself, and the other may be removed easily.

                                  PUZZLES.                                    Hi
                            The Six-Square Puzzle.
    Balls numbered from I to 12 are placed on a board to form the angles of
 six squares, as Fig. I.
                                         /.
   To remove three balls so that the remaining nine are at the angles of three
perfect squares is the puzzle. Fig. 2 will show how it is done.
                             The Victoria Puzzle.
   This puzzle is constructed of two pieces of wood of the same shape, with a
wooden button between, as Fig. 1 will show. Through these is passed a cord,
                         Showing troth. Scdes.
uniting the three in such a manner that it forms a most puzzling puzzle to get
them free from the cord. We are indebted to Mr. Cremer, of Regent Street,
who is the inventor, for the following description, as well as for the permission
to engrave the whole of the illustrations of Puzzles.

856                             QUESTIONS.
   Take one of the end pieces in the left hand, pull the loop up through the
centre and pass it through the hole nearest the round piece of wood, then draw
the remaining two pieces through the loop, pull the loop back again through
the hole, and the cord will readily come off.
   In playing this, care must be taken that the cord does not get twisted.
                            The Artillery Puzzle
is a box-wood cannon, with a small and large ball fixed by string at the breech
internally. The puzzle is to remove these (Fig. 1). If the large ball is pulled,
it will draw the smaller inside the cannon, and it cannot be extricated until
the puzzle is played, which is done as follows:
   A tightly-fitting plug at the mouth of the cannon (Fig. 2), when removed,
draws out the cord by means of a loop fixed to it, which will slip over the
small ball, and then, by taking hold of the ball at the breech, they can be
freed from the cannon with ease.
                               QUESTIONS.
   1. All pronounce me a wonderful piece of mechanism, and yet few have
numbered up the strange medley of which I am composed. I have a large
box, two lids, two caps and musical instruments, a number of weathercocks,
and three established measures ; some weapons of warfare, and a great many
little articles that carpenters cannot do without. Then I always have about
me a couple of esteemed fishes, and a great number of a smaller kind ; two
lofty trees and the fruit of an indigenous plant ; a handsome stag and a vast
number of smaller and less tame kind of game ; two halls or places of wor
ship; two students, or rather scholars, and half a score of Spanish gentlemen
to attend upon me. I have also what is the terror of the slave, two domestic
animals, and a number of negatives.

                      QUESTIONS.                           857
       Three feet have I, but ne'er attempt to go ;
       And many nails thereon, but not one toe.
                              in.
        I shoot, but never kill a bird ;
           I fall—where, none can say.
        Though fixed, I move ; though seen by all,
           I yet am far away.
        Cut off my head.—when rightly used
           And underfoot it's tied,
        A class of men at once I 'm made,
           Who use me for a guide.
        Transpose me now,—the word we have
           Will partially explain
        How Number One by Two is used,
           To make their way more plain.
        Once more : my first turned heels-o'er-head,
           How sad a change is there 1
        From what we all so greatly love
           To what we cannot bear.
                              IV.
     My first is deep ; my second skims the wave ;
     My third is heavy ; and my whole was brave.
                              v.
In, my first, my second, sat ; my third and fourth, I ate.
                              VI.
 Cut off my head, and singular I seem ;
    Cut off my tail, and plural I appear ;
 Cut off both head and tail, and—wondrous to relate !—
    Although my middle 's left, there 's nothing there.
 What is my first ? It is a sounding sea.
    What is my last ? It is a parent river.
 And in their mingling depths I sportive play,
    Parent of sweetest sounds, though mute for ever.
                             VII.
      Cato and Chloe combined well together
      Make a drink not amiss in very cold weather.
                             VIII.
      My first 's the joy of every cozy dame,
      And in my second o'er to England came ;
      My whole of every household forms a part :
      Thou art not Science, but thou teachest Art.
                               IX.
            In my first for ever flow
            Sounds of joy and sounds of woe;
            In my second, newly made,
            Thousands every year are laid;
            In my whole wc never jest,—
            Prayers are made and sins confess'd.

858                         QUESTIONS
    Come, let 's look at it closely : 't is a very ugly word,
    And one that makes us shudder whenever it is heard :
    It may not be always wicked, but it must be always bad,
    And speaks of sin and suffering enough to make us mad.
    Folks tell us 't is a compound word, and that is very true ;
    And then they decompose it, which of course they 're free to do :
    But why of twelve letters should they cut off the first three,
    And leave the nine remaining as bad as they can be?
    For though they seem to make it less, in fact they make it more,
    And let the brute creation in, which was kept out before.
    Let 's try if we can't mend it,—it 's possible we may,
    If only we divide it in some new-fashioned way.
    Suppose, instead of three and nine, we make it four and eight :
    You 'll say 't will make a difference,—at least not very great ;
    But only see the consequence, that 's all that need be done
    To change the mass of misery to unmitigated fun.
    It clears off swords and pistols, proscriptions, bowie knives,
    And all the horrid weapons by which men lose their lives.
    It calls up Nature's voice, and, oh ! how joyfully is heard
    The native sound of merriment compressed into one word.
    Yes ! four and eight,- -may that, my friends, be ever yours and mine
    Though all the host of demons rejoice in three and nine.
                                     X1.
                  My first is won and never lost ;
                    Reversed it 's now before ye ;
                  My next reversed is red as blood
                    In veins of Whig or Tory ;
                  My whole 's so wondrous strange, that I
                    Must candidly confess it,
                 Though you 're ingenious, it will be
                    A wonder if you guess it.
                                    XII.
                 There is a noun of plural number,
                  Foe to peace and tranquil slumber.
                  Now, any word you choose to take
                  By adding " s " you plural make,
                  But if you add an " s " to this
                  Strange is the metamorphosis :
                  Plural is plural now no more,
                 And sweet what bitter was before.
               My first in many a field is seen.
               Of various hues, brown, white, and green:
               Living, it may the eye delight,
               But dead it is an ugly sight.
               My next in Britain's ancient days
               Roamed wildly through her forest ways ;
              A prisoner now, but kept and fed,

                        QUESTIONS.                          859
        Kind hands supply its food and bed ;
        But, strange to say, when cold and dead,
        We hang it up without its head.
        My whole beside my first is seen,
        With solemn pace and curious mien :
        T is shielded from its many foes
        In armour (not of proof, it goes) ;
        When winter comes, secure from harm,
        Making its nest all soft and warm,
        It sleeps away the cold dark hours,
        And wakes again with April flowers.
" ' On, Stanley, on !'—were the last words of Marmion."
         If I had been in Stanley's place
        When Marmion urged him to the chase,
         I there a thing should then descry
        Would bring a tear to many an eye.
                                XV.
         Can you tell me why a hypocrite's eye
         Can better descry than you can, or I,
        On how many toes a pussy-cat goes ?
                                XV1.
            The father of the Grecian Jove;
              A little boy who 's blind ;
            The foremost land in all the world ;
              The mother of mankind ;
            A poet whose love-sonnets are
               Still very much admired :
            The initial letters will declare
              A blessing to the tired.
                          In the year 1792
                      F— R—A— N—C— E.
              X*
             g                    "sMirj
             "j             —Monarch*
     ft
                                xvm.
                If your B m t put : if . putting :
    100   I  5     1  50.   What all the world ought to be.

 86o                                 RIDDLES.
                                           XX.
      EAAAAAHHHHLLMZBRSS
     The above letters will form a name which occurs only twice in the Bible.
                                           XXi.
            AAAAAHHHNNPPTEZ
                   No name of nation or of place
                      I by these letters mean ;
                   But if you do them rightly trace,
                   And put each letter in its place,
                      A name will still be seen.
                   To know what name these letters tell,
                   Take your Bible and read it well,
                   And when you 've searched it through and round,
                   It only once will there be found.
                                          XXI1.
                         My whole is what must ever be
                        Of use to those who go to sea.
                        Cut off my head, and there behold
                        An animal just four years old ;
                        Cut off my tail, and then I 'll be
                        A fish— not taken from the sea.
                                   RIDDLES.
   1. If a church be on fire, why does the organ run the least possible chance
         of escape ?
  2. Why is a sailor the most learned person as to what occurs on the other
         side of the moon?
  3. Why are persons born blind unfit to be carpenters?
  4. What four letters would frighten a thief?
  5. When is a sailor not a sailor ?
  6. Why is an old lady's cap the most economical article of human clothing?
  7. Why does a man go into the law, remain in the law, and go out of the law?
  8. When is a soldier not a soldier ?
  9. If a gentleman desired his daughter to take wine, the name of what country
         would he use ?
10. What portion of the Mediterranean is the common chord of music like ?
II. What is black, white, and re(a)d all over?
12. What does a cat possess which no other animal has?
13. Why was Luther like a dyspeptic crow?
14. When is a man behind the times ?
15. What is the difference between a baby and a pair of boots?
16. If a man met a crying pig, what animal would he call him?
1 7. What word becomes shorter by adding a syllable ?
1 8. When is a bird a foreign vehicle ?

                                 RIDDLES.                                 861
19. What is the difference between the Mayor of Cork and a child's rocking-
       horse ?
20. If a stupid fellow is going up for competitive examination, why should he
       study the letter P ?
21. When does a man shave with a silver razor?
22. What is most like a cat's tail?
23. Which of the three following authors is the most industrious—Samuel
       Warren, Bulwer Lytton, or Charles Dickens?
24. With what two animals do you always go to bed ?
25. Why is a naughty schoolboy like a penny postage-stamp?
26. Why is an idea like the sea ?
27. When did the sea produce corn?
28. If the sea were to be drained, what would Neptune say?
29. Why does a lady not like a doctor to kiss her ?
30. What is that which constantly changes its habit while it lives, is buried
       before it is dead, and whose tomb is valued wherever it is found ?
31. You drink me, you eat me,— deny it who can !
     I am sometimes a woman, and sometimes a man.
32. Why is a naval outfitter a great bully ?
33. Why is Derbyshire an ill-natured county ?
34. If you want a domestic servant, why should you choose a chimney-sweep ?
35. Why need a man never starve in the Desert of Arabia ?
36. When is it dangerous to walk by the river ?
37. Why is a vine like a soldier?
38. Why is O the noisiest of all the vowels ?
39. Why is a Member of Parliament like a shrimp ?
40. When is a cockney nearest heaven ?
41. When is a lover like a tailor?
42. Which is the most wonderful animal in the farm-yard ?
43. What does a good-natured wife do ?
44. Why is a barrister like a poker ?
45. If you were obliged to swallow a man, whom would you prefer to swallow ?
46. Why is a forged bank-note like a whisper ? .
47. Why do black sheep eat less than white ?
48. Why must a magistrate be cold and chilly ?
49. Why do rabbits lose their fur when they come in season ?
50. Which is the oldest tree ?
51. Why is a barn-door hen sitting on a gate like a fourpenny-piece?
52. Why is a man searching for the Philosophers' Stone like Neptune?
53. Why is it dangerous to walk in the fields in spring?
54. Why is the National Anthem of the masculine gender?
5 5. What is the difference between a shabby fourpenny-piece and a half-crown?
56. What painter would be a favourite at sea ?
57. Why is your nose in the middle of your face ?
58. What is the difference between an old fowl and an ancient ferry-boat?
59. Take away half of thirteen, and yet eight will remain.
60. Why is the leaning tower of Pisa like Siberia?
61. What is most like a hen stealing?
62. When may a man be said to possess a vegetable timepiece ?
63. What is worse than " raining cats and dogs " ?
64. Why are Whigs and wigs alike ?

862                              RIDDLES.
 65. What pleases in the air, what a horse does not like, and gives the name
        to a flower.
 66. What was the difference between Douglas at Chevy Chase and Palmer-
        ston at Glasgow ?
 67. If an egg could speak, what preserve would it mention ?
 68. When is a fish like a bird ?
 69. What small bird does a Dorking fowl resemble when it steals my neigh
        bour's barley ?
  70. The first is the cause of my second, and my whole must be kept.
  71. Which is the cheapest way of buying a fiddle?
  72. What wood makes the best piano ?
  73. What notes are of the most value, and how many tunes do they play ?
  74. When is butter like Irish children ?
  75. What went to Balaclava, stopped there, never went there, and came back
        again ?
  76. What is the colour of grass when covered with snow ?
  77. What did Princess Mary become when she married Prince Teck ?
  78. Why are little birds most unhappy in the morning ?
  79. A lady asked a gentleman his age : he replied," What you do in everything."
  80. Why was Robinson Crusoe not alone on the desert island ?
  81. What every one wants, what every one gives, what every one asks, and
        what very few take.
  82. What is that which grows with its root upwards, which lives in winter,
        but dies in summer ?
  83. Why are babies like soldiers in a campaign ?
  84. What is the best weapon for a serious rifleman ?
  85. Why are university men like geese ?
  86. What is the riddle of riddles ?
  87. When is a mad dog like pitch ?
  88. Speak only two letters, and thus name the destiny of all earthly things.
  89. What quadrupeds are admitted to balls, dinner parties, and operas ?
  90. What is better than presence of mind in a railway accident ?
  91. Where should one sow tares ?
  92. Why does a jester resemble a fowl ?
  93. What word is that which contains all the vowels, and in their order ?
  94. Why is a caterpillar like a hot roll ?
  95. If the poker, tongs, and shovel cost ,£3, what would the coals come to ?
  96. What is that which occurs twice in a moment, once in a minute, and not
        once in a thousand years.
  97. What is that which is the constant possession of every human being,
        which cannot be bought, yet has been sold ; it is invisible—never seen
        but often felt ?
  98. What is that which will give a cold, cure a cold, and pay the doctor's bill ?
  99. What is that which has neither flesh nor bone, yet has four fingers and
        a thumb ?
 100. When has a man longer hair than a woman ?
lot. Why is a fanner surprised at the letter G ?
102. When is an alderman like a ghost?
103. What is that which no one wishes to have, yet no one wishes to lose?
104. Why is the letter G like the sun ?
105. What tree is an officious gossip?

                                 RIDDLES.                                     863
 106. My first is a plaything ; my second no one wishes to play with ; and my
        whole plays with nobody.
107. What islands resemble the Trojan horse ?
108. What is the difference between a bare head and a hair bed ?
109. Who was the first whistler, and what did he whistle?
1 10. When is a man thinner than a lath ?
ill. Why are gymnastics like the tide at low water?
112. Why is the letter D like a wedding ring?
113. Why is " chaffing " improper for old folk ?
1 14. When is money damp ?
115. Why is a rakish Israelite like a witticism?
1 16. What sweetens the cup of life, yet, divested of its end, embitters the most
        grateful draught ?
117. Why is a lovely young lady like a hinge?
1 18. When is a fellow's eye like a barrel ?
1 19. Why is a fool like a needle ?
120. What is invisible blue?
121. Which is of the most value, a £$ note or five sovereigns?
122. Why is a fiddle like a bad hotel ?
1 23. Why is a bad wife better than a good one ?
124. Why should ladies never learn French?
125. Which tree is the most suggestive of kissing ?
126. What animal falls from the clouds?
127. When is a ship foolishly in love ?
128. When is a ship dishonourably in love?
129. When is a ship honourably in love?
130. Why are washerwomen the most stupid people?
131. Why should a cabman never be a coward?
132. Why should an apothecary be the most sober of men?
133. What is the most difficult surgical operation?
134. Why are there no flirtations on board the P. and O. steamers?
135. What did the sunbeam say to the opening rose-bud?
136. Why is a person casting-up accounts like a venomous reptile?
137. Why is an empty cellar like a ship at sea ?
138. What letter made Queen Bess mind her P's and Q's?
139. What is that from which if the whole be taken some will yet remain ?
140. Why would it be useless going to an auction where Chang was ?
141. Why are people who sit in free seats not likely to get any good from
        going to church ?
142. Why should it affront an owl to mistake him for a pheasant ?
143. Why must a manufacturer of steel pens be a very immoral character?
l 44. When is an ox not an ox ?
145. Why is blind man's buff like sympathy ?
146. Why are deep sighs like long stockings?
147. When has a man four hands?
148. Why is it easy to break into an old man's house?
149. Why should you not go to London by the 12.50 train ?
1 50. Why should the male sex avoid the letter A ?
151. What is the best way of making a coat last ?
152. Why does a day labourer never cease growing?
153. When does a man sneeze three times?

864                              RIDDLES.
154.  What relation is the door-mat to the scraper?
155.  Why does a piebald pony never pay toll ?
1 56. When does a steamboat captain say thafhe is what he is not ?
157.  When are you like a spider?
1 58. When does a hen peck the hardest ?
159.  Why is the best baker most in want of bread?
160.  Why is the letter S like a sewing machine?
161.  Why do ducks go under water?
162.  Why is France never afraid of inundations ?
163.  What is the difference between a cow and a broken chair?
164.  What three letters are of most use to a statesman ?
165.  When does a man look most like a cannon-ball ?
166.  Why is the letter A like a honeysuckle?
167.  What flower most resembles a bull's mouth ?
168.  W'hat does a stone become in the water?
169.  Why is a spectator like a bee-hive ?
170.  When may we expect water to be expensive?
171.  Which is the highest island?
172.  Why is the letter N like a pig?
173.  Why is a theatre the saddest of places?
174.  Why is it wrong to call a bloater a soldier?
175.  What lane do ladies most like walking in ?
176.  Why is a lean monarch a contemplative man?
177.  Wrhy is a spider's web like a lawsuit?
178.  Why is a tournament like sleep?
179.  Why is rheumatism like a glutton?
180.  Why is the county of Buckingham like a drover's goad ?
181.  Why are sailors bad horsemen?
182.  Why should a man never marry a woman named Ellen ?
183.  When is a soldier not half a soldier?
184.  When was beef-tea first introduced into England?
185.  Why is Cupid like poverty ?
186.  What people can never live long, nor wear greatcoats ?
187.  Why is a horse doctor like a water-rat ?
188.  Why should Japanese grandees never pay their debts?
189.  When does a man eat his furniture?
190.  What letter does a deaf woman like best ?
191.  Why is an old woman like a well-driven nail?
192.  Why is a pig's tail like a carving-knife?
193.  When does a man belong to the vegetable kingdom ?
194.  Why are ladies like churches?
195.  Why ought the children of a thief to be burnt ?
196.  When is love a deformity ?
197.  Why is a mouse like hay ?
19S.  Why is a madman equal to two men ?
199.  Why are good resolutions like fainting ladies? •
200.  Why is a short person like an entertaining book ?
201.  What wonderful metamorphosis is a laundress subject to ?
202.  If cheese comes after meat, what comes after cheese ?
203.  What island is most like snow ?
204.  When is a wave of the sea like a medical man ?

                                 ACROSTICS.                             865
205. Why must the inventor of beaver hats have been necessarily a talented
      man?
206. Why was the Fire King%t Cremorne like Hermit on the 22nd of May ?
207. Why were the Belgians not in good spirits when they came to Wimbledon ?
                              ACROSTICS.
                                         1.
            " To arms ! " he cried, the Hermit of the Rock ;
               " To arms ! " the people answered in a breath :
            Vainly might navies his bare isle enlock,
               He 'scaped, exultant, to success—or death.
            But ere he reached the city's strong redoubt
               A deadlier engine was assigned his doom :
            Science, not courage, put him to the rout,
               And sent him, baffled, to a living tomb.
                1. Once eloquent on mountain heights,
                    Now dying out, like Jacobites
                2. Singly I 'm a poor creature,
                    Collectively a great feature ;
                    Scattered in volumes, fastened in frames,
                    Though I do little but iterate names.
           3. Subscribe to Grove's new Syrian Expedition,
               And from his diggers learn my full description.
               4. All too high he pitched his flight,
                       Soaring where the ether springs ;
                    We, like him, find stern daylight
                       Fatal to our waxen wings.
                      5. In England I 'm a lump
                           Of wood, or brass, or clay ;
                         In Yankeeland a man
                           With labourers in my pay.
              6. Britain, envying Lisbon's vine,
                     Begged from Bacchus some such tree ;
                   Growled the god, " There 's barley-wine,
                     Drink it, and don't bother me ! "
                  7. In the dusk like moth I show,
                        Down the streets in glittering row,
                     Cheerer of the wintry weather,
                        Feast and song about me gather.
                  8. We learn 't was good for kitchen duty,
                        But all aver it was no beauty ;
                     Like homely wife, the best of cooks,
                        Who shames us by her parlour looks;
                     But as 't is vanished from the earth,
                        No matter what its looks were worth.
                                                                OS

   866                                ACROSTICS.
                      9. Whate'er our century may miss,
                          None can accuse its sons as this;
                          They fuss and fume on dany toil,
                          Each foremost scrambling for the spoil,
                          Till, worn out by the tug and tussle,
                          We wish they were this in the bustle.
                                              11.
                       Men too oft confuse these twain,
                          And for the first the second squander ;
                       A fatal loss they find that gain,
                          A loss for sage profound to ponder.
                         1. I preside at City dinners,
                                Not a single word I say;
                             Oh, how many fools and sinners
                                I Ve seen in my day !
          2. It flows and flows as it never would end,
              With many a twisting and many a bend ;
              But the stream's longest course, and the life's longest sweep,
              Must finish at last in the fathomless deep.
             3. The buffalo in his prairie feeds on the herbage rank,
                The mustang, sharply ridden, already nears his flank,
                Out flies the curling leather, down falls the mighty brute,
                The rider's knife is ready—one death-roar—all is mute !
                         4. In the workman's hand a tool,
                                On the lady's breast a flash,
                             In the pastime of the fool
                                Mad excitement, ruin's crash.
¦»                                           111,
                       The old man sits in his old arm-chair,
                          His old arms clasp its elbows old ;
                       He will not move, nor change the air,
                          Nor bribe nor threat can loose his hold.
                       The rusty keys of broken doors
                          With miser grip he clutches fast :
                       The world outside him yells and roars,
                          But in that place he 'll die at last.
       1. Exile is harsh to the free who range foreign lands at their will,
           But exile in fetters must be a bitterness bitterer still.
    2. Poor fellow ! his throne was no joke, with Klepht, Albanian, and Turk ;
        Banditti all over his hills, the only industrious work;
        The nations all offering advice, and now and then sprinklings of cash,
       Then quarrelling how he should spend it. No wonder his kingdom went
              smash !
                         3. A thousand spring into life,
                               And perish like summer flies,
                             One in a thousand thousand
                               Fame doth immortalize.

                          ACROSTICS.                          867
       4. In the South-east Isle blacks did adore him,
          In the North-west Isle blacks fled before him;
          Some folks revere him, patriot and hero,
          Some folks denounce him viler than Nero.
        " Ah, happy isle where summer reigns ! "
             We shivering 'neath our blankets cried :
        " No fog her azure ether stains,
             No frost-bite nips her gardens' pride"
          But while we praised her golden light,
             And rhymed her merits o'er again,
          The wild wind smote her in his might,
             And foundered houses, ships, and men.
1. Oh, the trees of the desert, green to the wanderer's eye l
   Oh, the fruits of the desert, sweet to the palate dry !
   Every year to the desert cometh the caravan,
   Laden on hunches of camels beareth all fruit that it can.
            2. I was when the world was made,
                 Yet am I fresh as the morn ;
               Where I am not health must fade,
                 And the baby perish new-born.
               My presence you cannot tell
               By hearing, seeing, or smell ;
               My absence you surely find
               By the lassitude left behind.
      3. Fierce amid the gentle, 'mid the timid bold,
          Curves and lines of beauty architects of old
          Drew from his small person, as is often seen,
          Genius giving glory to common things and mean.
           4. Wiseacres in the mid ages
                 Quarrelled and puzzled their mind
               How many stand-points for angels
                 On a pin's point they could find.
               Wiseacres nowadays worry
                 Room for all people to seek
               On the high crest of good fortune,
                 All on the uppermost peak :
               No one will stand any lower,
                 Each must the other surpass :
               Near them mediaeval wiseacre
                 Was not, I think, such an ass !
           5. Rough and dull in earthy nest,
                 Polished into lustre bright,
               Man obeyeth its behest,
                 Its omnipotence of might.
           6. On the mountain's gorge he stood,
               Lavish of heroic blood,
                                                       65—S

868                          ACROSTICS.
                  That his country might not fall
                  Victim of a foreign thrall;
                  Battling on that mountain-side
                  He and his three hundred died.
    7. The moral of fables, the pest of the tropics,
       Where daily its mischiefs are wearisome topics;
       It eats through your timbers, it eats through your boots,
       It bites at your skin and spoils all your good looks.
            With stealthy creep her Anacondic coils
               O'er the wide desert on her prey advance ;
            Amid his hills, rent by intestine broils,
               Her victim feels the fascinating glance,
            As every struggle of dissention draws
            Him to the gullet of those greedy jaws.
              1. Sindbad the Sailor mounted me,
                    And through the sky I bore him ;
                  Aladdin's wife offended me,
                    In rage I nearly tore him.
              2. Sunshine in a shady place,
                    Lions licked her virgin hand.
              3. Trust me, 't was a useless case
                    To attempt it in the Strand.
           4. Rome's famous general, bald before his years ;
               Pelissier's predecessor in Algiers,
               But now degraded to such vulgar spheres,
              You call his name,—a woolly head appears.
           5. He built that window, broad and high,
              Whence stepped a crownless king to die.
         White Lady ! White Lady ! how oft as a child
         I looked for thy shape by the waterfall wild,
         And saw in the foam-sheet the waft of thy dress,
         In the autumn-gold birch-spray the curl of thy tress,
         And heard in the plash of the stream as it fell,
         The murmuring cadence of sorcery's spell.

                            ANSWERS AND SOLUTIONS.                                                         869
                                ANSWERS TO QUESTIONS.
I. Wonderful piece of mechanism—the human body:         Weapons of warfare                Arms.
 A large box                      The chest.            Two lofty trees                   Palms.
 Two fids                         Eyelids.              Fruit of an indigenous plant Hips.
 Two caps                         Knee-caps.            A handsome stag                   Heart (hart).
 Musical instruments              Drums (of ears).      Smaller kind of game              Hair'fhare).
 Weathercocks                     Vanes (veins).        Two places of worship             Temples.
 Three established measures Hand, foot, and nail.       Two students                      Pupils.
 Little articles that carpen                            Half a score of Spanish gen
     ters cannot dispense with Nails.                      tlemen                         Tendons.
 Couple of esteemed fishes... Soles.                    The terror of the slave           Lashes,
 A great number of a smaller                            Two domestic animals              Calves.
     kind                         Muscles (mussels).    Number of negatives               Nose (noes)i
       II. A yard measure.                                  XVI, Socrates — Love — England — Eve— Pe
      III. Star— tars—arts—rats.                                     trarch.
      IV. Well- ling—ton: Wellington.                      XVII. In the year 1702 France was divided,
        V. In-sat-I-ate.                                             liberty set aside, laws turned upside
      VI. Cod—od—Co—O—C—D : Cod-sounds.                              down, monarchy erased, and fire and
     VII. Chocolate.                                                 sword in every quarter.
   VIII. Tea—chest (teachest).                           XVIII. If your grate be (great b) empty, put
      IX. Ear—nest (earnest).                                        coal on (colon); if full, stop (full stop)
        X. Manslaughter (man's laughter).                            fiutting coal on.
      XI. Wonder.                                                     VI L.
     XII. Cares —caress.                                     XX. Mahershalal-hashba2 (Genesis viii. 1, 3)1
   XIII. Hedge—hog (hedgehog).                              XXI. Sec Genesis xli. 45.
    XIV. On 1-on (onion).                                 XXII. Chart— hart—char.
      XV. A hypocrite cheat can best counterfeit,
            So 't is natural to suppose he can best
              count her toes.
                                    ANSWERS TO RIDDLES.
   1.  Because the engine cannot play upon it.            26. Because it 's a notion (an ocean).
   2.  because he has been to see (sea).                 ay.  In the time of Cecrops (sea crops).
   3.  Because they never saw.                            28. I haven't a notion (an ocean).
   4.  O I C U (oh, I see you).                          29.  Because she does not like a doctor's bill thrust
   5.  When he is aboard.                                        in her face.
   6.  Because she never wears it out.                    30. The silkworm.
   7.  He goes into the law to get on ; he remains in    31.  A toast.
          the law to get oner ; he retires from the law   32. Because he gives cuffs right and left to many
          to get oncst.                                          a blue-jacket.
   8.  When he is mustered.                               33. Because it shows its Peak (pique) against all
   9.  Port-you-gal ?                                            England,
 10.   EG and C (/Egean Sea):                             34. Because he is sure to suit (soot) you.
 11.   " Times " newspaper.                              35.  Because of the sand which is (sandwiches)
 12.   Kittens.                                                  there.
 13.   Because the Diet of Worms disagreed with           36. When the bulrush is (bull rushes) out.
          him.                                            37. Because it is listed and trained, has tea drills,
 14.   When he 's a week (weak) back.                            and shoots.
 15.   One is what I was, the other what I wear.          38. Because all the rest are in audible.
 16.   Pork, you pine (porcupine).                        39. Because he has M.P. at the end of his name.
 17.   Short.                                             40. When he is on a lark.
 18.   When its a coach in (Cochin) China.                41. When he presses his suit.
  19.  One is Mayor of Cork, and the other a horse        42. A pig, for it is killed first and cured afterwards.
          of wood.                                        43. Study " Self-help" and '* Smiles."
 20.    Because P makes ass Pass.                         44. Because he is often at the bar.
 21.   When he cuts off his heirs with a shilling.        45. A little Dublin porter.
 22.   A kitten's tail.                                  46.  Because it is uttered, but not allowed (aloud).
  23.   Charles Dickens, because, though Samuel           47. Because there arc fewer of them.
          Warren wrote **Now and Then," Bulwer            48. He is just-ice.
          Lytton " Night and Morning, "yet Charles        49. Because then they are bawled (bald) all about
          Dickens wrote " All the Year Round."                   streets.
 24.   Two calves.                                        50. The elder.
 25.   Because you lick it and place it in the            51. Because her head is on one side, and her tail
          corner.                                                on the other.

870                       ANSWERS AND SOLUTIONS.
 52. Because he is a-sccking (sea-king) what never  xia. Because we cannot be tved without it.
       was.                                         113. Because it is bad in age (badinage).
 53.  Because the hedges are shootings              114. When it is dew (due) in the morning and
 54.  Because it is a hymn (him).                          mist (missed) at night.
 55.  Two shillings and two pence.                  115. Because he is a Jew de spree (Jeu d'esprit).
 56.  Land seer.                                    116. Hope—hop.
 57.  Because it "s the centre (scenter).           1x7. Because she is something to adore (a door).
 58.  One is a foul old wherry, and the other a     1x8. When it is bunged up.
        "wery" old fowl.                            119. Because he has an eye but no head.
 59. XIII. -XMJr-                                   120. A policeman when you want him.
 60. Because it 's oblique (it "s so bleak).        121. A £5 note, because when you put it in your
 61. A cock robbing (Cock Robin).                          pocket you double it, and when you take
 62. When he gets up at eight a (a potato) clock.          it out you find it in creases.
 63. Hailing omnibuses.                             xa*. Because it is a vile inn (violin).
 64. Because they both profess an attachment to     123. Because bad is the best.
        the Crown.                                  124. Because one tongue is enough for any woman.
 65. Larkspur.                                      125. Yew (you).
 66. Douglas was stout and good ; Palmers ton       126. Reindeer (rain, dear).
        had gout and stood.                         127. When she is attached to a big buoy.
 67. Marmalade! (Ma mc laid!)                       128. When she is anchoring (hankering) after a
 68. When it takes a fly.                                  heavy swell.
 60. Cock Robin (robbing).                          129. When she is tender to a man-of-war.
 70. Sunday.                                        130. Because they put out their tubs to catch soft
 71. Buy two pennyworth of medicine and you                water when it rains hard.
        get a vial in.                              131. Because "none but the brave deserve the
 72. Broadwood.                                            fair " (farejt
  73. Bank-notes, and they play for-tunes.          132. Because though any man may have a scruple,
 74. When it is made into little Pats.                     he makes three scruples to a dram.
 75. A chronometer.                                 133. To take the jaw out of a woman.
 76. Invisible green.                               134. Because all the mails (males) are tied up in
 77. Polly Teck.                                           bags.
 78. Because their bills are all over (dew) due.    135. "Youbeblowed!"
 79. XL.                                            136. Because he is an adder.
 80. Because there was a heavy swell on the beach,  137. Because it is out of port.
        and a sandy cove running up the shore.      138. R made her (Armada).
 81. Advice.                                        139. The word " wholesome."
 82. Icicle.                                        140. Because he is sure to be the highest bidder.
 83. Because they are infantry in arms.             141. Because they get good for nothing.
 84. A converted Enfield.                           142. Because it is making; game of him.
 85. Because they are fed on commons, are cram-     143. Because he makes his customers (steel) steal
        med and stuffed, and when plucked are              pens, and then persuades them that they do>
        regularly sold.                                    (write) right.
 86. Life : because we must all give it up.         144.  When    he is turned into a meadow.
 87. When he's bit two men (bitumen).               145. It is a fellow feeling for a fellow creature.
 88. D K.                                           146.  Because   they are "Heigh-ohs I " (high hoseX
 89. Kids.                                          147. When he doubles his fists.
 90. Absence of body.                               148"  Because    his gait is broken and his locks arc
 91. Where the landlord collects rents.                    few.
 92. Each possesses a merry thought.                149.  Because    it is ten to one if you catch it.
 93. Facetiously.                                   150. Because it makes men mean.
 94. Because it 's the grub that makes the butter   151.  Making    the   waistcoat and trousers first
       By.                                          15*- Because he gets hire (higher) daily.
 95. Ashes.                                         153-  When    he  cannot   help it.
 06. The letter M.                                  154- A step farther (step-father).
 97. The soul.                                      i55-  Because    his  master  pays it for him.
 98. A draught (draft).                             156. When he says he 's a backer-stopper (ease
 09. A glove.                                              her I back her : stop her !)
100. When he 's her suitor (hirsuter).              157- When you take a fly.
iot. Because it makes oats goats.                   158- When she is in earnest (her nest).
102. When he is a-gobbling.                         159. Because he kneads (needs) the most.
103. A bald head.                                   x6o. Because it makes needles needless.
104. Because it is the centre of light.             161. For divers reasons.
105. The medlar.                                    162. Because all the water is " i'eatt."
106. The rattlesnake.                               163. One gives milk and the other gives whey
107. Dclos and Samos.                                       (way).
108. One flees for shelter and the other isashelter 164. A Y Z (a wise head).
       for fleas                                    165.  When    he looks round.
109. The wind : he whistled " over the hills and    166. Because a B (bee) follows it.
       faraway."                                    167. A cowslip.
no. When he is a-shaving.                           168. Wet.
hi. Because they develop the muscles (mussels).     1 69. Because he is a Miolder.

                          ANSWERS AND SOLUTIONS.                                               871
170. When we see rain, dear.                     190. A, for it makes her hear.
171. The Isle of Skye.                           i9r. Because she is infirm (in firm).
172. Because it makes a sty nasty.               292. Because it is flourished over the ham.
173. Because all the boxes arc in tiers (tears). 193. When long experience has made him sage.
174. Because it is not a sole, dear !            194. Because there is no living without them.
175. Mousseline de Laine.                        105. Because they 're pa steals (pastilles).
176. Because he is a thin king (thinking).       196. When it is all on one side.
177. Because it 's a tissue (at issue).          197. Because the cat 'II (cattle) eat it.
178. Because it is a (k)nightly occupation.      198. Because he is one beside himself.
179. Because it attacks the joints.              199. Because they ought to be promptly carried
180. Because it runs into Oxon and Herts.              out.
181. Because they generally ride on the main.    200. Because he is often looked over.
182. Because he would ring his own Nell (knelt). 201. She goes to bed a laundress and gets up fine
183. When he is in quarters.                           linen.
184. When Henry VIII. dissolved the Pope's       202. A mouse.
      bull.                                      203. The Isle of Wight.
185. Because he drives people to the Union.      204. When it 's a surgeon (a-surging) on the shore.
186. Dwarfs.                                     205. Because lie must have had zjur tile imagi
187. Because he is wet and hairy (veterinary).         nation.
188. Because they are too sordid (two sworded).  206. Because he came in asbestos (as best hossX
189. When he has his pianoforte (piano for tea). 207. Because they came with a " tir" in their eye.
                               ANSWERS TO ACROSTICS.
                                                                          Iv.
       GARIBALDI- CHASSEPOT.
                                                             TORTOLA—TEM PEST.
           1.    G      aeli     C
           2.    A utograp H                                  1.     T    afila    T
           3.    R      am       A                                   O     zon     E
           4-    I     cani      S                                   K             M
           S. B          os      S
                                                                     T             P
          6.     A        1      E
           7-    L      am       P                                   0             E
           8.    D       od      O
                 I ndolen T
                                                                     L   conida S
           9-
                                                                     A             T
                        Ii.
               GOLD—GOOD.
           1.    G        0      r.                                        v.
           2.    O     rino      0
           3.    L      ass      O                                RUSSIA-CACOOL.
           4-    D iamon D
                                                               I.    R       0     C
                       in.                                    2.     U       n     A
               POPE—ROME.                                            S     cru     I!
                                                              3-
            1.    P risone R                                         S     cipi    O
           2.     O      th      O                            4-
                  P      oe     M                             5-     I     nig     O
           3.
           4-    E       yr      E                            6.     A    vene     L

                       ^mhrikquism anir ||oI«p^onn.
                                What is Ventriloquism.
   Before we initiate the reader into the precise and minute instructions which
he will have to study and practise ere he can become the possessor of the
coveted art, it will be necessary to inform him what Ventriloquism* is, and
in what it consists. In doing so, we shall endeavour to. be as plain and clear
as possible. Ventriloquism may be divided into two sections, or general
heads, the first of which may be appropriately designated as " Polyphonism,"
and consists of the simple imitation of the voices of human creatures, of
animals, of musical instruments, and sounds and noises of every description
in which no illusion is intended, but where, on the contrary, the imitation is
avowedly executed by the mimic, amongst which we may classify sawing,
planing, door-creaking, sounds of musical instruments, and other similar
imitations.
   Secondly, we have ventriloquism proper, which consists in the imitation of
such voices, sounds, and noises, not as originating in him, but in some other
appropriate source at a given or varying distance, in any or even in several
directions, either singly or together-— a process exciting both wonder and
amusement, and which may be accomplished by thousands who have hitherto
viewed the ventriloquist as invested with a power wholly denied by nature to
themselves. It is needless to observe, that when the imitations are effected
without a movement of mouth, features, or body, the astonishment of the
audience is considerably enhanced.
   The terms Polyphony, Mimicry, or Imitation, are employed to designate
results obtained in reference to the first division of the subject, where no
illusion is intended ; while the term Ventriloquism distinguishes those under
the second division, where an illusion is palpably produced. The first is much
more common than the latter ; indeed, there is scarcely a public school which
does not possess at least one boy capable of imitating the mewing of a cat,
the barking of a dog, or the squeaking voice of an old woman. On the other
hand, from a want of the knowledge of how to proceed, it is very seldom that
 even a blundering attempt at ventriloquism is heard, except from a public
platform.
   The art does not depend on a particular structure or organization, but may
 he acquired by almost any one ardently desirous of attaining it, and determined
to persevere in repeated trials.
   The judgments we form concerning the situation and distance of bodies, by
means of the senses mutually assisting and correcting each other, seem to be
         • Literally signifying belly.speaking, from venter, the belly, and loquor, I speak.

                            VENTRIL OQ UISM.                                 873
entirely founded on experience ; and we pass from the sign to the thing signi
fied by it immediately, or at least without any intermediate steps perceptible
to ourselves.
   Hence it follows that if a man, though in the same room with another, can
by any peculiar modifications of the organs of speech produce a sound which,
in faintness, tone, body, and every other sensible quality, perfectly resembles
a sound delivered from the roof of an opposite house, the ear will naturally,
without examination, refer it to that situation and distance ; the sound which
he hears being only a sign, which from infancy he has been accustomed, by
experience, to associate with the idea of a person speaking from a house-top.
A deception of this kind is practised with success on the organ and other
musical instruments.
   It is the business of the ventriloquist to amuse his admirers with tricks
resembling the foregoing delusion ; and it will be readily granted that he has
a subtle sense, highly corrected by experience, to manage, on which account
the judgment must be cheated as well as the ear.
   This can only be accomplished by making the pulses, constituting his
words, strike the heads of his hearers not in the right lines that join their
persons and his. He must, therefore, know how to disguise the true direction
of his voice, because the artifice will give him an opportunity to substitute
almost any echo he chooses in the place of it. But the superior part of the
human body has been already proved to form an extensive seat of sound, from
every point of which the pulses are repelled as if they diverged from a common
centre. This is the reason why people, who speak in the usual way, cannot
conceal the direction of their voices, which in realityfly off towards all points
at the same instant. The ventriloquist, therefore, by some means or other,
acquires the difficult habit of contracting the field of sound within the compass
of his lips, which enables him to confine the real path of his voice to narrow
limits. For he who is master of his art has nothing to do but to place his
mouth obliquely to the company, and to dart his words out of his mouth—if
the expression may be used—whence they will then strike the ears of the
audience as that from an unexpected quarter. Nature seems to fix no bounds
to this kind of deception, only care must be taken not to let the path of the
direct pulses pass too near the head of the person who is played upon, lest
the divergency of the pulses make him perceive the voice itself.
                      The Theory of Ventriloquism.
   Many physiologists aver that ventriloquism is obtained by speaking during
the inspiration of air. It is quite possible to articulate under these circum
stances, and the plan may with advantage be occasionally adopted*; but our
own practical experience and close observation of many public performers,
and of not a few private friends who have attained distinctness and no small
amount of facility in the art, convince us that the general current of utterance
is, as in ordinary speech, during expiration of the breath. Some imagine that
the means of procuring the required imitation are comprised in a thorough
management of the echoes of sound. Unfortunately, however, for this theory,
an echo only repeats what has been already brought into existence. Several
eminent ventriloquists, including the late Mr. Mathews, have displayed the
vocal illusion while walking in the streets. Baron Mengen describes as follows
his mode of speaking when he desired the illusion to take the direction of a

874                          VENTRILOQUISM.
voice emanating from a doll : " I press my tongue against the teeth, and thus
circumscribe a cavity between my left cheek and teeth, in which the voice is
produced by the air held in reserve in the pharynx. The sounds thus receive
a hollow and muffled tone, which causes them to appear to come from a
distance." The Baron furthermore mentions that it is essential to have the
breath well under control, and not to respire more than can be avoided.
   A person having an ear acutely perceptive to the nice distinctions of sounds,
may, by a little practice, imitate many sounds with accuracy. Those persons,
however, who are highly endowed with the mental requisites, which consist
of an intense desire to mimic, coupled with the ability to originate mimetic
ideas, are able to imitate sounds at first hearing.
   We next proceed to treat of those illusions, where the voice so perfectly
counterfeits the reality intended, that it appears not to issue from the mimic,
but from an appropriate source, in whatever direction and at whatever distance
the source may be. We do not hear the distance which a sound has travelled
from its source, but we judge the distance from our former experience, by
comparing the loudness which we hear with the known distance and known
loudness of similar sounds heard on former occasions. Common experience
will prove that we oftener err in estimating the distance of uncommon than
 of familiar sounds. In apology for such an error, the ordinary language is,
 " It seemed too loud to come so far," or " It seemed too near to be so faint
a sound," as the case may be,—both of which are apologies for an erroneous
judgment, and not for faulty hearing. Near sounds are louder than distant
ones. Now, by preserving the same pitch, quality, and duration, but with
an accurately graduated reductiou of loudness, a series forming a perspective
of sounds may be created, which, falling in succession on the ear, will suggest
to the mind a constantly increasing distance of the sound's source. The
estimate, then, which is formed of the distance which a sound has travelled
 before reaching the ear is a judgment of the mind formed by comparing a
present perception (by hearing) with the remembrance of a former leucines
in connexion with its known distance. With regard to direction, it is observed,
" The direction whence a sound comes seems to be judged of by the right or
left ear receiving the stronger impression, which, however, can only take place
when the sound's source is in a plane, or nearly so, with a line passing through
both ears. It is familiarly known that a person in a house cannot by the
noise of an approaching carriage judge with certainty whether it is coming
from the right or left. He accurately judges it to be approaching, passing,
or receding, as the case may be, by the gradations of loudness, but is unable
to decide with certainty whether its approach or recession is from up or down
the street. Enough has been stated to show that we do not hear, but that we
judge th^direclion a sound has travelled from its source on reaching the
ear" The ventriloquist indicates, either directly or indirectly, the direction
from which he wishes his audience to believe the sound is coming. Thus he
directly indicates it by words, such as, " Are you up there ? " " He is up the
chimney," " He is in the cellar," "Are you down there ? " &c, as illustrated in
the various examples. He indirectly indicates it by some suggestive circum
stance, as an action or gesture, which is so skilfully unobtrusive and natural
as to effect its object without being discovered. Thus, when the ventriloquist
looks or listens in any direction, or even simply turns towards any point, as
if he expected sound to come thence, the attention of an audience is by that
means instantly directed also to the same place. Thus, before a sound is pro

                              VENTRILOQUISM.                                 875
 duced, the audience expect it to come in the suggested direction; and the
 ventriloquist has merely, by his adjustment of vocal loudness, to indicate the
 necessary distance, when a misjud^ment of the audience will complete the
 illusion which he has begun.
    The effect which is produced on sound by its travelling from a distance is
 observed to be :
    1. That its loudness is reduced in proportion to its distance.
    2. That its pitch remains unaltered.
    3. That its quality or tone is somewhat altered.
    4. That its duration remains unaltered.
    5. That the human speech is somewhat obscured, chiefly in the consonant
 sounds.
    It must be remembered that the ventriloquist makes the sound, not as it is
 heard at its source, but as it is heard after travellingfrom a distance.
                      Practical Illustrations.
                                       No. I.
                           THE VOICE IN THE CLOSET.
    This is the voice in which Mr. Frederic Maccabe, the celebrated mimic and
 ventriloquist, excels ; and the clever manner in which he can adopt it off-hand,
as it were, will be best illustrated by the fact mentioned to us by a gentle
 man (whom we will call Mr. B.), in Mr. Maccabe's presence. Mr. B., who
was an invalid, suffering from some nervous disorder, originating from over
 work and anxiety, was travelling in Ireland in search of health, and when
on his way from Dublin to Cork, he lay exhausted in a comer of the railway-
carriage, muffled up in cloaks and wrappers in a paroxysm of pain. At Mallow,
two gentlemen entered the carriage, one of whom was in exuberant spirits, and
commenced telling some amusing anecdotes. At length the porter came to col
lect the tickets. They were all handed in but one, when the following colloquy
ensued :
   Porter. A gentleman hasn't given me his ticket.
    Gentleman. Bill, in the next compartment, has the ticket {tapping at the
partition). Haven't you, Bill?
   The imaginary Bill, who appeared to be suffering from a severe cold, replied
that he had, and the porter would not take it. The official went off to find
the ticket, but Bill, in the meantime, had vanished. Back came the porter,
and indignantly demanded the ticket. He was interrupted by a shrill voice
in the opposite compartment, crying, " Porter ! porter ! why don't you come
and take the ticket ? there 's some one insulting me ! " Away went thochivalric
porter, to come back puzzled and chafed to receive the ticket, which was handed
to him. His hand had not reached the coveted piece of pasteboard, ere the
yell of a terrier under the wheels caused the porter to draw back, amid bursts
of laughter, during which the ticket was thrown out, and the train moved on.
And Mr. Frederic Maccabe stood confessed, but not penitent.
   VOICE No. I .—To acquire this voice, which wc so name for distinction's sake,
speak any word or sentence in your own natural tones ; then open the mouth
andyfcr thejaws fast, as though you were trying to hinder any one from opening
them farther or shutting them; draw the tongue back in a ball; speak the same
words, and the sound, instead of being formed in the mouth, will be formed in

876                          VENTRILOQUISM.
the pharynx. Great attention must be paid to holding the jaws rigid. The
sound will then be found to imitate a voice heard from the other side of a door
when it is closed, or under a floor, or through a wall. To ventriloquize with
this voice, let the operator stand with his back to the audience against a door.
Give a gentle tap at the door, and call aloud in the natural voice, inquiring,
" Who is there ? " This will have the effect of drawing the attention of the
audience to a person supposed to be outside. Then fix the jaw as described,
and utter in voice No. I any words you please, such as " I want to come in."
Ask questions in the natural voice and answer in the other. When you have
done this, open the door a little, and hold a conversation with the imaginary
person. As the door is now open, it is obvious that the voice must be altered,
for the voice will not sound to the ear when a door is open the same as when
closed ; therefore the voice must be made to appear face to face, or close to
the ventriloquist. To do this, the voice must not be altered from the original
note or pitch, but be made in another part of the mouth. This is done by
closing the lips tight, and drawing one corner of the mouth downwards, or
towards the ear. Then let the lips open at that corner only, the other part to
remain closed. Next breathe, as it were, the words out of the orifice formed.
Do not speak distinctly, but expel the breath in short puffs at each word, and
as loud as possible. By so doing, you will cause the illusion in the minds of
the listeners that they hear the same voice which they heard when the door
was closed, but which is now heard more distinctly and nearer on account of
the door being open. This voice must always be used when the ventriloquist
wishes it to appear that the sound comes through an obstacle, but from some
one close at hand. The description of voice and dialogue may be varied as
in the following example :
   Ex. 1. The Suffocated Victim.—This was a favourite illustration of Mr.
Love, the polyphonist. A large box or closed cupboard is used indiscrimi
nately, as it may be handy. The student will rap or kick the box, apparently
by accident. The voice will then utter a hoarse and subdued groan, apparendy
from the box or closet.
  Student {pointing to the box with an air of astonishment). What was that?
   Voice. Oh ! let me out.
  Student. Why, there is some one here, I declare. {To box) Who is it ?
   Voice. I won't do so any more. I am nearly dead.
  Student. Who are you ? How came you there ?
   Voice. I only wanted to see what was going on. Let me out, do.
  Student. But I don't know who you are.
   Voice. Oh, yes, you do.
  Student. Who are you ?
   Voice. Your old schoolfellow, Tom         . You know me.
  Student. Why, he 's in Canada.
   Voice (sharply). No, he ain't, he's here; but be quick.
  Student {opening the lid). Perhaps he's come by the underground railroad.
Hallo!
   Voice {not so muffled as described in direction). Now, then, give us a hand.
  Student {closing the lid or door sharply). No, I won't.
   Voice {as before). Have pity (Tom, or Jack, or Mr.      , as the case may be),
or I shall be choked.
  Student. I don't believe you are what you say.
   Voice. Why don't you let me out and see before I am dead ?

                             VENTRILOQUISM.                                  877
  Student (opening and shutting the lid or door, and varying the voice ac
cordingly). Dead ; not you ! When did you leave Canada ?
   Voice. Last week. Oh, I am choking !
  Student. Shall I let him out ? (Opening the door) There 's no one here.
  2. The Milkman at the Door.— This affords a capital opportunity of
introducing a beggar, watercress or milkman, and may be varied accordingly.
We will take Skyblue, the milkman ; and we would impress on the student
mat, although we give these simple dialogues, they are merely intended as
illustrations for the modest tyro, not to be implicitly followed when greater
confidence and proficiency are attained
   Voice. Milk below !
  Student. Is it not provoking that the milkman always comes when he is
not wanted, and is absent when we are waiting for the cream ?
   Voice (whistling a bar of" Polly Perkins ").
   Student. Oh, yes, always the broken-hearted milkman ; as if he was not as
happy as a king.
   Voice (nearer). Milk below ! Why, Sally, where 's the can ?
   Student. Sally will be long in answering, I think.
   Voice. Sally's gadding with the police. Milk below !
  Student (slightly opening the door). We don't want any milk, my good man.
   Voice. No skim milk for the cat, or cream for tea?
   Another Voice. Watercresses !
   Student. Really this is intolerable. Go away.
   Voice. You owe me threepence for last week's milk. I was to wait.
   Student. This is intolerable ; I '11 send for the police.
    Voice (ironically). Send for Sally and p'lice ; I '11 foller.
   Student. Impudent rascal!
   Voice. Keep your compliments at home, Master Idlebones.
   Student (opening the door). I '11 report you to your master.
    Voice (louder as the door is opened). Will you, young whipper-snapper, pay
us the thruppence, and let us go ?
   Student offers to pay, while the voice gets weaker in the distance with
" milk below ! " until it becomes inaudible.
   A conversation may be held in a similar strain with the cellarman; and, as
a rule, the lower notes of the voice will be best for voices in the basement, and
formed as low in the chest as possible.
   Student. Thomas, are you coming ?
    Voice below (gruffly). I should think I was.
   Student. We are waiting for the beer.
    Voice (partly aside). The longer you wait, the greater our honour. Mary,
have another drop ?
   Student. Why, the scamp is drinking the beer ! Thomas, who 's there with
you ?
    Voice. Myself! (Aside) Make haste with the pot, Mary; he's in such a
hurry !
   Student. You drinking rascal ! how dare you ?
    Voice. Coming, sir. The barrel 's nearly empty.
   Student. I should think so, tippling as you are at it.
    Voice. Now, don't be saucy.
   Student. The fellow 's getting intoxicated. Thomas !
    Voice. Wait till I come. I have waited for you many times.

 878                                   VENTRILOQUISM.
    Student. I suppose it is of no use hurrying you ?
    Voice. No, it isn't, my young tippler. I'm COMING! coming!! coming!!!
    From this illustration the student may proceed to try the second voice.
                                                 NO. II.
    VOICE No. 2.—This is the more easy to be acquired. It is the voice by
 which all ventriloquists make a supposed person speak from a long distance,
 or from or through the ceiling. In the first place, with your back to the
 audience, direct their attention to the ceiling by pointing to it, or by looking
 intently at it. Call loudly, and ask some question, as though you believed a
 person to be concealed there. Make your own voice very distinct, and as
 near the lips as possible, inasmuch as that will help the illusion. Then in ex
 actly the same tone and pitch answer ; but, in order that the voice may seem
 to proceedfrom the point indicated, the words must be formed at the back part
 of the roof of the mouth. To do this, the lower jaw must be drawn back and
 held there, the mouth open, which will cause the palate to be elevated and
 drawn nearer to the pharynx, and the sound will be reflected in that cavity,
 and appear to come from the roof. Too much attention cannot be paid to the
 manner in which the breath is used in this voice. When speaking to the
 supposed person, expel the words with a deep, quick breath. When answering
 in the imitative voice, the breath must be held back, and expelled very slowly,
 and the voice will come in a subdued and muffled manner, little above a whisper,
 but so as to be well distinguished. To cause the supposed voice to come nearer
 by degrees, call loudly, and say, " I want you down here," or words to that
effect. At the same time make a motion downwards with your hand. Hold
 some conversation with the voice, and cause it to say, " I am coming," or.
 " Here I am," each time indicating the descent with the hand. {See examples.)
When the voice is supposed to approach nearer, the sound must alter, to de
note the progress of the movement. Therefore let the voice, at every supposed
 step, roll, as it were, by degrees, from the pharynx more into the cavity of the
mouth, and at each supposed step contracting the opening of the mouth, until
the lips are drawn up as if you were whistling. By so doing, the cavity of the
mouth will be very much enlarged. This will cause the voice to be obscured,
and so appear to come nearer by degrees. At the same time, care must be
 taken not to articulate the consonant sounds plainly, as that will cause the
disarrangement of the lips and cavity of the mouth ; and in all imitation voices
the consonants must scarcely be articulated at all, especially ifthe ventriloquist
faces the audience. For example : suppose the imitative voice is made to say,
 "Mind what you are doing, you bad boy," it must be spoken as if it were
written, '"ind ot you 're doing, you 'ad whoy."* This kind of articulation may
be practised by forming the words in the pharynx, and then sending them out
of the mouth by sudden expulsions of the breath clean from the lungs at every
word. This is most useful in ventriloquism, and to illustrate it, we will take
the man on the roof as an illustration. This is an example almost invariably
successful, and is constantly used by skilled professors of the art. As we have
before repeatedly intimated, the eyes and attention of the audience must be
  • It is very rarely that a ventriloquist shows a full face to his audience ; it is only clone when he is ax
a great distance from them, and is pronouncing the labial sounds in the manner given, for any i
incut of the jaws would help to destroy the illusion.

                                VENTRIL OQ UISM.                           879
directed to the supposed spot from whence the illusive voice is supposed to
proceed.
   Student. Are you up there, Jem ?
    Voice. Hallo ! who Js that ?
   Student. It's me. Are you nearly finished?
    Voice. Only three more slates to put on, master.
   Student. I want you here, Jem.
    Voice. I am coming directly.
   Student. Which way, Jem ?
    Voice. Over the roof and down the trap. (Voice is supposed to be moving
as the student turns and points with his finger.)
   Student. Which way ?
    Voice {nearer). Through the trap and down the stairs.
   Student. How long shall you be?
    Voice. Only a few minutes. I am coming as fast as I can.
   The voice now approaches the door, and is taken up by the same tone, but
produced as in the first voice. As another illustration, we will introduce the
reader to                                                      «
    The Invisible Sweep.—This is a striking example of the second voice.
Let the student pretend to look up the chimney, and rehearse the following
or some similar colloquy :
    Student. Are you up there ?
    Voice. Yes. Chimley want sweep .
    Student. Really, it is extraordinary ! What are you aoing ?
     Voice. Looking for birds' nests.
    Student. Birds' nests ! There are none there.
     Voice. Dick says there be.
    Student. Come down !
     Voice. I shan't.
    Student {stirring thefire). I 'll make you show yourself.
     Voice. I say, don't ; it 's so hot.
    Student. Come down, then.
     Voice. Don't be so stupid. Let I alone.
    Student. Will you come down ?
     Voice. Yes, I will.
    Student. What 's your name ?
     Voice {much nearer). Sam Lillyvite. I say, what do you want me for among
 company ?
    Student. To show yourself.
     Voice {nearer). What for ?
    Student. To let these ladies and gentlemen see that there are many strange
 things between heaven and earth, but not Sam Lillyvite, the sweep.
    Another good illustration is to hold a conversation with a friend who lives
 on the first floor, and with whom you can converse on any subject—as the
  retired and mysterious students but the moment the student can master the
 riementary sounds, he will not need our assistance in providing him with
 dialogues, which, however simple they may be to read, have an extraordinary
 effect when properly spoken. In sundry books wherein ventriloquism is men
 tioned, the voice of the ventriloquist is described as being "thrown into" the
 spot whence it appears to proceed. This, however, is a total mistake, and,
 unless the ventriloquist keeps himself between the voice and the audience,
 the latter will not be deceived.

880                            VENTRILOQUISM.
                             Polyphonic Imitations.
   The TorMENTING Bee.—It is related that Mr. Love, when young, took
great delight in imitating the buzzing of insects and the cries of animals;
indeed, it is difficult to decide whether he or Mr. Thurton most excelled in
this particular species of mimetic illusion. In all imitations of such noises,
the bee should be heard to hum gently at first, so as in a private party not
likely to attract attention till the right pitch is obtained ; and be it remembered
that the sound, without being particularly loud, can be made to penetrate every
corner of a large room. The illusion is greatly increased by pretending to
tatch the offending and intrusive insect. The humble-bee, the wasp, and the
blue-bottle fly are best to imitate, and afford an agreeable relief to the other
exercises of ventriloquial power. To imitate the tormenting bee, the student
must use considerable pressure on his chest, as if he was about to groan sud
denly, but instead of which, the sound must be confined and prolonged in the
throat ; the greater the pressure, the higher will be the faint note produced,
and which will perfectly resemble the buzzing of the bee or wasp.
   Now, to imitate the buzzing of a blue-bottle fly, it will be necessary for the
sound to be made with the lips instead of the throat : this is done by closing
the lips very tight, except at one corner, where a small aperture is left ; fill that
cheek full of wind, but not the other, then slowly blow or force the wind con
tained in the cheek out of the aperture : if this is done properly, it will cause
a sound exactly like the buzzing of a blue-bottle fly. In these two instances
it will show how necessary it is for the ventriloquist to study minutely the
different effect of sounds upon his hearers in all his exploits. And to make
the above properly effective, he should turn his face to a wall ; with a hand
kerchief strike at the pretended bee or fly, at the same time pretend to follow
his victim first this way and then that, and finally to " dab " his pocket-hand
kerchief on the wall as though he had killed it. The sound should be at times
suddenly louder and then softer, which will make it appear as if it is heard in
different parts of the room.
   The Spectre Carpenter. — The noise caused by planing and sawing
wood can also be imitated, and causes a great deal of amusement without
much difficulty. The student must, however, bear in mind that every action
must be imitated as well as the noise, for the eye assists to delude the ear.
VVc have seen ventriloquists carry this eye-deception so far as to have a few
shavings to scatter as they proceed, and a piece of wood to fall when the
sawing is ended. To imitate planing, the student must stand at a table a little
distance from the audience, and appear to take hold of a plane and push it
forward. The sound as of a plane is made as though you were dwelling on the
last part of the word hush—dwell upon the sh a little, as tsh, and then clip it
short by causing the tongue to close with the palate, then over again. Letters
will not convey the peculiar sound of sawing— it must be studied from nature.

                               INDEX.
            OUTDOOR GAMES.                       OUTDOOR GAMES—continued.
                                  Page                                    Pag*
American Bowls                       6;   Javelin                            49
Aunt Sally                           35   Jmgling                              7
Base Ball                  .*.       68   King of the Castle                 17
Baste the Bear                       11   Kites                              44
Battledore and Shuttlecock           33   Knights                  _          12
Blackthorn                      *      4  Knock-'em-downs                     36
Bowls                                62   Knurr and Spell                     39
Boomerang                            50   La Crosse          •                74
Lawn Tennis                           18  Lawn Billiards                      64
Catapult          .<U+2666>                  53  Leap-frog                           15
Cleft Stick                           54  Les Graces                          73
Coasting or Sledging                  40   Mount Horse                        18
Cock-fighting                         13  Ninepins                            60
Cricket                             120    Nine holes                         32
Croquet                              91    Pea-shooter                        52
Cross-bow                             55   Pitch Stone                        30
Cross Tig                             12   Prisoner's Base                     3
Curling                               71   Quoits                             57
Dicky, show a Light                   10   Rackets                            ao
Dog-stick and Splcnt                  72   Rounders                           26
Duck and Drake                        57   Skittles                           59
Duck Stone                            31   Sling                              48
Dutch Pins                            60   Sling the Monkey                    9
Fives                                 18   Snowballs                          37
 Fly the Garter                       16   Snow Castle                        37
 Follow my Leader                       4  Snow Giant                         40
Football                            112    Spanish Fly                        16
Fox                                   10   Throwing the Cricket Ball          55
 French and English                   14   Throwing the Hammer                56
Golf                                  66   Tierce                              8
 Hare and Hounds                        1  Tig                                "
Hockey                                23   Tig Touch-wood                     12
Hop-scotch                             32  Tip-cat                   ,        3>
Hoops                                 42   Trap-ball                          28
I spy                                   5  Warning                        •. . 6
                                                                       68
                                                                             •A

   882                               INDEX.
               INDOOR GAMES.                 . EVENING. PARLOUS GAMES-
                                     Page                   *      continutd.            P-.^e
   Bagatelle         *.                 182   Twirl th^Trencfier                            184
  Bandilore                 '.,..'      176   What is^ny thought like?                   .* 203
  Cannonade,                            169
  Cockamaroo                            171             ACTING CHARADES.
  Cupolette             „               177
  Cup and Ball                          174   Conflagration                                 227
  Dutch Rackets                         180   Puss in Boots                                 209
  Flying Cone                           175
  German Balls                          172          ATHLETIC SPORTS AND
  German Milliards                 -    17a             ACCOMPLISHMENTS.
  Jack's alive                          168
                                             Arehery                                        390
  Lawn Cupolette                        178
                                              Driving                                       287
  Marbles, Games with                   151
                                              Fencing     *....*.                           302
  Navette                               171
                                             Gymnastics                                     245
  Parlour Ringolctte                    178
                                             Pcdestrianism and Training                     377
  Puff and Dart                        164
                                             Riding                                         271
. Revolving Ring                       174
                                             River-Boating                            -.. 321
  Ring the Bull                        167
                                             Sailing                                  M 337
  Royal Star                           174
                                             Skating                                       37a
  Schimmel                             179
                                             Sliding                                       376
  Skittle Cannonade                '   173
                                             Swimming                                      354
  Spillikins                           183          r t
  Sqnails                              181
  Sucker                  m            180          THE YOUNG WORKMAN.
 Tops, Games with                      159   Carpentering                                  3S7
 Watch-spring Gun                      166   Gardening                      ft.            451
 Water-cutter                          177   How to make a Pump                            42S
                                             How to make a Steam-Engine            -       411
     EVENING PARLOUR GAMES.                  How to make a Water-Engine         «.»..... 432
                                             Knots and Splices                  ~          445
 Adjectives                           200    Ship-building and Rigging                     434
 Blind Man's Buff                     186   Traps                                          458
 Consequences                         199   Turning                                        395
 Crambo                               200
 Decapitation                         198
                                                                  SPORTS.
 Definitions                          201
 Forfeits                             207   Fishing                                       468
 Fright                               193   Sea Fishing                                   495
 German Dwarf                         194   Shooting                                      498
 Giant                                196
 Head, Body and Legs                  197                     HOME PETS.
 How do you like it?                  202
 Hunt the Slipper                     186   Amandava                                      538
 Knight of the Whistle                189   Blackbird                                     535
 Magic Music                          191   Bullfinch                                 « 53a
Mesmerism                             205   Buntings                                      537
Old Family Coach                      184   Canary                                        527
Presented at Court                    190   Cockatoos                                     547
Proverbs                              204   Ferret                                        569
Puss in the Corner..!                 185   Finches generally                             533
Shadow Buff.                          192   Goldfinch                                     53s
 Simonsays                            188   Grosbeaks                                —. 537

                                                  WDE&.                                           883
             HOME VISES—continued.                                     SCIENCE—continued.
                                                  Page                                            Page
   Guinea Pig ..,.    ¦'                                  Botany                          ¦¦        701
   Hares                 ™—                         566   Chemistry         -..,                    581
   Hedgehogs .                                ...:. 567   Electricity              '.               641
   Jackdaw ...                                — sv        Ferns                                     7»7
                                                                                                    635
                                                    544   Hydraulics
   J>y
                                                    535   Mechanics                    *••          6-7
   Larks
                                                    534   Microscope                                690
   Linnets                     /
   Lories                   i>                      548   Optics         y                          599
   Macaws                      y                          Sun-Dials                                 6*7
  Magpie
  Mice
                         -m                       .1. 3
                                                    567
                                                          Weather wisdom                            684
   Nightingale                                      538
   Parrakects                                       550                        AETS.
   Parrots .-                    <U+2666>¦....J...I        548
                                                          Perspective and Sketching                 746
  Pigeons and Doves              *              *¦ 551    Philately or Postage-stamp Collecting     766
  Rabbits                                      ¦»• 561    Photography                    ¦<U+2666>¦        75*
  Raven                                             54a   Surveying      .,                     •   74°
  Redbreast                                         54'
  Squirrels                         ¦-•             5*3
 Starling ...                        "¦             545
                                                                    GAMES OP SKILL, &o.
 Thrushes .                              y          534
 Tits                                                    Acrostics                                 865
                                             r-«53°       Answers and Solutions                    869
 Titlarks                                           537
Tortoise                                            5*9  Chess                   v                 789
 Warblers generally*.                               540   Conjuring                                 828
Wrens                                               54*   Dominoes                                 818
                                                         Draughts                                   805
                PISCTCTJI/TUEE.                           Fox and Geese                             827
                    «                                    Nine Mens* Morris or Morellcs             812
Fish-hatching ,                                     575
                                                         Puzzles                                   851
                                                          Questions and Conundrums.                856
                    SCIENCE.                             Riddles                                   860
Acoustics                                           609   Solitaire                                 827
Astronomy                                           670   Ventriloquism                            872
                                   LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS.
         Adams, H. C                         Hancock, H. J. B.                   Rowsell. F. W.
         Aveling, &                          Hardy, J.                           Russell, F.
         Butler, A.                          Heaton, C.          V               Rylev, E. C.
         Cheerill, N. K.                     Jellie, J. S.                       Spencer, C
         Cooks, W.                           Mudie, H.                           Westhall, C
         Drayson, Col., R.A.                 Ogilvy, Mrs.                        Wood, F.
         Griffiths, T.                       Preece, G. E.                       Wood, Rev. J. G.
                                             Robinson, M. H. •
                                            v§mm&@£&Q<2

                                  •      *                              ¦                               a * ,
                                                                                                         I
                FREDERICK JVARtfE AND CO., PUBLISHERS,
      •                               '          *                              » . '
                                                                     *
                   " One of the best books of recreation we have seen."— 7"ftr Guardian,
                       In trown 8vo., pric* 7*. 6d., ctofh gilt and gilt edges.
        THE HOMl BOOK
          An Original Work, -with Tiao itundred and Fifty Choice Illustrations.
                              Edited by Mrs. R. VALENTINE,
                   Editor of the " Girl's Own Book," " Aunt Louies ^,uV Book," &c
  With Original Contributions by the Author of " "Hie Heir of Redclyffe," Miss Dyson,
            Mrs. (Jgilvy, Miss Stephens, Albert Warren, Henry Warren,
                                     "Edward Dalziel, &c, &c.
     This volume aims tp'be a Standard Book for Play, Wofk, Art, Duty—Games for
  Play-hours, Work for Leisure in the Home Circle, Art fcr the cultivation of Taste, and
  Duty to ensure Home Happiness.
     " No pains have been spared to make this a complete repertoire of ' home ' amusements and educa
  tional appliances. The book consists of nearly 600 pages of closely-printed matter, with numerous
  engravings, and it will be long before it is superseded by a worthier rival."—Nonconformist.
                      In large crown 8vo., price oj., cloth gilt and gilt edges.
. CYCLOPEDIC SCIENCE SIMPLIFIED.
                                         By J. H. PEPPER,
         ¦ Professor of Chemistry, and Honorary Director of the Royal Polytechnic Institution.
•     Embracing Light, Heat, Electricity, Magnetism, Pneumatics,
                                   Acoustics, and Chemistry.
                                    With Six Hundred Illustrations.
                                             .'
     "A more suitable book for the library of an industrious and intelligent lad we have never seen."—
  Mining Journal.
     " It is excellently well adapted to excite popular interest from the author's great experience as a
  popular lecturer."—Builder.
   ._ It is impossible to afford the space to do the author justice by such extracts from his work as would
  give our readers a just representation of ita value."—Colliery Guardian.
                              BEDFORD STREET, STRAND.





