This is a reproduction of a library book that was digitized
by Google as part of an ongoing effort to preserve the
information in books and make it universally accessible.
https://books.google.com

                      .
                            «C'C
                         <* «• '
                                   « «.
B 1,063, 147
                                 «
                                     «:• *.
                                 <
                                  ^
               J
             »
             i
                 • c: '* «T


.wQ



                 NOTICES
                     OF THE
           PROCEEDINGS
   MEETINGS OF THE MEMBERS
                      op THE       ; ;
                   fnstitutum,
    ABSTEACTS OP THE DISCOUBSES
                  DELIVERED AT
         THE EVENING MEETINGS.
                   VOL. I.
                 1851—1854.
                LONDON:
W. NICOL, PRINTER TO THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                     1854

                                   Patron,
                        HER MOST GKACIOUS MAJESTY
                   QUEEN VICTORIA.
             Slice Patron ann I&onorarg Member,
                             HIS EOYAL HIGHNESS
       PE.INCE ALBEET, K.G., K.C.B., D.C.L., F.E.S.
  President — The Duke of Nobthtjmbebla:nt), K.GL, E.B.S.
  Treasurer — William Pole, Esq. M.A., E.B.S. , Vice-President.
  Secretary — Eev. John Barlow, M.A., E.E.S., Vice-President.
       $ganaoer0, 1854-55.                         tSLissitatfi, 1854-55.
Lord Ashburton, F.R.S., V. P.               John George Appold, Esq., F.R.S.
William Wilberforce Bird, Esq., V.P.        John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.
John Bate Cardale, Esq.                     William Carpmael, Esq.        ,
J. Griffith Cole, Esq., M.A.                Alexander Crichton, Esq.
James William Farrer, Esq.                  The Earl of Ducie.
Aaron Asher Goldsmid, Esq.                  Edward M. Foxhall, Esq.
WilliamR.Grove, Esq. QC. F.R.S. P.P.        Frederick Gaussen, Esq.
Sir Henry Holland, Bt. M.D.F.R.S. V.P.      Col. Francis Vernon Harcourt, M.P.
Henry Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S.             John Holdship, Esq.
Edward Kater, Esq., F.R.S.                  John Kirkpatrick, Esq.
George Maeilwain, Esq.                      John Gorham Maitland, Esq.
Frederick Pollock, Esq., M.A.               Robert R. I. Morley, Esq.
Alfred S. Taylor, M.D., F.R.S.              John North, Esq.
Charles Wheatstone, Esq., F.R.S., V.P.      Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.
Col. Philip J. Yorke, F.R.S.                Henry Twining, Esq.
                                PROFESSORS.
 Honorary Professor of Chemistry—William Thomas Brandk, Esq. D.C.L. F.R.S.
 Fullerian Professor of Chemistry — Michael Faeaday, Esq., D.C.L. F.R.S.
 Fullerian Professor of Physiology — [Vacant.]
 Professor of Natural Philosophy — John Tyndall, Esq., Ph. D., F.R.S.
         Assistant Secretary and Keeper of the Library — Mr. B. Vincent.
         Clerk of Accounts and Collector — Mr. W. Hughes.
         Assistant in the Laboratory — Mr. Charles Anderson.
         Assistant in the Library — Mr.. Charles W. Vincent.

                           CONTENTS.
                                    1851.
                                                                       PAGE
Jan. 24. PROFESSOR FARADAY — On the Magnetic Characters
               and Relations of Oxygen and Nitrogen                  .    1
  .. 31. PROFESSOR BRANDE — On Peat and its Products                 . 4
Feb. 3. General Monthly Meeting                  .          .        .7
  . . 7. PROFESSOR OWEN — On Metamorphosis and Meta
               genesis              .            .          .        .9
'.. 14. PROFESSOR E. FORBES — On Recent Researches into
               the Natural History of the British Seas               . 17
        28. 'W.
  .... 21.       CARFMAEL,
             PROFESSOR   E. COWFER
                             ESQ..— On — On    Manufacture of Candles. 21
                                           the Lighthouses               24
March 3. General Monthly Meeting                 .         .         .29
          7. SIR R. I. MURCHISON — On the former Changes of
               the Alps             .           .           .         .31
   .. 14. DR. W. W. GULL — On some points in the Phy
                 BROCKEDON,
   . . 21. W.siology            ESQ. •—
                       of Voluntary       On some Properties
                                       Movement            . peculiar. 37
               to Caoutchouc, and their Applications .                . 42
   ..    28. NEVIL STORY MASKELYNE, ESQ. — On the Connexion
               of Chemical Forces with the Polarization of Light 45
April 4. SIR CHARLES LYELL — On Impressions of Rain-drops
               in Ancient and Modern Strata                 .        . 50
   . . 7. General Monthly Meeting               .          .         .54
 May 1.      PROFESSOR
         11. Annual      FARADAY —
                     Meeting        . On Atmospheric
                                                 .          .
                                                         Magnetism   .61 56
   ..2.      G. B. AIRY, ESQ. Astronomer Royal — On the
    . . 5.     Total Solar
             General MonthlyEclipse
                                Meeting
                                      of 1851, July
                                                . 28 .               ..6962
    .. 9.    REV. PROFESSOR BADEN POWELL — On the Recent
               Experiment showing the Rotation of the Earth by
               means of the Pendulum            .          .         .70
    .. 16. CAFTAIN W. H. SHIFFARD — On Central America
               and the Ship-Canal. (No Abstract). . .                .75
                           407830

 IV                            CONTENTS.
   1851.                                                        PAGK
  May 16. PROFESSOR FARADAY — Electric Currents in Plants . 75
   . . 23. WILLIAM HOSKING, ESQ.— On Ventilation by the
              Parlour Fire         .          .           .    .76
           PROFESSOR FARADAY — Artificial production of the
    ,         Ruby, &c., by Ebelmen          .          .      .83
   • • 30. COLONEL H. C. RAWLINSON — A Few Words on
              Babylon and Nineveh           .          .      .84
June 2.    General Monthly Meeting           .          .     .88
   .. 6.   PROFESSOR ALEXANDER WILLIAMSON — Suggestions
              for the Dynamics of Chemistry derived from the
              Theory of Etherification       .          .     .90
   .. 13. PROFESSOR FARADAY — On Schonbein's Ozone            . 94
July 7. General Monthly Meeting             .           .     .99
Nov. 3. General Monthly Meeting              .          .     .101
Dec. 1. General Monthly Meeting              .         .      . 103
                                1852.
Jan. 23. PROFESSOR FARADAY — On the Lines of Magnetic
             Force .             .         .          .       .105
  .. 30. PROFESSOR BRANDE — On Electro-Magnetic Clocks 109
Feb. 2. General Monthly Meeting             .          .      .112
  . . 6. JOHN SCOTT RUSSELL, ESQ.— On Wave-line Ships
             and Yachts          .         .          .       .115
  .. 13. W. R. GROVE, ESQ.— On the Heating Effects of
             Electricity and Magnetism .'             .       .119
  . . 20. F. C. PENROSE, ESQ.— On some Relations of Science
             to Architecture considered as a Fine Art        . 1 24
  .. 27. DR. LYON PLAYFAIR — On three important Chemical
             Discoveries from the Exhibition of 1851 — A.
             Mercer's Contraction of Cotton by Alkalies ; —B.
             Young's Paraffine and Mineral Oil from Coal ; —
             C. Schrotter's Amorphous Phosphorus             . 131
March 1 . General Monthly Meeting         .          .       .139
       5. DR. G. A. MANTELL — On the Structure of the Igua-
            nodon, and on the Fauna and Flora of the Wealden
             Formation          .                    .      .141

                                 CONTENTS.                                   V
  1852.12. DR. WILLIAM B. CARFENTER — On the Influence of PAGE
Mar.
               Suggestion in Modifying and directing Muscular
               Movement, independently of Volition .                   . 147
  ..           Geology,
        19. DR.perior
                  J. J. .....
                         and
                         BIOBBY
                              Commercial
                                  — On the       Physical ofGeography,
                                            Resources          Lake Su- 154x
  ..    26. PROFESSOR E. COWFER — On the Principles of the
               Construction and Security of Locks. (No Abstract.) 163
 .. 31. M. P.-H. BOUTIGNY (D'EVREUX) — Etudes sur les
               Corps a Mat spheroidal          .            .           .179
April 2. SIR CHARLES LYELL — On the Blackheath Pebble-
               bed, and on certain Phenomena in the Geology of
          3. General
          5.   the neighbourhood
                      Monthly
             RESIGNATION    OF Meeting
                                PROFESSOR
                                     of London
                                             BRANDS
                                               .       . ..             . 1168
                                                                       .170 64
  . . 23. REV. PROFESSOR BADEN POWELL — On the Analogies
               of Light and Heat               .            .           .172
   . . 30. THOMAS H. HUXLEY, ESQ. — Upon Animal Indi
               viduality            .          .            .           .184
May 1. Annual Meeting              .          .             .          .190
   .. 3. General Monthly Meeting               .            .           .191
   .. 7. PROFESSOR E. FORBES — On the supposed Analogy be
               tween the Life of an Individual and the Duration
               of a Species         .          . .          ,          . 193
  .. 14. RBV. EDWIN SIDNEY — On the Rise of the Sap in
               the Spring          .          .             .          .197
   . . 21. B. C. BRODIE, Esq.— On the Allotropic Changes of*
               certain Elements                .            .           .201
    . . 28. DR. JOHN PERCY — On the Modes of Extracting
               Gold from its ores              .             .          . 205
 June 4. JOHN SCOTT RUSSELL, Esq.— On English Ships and
               American Clippers              .             .           .210
    . . 7. General Monthly Meeting             .            .           . 214
    .. 11. PROFESSOR FARADAY — On the Physical Lines of
               Magnetic Force .                .            .           .21
 July 5. General Monthly Meeting               .             .          . 222

VI                              CONTENTS.
  1852.                                                                  PAGE
Dec. 6.1 . General Monthly Meeting
Nov.                          Meeting        .             .              225
                                                                       . 227
                                 1853.         .
  . . 28.
Jan.  21. PROFESSOR FABADAY
                        WILLIAMSON
                                 — On   On Magnetic
                                     —the                    Discovery. 229
                                               Gerhardt'sForce
             of Anhydrous Organic Acids                    .           . 239
  ..4.     G. B. AIRY, ESQ., Astronomer Royal — On the
             Results of recent Calculations on the Eclipse of
             Thales and Eclipses connected with it .                   . 243
 . . 7. General Monthly Meeting             .              .          . 250
 .. 11. DR. JOHN TYNDALL — On the influence of Material
              Aggregation upon the manifestations of Force             . 254
 .. 18. PROFESSOR G. G. STOKES — On the Change of Re-
             frangibility of Light, and the Exhibition thereby of
             the Chemical Rays               .             .           .259
  . . 25. JOHN WILSON, ESQ.— On Ploughs and Ploughing,
             Ancient and Modern              .             .           . 265
March 4. EDWARD A. FREEMAN, ESQ.—On the Constructive
             Principles of the Principal Styles of Architecture . 268
           W. STEVENSON, ESQ. — Letter on Aurora Boreales 274
  . . 7. General Monthly Meeting             .            .            . 276
 .. 11. JOHN PHILLIFS, ESQ..— Geological Sketches round
             Ingleborough         .... 278
 . . 18. SIR C. LYELL — On the discovery of some Fossil rep
             tilian remains, and a Land-shell in the interior of an
              erect fossil-tree in the Coal measures of Nova
             Scotia ; with remarks on the origin of Coal-fields,
             and the time required for their formation                . 281
April 4. General Monthly Meeting                 .       .            . 288
 . . 8. REV. W. TAYLOR — Observations on different Modes
             of Educating the Blind         .            .            .290
 . . 15. THOMAS H. HUXLEY, ESQ.— On the Identity of Struc
             ture of Plants and Animals .                .           . 298
 . . 22. DR. JOHN CONOLLY — On the Past and Present Con
             dition of the Insane. (No Abstract.) .                   . 303

                                  CONTENTS.                               VII
 1853.                                                                  PAOE
April 29. W. BROCKEDON, Esq.— On the treatment of Foreign
                Wines, and the extensive injuries recently caused by
                a Fungus on the Grape          .           .        . 303
May 2. Annual Meeting                .... 309
  .. 6. Da. LYON PLAYFAIR — On the Food of Man under
                different Conditions of Age and Employment          . 313
  . . 9. General Monthly Meeting              .            .        . 310
      . 13. PROFESSOR E. FORBBS — On some New Points in
                British Geology .... 316
  . . 20. DR. E. FRANKLAND — Observations, Economical and
                Sanatory, on the Employment of Chemical Light
                for Artificial Illumination     .            .       .319
   . . 27. B. C. BRODIE, Esq.— On the formation of Hydrogen
                 and its Homologues            .            ,        . 325
 Jane 3. DR. JOHN TYNDALL — On some of the Eruptive
                 Phenomena of Iceland           .            .       . 329
     . . 6. General Monthly Meeting              .           . .     . 336
    . . 10. PROFESSOR FARADAY — M. Boussingault, Fremy,
                 Becquerel, &c. on Oxygen .                  .        . 337
 Jnly 4. General Monthly Meeting                .            .       . 339
 Nov. 7. General Monthly Meeting                 .            .       .841
 Dec. 5. General Monthly Meeting                  .           .       . 344
                                      1854.
  Jan. 20. PROFESSOR FARADAY — On Electric Induction — As
                 sociated cases of current and static effects          .  345
     . . 27. PROFESSOR TYNDALL — On the Vibration and Tones
                 produced by the Contact of Bodies having different
                 Temperatures        ....                                 356
  Feb. 3. W. R. GROVE, Esq. — On the Transmission of Elec
                 tricity by Flame and Gases .                 .        .  359
      . . 6. General Monthly Meeting           ..              .       .  362
                  gies of Teeth
      . . 10. PROFESSOR     OWEN —.... On the Structure and Homolo-       365
       . . 17. DR. JOHN CONOLLY — On the Characters of Insanity 375

   Vlll                             CONTENTS.
     1854.                                                              Page
   Feb. 24. Dr. H. Bbnce Jones — On the Acidity, Sweetness,
                  and Strength of different Wines           .         .381
   March 3. Rev. Professor Baden Powell — On certain Phe
                  nomena of Rotatory Motion .              .          . 393
      ..  ft  General Monthly Meeting              .        .         . 400
     ..   10. Charles Brooke, Esq.— On the Construction of the
                   Compound Achromatic Microscope          .         . 402
     . .  17. Dr. Stephen H. Ward — On the Growth of Plants
                  in Closely- glazed Cases        .       .          .407
     ..  24. Dr. E. Lankester — On the distinctions supposed
                  to limit the Vegetable and Animal Kingdoms        . 415
    . .  31. Dr. John Hall Gladstone — On Chemical Affinity
                  among Substances in Solution            .          .416
   April 3.     General Monthly Meeting            .        .        . 429
     . . 7.    Rev. J. Barlow — On Silica and some of its appli
                  cations to the Arts             .         •        . 422
              Dr. Roxburgh — On the Cartesian Barometer              . 426
     ..  28. Professor E. Forbes — On the manifestation of
                  Polarity in the distribution of Organized beings in
                  Time      .           .         .        .         .428
   May     1. Annual Meeting           .... 433
           5. Dr. H. M. Noad — On the Manufacture of Iron            . 434
           8. General Monthly Meeting              .       .         . 442
     . . 12. Thomas H. Huxley, Esq.— On the Common Plan
                  of Animal Forms .... 444
     ..  19. Professor J. Tyndall — On some Phenomena con
                  nected with the Motion of Liquids       .         . 446
     . . 26. B. C. Brodie, Esq. — On Melting-points                 . 449
   June 2. Dr. E. Frankland — On the Dependence of the
                  Chemical properties of Compounds upon the Elec
                  trical character of their Constituents  .         .451
     ..    5. General Monthly Meeting                     .         . 454
              Report on the Donation of John Pepys, Esq.            . 455
           9. Professor Faraday — On Magnetic Hypotheses            . 457
   July    3. General Monthly Meeting            .       .          . 460
   Index      .            .          •          •        •         -463
-.

                  [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
          iBo?al Institution of dsreat Britaim
                                   1851.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, January 24.
         SIR R. I. MURCHISON, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          PROFESSOR FARADAY
  On the Magnetic Characters and Relations of Oxygen and Nitrogen.
IN a Friday Evening discourse on the diamngnetic condition of
flame and gases, delivered on the 14th April, 1848, Mr. Faraday
called attention to the singular condition of oxygen gas in its rela
tion to the magnet. It was then demonstrated that this gas was
magnetic by its carrying a cloud of muriate of ammonia (itself dia-
magnetic) to the poles of the magnet, around which it seemed to
gyrate in vortices. A more elaborate paper on the same subject had
previously appeared in the Phil. Mag. for December, 1847.
    Last year M. Becquerel, not aware of these researches, had redis
covered the high magnetic character of oxygen, made some indepen
 dent investigations, and derived numerical results from them. These
inquiries Mr. Faraday does not consider to interfere with, but strongly
to confirm his own.
    Oxygen is one of the most remarkable of known bodies : it forms
 one half of the aggregate of all matter. Important as are its mag
 netic properties, it seems incapable of receiving permanent magnetism
like steel or the natural loadstone. — By a series of elementary
 experiments the audience were led to discriminate between these
 bodies, and soft iron, nickel, cobalt ; which unless while under an
 extraneous magnetic influence, have no attractive force. Oxygen
 being of the latter class, it is not certain that, even while it possesses
 an attractive power, it is in the exact condition of the permanently
 map^ietical body from which it derives it.
    Were oxygen highly magnetic in the same extent as iron is, the
 immense quantity of magnetic power which would in that case be
 constantly undergoing variation by combustion, respiration, &c.,
 would cause the most serious disturbances in nature. It is necessary
 to the conservation of the present state of things that the magnetic
 power in a given bulk of oxygen should be comparatively small.
 The audience were therefore told to expect no great demonstration
 of magnetism ; but the extent to which that power does exjst in
 oxygen and air, was proved by the following experiments : —
    No. 1.                                             B

2                      NOTICES OF mi: MEETINGS                 [Jan. 24,
    A double cone of iron (the apices of the cones meeting in a point,
and the cones being equal and similar,) was fabricated of such a
length as to complete the magnetic circuit when placed between the
poles of the large electro-magnet in possession of the Royal Institu
tion.     Mr. Faraday directed attention to this hourglass-shaped
piece, and showed how, by such an arrangement, extreme power is
exerted at the place without any chance of change in the form of the
parts. Very small soap-bubbles were blown by means of a glass
tube drawn to a fine point, from a bladder filled with oxygen. It
was observed that these bladders so filled were drawn forcibly in
wards to the apices of the cones, but that no such effect followed
when bubbles were filled with nitrogen. Another experiment,
which was visible all over the room, at once demonstrated the
same fact, and illustrated a differential mode of measuring the
magnetic force of oxygen. A delicately balanced wire was sus
pended from its centre of gravity by 10 fibres of the cocoon of the
silk-worm ; from the extremities of a small cross bar at one end of
 this wire were hung small glass bubbles ; and the whole was so ad
justed that the bubbles were on opposite sides of the apices first
 described, each hanging near to it but not in contact with the
 iron, and each equidistant from it. Therefore any difference of
 magnetic influence on the bubbles or their contents would be indi
 cated by the bubble so affected being drawn inwards. In order
 to render such motion widely visible, the other arm of tbe balance
 just described was converted into a long indicating lever, con
 structed of a straw for the sake of lightness. To the extremity of
 the longer end a slip of silk was attached to catch the eye, and the
 lever was shielded from the currents in the room by being placed
 within a glass balloon two feet in diameter. By the motion of the
 lever it was seen, when one of the bubbles was filled completely or
 partially with oxygen and the other with nitrogen, that nitrogen,
 whether dense or rare, was totally unaffected by the magnet, and
 that oxygen was magnetic in direct proportion to its density in the
 bubble ; and that the force required to set the bubble of oxygen
  (one atmosphere) in motion towards the magnet was one-tenth of a
 grain for one-third of a cubic inch of oxygen.
    Certain peculiarities in the exertion of the power which is here in
 action, not as a central, but as an axial force, were then referred to.
    The inference from the experiment, supported by other experi
 ments on bubbles containing air, is — that as oxygen enters into the
 atmosphere in a constant proportion, and as the magnetic power
 of oxygen varies directly with its density, definite variation must
 take place in the magnetic power of the atmosphere in different
 states.
    Mr. Faraday was led to inquire whether any separation of oxygen
 from nitrogen in a mixture of these gases could take place, as happens
 when a magnet is presented to a mixture of iron filings and sand.
 To test this idea he applied to the conical angle (so often de

1851.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        3
scribed as the centre of magnetic force,) a glass tube drawn to a
point (as in the apparatus used for blowing the delicate soap-bubbles,)
and filled with water ; by slowly withdrawing the water, the air could
be drawn into the tube from any desired spot and tested. This was
done ; and it was found that even when the magnetic action was
most intense, the proportions of the magnetic oxygen and of the non
magnetic nitrogen were undisturbed. — The following experiment
proved that no condensation was produced on oxygen by the magne
tic power, i. e. that it is not aggregated, as happens with iron filings
when under the influence of the magnet. The flat-faced poles of
the magnet were separated the 60th of an inch by a copper plate
with an aperture in the middle, so that when the whole was clamped
together a chamber was formed. By gauges attached to this chamber
it was found that no trace of condensation occurred, however great
was the magnetical force brought to bear on the oxygen.
   The loss of magnetical power occasioned by heat was then
noticed. This was shown first in the case of iron heated to redness ;
then in that of nickel raised to the temperature of boiling oil ; and
lastly, in the case of the air (i. e. of the oxygen in this air) by the
following experiment : — Two conical poles a little separated were
employed ; above was placed a piece of phosphorus on paper, and below
a helix of platinum wire heated to redness by a small Grove's battery
independent of that used to excite the electro-magnet. The heated
air, rising upwards from the helix, speedily inflamed the phosphorus
above it whilst the electro-magnet was unexcited ; but when rendered
active, the oxygen in the heated air becoming less magnetic, was dis
placed by the current of colder (and consequently more magnetical)
oxygen, and the phosphorus in consequence remained unaffected by
the mass which glowed beneath it, until the electro-magnet was
deprived of its power ; and then the natural laws of specific gravity
came again into operation, the heated air rose, and the phosphorus
was lighted.
   In conclusion, Mr. Faraday announced his intention of applying, on
a future evening, the reasoning deducible from these and other experi
ments, to the variation of magnetic lines on the earth's surface. His
purpose then will be to compare the records of this varying force with
the variations of temperature occasioned by the annual revolution of
the earth, the varying pressure of the atmosphere, storms, &c. with
the hope of supplying a true theory of the cause of the annual and
diurnal, and many of the irregular variations of the terrestrial mag
netic power.
   For the papers in which these results are described more at large,
see Philosophical Magazine, 1847, Vol. xxxi. p. 401 ; and Philoso
phical Transactions for 1851, p. 1.
   Among the objects exhibited in the Library, were — a water-worn
Lump of Gold, (weight 219 oz. 8 dwt. 12 gr. ; value about £826,)
from Carson's creek, California [by the Governor of the Rank of
                                    B 2

4                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [Jan. 31,
England] — an Ingot (weighing 324 oz.) and a cup of chemically
pure Palladium [by Mr. G. Matthey] — Specimens of Printing in
Colours, by Wood-blocks and Lithography [by Messrs. C. and G.
Leighton] — Henley's Magneto- Eh ctric Telegraph, &c. &c.
                   WEEKLY        EVENING
                             Friday,           31.
                                     January MEETING,
    W. POLE, Esq. F.R.S. Vice President, Treasurer, in the Chair.
                             PROFESSOR BRANDE
                          On Peat and its Products.
 REFERRING with commendation to an article entitled "The Irish
 California" in Dickens's Household Words, No. 41, p. 348, Professor
 Brande disclaimed any purpose of predicting the result of the great
 enterprize which is described in that able paper. He proposed to
 confine himself to a statement of what had been done, and what was
 doing, to make the products of peat commercially valuable.
     A peat bog was described as a superficial stratum of vegetable
 matter, which at different depths is undergoing, or has undergone,
 various stages of change and decomposition. Its superficial appear
  ance is that of a mass of half-decayed mosses, rushes, heath, and
  grass ; the roots having successively died away, though the plants
  continued to vegetate. The mass is ligneous, and imbued with humus
  and humic acid, among other products of slow decay ; and the abun
  dance of moisture pervading the hog affects the character at once of
  the peat and of the district. The upper layers of the bog are usually
  loose and fibrous, and of a pale brown colour. Beneath the surface the
  density is found to increase, sometimes to a great extent. At last, the
  distinctive characters of the vegetables cease to be discernible, and the
  mass appears nearly homogeneous, and of a dark brown, or blackish
  colour. Trunks of trees, and some curious geological phenomena,
  occasionally present themselves. A peat district may be regarded
  therefore as the consolidated produce of enormous forests and fields
  of vegetation, amounting in the aggregate to millions of acres.
  In Ireland alone i^th of the surface is covered by peat bog, which
  if removed would exhibit a soil fit for the operations of agriculture.
      Professor Brande then invited attention to different samples of
   peat taken from the upper, middle, and lower portions of the bog.
   He particularly noticed the tallow peat of the banks of Lough Neagh,
   which, from the brilliant flame attending its combustion, is sometimes
      Peat
   used      a source
         as may       of light valuable,
                 be rendered              of heat.
                               as well aseither
         1 . From the charcoal which may he obtained from it ; — or

1851.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        5
      2. By the various products derivable from what is called its
destructive distillation.
   When it is desired to convert peat into charcoal, the plan adopted
by the Irish Amelioration Society is to carbonize blocks of peat,
partially dried on trays of wicker work, in moveable pyramidal
furnaces. The charcoal so obtained varies in character with that of
the peat which produces it ; and when the peat is compressed
previous to its carbonization, (which may be well effected by means of
a machine invented by Mr. Rogers, and which was explained by
reference to a diagram,) the resulting charcoal exceeds the density of
common wood charcoal. In stove-drying, dense peat loses about
one-third, and the light and porous, half of its weight : 4 tons of
dried peat will give about one ton of charcoal. The efficacy of this
charcoal in the manufacture of iron, in consequence of the small
quantity of sulphur it contains, was mentioned ; and its deodorizing
and purifying qualities experimentally exhibited.
   2. The products of the destructive distillation of peat were then
described. The elements of peat are essentially those of wood and
coal ; viz. Carbon, Nitrogen, Hydrogen, and Oxygen. If there
fore peat were distilled in close vessels, the products obtained,
would, as might be expected, resemble the products of a similar
operation on coal or wood. Hitherto, however, the expense of
such a process in the case of peat has precluded its general adop
tion. Mr. Reece however has inveuted for this purpose a blast
furnace, which differs in principle from that in which iron is melted,
by having an arrangement to collect the products of combustion ;
and he has thus succeeded in obtaining ammonia, acetic acid, pyroxy-
lic spirit, tar, naphtha, oils, and paraffine, together with large
 quantities of inflammable gases, from the peat. It has been
found convenient to place two of these furnaces close to each other,
so that one may be at work when the blast is turned off the other in
order to allow of its being charged.
   In two furnaces of this kiud, 10 feet in diameter and 35 feet
high, 100 tons of peat may be decomposed every 24 hours,
                  and produce 1 0,000 gallons liquor (A.)
                                  1,000 . .         tar (B.)
            6,270,000 cubic feet of inflammable gases (C.)
A. The liquor holds in solution sufficient ammonia to yield when
  saturated by sulphuric acid 1 ton of sulphate of ammonia ; enough
  acetic acid to give, when saturated by lime, 14 cwt. of grey acetate
  of lime ; and, lastly, it contains 52 gallons of pyroxylic spirit. This
  process was described in detail, and a diagram of the furnaces,
  and of the apparatus employed for distilling the spirit was exhibited.
B. The tar is quite different from what is obtained from coal or
  from wood. It is a peculiar greasy-feeling e-ibstance. This sub
  stance is heated to about 100° at which temperature it melts ; and
  being then treated first with about 3 per cent, of sulphuric acid, and
  afterwards with hot water, it separates after a time, into two

6                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Jan. 31,
  layers ; the lower consisting of acid, water, and impurities ; the
    This mixture
  upper,            of paraffine
           of paraffine and oils.and oily hydrocarbons is then submitted
to distillation : the first half of the distilled products consists chiefly
of hydrocarbons of the naphtha family ; the other half contains the
denser oils and paraffine ; when cold, the paraffine crystallises, and
is separated from the oil by straining and pressure ; it is subsequently
bleached and deodorized by chlorine, or chlorochromic acid ; then
redistilled, pressed, and steamed, until brought to a state of purity.
The heavy oils, from which the paraffine is deposited, are then mixed
with the lighter oils, which were separated in the first instance by
distillation, and with caustic lime. After a time sulphuric acid is
added, which combines with impurities. The oils are then distilled,
bleached by chlorochromic acid, and deodorized. In this part of
the process the substance called capnomor, the properties of which
have not been investigated, presents itself.
      C. The gases. — The greater part of the oxygen of the air which
   is blown through the furnace, naturally combines in the first instance
  with the burning carbon and is converted into carbonic acid.
  This gas, however, on rising through the intensely heated mass,
   takes up an additional proportion of carbon to form carbonic oxide,
   which passes off with the hydrogen and gaseous hydrocarbons,
   also generated by the combustion, and which, notwithstanding
   the large proportion of nitrogen blended with them, remain in the
   form of an inflammable mixture, which is ultimately used as fuel to
   work the steam-engine, and to heat the stills and boilers.
      In conclusion Professor Brande reviewed the various products of
   peat and their uses.
      They appear to be.
      1. Sulphate of Ammonia. This substance is employed in the pre
   paration of carbonate and muriate of ammonia, of caustic ammonia,
  •and in the manufacture of manures and fertilizing composts.
      2. Acetate of Lime, which is in constant demand as a source
   of acetic acid, and of various acetates largely consumed by the calico
  printers.
      3. Pyroxylic spirit (or wood-alcohol) used in vapour lamps, (two
   of which were exhibited and attention called to the brilliancy of
   the light afforded,) and in the preparation of varnishes.
      4. Naphtha, used for making varnishes, and for dissolving
    caoutchouc.
       5. Heavy and more fixed oils, applicable for lubricating machi
    nery, especially when blended with other unctuous substances ; or
    as a cheap lamp oil, and as a source of lamp black.
         6. Paraffine. This when mixed with fatty matter forms a
    material for candles, samples of which were shown, consisting of
    mixtures of paraffine, sperm, and stcarine.

  1851.]                  OP THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                               February 3, 1S51.
           Sir Charles Fellows, Vice-President, in the Chair.
    Capt. H. J. Codrington, R.N., and W. T. Dry, Esq., were
 admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
       William Bevan, Esq.                      J. P. Gassiot, Esq., F.R.S.
        Allen Davis, Esq.                       The Viscount Mandeville,
        The Earl of Ducie,                      Adam Murray, Jun. Esq.
        The Countess of Ducie,                  James Scott, Esq.
 were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following Presents were announced ; and the thanks of the
 Members ordered to be returned for the same : —
    From
 The Royal Institute of British Architects — Proceedings for November, Decem
     ber, 1850; January, 1851. 4to.
 The Royal Geographical Society— Journal, Vol. XX. Part 1. 8vo. 1850.
       Institution
 The1850;          of 1851.
             January,         8vo.
                       Civil Engineers  — Proceedings for November, December,
 The Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 4. 8vo. 1850.
 John Webster, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Author) —An Essay on the Epidemic
     Cholera. 12mo. 1832.
   Observations on the Admission of Medical Pupils to the Wards of Bethlem
     Hospital. 8vo. 1842.
   On   the1850.
     8vo.   Health of London during the six months terminating Sept. 28, 185"0.
   Notes of a Recent Visit to several Provincial Asylums for the Insane in
     France. 8vo. 1850.
 Thos. Twining, Esq., Jun., M. R. I.— Geschichte des Vereins fur Naturkunde im
     Herzogthum
     von           Nassau,8vo.
          Dr. C. Thoma.           1842.
                            und des   Naturhistorischen Museums in Wiesbaden ;
   Jahrbiicher des Vereins fur Naturkunde im Herzogthum Nassau, 1844-50.
     6 Hefte, 8vo.
Athenceum Club — List of Members, &c. 18mo. 1850.
   Supplement to the Catalogue of the Library of the Athenaeum. 8vo. 1851.
A. V. Holtzajiffel, Esq.— Turning and Mechanical Manipulation, &c. by the late
     Charles Holtzapffel. Vol. III. Svo. 1850.
C. T. Jackson, Esq. (the Author) — Report on the Geological and Mineral
    Survey of the Mineral Lands of the United States in the State of Michigan.
    Svo. 1849.
John Forbes, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — Of Happiness in its relations
    to Work and Knowledge. 12mo. 1850.
The Dowager Lady Stanley of Alderley — An Account of the Hot Springs in
    Iceland, (accompanied by one large and four smaller Engravings,) by John

8                          NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                         [Feb. 3,
    Thos. Stanley, Esq., F.R.S., with an Analysis of their Waters, by Joseph
    Black, M.D. 8vo. 1791.
The Agricultural Society of England — Journal, Vol. XI. Part 2. 8vo. 1850.
W. Parker, Esq., M.R.C.S. (the Author) — The Physiological and Scientific
      Treatise onofthe
   ATreatment          Cause and
                    Cholera.       Nature
                                12mo.       of Vital Heat. 12mo. 1850.
                                         1849.
IV. Roxburgh, M.D., M.R.I. — Medico- Chirurgical Transactions published by
    the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society of London ; Vol. XXIII—XXVI.
    8vo. 1840-3.
    l'Academie
Professor         Royale
             Faraday   — Bulletins
                          de Belgique,
                                     desAnn^e   1849.de 8vo.
                                           Seances            1850. des Sciences, de
                                                         la Classe
   Structure and Classification of Zoophytes : by J. D. Dana, A.M. 4to. 1846.
    8vo. 1851. Handbuch der Analytischen Chemie ; von H Rose ; 2 vol.
   Ausfilhrliches
   Sitzungsberichte der Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien ;
    Juni und Juli, 1850.— Notizenblatt, No. 1. 8vo. 1851.
   Archiv fur Kunde Oesterreichischer Geschichts- Quellen ; 1850, II Band, 1
    und 2 Hefte. 8vo.
The-Editor — The Athenaeum Journal for December, 1850, and Jan. 1851. 4to.
Jacob Bell, Esq., M.R.I, (the Editor).—The Pharmaceutical journal for Jan. and
    Feb. 1851. 8vo.
The Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 12, 8vo. 1851.
The Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 213. 8vo. 1850.
The Editor — The Art-Journal for Jan. 1851. 4to.
N. Bland, Esq., M.R.I, (the Author) —Persian Chess. 8vo. 1850.
W. Salt, Esq., M.R.I. — Portrait of John Buckler, Esq., F.S.A. in 1847.— 1850.
W. Johnston, Esq , M.R.I, (the Author) — England as it is, Political, Social, and
     Industrial, in the middle of the Nineteenth Century ; 2 vols. 12mo. 1851.
The Syndicate of the Cambridge Observatory — Astronomical Observations made
     at Cambridge by the Rev. J. Challis; Vol. XVI. (1844-5). 4to. 1850.
 C. L. Prince, Esq., (the Author) — Results of a Meteorological Journal, kept at
     Uckfield, Sussex, in 1850. fol. 1851.
 The Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. V. Part 4, and Vol. VI.
     Part1. 8vo. 1850.
B. C. Brodie, Esq., F.R.S., M.R.I., (the Author) — On the Condition of certain
     Elements at the Moment of Chemical Change, 4to. 1850.
 G. B. Airy, Esq. (Astronomer-Royal) , Greenwich Astronomical, Magnetical, and
     Meteorological Observations for 1849. 4to. 1850.
 The Cambridge Philosophical Society — Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 1. 4to.
     1851.
 Professor Piazzi Smyth (the Author) — On a Method of Cooling the Air of
     Rooms in Tropical Climates. 4to. 1850.
 T. Turner, Esq., (the Author) — Remarks on the Amendment of the Law of
     Patents. 8vo. 1851.
 The Senate of the University of London — London University Calendar for 1851.
     12mo.
       Royal
 TheVol.     Medical and
           XXXIII.            1850.
                       8vo. Chirurgical  Society — Mcdico-Chirurgical Transactions,

1851.]                OF THE UOYAL INSTITUTION.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                       Friday, February 7, 1851.
     THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, President, in the Chair.
                           PROFESSOR OWEN
                   On Metamorphosis and Metagenesis.
THE Lecturer commenced by passing under review the Linnaean
characters of Minerals, Vegetables, and Animals, and the subsequent
distinctions which had been proposed for the discrimination of the
 two latter kingdoms of nature. After discussing those founded on
motion, the stomach, the respiratory products, the composition of the
tissues, and the sources of nourishment, it was shown that none of
these singly, define absolutely the boundaries between plants and
animals ; it requires that a certain proportion of the supposed
characteristics should be combined for that purpose.
    The individuals in which such characters are combined are specially
 defined members of one great family of organized beings, and the
 supposed peculiarly animal and vegetable characters taken singly,
 interdigitate, as it were, and cross that debatable ground and low
 department of the common organic world from which the specialized
 plants and animals rise ; and there are numerous living beings with
 the common organic characters that have not the distinctive com
 bined superadditions of either group.
    Between the organic and inorganic worlds the line of demarcation
 may be more definitely drawn. The term 'growth' cannot be used
 in the same sense to signify the increase of a mineral and of an
 organism. The mode of increase is different : there is a definite limit
 to it in the organic kingdom, and something more than mere growth
 takes place in the progress of an organism from its commencement
 to maturity. This was exemplified by reference to the human sub
 ject, to the lion which acquires its mane, to the stag which gets its
 horns, and to the change of plumage in birds during the course of
 growth. The changes of form and character are still more remarkable
 in the kangaroo ; and in the frog they are such as to have received
 the name of ' metamorphosis.'
    The development of the frog was traced to its exclusion from the
 egg in the form of a fish, with external gills, a long caudal fin, and
  without legs.

10                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [Feb. 7,
   The internal skeleton, like the external shape, is adapted for
aquatic life.
   Only those parts are ossified which are to be retained in the
mature state. The vertebrae are at first biconcave, as in fishes, with
invervening spherical elastic balls filled with fluid : they are converted
into ball and socket joints by the ossification of the sphere, and its
anchylosis to the back part of the vertebrae. The pelvis and hind
legs are progressively developed ; and, whilst this change is pro
ceeding, the tail is undergoing proportional absorption. The chief
change in the skull of the larva is operated in the lower or haemal
arches and their appendages. The maxillary arch is widened and
provided with teeth, and the horny mandibles are shed. The man-
dibulararch retrogrades as well as expands. The hyoidean undergoes
a remarkable change of size and shape, and the branchial arches
are absorbed, excepting a small portion which is converted into the
hinder ' horns ' of the hyoid for supporting the larynx.
   The scapular arch, which at first was connected with the occiput,
whilst supporting the branchial heart -7- its primary function, begins
as soon as the fore-legs bud out, to retrograde, and the sternum is
developed to complete the ' point d'appui ' for the fore limbs.
   The food of the larva is chiefly the soft decaying parts of aquatic
plants ; it has a horny beak, a long alimentary canal disposed in a
series of double spiral coils : but, as its frame undergoes the changes
adapting it for life on land, and a purely animal diet, the mandibles
are converted into jaws and teeth, and the long spiral intestine into a
short and slightly convoluted one.
   Soon after the external gills have reached their full developement
they begin to shrink and finally disappear ; but the branchial circu
lation is maintained some time longer upon internal gills : by anas
tomoses between the principal branchial vessels these are converted
into the aortic arches, carotids and subclavians ; the internal gills
with the cartilaginous hoops supporting them are absorbed, and
lungs and glottis for breathing the air directly are developed.
   Thus an animal formed for moving in water is changed into one
adapted for moving and leaping on land ; a water-breather is con
verted into an air-breather ; a vegetable feeder into a carnivorous
animal : yet the series of transmutations are limited to the nature
of the species and produce no other. The frogs that croak in our
marshes are as strictly batrachian as those that leapt in Pharaoh's
chamber ; their metamorphoses have led to nothing higher than their
original condition, as far as history gives us any knowledge of it.
With each successive generation the series of changes recommences
from the old point, and ends in n condition of the animal adapted to
set the same series again on foot.
   Having traced the principal stages in the metamorphosis of an
animal from a swimmer to a leaper ; the Lecturer next took an instance

1851.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                             11
where one begins life as a burrower or a crawler, and is converted into
an animal of rapid and powerful flight.
   Most insects quit the egg in the form of a worm, which masking,
as it were, a different and higher form, is called the ' larva ; ' it is active
and voracious — but usually falls into a kind of torpor, during which
the changes take place which issue in the flying insect ; during the
passive stage of metamorphosis it is called a ' pupa ; ' the last volant
stage is the ' imago.'
   The chief steps in the metamorphosis were traced as they affect the
outward form, the digestive organs, the circulatory, and respiratory,
and nervous systems.
   The main differences in the metamorphoses of insects relate to the
place where, and the time during which they are undergone. The
young cockroach and the little aphis, which were first acephalous
and apodal, and then had thirteen equal segments, with soft un-
jointed legs, proceed to acquire a distinct head with antennae, a
thorax with three pairs of long jointed legs, and an abdomen, before
they quit the egg ; they thus enter upon active life under the guise
of a crab, instead of a worm. With regard to the Aphis, that insect,
instead of proceeding to perfect its individual development, may at
once begin the great business of its existence by parthenogenetic
procreation. Bonnet's experiments, which first brought to light this
marvellous fact, have received uniform confirmation from all subse
quent enquirers, and no natural phenomenon is now better deter
mined.
   From seven to eleven successive generations have been traced
before the individual has finally metamorphosed itself into the
winged male or winged oviparous female.
   In Autumn, when the nights grow chilly and long, the oviparous
imago completes her duty by depositing the eggs in the axils of the
leaves of the plant, where they are protected from the winter frost,
and ready to be hatched at the return of Spring. Then recom
mences the cycle of change, which being carried through a succes
sion of individuals and not completed in a single life-time, is a
' metagenesis ' rather than a ' metamorphosis.'
   This phenomenon which, until very recently was deemed an
exception, and a most marvellous one, in Nature, now proves to be
an example of a condition of procreation to which the greater part
of organised Nature is subject.
   The Lecturer was inevitably limited in his choice of illustrations :
and proceeded to an instance of metagenesis from the radiated sub-
kingdom of animals.
    The stages of this metagenesis have been best and most completely
traced in the Medusa aurita, by Siebold, Dalyell, Sars, and others.
    The first step was made by Siehold who, in 1839, traced the
 development of the Medusa aurita from the egg to a stage resembling

12                     NOTICES OF THE     MUliT1 \'.;s         [Feb. 7,
a ciliated monad, then to a lobed rotifer, and next to a long-armed
polype.
   This polype stage of the Medusa had been previously recognised
in 1788, but without a suspicion of its true nature, by O. F. Miiller,
who called it Hydra gelatinosa.
   It was next observed, and its habits more fully described, by Sir
John Dalyell, in 1834, as Hydra tuba: and in 1836 he made known
its singular metamorphoses into forms which Sars had previously
described as Scyphistoma and Strobila ; and Dalyell saw the sponta
neous division of the latter into a pile or series of small Medusae.
All the stages of the metagenesis were independently noted by
Sars who described them in 1 84 1 .
   The difficulty of accounting for the presence of Entozoa in the
interior parts of animal bodies is rapidly disappearing as the know
ledge of their course of development advances.
   The principal stages of this development were described in a small
worm (Menostoma mutabile), parasitic in the air-cells, intestines, and
peritoneal cavity of many water-fowl.
   The ovum is converted into a ciliated monadiform embryo, which
escapes from the bird, and swims about freely in the water. A clear
mass may be discerned in the interior which exhibits independent
movements. This body is liberated, grows rapidly, and generates in its
interior a number of independent organisms provided with a cephalic
speculum and a caudal appendage, referable by their form to the genus
Cercaria. They are very active and insinuating, could even bore
through the skin by the sharp needle-like armature of the head, and
somehow or other do, under the guise of the Cercaria, again get
access to the interior of the water-fowl ; fall into a state of torpor ;
become circular flattened pupae ; and are finally metamorphosed into
monastomes — a sluggish pendant parasite utterly deprived of the
power of existing in water, or of gaining access, as a monostome, to
the interior of any animal.
   Steenstrup, who has the merit of having first grouped together
and pointed out the analogies of the different stages in the animals
that undergo these successive changes, generalizes the facts under
the phrase of ' Alternate Generation,' and he calls the procreant
larvae 'Amme,' or Nurses, and ' Gross-amme,' or Grand-nurses.
There is no particular objection to these names ; but we naturally
desire to know on what power the metageneses depend.
   Professor Owen thought the key to the power was afforded by the
process which the germinal part of every egg undergoes before the
embryo begins to be formed.
   A principle, answering to the pollen, that fertilizes the seed of
plants, is the efficient cause of these changes : its mode of operating
is best seen in the transparent eggs of some minute worms ; the
principle manifests itself as a transparent, highly refractive globule

1851.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       13
in the centre of the egg : it then divides ; and each division, attract
ing the vitelline matter of the egg about it, divides that matter into
two parts. This division is repeated with the same result, until the
principle has diffused itself by indefinite multiplication through the
whole yelk which then constitutes the ' germ-mass.'
    The next stage is the formation of the embryo : certain of the
minute subdivisions, called ' nuclei ' or nucleated cells, combine and
coalesce to constitute the tissues of the embryos : they are afterwards
incapable of generating. If all be so metamorphosed the organism
cannot procreate of itself ; but if a part only of the germ-mass be
metamorphosed into tissues, the unchanged remnant may, if nutri
 tion, heat, and other stimuli are present, repeat the same actions as
 those that formed the first germ-mass, and lay the foundation of
 future embryos.
     In proportion to the amount of the substance of an organism
 which retains the primitive condition of cells, is the power of pro
 ducing new individuals without receiving a fresh supply of the
 pollen-principle.
     Thus in a plant, when the seed has received the matter of the
 pollen-filament, analogous changes take place to those that have
 been described in the animal egg, and the embryo plant appears
 in the form of the cotyledonal leaf with its radicle or rootlet.
 From this shoots forth another leaf with its stem : and the cellular
 substance of the pith with its share of the pollen-principle goes on
 developing fresh leaves and leaf-stalks ; until a provision for de
 veloping fresh pollen is made by transforming certain individual
 leaves into a higher form of the ' phyton ' or elemental plant. Thus
 a generation or ' whorl ' of leaves assumes the character of sepals,
  another that of petals, a third that of stamens, a fourth that of
  pistils : and in the two latter forms we recognize the analogues of
  the perfect male and female of the animal.
     The development of the compound polype follows very closely
  the stages of the compound plant, which we call shrub or tree :
  the ovum, like the seed, having received the pollen-principle, is
  converted into countless cells and nuclei of cells by the process for
  diffusing that principle through, or of assimilating it with, the matter
  of the egg. Then certain germ-cells are metamorphosed into a
  ciliated integument, and the larva starts forth in a state answering
  to the cotyledonal leaf of the plant : the ciliated larva settles,
   subsides, and shoots up a stem from which a digestive polype is
   developed, answering to the leaf: but the pollen-force not being
   exhausted, a second branch and polype are developed, and so on
   until a preparation is mad* for a fresh supply of pollen-force, by
   metamorphosing the polype mto a higher form of individual ; and
   this, in many compound polypes, is set free in the shape of a
   minute medusa.

 14                    NOTICES OF THE. MEETINGS                 [Feb. 7,
    The true nature and relation of the individual polype to the
compound whole is well illustrated by the propagations of the
Aphides.
    By comparing with the diagrams of the metagenesis of the plant
and polype, that of the Aphis, in which was represented the corre
sponding stages intervening between the ovum and the perfect male
and female individuals of the Aphis, the analogy between these
stages in the plant, the polype, and the insect, was shown to be
both true and close. The microscopic fertilizing filament of the male
Aphis answers to the microscopic pollen-filament of the male leaf or
' stamen.' The ovum of the female Aphis to the ovule of the
female leaf or pistil : by their combination the fertile ovum results.
The same processes of cell-formation ensue, and the embryo Aphis
is formed by the combination and metamoq)hoses of certain of
these secondary germ-cells ; but it retains the rest unchanged in its
interior, which may be compared with the cells of the pith of the plant,
and with the cells in the corresponding more fluid part of the pith of
the polype. Under favourable circumstances of nutriment and warmth,
certain of these cells repeat the process of embryonic formation, and
a larval individual like that from the ovum is thus reproduced ;
which is only not retained in connection with its parent, because the,
integument is not coextended with it.
   The generation of a larval Aphis may be repeated from seven to
eleven times without any more accession to the primary pollen-force
of the retained cells than in the case of the zoophyte or plant ; one
might call the generation, one by ' internal gemmation ; ' but this
phrase would not explain the conditions essential to the process,
unless we previously knew those conditions in regard to ordinary
or external gemmation.
   At length, however, the last apterous or larval Aphis, so deve
loped, proceeds to be 'metamorphosed' into a winged individual,
in which either only the fertilizing filaments are formed, as in the
case of the stamens of the plant, or only the ovules, as in the case
of the pistil. We have, in fact, at length ' male and female indi
viduals,' preceded by procreative individuals of a lower or arrested
grade of organization, analogues to the gemmiparous polypes of the
zoophyte and to the leaves of the plant.
   The process was described for its better intelligibility in the
Aphides as one of a simple succession of single individuals, but it is
much more marvellous in nature. The first-formed larva of early
spring procreates not one but eight larvae like itself in successive
broods, and each of these larvae repeats the process ; and it may be
again repeated in the same geometrical ratio until a number which
figures only can indicate and language almost fails to express, is
the result. The Aphides produced by this internal gemmation, are
as countless as the leaves of a tree, to which they are so closely
analogous.

185 1.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       15
   It generally happens that the metamorphosis which has been
described as occurring after the seventh or eleventh generation takes
place much earlier in the case of some of the thousands of indi
viduals so propagated : just as a leaf-bud near the root may develope
a leaf-stem and a flower with much fewer antecedent generations of
leaves from buds than have preceded the formation of the flower at
the summit of the plant ; or just as one of the lower and earlier formed
digestive polypes may push oat a bud to be transformed into a pro-
creative and locomotive polype. The same analogy is closely main
tained throughout.
    The wingless larval Aphides are not very locomotive ; they might
have been attached to one another by continuity of integument, and
each have been fixed to suck the juices from the part of the plant
where it was brought forth. The stem of the rose might have been
incrusted with a chain of such connected larvae as we see the stem
of a fncus incrusted with a chain of connected polypes, and only the
last developed winged males and oviparous females might have been
set free. The connecting medium might even have permitted a
common current of nutriment contributed to by each individual to
circulate through the whole compound body. But how little of
anything essential to the animal would be affected by cutting through
 this hypothetical connecting and vascular integument and setting
each individual free ! If we perform this operation on the compound
 zoophyte, the detached polype may live and continue itsgemmiparous
reproduction. This is more certainly and constantly the result in
 detaching one of the monadiform individuals which assists in com
 posing the seeming individual whole called ' Volvox globator ;' and
 so likewise with the leaf-bud. And this liberation Nature has actually
 performed for us in the case of the Aphis, and she thereby plainly
 teaches us the true value or signification in morphology of the con
 necting individuals
 parous               remain
          links that of the volvox,
                              to attach
                                    the zoophyte,  and different
                                         together the  the plant.gemmi-
    The analogy between the procreating larvae of the Aphis, the
 Medusa, and the Coralline is so true and so close, that if the larval
 Aphis be a distinct individual and not a part, so must be the strobila,
 the planula, and the gemmiparous leaf : if the succession of larval
 Aphides be truly described, as a succession of generations, so must
 that succession of planula, polype, and strobila which leads to the
 oviparous Medusa; and that succession of planulae and nutritive
 polypes which precede the detachment of the free procreative
 medusiod polypes in the Coryne ; and the like with the plant-gene
 rations preceding the flower.
    It would have been easy, if time permitted, to multiply the illus
 trations of the essential condition of these phenomena. That
 condition is, the retention of certain of the progeny of the primary
 fertilized germ-cell, or in other words, of the germ-mass, unchanged

10                    NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS.           [Feb. 7, 1851.
in the body of the first individual developed from that germ-mass,
with so much of the pollen-force inherited by the retained germ-
cells from the parent-cell or germ-vesicle as suffices to set on foot
and maintain the same series of formative actions as those which
constituted the individual containing them.
   How the retained pollen force operates in the formation of a new
germ-mass from a secondary, tertiary, or quaternary derivative germ-
cell, the Lecturer did not profess to explain ; neither was it known
how it operates in developing the primary germ-mass.
   The botanist and physiologist congratulates himself with justice
when he has been able to pass from cause to cause, until he arrives
at the union of the pollen-filament with the ovule as the essential
condition of development — a cause ready to operate when necessary
circumstances concur, and without which those circumstances would
have no effect.
   The chief aim of the present discourse was to point out the cir
cumstances which bring about the presence of the same essential
cause in the cases of the development of the successive generations
completing the metagenetic cycle of the Aphis, the Medusa, the
Polype and the Entozoon. The cause is the same in kind though
not in degree, and every successive generation, or series of sponta
neous fissions, of the primary germ-cell must weaken the pollen-force
transmitted to such successive generations of cells.
   The force is exhausted in proportion to the complexity and living
powers of the organism developed from the primary germ-cell and
germ-mass. It is consequently longest retained and furthest trans
mitted in the vegetable kingdom ; the zoophytes manifest it in the
next degree of force ; and the power of retained germ-cells to de-
velope a germ-mass and embryo by the remnant of the pollen-force
which they inherited, is finally lost, according to present knowledge,
in the class of Insects and in the lower Mollusca.
   Among the objects exhibited in the Library, were — Edwards'
Atmopyre or Gas Stove [by D. O. Edwards, Esq., M.R.I.] — Sketch
of Coldham-hall, near Bury St. Edmunds, reproduced as a Photo
graph, coated with a solution of Gun-Cotton ; and several other
Photographs from Etchings &c. —and a group of Garnets in Mica
Schist from the Rocky Mountains, North America [by Dr. A. S.
Taylor, M.R.I.]— Specimens of Sugar of Milk [by T. N. R. Mor-
son, Esq., M. R. I. — Model of the Nineveh Column in the British
Museum, in Hal1's Derbyshire black marble [by J. Tennant, Esq.]
&c. &c.

                     [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
                    instttution of dsreat TBtitam.
                                  1851.
                   WEEKLY      EVENING
                          Friday,            14.
                                  February MEETING,
      The DUKB OF NORTHUMBERLAND, President, in the Chair.
                       PROFESSOR EDWARD FORBES
  On Recent Researches into the Natural History of the British Seas.
THE Natural History of the British Seas has for a long time been a
favourite subject of investigation. Within the last fifteen years,
however, fresh enquiries have been set on foot, and the details of
their zoology and botany worked out to an extent beyond that to
which the examination of any other marine province has been carried.
Numerous and beautifully illustrated monographs, treating of their
fishes, cetacea, portions of the articulata, the mollusca, radiata,
zoophytes, sponges, and algae, have been published, either at private
cost, or by patriotic publishers, or by the Ray Society, such as the
scientific literature of no other country can show. As these have all
been the results of fresh and original research, they present a mass
of valuable data sufficient to form a secure basis for important
generalizations.
    From these materials, and from the results of the enquiries into the
distribution of creatures in the depths of our seas, conducted by a
committee of the British Association, a clear notion may be formed
 of the elements of which our submarine population is composed.
 Extensive tables, exhibiting the sublittoral distribution of marine
 invertebrate, from the South of England along the Western coasts
 of Great Britain to Zetland, mainly constructed from the joint
 observations of Professor E. Forbes and Mr. Mac Andrew, are now
 preparing for publication, as a first part of a general report from the
 Committee referred to. The date embodied in these 'allies are the
 produce of researches conducted during the last eleven years, and
 registered systematically at the time of observation.
    British Marine animals and plants are distributed in depth (or
 bathymetrically) in a series of zones or regions which belt our shores
 from high water mark down to the greatest depths explored. The
 uppermost of these is the tract between tidemarks ; this is the
 LITTORAL ZONE. Whatever be the extent of rise and fall of the
 tide, this zone, wherever the ground is hard or rocky, thus affording
    No. 2.                                           C

18                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [Feb. 14,
security for the growth of marine plants and animals, presents
similar features, and can be subdivided into a series of corresponding
sub-regions ; through all of which the common limpet (Patella vul.
gala) ranges, giving a character to the entire belt. Knelt of these
sub-regions has its own characteristic animals and plants. Thus the
highest is constantly characterised by the presence of the periwinkle
Littorina rudis, (and on our Western shores, Littorina neritoides,) along
with the sea-weed Fucus canaliculatus. The second sub-region is
 marked by the sea-weed Lichina and the common mussel (Mytilus
edulis). In common with the third sub-region it almost always
presents rocks thickly encrusted with barnacles ; so that where our
shores are steep, a broad white band, entirely composed of these
 shell-fish, may be seen when the tide is out, marking the middle
 space so conspicuously as to be visible from a great distance. In the
third sub-region the commonest form of wrack or kelp (Fucus articu-
 latus) prevails, and the large periwinkle (Littorina littorea) with
 Purpura Capillvs are dominant and abundant. In the fourth and
 lowest sub-region the Fucus just mentioned gives way for another
 species, the Fuctis serratus ; and in like manner the shells are replaced
 by a fresh Littorina (littoralis) and peculiar Trochi.
    Once below low-water mark the periwinkles become rare, or dis
 appear, and the Fun are replaced by the gigantic sea-weeds known
 popularly as tangles (species of Lammaria, Alaria, fyc.) among
 which live myriads of peculiar forms of animals and lesser plants.
 The genus Lacuna among shell-fish is especially characteristic of this
 zone. In sandy places the Zostera or grass-wrack replaces the
  Lamivaria. The LAMINARIAN ZONK extends to a depth of about fif
  teen fathoms, but in its lowest part the greater sea-weeds are com
  paratively few, and more usually the prevailing plant is the curious
  coral-like vegetable called Nullipore.
     From 15 to 50 or more fathoms we find a zone prolific in peculiar
  forms of animal life, but from which conspicuous vegetables seem
  almost entirely banished. The majority of its inhabitants are pre
  dacious. Many of our larger fishes belong to this region, to which,
  on account of the plant-like zoophytes abounding in it, the name of
  CORALLINE ZONE has been applied. The majority of the rarer shell
  fish of our seas have been procured from this region.
     Below 50 fathoms is the REGION OF DEEF-SEA CORALS, so styled
  because hard and strong true corals of considerable dimensions are
  found in its depths. In the British seas it is to be looked for around
  the Zetlands and Hebrides, where many of our most curious animals,
  forms of Zoophytes and Echinoderms, have been drawn up from the •
  abysses of the ocean. Its deepest recesses have not as yet been
  examined. Into this region we find that not a few species extend their
  range from the higher zones. When they do so they often change
  their aspect, especially so far as colour is concerned, losing bright
  ness of hue and becoming dull-coloured or even colourless. In
  the lower zones it is the association of species rather than the

 1851.]               OF THE RUVAL INSTITUTION.                      19
presence of peculiar forms which gives them a distinctive character.
All recent researches, when scientifically conducted, have confirmed
this classification of provinces of depth. When we have an appa
rent exception, as in the case of the submarine ravine off the Mull
of Galloway, dredged by Captain Beechey and recorded by Mr.
Thompson, in which though it is 150 fathoms deep, the fauna
is that of the coralline zone, we must seek for an explanation of
the anomaly by enquiring into the geological history of the area in
question. In this particular instance there is every reason to believe
that the ravine mentioned is of a very late date compared with the
epoch of diffusion of the British Fauna.
   When we trace the horizontal distribution of creatures in the
British seas, we find that though our area must be mainly or
almost entirely referred to one of the great European marine
provinces, that to which the Lecturer has given the name of CELTIC,
yet there are subdivisions within itself marked out by the presence
or absence of peculiar species. The marine fauna and flora of the
Channel Isles present certain differences, not numerous but not the
less important, from that of the south-western shores of England,
which in its turn differs from that of the Irish sea, and it again from
that of the Hebrides. The Cornish and Devon sea fauna and that
of the Hebrides are marked by redundancies of species ; that of the
Eastern coasts of England on the contrary by deficiencies. Along
the whole of our western coasts, whether of Great Britain or Ireland,
we find certain creatures prevailing, not present on our eastern
shores. In the depths off the south coast of Ireland we find an
assemblage of creatures which do not strictly belong to that pro
vince, but are identical with similar isolated assemblages on the
west coast of Scotland. In the west of Ireland we find a district o,
shore distinguished from all other parts of our coast by the presence
of a peculiar sea-urchin to find the continuation of whose range we
must cross the Atlantic to Spain. In such phenomena the Lecturer
sees evidences of conformations of laud, of outlines of coast and
connections of land with land under different climatal conditions
than at present prevail within our area, for an explanation of which we
must go back into the history of the geological past. If we do
so, we can discover reasons for these anomalies, but not otherwise.
   The dredging researches about to be published go to show that
among our sublittoral animals the northern element prevails over
the southern,— a fact indicated by the number of peculiar northern
species ; at the same time the southern forms appear to be dif
fusing themselves northwards more rapidly than the northern do
southwards. This diffusion is mainly maintained along our western
shores, and appears to be in action, not only in the British seas, but
also along the shores of Norway. We must attribute it to the
influence of warm currents flowing northwards, originating probably
in extensions of the gulf-stream. The body of colder water in the
depths of our seas preserves the original inhabitants of this area,
                                   C 2

20          .         NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS.                 [Feb. 14,
remnants of the fauna of the glacial epoch, overlain and surrounded
by a fauna of later migration, and adapted to a higher temperature.
A curious fact respecting the marine creatures of the Arctic seas
of Europe, viz. that the littoral and laminarian forms are peculiarly
arctic, whilst the deeper species are boreal or Celtic, may be explained
also by the influence of warm currents flowing northwards and
diffusing the germs of species of more southern regions in the
coralline and deep-sea-coral zones ; for in the arctic seas the
temperature of the water is higher at some depth than near the sur
face. On the other hand, we find in a region farther to the south
than Britain, an outlier of the Celtic fauna preserved in the bays of
Asturias, where it was discovered in 1849 by Mr. Mac Andrew; a
very remarkable fact, and one appealed to by the Lecturer as con
firmatory of his theory of an ancient coast extension between
Ireland and Spain.
   There is still much to be done in the investigation of the natural
history of our seas, and many districts remain for more minute
exploration. It is chiefly among articulate animals and especially
among worms that fresh discoveries may be looked for. Yet even
now new and remarkable forms of mollusca may occasionally be
procured, and during the autumn of last year in a cruise with Mr
 Mac Andrew, no fewer than twenty additional Mollusca and Rudiata
 were discovered in the Hebrides, and have just been described by
the Lecturer in conjunction with Professor Goodsir. Among
 these is one of the largest, if not the largest, compound Ascidians
 ever discovered. In our southernmost province fresh and valuable
researches have been conducted during the past year by Professor
 Acland and Dr. Cams, who selecting the Scilly Isles as a field
 for exploration, have filled up a blank in our fauna.
    The Lecturer concluded by an expression of gratification at
 the spread and progress of natural history studies in Great Britain
 among all ranks, and at the love of science manifested in the
 systematic manner in which our fauna and flora have been explored,
 and the beautiful works which have been produced in illustration
 of them.
    Among the objects exhibited in the Library, were — Models of
 Crystals, constructed of cardboard [by Rev. Mr. Mitchell] — 120
 Diamond Crystals [by Jose E. Cliffe, Esq.] — an encrusted Cannon-
 ball found in Godwin's Sands in 1844 [by John Prosser, Esq.] —
 Roberts' Models of the Bow and Stern of Frigate, and of his Method
 of timbering the Bow [by the United Service Institution] — Fossils
 from the London Clay [by J. Tennant, Esq.] — a Leopard, Victoria
 Pigeon, and other birds, mounted by Mr. Bartlett [by the Zoological
 Society] .

  1851.}                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      21
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, February 21.
      THE DUKB OF NORTHUMBERLAND, President, in the Chair.
                             W. CARFMAEL, ESQ.
                        On the Manufacture of Candles.
 FORMERLY the classes of candles manufactured in this country
 were Wax, Spermaceti, and Tallow, the materials being used almost
 in their natural state.
    The manufacture of wax into candles has received no improvement,
 bat is still a rude process, consisting of hanging a series of wicks (each
 composed of several yarns of Smyrna cotton slightly twisted together)
 around a hoop suspended in the air : the workman pours the melted
 wax on to the wicks in succession till the candles are about one-third
 made, when they are allowed to cool for a time : then again the
process of pouring on the melted wax is repeated, till the workman
judges, by sight or by weighing, that the candles are about half
 made ; when they are again allowed to cool and set for a time, after
 which the candles are rolled on a slab of marble. The upper part
 of the candle is formed by cutting away the wax down to a metal
tag, which covers one end of the wick. The candles are then again
suspended to hoops, the end of the wick which had previously hung
downwards being now upwards ; and the process of pouring on
melted wax is again repeated, and the candles finished to the desired
size, when they are again submitted to the process of rolling between
two smooth surfaces ; the lower ends are cut off, and the candles are
finished. The bees' wax employed before being thus used is bleached,
and is generally mixed with a quantity of Spermaceti.
   The next class of candles to which attention was called was Sperma
ceti, of which material many hundreds of tons are annually brought
to this country. This material is in the manufacture of candles
mixed with about three per cent of bees' wax, to prevent the sperma
ceti crystallizing. Formerly Spermaceti candles were inferior to
those made of wax, the same class of wick being used. Some years
ago platted wicks were substituted for the twisted wicks before em
ployed : this was a great step to improvement. Platted wicks have
a tendency to turn out of the flame while being consumed, the effect
of which is to cause the wicks to be burned away, rendering the use
of snuffers unnecessary. Since that time Spermaceti candles, in place

22                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Feb. 21.
of being considered inferior, are preferred by many to candles made
of wax. They are made by pouring the melted material into pewter
moulds in which platted wicks are first inserted, and retained
securely in the centre of the moulds. Other candles are also made
of mixtures of wax and spermaceti, called Composition candles.
   Mr. Carpmael next called attention to the manufacture of Tallow
candle?,— "dips" and "moulds." The former are made, as is
generally known, by suspending several wicks a short distance npart
(each consisting of several cotton yarns) on a rod ; the wicks are
dipped several times into melted tallow ; the coats thus taken up
are allowed to cool and set. The mould candles are produced by
pouring the melted tallow into pewter moulds in which proper
wicks (each of several cotton yarns) are first fixed centrally. These
wicks require snuffing. A great improvement was some years back
introduced into this manufacture by employing cords of cotton as
wicks, which are coiled spirally round wires. The wires and the
coiled wicks are introduced into moulds, and the wires are withdrawn
when the tallow is set. These candles will, however, only burn in
lamps, the turning out of the wicks melting the candles down on one
 side. This improvement introduced a new manufacture of lamps
called Candle-lamps, which of late years have greatly increased in
use ; various sizes of candles being now made, some having as many
 as four wicks, and suitable for large table lamps. This manufacture
 has been greatly improved by the introduction of several means of
 making wicks which will turn out of the flame, and yet will admit
 of being introduced in a straight line within a candle. Attention
 was called to several descriptions of wicks for this purpose : they all
 act, however, on one principle, that of having a preponderance of
 strength on one side, which may be done in a great variety of ways.
 One of the most simple is the ruling of a line on one side with paste,
 which gives additional stiffness or strength to that one side, and such
 wicks in burning turn out of the flames. Following out this prin
 ciple, the wicks may be modified to suit the various requirements of
 the different materials employed in candle-making, each of which
 requires a different character of wick. This was shown by several
 candles being burned having wicks slightly differing from those
 which were best for each particular case, proving that great observa
 tion and skill is requisite in the manufacturer in order to adjust the
 material and wick to each other in every case. Attention was
 also called to the fact, that up to the present time manufacturers have
 not been able to employ platted wicks in wax candles or tallow
 candles.
    Ordinarily in making mould candles the wicks are placed by hand
 into the moulds, and the same are retained fast therein by pegs at one
 end and by wires at the other. A great improvement has been
 introduced into this part of the mechanical processes, by causing the
 candles as they are discharged from the moulds to draw fresh wicks
 into the moulds ; and on the candles being then cut off from the

 1851.]                OF THK ROTAL INSTITUTION.                       23
wicks an instrument takes hold simultaneously of all the wicks and
retains them correctly in position in the several moulds.
     About thirty years ago a celebrated French chemist (Chevreul),
 when investigating the properties of fatty matters, discovered that
 they consisted of certain acids ; and many efforts were made to
 introduce one of the acids (Stearic acid) into the manufacture of
 candles, but with little if any practical effect, owing to its highly
 crystallizing properties. In order to correct this properly, recourse
 was had to the use of Arsenic, which was found to break up the
 crystals ; and candles were extensively made and consumed, rivalling
  Spermaceti in appearance, whilst they were sold at a much less
 price. But public attention having been called to the injurious
  effects produced by the vapours of arsenic thrown off by such
  candles, this greatly increasing manufacture met with a severe
  check ; and if the manufacturer had not discovered a means of
. employing stearic acid without arsenic in the manufacture of candles
  the public would probably have ceased to purchase them. This
  probably is one of the most interesting events in the history of the
  manufacture. On investigation it was discovered that the cause of
  the crystalline character found to prevail in stearic acid candles is
  consequent on the pouring very hot melted stearic acid into cold
  moulds ; and it was found that by pouring the matter when nearly
  set into moulds warmed to about the same temperature as the
  candle-stuff, and by using a small quantity of wax, candles of stearic
   acid can be made possessing very excellent properties. Hence this
   class of candles has of late years very largely prevailed, which, being
  made with suitable platted wicks, like spermaceti candles, do not
  require to be snuffed.
      Another class of candles which came largely into use about the
   same time was produced from the Stearine of Cocoa-nut oil ; but this
   candle required snuffing. A great step of improvement in the manu
   facture of candles resulted from combining these two matters, viz.
   stearic acid of tallow with stearine of the cocoa-nut. It is found
   that stearic acid of tallow burns with a somewhat red flame and is
   liable to smoke ; it contains too large a quantity of carbon : whilst
   the stearine of cocoa-nut oil contains too much hydrogen, and burns
   with a white flame. The effect of combining these two matters was
   to obtain a better flame than either, when used separately. The
   product is cheaper, and will also admit of the use of platted wicks ;
   and the tendency of the stearic acid to crystallize is corrected
   by the employment of the stearine of the cocoa-nut. These candles
    are known by the name of " composite, " and have been sold in
   immense quantities.
      Mr. Carpmael next called attention to the modern introduction
    of Palm-oil in the manufacture of candles, the properties of which
    are peculiarly suited to candle- making. The stearine of it, even in its
    crude state makes excellent '* dip " candles when the quality of the
    light only is considered ; but they are of a bad colour : the palm

24                    NOTICES OP THE MEETINGS                   [Feb. 28,
stearine also makes good lamp-candles : but the great use of Palm-
oil as a candle- stuff is when distilled for this purpose. The crude
oil is first treated with acid to bring it into an acid state, and the
same is then distilled by means of steam, which in its passage from
the boiler passes through a series of pipes heated by a furnace, by
which the steam becomes very highly heated (600° Faht.) and
in that state it enters into the still, and amongst and below the
chemically prepared palm-oil, which is thereby caused to distil over,
and is condensed in suitable apparatus ; the product is preserved : and
by these means a most beautiful material closely resembling spermaceti
is obtained, and from which those modern manufacture of candles
now so largely and so well known as Belmont sperm and Belmont
wax are produced.
    The table was largely supplied with candles of every description
of manufacture, by which the peculiarities of each class could be
readily pointed out, and examined.
     In the Library were exhibited :— Views of Alpine Passes [by
George Barnard, Esq.] — Ancient Greek Lamps [by the United
Service Institution] — Mr. Thomson's Letter Copier [by Mr. Thomp
son,] —And from the Royai Institution Museum, Models of a Mode
of raising stones for building (suggested by Mr. Perigal to have been
employed in constructing the Pyramids) ; Candles employed by
Colliers before the invention of the Safety Lamp ; Model showing
circulation of fluids ; Minerals, Animal Concretions, &c.
                    of Northumberland,
       The Duke WEEKLY     Professor
                             On
                          Friday,
                              EVENING
                                  Lighthouses.
                                   February
                                         Cowper,
                                             President,
                                             MEETING,
                                              28.       in the Chair.
 The difficulties so successfully surmounted in the construction of the
 Eddystone, the Bell Rock, and the Skerrevore Lighthouses, and the
 philosophy of their brilliant light, renders them eminent objects of
that scientific interest which belongs to all similar structures.
   • The Eddystone Lighthouse, having been built of wood in 1698, was
 carried away five years after its erection. It was shortly afterwards re
 constructed of the same material, the lower part being filled with stone
 or concrete ; it then lasted for forty years, when it was consumed by
 fire. In 1759 Smeaton completed the present lighthouse, which is

1851.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       25
68 feet high, and the base 26 feet in diameter, (being barely less
than the surface of the rock on which it stands). It is built of
stone; the stones are dovetailed together, and "joggled" as it is
termed, so as to prevent the courses of stones from sliding on each
other. It is situated in the midst of the sea, nine or ten miles distant
from Plymouth.
    The Bell-rock Lighthouse stands on a rock of the same name on
the east coast of Scotland. It is surrounded by the sea, and is 100
feet high, and 42 feet in diameter at the base. It was built by
 Robert Stevenson, and finished in 1810. Its construction is similar
 to that of the Eddystone.
    The Skerrevore Lighthouse was built by Alan Stevenson, son of
the architect of the Bell Rock Lighthouse. The mass of stone in this
structure is more than double that used in the Bell Rock, and
 five times that contained in the Eddystone. The tower is 138 feet
 high, and the diameter at the base is 42 feet. It stands on a gneiss
 rock, the area of which is just large enough for the foundation. In
 constructing this lighthouse, the architect appears to have chiefly
 relied on the weight, rather than on the extension of the materials,
 for efficient resistance to the impact of the waves. The stones were
 not dovetailed or joggled, but tree-nails were used merely to keep
 the work together during its erection.
     Several lighthouses have of late years been constructed of cast iron.
 One designed by Mr. Alexander Gordon, and made by Messrs.
 Cottam and Hallen, has been erected at Bermuda ; it is 130 feet
 high.
     Messrs Walker and Burgess have recently constructed efficient
  lighthouses on iron piles, which are fixed in the sand by means of a
 •screw, invented by Mitchel. The Maplin and Chapman lights, at the
  mouth of the Thames, and those at Fleetwood and Belfast, are on
  this principle. Professor Cowper invited attention to the mode in
  which these structures are rendered compact by means of cast-iron
  braces.
     The Sources of Light and mode of diffusing it were next adverted
 to.
     Common fires, first of wood, and then of coals, were originally
  used to furnish light. A coal fire was employed for this purpose in
 the Isle of May for 1 80 years (as late as the year 1816). Tallow candles
  succeeded ; — candles fastened on wooden rods (as they are sometimes
 seen arranged before booths in fairs,) were burnt in the Eddystone
  Lighthouse for 40 years after it was completed by Smeaton. Then
  came lamps with twisted-cotton wicks, and then common Argand
 lamps : all these however are now superseded by—(A.) Argand lamps
 and reflectors ; (B) one Argand lamp, with lenses and reflecting mir
  rors ; and (C) one Argand lamp with lenses and reflecting prisms.
     Mr. Cowper here illustrated the laws of reflection by several
  models, diagrams, and familiar examples. As instances of refraction,
  he alluded to the line of light produced on rippling water by the

26                     NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS                  [Feb. 28.
rays of the sun or moon ; each wave may (in common with every
curved surface) be considered as a polygon having an infinite number
of sides : there must therefore be some side in such a position as
will reflect the light. The same effect was produced by a row of
glass rods placed side by side ; reference was also made to a looking-
glass casting the sunshine on the wall,— to reflectors placed at a
window to exhibit objects in the street,— to the glow in the sky pro
duced by a burning house ; this appearance being half-way between
the spectator and the conflagration, occasions continual mistake as to
the locality of the fire.
     A. Argand lamps and reflectors.— Having exemplified the princi
  ple upon which light is reflected, Mr. Cowper demonstrated,
  by means of a series of small mirrors which were moveable on a
  fixed axis, that if a light were placed in the focus of a paraboloid,
  the rays would be reflected parallel. This is done in those light
  houses where reflectors are employed.—The difficulty of shaping
  paraboloids was referred to, and it was mentioned that they were
  raised from a flat sheet of metal by the hammer. The arrange
  ment of the lamp and reflector was described ; and the halo-like dif
  fusion of the light, consequent on the impossibility of concentrating
  the luminous point in the focus of the parabola, was noticed.
      In connexion with this part of his subject, Mr. Cowper,
  dwelt on the distinction between a fixed and a revolving light. The
  former, being intended to be visible all round the horizon, requires
  more lamps than the latter ; when three rows of twelve lamps, each
  row being in contact, are arranged in a circular form, the three
  lamps which are in a vertical line immediately opposite to the spec
  tator, afford a strong light, while the three on either side are less
      With respect
  distinctly         to the
              seen, the   parallel
                              revolving
                                   rays lights,—
                                         describedsupposing 28 lamps
                                                    not reaching       ar
                                                                  his eye.
  ranged on the four sides of a parallelopipedon ; then, as the figure
  revolves, each side will present seven lamps in succession. These,
  by shining at once, will produce a much stronger light than the fixed
   light. The duration of this effect will, however, be short ; because,
  as each side is turned away from the spectator, the light will decrease
  rapidly ; this will be succeeded by darkness, and this darkness will
   in its turn be dispersed by a rapidly increasing light.
      Mr. Cowper proceeded to state that so satisfactory had
  been the result of metal reflectors in lighthouses, that there
  seemed small scope for improvement, until Fresnel devised the
   application of lenses, and also reflecting prisms in combination with
   lenses, to a single large lamp.
      To make this invention clearly understood, Mr. Cowper ex
   plained the general laws of the reflection of light, and illustrated
   his explanations by various diagrams and models.
      B. One Argand lamp, lenses, and reflecting mirrors. —Having shown
   that light on passing through a triangular prism of glass is refracted
   towards iti base, Mr. Cowper applied this principle to the con

  1851.]             OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       27
 strnction of a lens which he derived from two long thin prisms
 placed base to base. He demonstrated that diverging rays of light,
 admitted on one side of such a solid, would issue parallel on the
 other side.
    There are great practical difficulties in fabricating a large glass
 lens. Condorcet and Brewster suggested, and Fresnel effected,
 the construction of a lens of separate prisms, all unnecessary glass
 being removed. Diagrams of such lenses were shown ; and it was
 stated that they were used with a single large lamp placed in the
 focus of the lens. In this position, however, as was shown, all the
 rays which passed above and beneath the lens might escape. To
 intercept the rays Fresnel placed silvered glass mirrors at the
 proper angles.
     Fresnel also made a polygon of straight lenticular prisms pro
 ducing a long line of strong light : but the greatest improvement
 effected by this great philosopher was the substitution of reflecting
 pri&ns for mirrors, thus introducing—
     C. The principle of lighting by one Argand lamp, lenses, and re
 flecting prisms.—Mr. Cowper here demonstrated, by an apparatus
 contrived for the purpose, that when light is incident on the second
  surface of a prism, it may fall so obliquely that the surface cannot
  refract it, and that therefore this incident light is totally reflected
  fiom the second surface. Thus, if a ray enters the glass prism
  so as to make the angle of incidence greater than 41° 49' it is
  totally reflected.
   Mr. Cowper showed how this principle is applied in light
houses. He stated that the first light of this kind, on a large scale,
was put up by Alan Stevenson at the Skcrrevore ; and that, in 1843
Fresnel tried its illuminating powers against those of mirrors, and
found the superiority to be in proportion of 140 to 87.
    " On this subject," said Mr. Cowper in conclusion, " one is
" struck with the intensity and exclusiveness of thought devoted to
" each part of the whole matter. The Admiralty intensely desire a
" lighthouse on a particular spot.          The Engineer is intensely
" occupied in surveying, levelling, and building ; and with a per-
" severance almost superhuman, he continues his work during two or
" three years on the edge of a rock just showing itself above the
" waves. He makes a temporary barrack on wooden piles on some
" adjacent point. This is all swept away in one night. He builds
" it again, and is obliged to live in it for fourteen days together, the
" weather preventing all access to it. Presently, however, a tower
" 138 ft. high stands securely fixed on the exact spot assigned to it.
" But the Philosopher has also been at work, quietly but intensely
" considering the laws of reflection and refraction, and has contrived a
" glass prism of a new form, — without a thought of standing knee-
 " deep in water twelve miles from land. The glass prisms and lamp
 " are now mounted on the tower, and confided to the keepers. These
 " men have no careless task. If they have many lamps, as in a

 28                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [Feb. 28,
 " revolving light, the going out of one is comparatively immate-
 " rial ; but when one light only is used, life and death hang on its
 "burning. Their intensity of thought is to keep it lighted.— In the
 " ship that is approaching are two small instruments, the quadrant
 " and the chronometer (the products of science) ; with these the
 " Captain will ascertain his position on the trackless ocean. He
 " probably regards neither the construction of the lighthouse nor
 " its beautiful light. His intense interest is to see it.— He says, ' If
 " I have calculated rightly by my instruments, and made allowance
 " for the convexity of the earth, at such an hour the light will come
 " into view.' Judge of his delight when it meets his eye ! It is as
 " if his country watched for his return, and welcomed him home."
    [*,,,* For further information the Members are referred to Mr.
 Alan Stevenson's Rudimentary Treatise on the History/ Con
 struction, and Illumination of Lighthouses, illustrated by plates
 and diagrams, published by Mr. Weale, 59, High Holborn.]
    In the Library, were exhibited : —
Model of Lantern of Eddystone Lighthouse [by Mr. Wilkins,]
   and Smeaton's Account of the Eddystone Lighthouse [from the
   Royal Institution Library].
Fishes from the Mediterranean, preserved by Capt. Graves, R.N.,
   and the Officers of the Mediterranean Survey [by Professor E.
   Forbes] .
Photographs, principally taken in Paris, by Sir W. J. Newton [by
   Rev. J. Barlow, Sec. R. I.].
Models of Revolving lights for Steamers, of Tide Indicator at
   Ramsgate, and of Pratt's Pier for Tidal Rivers [from the Society
   of Arts].
   Signal
Model          46-gun&c.
         of aLantern  Frigate
                         [fromwith
                               the United
                                   Roberts's   Circular
                                          Service        Bow, a Danish
                                                    Institution].
   Mr. Faraday exhibited a Magnet, made by Haecker of Nurem
berg, weighing 36 grains, capable of supporting 5280 grains,
being one hundred andforty six times its own weight.
   It will be remembered that the expression of force deduced by M.
Hoecker from the examination of a great number of magnets is
p = 10 n f.

1851.]                 OP THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         29
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, March 3.
     William Pole, Esq., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
  Benjamin Gibbons, Esq.                    Adam Murray, Jun. Esq.
  Edward H. Keeling, Esq.                   James Scott, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   Francis Bayley, Esq.                      Lady Herschel.
   John J. Bigsby, M.D.F.G.S. &c.            Edwin Lankester.M.D. F.R.S.
   William F.. Cowell, Esq.                  The Lord Moreton.
  Edward Dumergue, Esq.                      William Morgan, Esq.
  William Henry Fisher, Esq.                 Henry Twining, Esq.
  Fred. Solly Flood, Esq.                    Athelstane Willcock, Esq.
   Rev. Joseph Hambleton, B. D.              James S. Willes, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Vacancy in the Fullerian Professorship of Physiology was
announced, and the Members were informed, that, in pursuance of the
Trust Deed, a Professor would be elected by the Managers on the
8th of July, 1851, at 4 o'clock, P.M.
   The Secretary reported that the following Courses of Lectures
would be delivered after Easter, viz.
   Six Lectures on some Points of Electrical Philosophy — by Pro
      fessor Faraday.
   Seven Lectures on Cosmical Philosophy — by Rev. Professor
      Baden
   Seven       Powell,
           Lectures        of Oxford. and Construction — by Professor
                      on Manufactures
      Edward Cowper, of King's College, London.
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members
  From      ordered to be returned for the same :—
Dr. G. A. Mantell (the Author) — On the Remains of Man and Works of Art
   imbedded in Rocks and Strata. 8vo. 1850.
M. Faraday, Esq. Full. Prof. Chem. R. I. — Abhandlungen der Koniglichen
    Akademie zu Berlin, 1840 — 1848. 11 vols. 4to.
  Monatsberichte derselben. Jan.—April, 1836. Jan.—Dec. 1850. 8vo.
  Bulletins de la Classe Physico-Mathematique de l'Academie Imperiale des
    Sciences de St. Petersbourg. Tome IX. No. 1 — 6. 4to.
The Geological Society. — Quarterly Journal, Vol. VII. No. 25. 8vo. 1851.
The Franklin Institute— Journal, Vol. XIX. 3rd Series. 1850.

30                          notices op the meetings.              [March 3, 1851.
 TheJ.
Sir   Zoological
        W. Lubbock
     8vo.    1851.Society
                      (the. —
                            Author).
                               Transactions,
                                     — On the      IV. Part Projection
                                             Vol.Gnomonic              of the Sphere.
                                                            I. 4to. 1850.
The Duke of Northumberland, Pres. R. I. — Report of Select Committee on the
    British Museum, fol. 1836.
   Report on Accidents in Coal Mines, fol. 1849.
    fol. 1850.
   Report   on the Ventilation of Mines in Collieries; by J. Phillips, Esq., F.R.S.
     1849. on the Application of Iron to Railway Structures, with Plans,
   Report                                                                         fol.
   Report on the Selection of Stone for the New Houses of Parliament, fol.
     1839.
   Report on Smithfield Market, fol. 1850.
   First Report of Metropolitan Sanitary Commission, fol. 1847.
John Prosser, Esq. Life-Sub. R. I.— An Historical and Geographical Descrip
    tion of Formosa, by George Psalmanazar. 8vo. 1704.
   The Anti-Jacobin, or Weekly Examiner [Edited by W. Gifford.] 2 vol.
    8vo. 1799.
The Royal Institute of British Architects — Proceedings for Feb. 1851. 4to.
The Institution of Civil Engineers —Proceedings for Feb. 1851. 8vo.
The Duke of Somerset, M.R.I, (the Author) — ATreatise in which the Elementary
    Properties of the Ellipse are deduced from the Properties of the Circle, and
    Geometrically demonstrated. 2nd Edition. 12mo. 1843.
   Alternate Circles and their Connexion with the Ellipse. 12mo. 1850.
Her Majesty's Government — Observations on Days of Unusual Magnetic Dis
    turbance, made at the British Colonial Magnetic Observatories ; printed
    under the superintendence of Lieut.-Col. Edw. Sabine. Vol. I. Part 2.
    4to. 1851.
Col. Philip J. Yorke. F.R.S. M.R.I.—Tableau Orographique de la Chaine des
    Pyrenées, composé par Emilien Froissard. (On a sheet.) 1849.
The Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 214. 8vo. 1850.
      Linnean
TheList         Society 1850.
         of Fellows.    — Proceedings, 1849-50, No. 41—43. 8vo.
The Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society — Index to Medico-Chirurgical
    Transactions, Vol. I. to XXXIII. 8vo. 1S51.
C. D. Archibald, Esq., M.R.I.—Specimens of Oxide of Manganese.
Wm. Pole, Esq. Treasurer R. I.— Specimens of Crystals (Hydrolite or Gme-
     linite) in Amygdaloid Rock.
W. R. Hamilton, Esq., M.R.I. — Piece of Fossil Rock from Cerigo.
Sir Roderick I. Murchison, M.R.I.—Portrait of Sir R. I. Murchison, engraved by
   W. Walker. 1851.

                       [FOR THE USE OF MUM IlKRS.l
             Koral institution of dsreat iBritain,
                                     1851.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, March 7.
•
         THK DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, President, in the Chair.
                 SIR RODERICK   IMFKY
                      On the former      MURCHISON,
                                     Changes            V.P.R.S.
                                               of the Alps.
     THS complicated structure of the Alps so haffled the penetration of
    De Saussure, that after a life of toil the first great historian of those
    mountains declared " there was nothing constant in them except
    their variety." In citing this opinion, Sir Roderick explained how
    the obscurity had been gradually cleared away by the application of
    modern geology, as based upon the succession of organic remains, and
    then proceeded to indicate the accumulations of which the Alps were
    composed, and the changes or revolutions they had undergone,
   between the truly primaeval days when the earliest recognizable
   animals were created, and the first glacial period in the history of
   the planet.
      The object being to convey in a popular manner clear ideas of
   the physical condition of these mountains at different periods,
   three long scene-paintings, prepared for the occasion, represented a
   portion of the chain at three distinct epochs. The first of these
   views of ancient nature exhibited the Alps as a long, low archi
   pelago of islands, formed in great part out of the Silurian and older
  sediments which had been raised above the sea, when the lands bore
  the tropical vegetation of the carboniferous era.
      Stating that there were no relics in the Alps of the formations to
  which he had assigned the name of Permian, as marking the close of
  the primaeval or palaeozoic age, Sir Roderick rapidly reviewed the facts
  gathered together by many geologists from all quarters of the globe,
  and maintained that they unequivocally sustained the belief, that
  there had been a succession of creations from lower to higher types
  of life, in ascending from inferior to superior formations. He care
  fully, however, noted the clear distinction between such a creed, as
  founded on the true records of creation, and the theory of transmu
  tation of species ; a doctrine put forth in the popular work entitled
  the " Vestiges of Creation," and from which he entirely dissented.
     In the second painting (an immense lapse of time having occurred)
       No. 3.                                                   D

32                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [March 7,
the Alps were represented as a mountainous ridge in which all the
submarine formations, from the mediaeval up to the older tertiary or
Eocene, had been lifted up upon the flank of the primaeval rocks.
Each rock system being distinguished by a colour peculiar to it, the
nature of the animals contained in each of these deposits was suc
cinctly touched upon. Between the youngest of the primaeval
formations and the oldest of the mediaeval or secondary rocks, it
was stated, that there is not one species in common to the two in
any part of Europe ; the expression being that " an entirely new
creation had succeeded to universal decay and death."
    In speaking of the Alpine equivalents of the British Lias and
Oolites, Sir R. paid a deep-felt tribute to Dr. Buckland, who thirty
years ago had led the way in recognizing this parallel ; and Leopold
von Buch was particularly alluded to as having established these and
 other comparisons, and as having shown the extent to which large
portions of these mountains have been metamorphosed from an earthy
into a crystalline state. In treating of the cretaceous system it was
shown that the Lower Green Sand of England, so well and so long
ago illustrated by Dr. Fitton, was represented in the Alps by large
masses of limestone, since called Neocomian by foreign geologists.
    Emphasis was laid upon the remarkable phenomena, that every
 where in the south of Europe (as in the Alps) the Nummulite rocks,
 with the ' flysch ' of the Swiss, and the ' macigno ' of the Italians,
 have been raised up into mountains together with the Hippurite and
 Inocerami rocks, or the chalk on which they rest ; and hence it was,
 that before Sir R. made his last survey of the Alps, the greater
 number of geologists classed the Nmnmulite rocks with the cretaceous
 system, and considered them both to be of mediaeval or secondary
age. But judging from the fossils which differ entirely from those
 of the chalk (except at the beds of junction) and also from their su
 per-position, he had referred these Nummulite rocks to the true
 lower tertiary or Eocene of Lyell. Beds of this age, though once
 merely dark-coloured mud, have been converted into the hard
 slates of Glarus with their fossil fishes (among which eels and her
 rings first made their appearance) ; other strata of this date contain
 the well known fishes of Monte Bolea ; and others again have been
 rendered so crystalline amid the peaks of the Alps as to resemble
 primary rocks, so intense have been the metamorphoses !
    Dwelling for a few minutes on the atmospheric conditions which
 prevailed after the elevation of 'the older tertiary, Sir R. inferred
 that a Mediterranean and genial climate prevailed during all the
 long period whilst the beds of sand (Molasse) and of pebbles (Na-
 gelflue) were accumulating under the waters both of lakes and of the
 eea, and when derived from the slopes of all the pre-existing rocks.
 The marine portions of the Molasse and Nagelflue contain the re
 mains of many species of shells now living in the Mediterranean ;
 whilst in alternating and overlying strata, charged exclusively with
  land and fresh water animals, not one species among many bun

1851.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       33
dreds, including
living.             numerous
           This point,  on which
                               insects,
                                    he first
                                        is identical  on his
                                             insisted with      form from
                                                           anyreturn non
the Alps in 1848, Sir R. had considered to be of paramount im
portance in proving, that terrestrial life was much less endowed with
the capacity to resist physical changes of the surface than submarine
life ; for here we have a fauna which is Pliocene in the order of
the strata, and yet is not Eocene in its animal and vegetable con
tents.
     A certain number of the more remarkable animals that lived during
this younger tertiary age were then adverted to, such as the Rhino
ceros and other large quadrupeds, the fossil Viverrine fox (the
original of which was on the table), the huge Salamander (Andrias
 Scheuchzeri) and a Chelydra which had been described as analogous to
 the snapping turtle of the southern states of North America. These,
 with quantities of plants, including small palms, were all indicatives
 of a warm and genial climate ; and on such sure grounds the second
 diagram placed the Alps before the spectators as covered with a
 suitable vegetation, and with several of the abovementioned animals
 in the foreground.
     Having satisfied himself, in common with M. Studer, M. Escher,
 and all the geologists who have well explored the Alps, that every
 where along their northern flank a terrific dislocation has occurred,
 amounting in many places to a total inversion of mountains, be
 tween the older Tertiary and those younger deposits which were
  accumulated under the waters during the period he had just been
  describing, Sir Roderick then briefly pointed out that he had demon
  strated in detail elsewhere : viz. that the sands and pebble-beds of
 that age had been suddenly heaved up from beneath the waters all
  along the outer or northern flank of the chain, so as to form
  mountainous masses, the inverted and truncated ends of which had
  been forced under the edges of the very rocks out of whose detritus
  they had been formed.
     Before this great revolution had taken place no large erratic
  blocks were known, but after it they became common, and were the
  necessary production of that intensely cold climate to which the Alps
  were then subjected ; a change of which their surface bears distinct
  evidence.
     During the same period the low countries of northern Europe
  were covered by an Arctic sea. If such waters then extended to
  the Jura and the Alps, icebergs and rafts must have been detached
   from the latter, carrying away blocks of stone northwards, to be
   dropped at intervals, just as it has been demonstrated that the
   Scandinavian blocks were dropped in Prussia, Poland, and the low
   lands of Russia, when all those regions were under the influence
   of an Arctic sea. Bavaria, and the lower parts of the Cantons Vaud,
   Neufchatel, and Berne, were, it is supposed, then covered by waters
   which bathed the foot of the Alps.
      That the change from a former genial climate to the first great

34                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [March 7.
period of cold was a sudden one is further sustained by the fact,
that the inclined strata in which the Mediterranean animals are
buried, are at once covered transgressively and unconformably by other
beds of gravel, shingle, and mud, in which the remains of plants an9
animals are those of a cold climate.
    The third scene, therefore, exhibited the sands and pebbles of the
genial period thrown up into mountains on the flanks of the chain,
the peaks of which were probably covered for the first time with
snow, and from the openings of which, whether protruding to the
sea-shore or into deep fiords or bays, glaciers and their moraines
advanced, from which ice-bergs or rafts were floated away as sug
gested.
    In concluding Sir Roderick thus expressed himself : — " Having
" thus now conducted you rapidly through the most prominent
" changes which the Alps have undergone, from the first period when
" they had emerged, probably as an archipelago of low islands in a
'• tropical climate, to that epoch when the animals and plants living
" upon them indicated a Mediterranean temperature, and then to that
" Arctic period, the conditions of which I have just been discussing,
" I have no longer to call for your assent to any inferences of
" the geologist, which all of you are not perfectly competent to un-
" derstand.
    " To convert the Alps of the earliest glacial period into the Alps
" of the present day, you have only to figure them to yourselves, as
" raised 2000 or 3000 feet above the altitude which they are sup
posed to have in the diagram last exhibited. All their main
" features remaining the same, you would then have before you, the
" present Alps and their valleys, irrigated by lakes and rivers instead
" of bays ; and in place of the waters sketched in beyond them as
" in the painting, with ice-bergs floating upon them, you will then
" have dry mounds of gravel, sand, and blocks, which were accumu-
" lated under the former waters ; such, in a word, as now constitute
" low hills and valleys and all the richest land of Switzerland and
" Bavaria, where man has replaced the rhinoceros and turtles of one
" period, and the icebergs of another.      You who have not visited
"this noble chain, and who wish to judge of its gorges, peaks, and
" precipices have only to consult the views of our associate Brocke-
" don, in order to have nature in her present mood, brought in the
" most telling manner before you. But those of you who really
" wish to grapple with the geological wonders of former days, may
" look at the flanks of the Rigi from the lake of Lucerne, whence,
" even from the deck of the rapidly passing steamer, you will see
" how that great pile of pudding-stone, every pebble of which
" has been derived from rocks in the chain more ancient than itself,
" has been lifted up from beneath the waters in the manner re-
" presented ; whilst if you continue the same traverse up the Lake to
" Altorf, you will pass by numerous extraordinary folds and breaks of
" the secondary limestones, and of the older Tertiary or Nummulitic

  1851.]              OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       35
  " rocks. Such a doubling or crumpling up of these strata, you may
  " then perchance agree with me in thinking, was in a great measure
  "the result of lateral pressure between two great masses; the crys
 talline centre of the chain upon the South, and the newly upraised
 " deposits on the North, of which the Rigi is a small part only, which
 " latter having been intruded upon the terrestrial surface, necessarily
 "compressed the pre-existing formations into a smaller compass.
 " If more adventurous, you should climb to peaks rising to 8000 or
 " 9000 feet above the sea, that flank the central summits, you may
 "there satisfy yourself, that deposits, which were once mere mud,
 " formed during the same time as our slightly consolidated London
 " Clay, have been in many parts converted into schists and slates as
 " crystalline as many of the so-called primary rocks of our islands.
 " So intense has been the metamorphosis !
    " In speaking of the last changes of the Alps as stupendous, I
" know it may be said that, in reference to the diameter of the planet,
" the highest of these mountains and the deepest of these valleys are
" scarcely perceptible corrugations of the rind of the earth. But
" when we compare such asperities with all other external features of
" this rind, they are truly stupendous. How, for example, can the
" observer travel over vast surfaces such as Russia, and not be able
" there to detect a single disruption — not one great fracture, and
" no outbursts whatever of igneous and volcanic rocks ; but, on the
" contrary, a monotonous and horizontal sequence of former aqueous
" deposits, which, simply dried up, have never been disturbed by any
" violent revolutions from beneath, and then compare them with the
" adjacent Ural mountains, or still better with the loftier Alps, and
" not be impressed with the grandeur of such changes ?
    " And here my auditors will recollect, that even beneath and
" around this metropolis they can be assured by finding extinct
"fossil mammalia, that such also have been the changes, though on
" a less scale, in our own country. The large extinct British
" quadrupeds necessarily required a great range for their sustenance.
" They had doubtlessly roamed from distant tracts to our lands
" before the straits of Dover were formed arid before the British
" dominions were broken into isles. Our great insular dislocations
" were, I conceive, coincident with that striking phenomenon in the
"Alps on which I have tried to rivet your attention, when the first
" glacial and icy period affected so large a portion of this hemisphere,
" and when large portions of our northern lands formed the bot-
" toms of an Arctic sea. But such tracts were bidden to rise again
" from beneath the waters and constitute the present continents
" and islands before man was placed on the surface. Our race, in
" short, was not created until the greater revolutions of which
" I have treated had passed away.
   " These grand dislocations belong, therefore, distinctly to former
" epochs of nature, and their magnitude is enormous when compared
" with any thing which passes under our eyes, or has been recorded

36                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [March 7,
" in human history. At the same time geologists have shown upon
" clear evidences, that during the long and comparatively tranquil
" former period which intermitted with geological revolutions, there
" was a constant exhibition of diurnal agencies similar to those which
" prevail in the present world. In those older times, rain must have
" fallen as now, — volcanic forces must have been active in scattering
" ashes far and wide, and in spreading them out together with sheets
" of lava beneath the waters, — gradual movements of oscillation
" and moderate elevations and depressions must have occurred, — long
" continued abrasion of the sides of mountains must have produced
"copious accumulations of 'debris' to encroach upon lakes, the
" overflow or bursting of which may have sterilized whole tracts.
   " AH such and many more modifications of the ancient surfaces of
" the globe, including many slight breaks in the long career, were
" doubtlessly common to all epochs. But whilst no such operations
" can be compared with those phenomena of disruption and over-
" turning of mountain masses which have been specially dwelt upon
" this evening, so also according to my view it is impossible, that any
" amount of small agencies, if continued for millions of years, could
" have produced such results.
   " In thus attempting to shadow out in the space of an hour all the
" chief formations and transmutations of a chain like the Alps, I have
" probably laboured to effect what many persons may deem impossi-
" ble ; but I have thought that some at least of these evening dis-
" courses should awaken the mind to the larger features of each
" science, the details of which must be followed out in courses of
" lectures. I would beg, therefore, those persons who have not
" studied geology practically, to dwell chiefly on the facts brought
" forward, and to believe that they are indisputably and clearly
"proven. They tell us unmistakeably how different creations of
" animal and vegetable life are entombed in these vast monuments
" of ancient nature, and they reveal to us that each creation of the
" successive inhabitants of the surface lived during very long periods
" of time. They announce to us, in emphatic language, how
" ordinary operations of accumulation were continued tranquilly
" during very lengthened epochs, and how such tranquillity was
" broken in upon by great convulsions.
   " Being thus led to ponder upon the long history of successive races
" and also upon some of the most wonderful physical revolutions the
" chain has undergone, we cannot avoid arriving at the belief, that,
" in addition to many other great operations, the disruption which
" upheaved the middle and younger Tertiary formations from beneath
" the waters, and threw them up into mountain masses accompanying
" the production of the first great arctic period known in the history
" of the planet, was a change of inmeasurable intensity. That change,
" in short, by which a period of snow, ice, glaciers, floating ice-bergs,
" and the transport of huge erratics far from the sources of their
" origin, suddenly followed a genial and Mediterranean clime ! "
                                                                R. I. M.

  1851.]              OF THE' ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     37
    In the Library, were exhibited :—
 A Series of Original Views of the Alps by W. Brockedon, Esq.
 Talbotypes taken in Italy by E. Kater, Esq., M. R. I.
  Specimens and drawings of the Caddis-wormj by Mr. T. L.
    Shuckard.
 Centrifugal Pump, by Mr. Appold.
 Fish from the Lias, Barrow-on-Sour [by Mr. Tennant] ; &c. &c.
    A horseshoe magnet, made by M. Logeman of Haarlem accord
 ing to the instructions of M. Elias, was placed on the table by Mr.
 Faraday. Its weight was 098 of a pound and it could carry above
  27 lbs. In the expression of the force of a horseshoe magnet de
 duced by M. Ha^cker (p. 28), the power of a magnet of n kilo
 grammes weight is 10.33 n |- ; in the present case the co-efficient,
 instead of being 10'33, is double that amount.
              Sirpoints
         On some   Charles
                  WEEKLYin the
                            Friday,
                              Fellows,
                               EVENING
                               Physiology
                               Dr. March
                                     Gull,
                                        V.of14.
                                            MEETING,
                                            P.  in the Chair.
                                              Voluntary  Movement.
 The Lecturer began with some observations upon the distinctions
 which exist between voluntary movements and the phenomena of
 motion in dead or inorganic masses. In voluntary movement the
 stimulus is within and independent, the elements which are brought
into play are numerous and complex, and the result is the fulfilment
 of a purpose designed by the individual.
    On the contrary inorganic movements are due to an impulse from
without : the motion is more general, and does not fulfil any direct
design.
    In the constitution of animals, besides those which are voluntary,
there exists the mechanism for a number of subordinate movements,
which, although they do not present a complete gradation to the
inorganic forms of motor force, yet follow directly from the physical
structure of the body, and are altogether independent of the con
sciousness and will of the individual.
    The object of the Lecturer was to show the relation of voluntary
movements to this substratum of natural actions.
    In order to elucidate the subject, attention was first drawn to the
vertebrate skeleton for swimming, flying, burrowing, leaping, running,
and walking, and to the purpose which governs these modifications ;

  38                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [March 14,
  namely, variety of voluntary movement according to the particular
  requirements of each animal.
      Man, by his adaptation to the erect position, presents the highest
  illustration of this vertebrate intention. His anterior extremities,
  not being employed in locomotion, are left free to become the minis
  ters of more subtle volitions, to which they are well fitted by the
  unfettered condition of their parts, and by their capability of forming
  an almost infinite variety of combinations.
      On reviewing the extent and kind of movement enjoyed by the dif
  ferent members of the animal kingdom, it seems probable, that in
  many of the lower forms, the phenomena are of an entirely physical
  nature, and that voluntary power is not manifested until we have a
  corresponding developement of the senses.
      The expression " Corpus animale machina muscularis " is rightly
  applied to that apparatus of bones, muscles, nerves, and myelon*
  which is arranged for our use and subordinated to our will. Nor
  is there anything contradictory to freedom in the admission of a
  pre-arranged mechanism to minister to voluntary action. The law
  of limitation is expressed in the anatomical structure of the parts.
  In the lower animals this is very obvious :— for instance, although
  the bird has the power of employing its wing at will, yet in the wing
  itself there is limitation to certain kinds of movement, namely, to
  folding or extending it, but there is no freedom for other motions.
  What is true of the coarser parts seems to apply to the more delicate
  arrangements in the nervous structure, although they are too
. delicate for our present means of unravelling and displaying them,
  and we are left to read their anatomy by the physiological phenomena
  they present.
     The characters of the myelon which entitle it to be considered
  an independent element of the nervous system were brought under
  notice. Its developement at different parts bears a proportion to the
  corresponding segments of the skeleton. In illustration, its uniform
  size in the viper, and the cervical and lumbar enlargements in the bird,
  as also the mode in which the nerves are connected with it, were demon
  strated. The anatomy of a plexus seems to give us a striking proof of
  myelonic origin of nerves, as opposed to the theory which admits of
  their direct continuity upwards through the myelon to the brain.
  When the motions of the segments of the skeleton are simple, as occurs
  throughout the whole length of the body in the viper, and in the
  cervical and dorsal regions in the bird, the nerves arise by single
  roots ; but where the nervous supply is to parts complicated in their
  structure and adapted for varied movements, the nerves arise by
  many roots. Thus if we divide the nerves of the brachial plexus of
  the bird into four sets, one for folding the wing, one for unfolding
  it, one to go to the strong muscles of the shoulder, and one to the
     • This term ii used as first proposed by Professor Owen, to designate the
  series of nervous centres commonly called Spinal Chord.

1851.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       39
scapular muscles, we find that each of these sections is connected by
four distinct roots with the common myelonic centre.
   In man five segments enter into the formation of the en
largement from which the nerves of the brachial plexus are
derived, and the different sets above enumerated may be shown to
have connexions for the most part with the whole of them, or at
least with four out of five. For instance, the nerve which supplies
the muscles for extending the arm and the fingers (radio-spiral), if
traced to the myelon, will be found to divide into five roots, and the
same may be said of the nerves belonging to the other sets. These
facts can scarcely admit of any other explanation than that here
given, namely, myelonic origin.
   The independent mechanism of this system was illustrated by
reference to the ordinary functions of breathing, swallowing, the
motions of decapitated animals, and some morbid states.
   The supposed existence of two systems in the body for motion, —
one mechanical, having its roots in the myelon, and the other voli
tional, having its roots in the brain, — was considered inadmissible.
   There is probably but one system, namely the myelonic, which is
subordinated in different degrees to the encephalon (brain), according
to the purposes it is intended to subserve. Those parts of it which are
in communication with the nerves supplying the extremities, are com
pletely subordinated. Others, as for instance those which give
origin to the nerves of respiration and deglutition, only partially so;
by this subordination, animals have the power of producing their
various volitional movements through the instrumentality of a system
whose power is in itself, but under the restraint and direction of the
will.
   On considering the steps of the process by which we use this
mechanism, it will be readily admitted, that subjectively, we have little
or no influence. Thus, however well we may be acquainted with the
structure and position of the muscles and nerves of our arms, we
cannot excite directly any one of them we may desire to select. Such
power, if we possessed it, would be altogether useless, inasmuch as by
far the largest number of men, and all animals, must ever remain
ignorant of their own structure. On the other hand an objective
intention instantly calls forth the means necessary to produce the
desired result. As by the principles of common sense (using this ex
pression as Reid used it) we refer sensations to the objects producing
them, so in the use of our muscular machine we have no other guide
or power than this objective one, which our proper constitution sup
plies.
   The relation of external impressions to resultant movements is
therefore of particular interest. It has been already stated, that some
animal movements are merely physical (auto-myelonic) excited by
external impressions and unattended by any consciousness. Next to
these and in close alliance with them are movements also following
directly from an external impression, which although it be felt, still

 40                     NOTICE* ; OV TKB MEETINGS               [March 14,
 the movement is spontaneous and not willed. For instance, a ray of
 light falling on the sensitive surface at the bottom of the eye (retina)
 produces a contraction of the pupil, a movement of which we are en
 tirely unconscious. Irritation of the lining of the nostril is followed by
 an irresistible tendency to motion for removing it (sneezing). In a
 still higher series, we have the mechanism brought out by conditions
 more complex than mere sensations. The emotions, anger, joy,
 sorrow, though based upon the psychical constitution, yet have a
 mechanical expression independent of the will ; the contraction of the
 muscles of the face varying precisely according to the kind and de
 gree of the emotion, and thus forming a language which we instantly
 read, a language which is unchangeable and universal, and without
 compact or imitation.
    From this substratum of natural actions, we pass to such as
 are voluntary, over which we feel we have power. These, as we have
previously seen, are also related to external impressions. It has been
stated that the elements of the motor mechanism are not directly
submitted to the will, and that we require an objective impression
or an objective design to guide us. If the objective impressions
are confused, our volitional power is for the time disturbed ; hence the
unsteadiness which follows upon looking at a moving object, as a
railway carriage in rapid motion, when we are so near to it that it ex
cludes objects at rest ; hence also much of the unsteadiness which fol
lows upon ordinary giddiness. The office of sensation as a guide to
our voluntary movements and as suggestive of them is also well illus
trated in the teaching of deaf-mutes. The muscular system of the
organs of voice in these persons readily obeys the stimulus of phy
sical or emotional impulses, for they cry and shout ; but it lies
unused as an instrument of volition, until through the suggestion of
the sense of touch its vibrations are excited, afterwards to be vocalized
into speech by the imitative teaching of the eye. Although by the
aid of these two senses mutes may be taught to use the muscles for
speech, yet their voice never fails to show a want of delicate direction,
which the ear can alone supply ; hence the monotony of their ex
pression so characteristic of this deficiency.
    As the rays of light by which we acquire a knowledge of external
objects are inverted in the eye, so that images are painted reversed,
it has been a problem of difficult solution to account for the corre
spondence of the impressions received through the eye, with those
received through the touch ; for it is obvious, that any want of cor
respondence must of necessity lead to confusion. There are some
circumstances connected with the subject of voluntary movement
now under consideration, which bear upon the explanation of this
seeming contradiction. The eye presents us with two sensitive
surfaces — the anterior and exposed part having sensation common
to that of the surface generally, and the posterior and deeply seated
part for the reception of luminous rays (the retina), having its own
special reaction. By the rotation of .the globe upon its axis, these

1851.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       41
surfaces are necessarily moved at the same time in opposite direc
tions as regards superior and inferior. This inversion of movement
produces a correspondence hetween impressions made upon the
surface of the hody and those which result from the stimulus of
light upon the retina ; for the same movement which directs the
transparent and exposed surface upwards, also brings the retina
downwards into those rays of light, which, coining from above have
undergone inversion in the eye by refraction.— But if the same
voluntary movement places both sensitive surfaces in the same
relation to the object, there can be no want of correspondence.
    In no instance in the body is the connexion between sensitive
surface and muscular movement more exact, than in the necessary
convergence of the optical axes of the two eyes upon the same
object, in order that we may receive a single impression. This
necessary consensual movement seems to lie at the foundation of a
curious and hitherto unexplained arrangement in the nervous system.
It is well known that the right hemisphere of the brain presides
over the movements of the left side of the body, and the left hemi
sphere over the right side of the body. It is equally determined
 that the left optic centre (optic lobe) is in relation with the right
 eye and vice vend : so that blindness of the opposite eye follows
 upon disease or injury of either optic lobe. By means of this
 crossed relation (the third pair of nerves being an exception) the
 eyes are by the action of one hemisphere made to converge upon
 an object when it is situated either to the right or left side with
 the same facility as when the object lies directly in front of the two
 eyes and affects both hemispheres.
     The relation of objective impressions to animal movements seems
 to be an essential one. In the lower series of such phenomena (the
 physical, aisthesical, and emotional,) external impressions are suffi
 cient, without any implication of the will, to bring out their naturally
 associated results ; but in the exercise of volition, though sensation
  takes a subordinate position as a cause, it has an essential office as
  guiding us to the instinctive use of that complicated arrangement
  of parts, of whose existence we are naturally ignorant, and which
  rightly to know challenges our highest efforts.— And not only does
  sensation thus guide us in the beginning, but when our voluntary
  actions have been often repeated, it stands in a yet closer relation,
  and forms the basis of habit, so far as it depends upon mechanical
  skill. By habit, the suggestions of sense call forth the most com
  plex movements, and so spontaneously that they seem the expressions
  of a natural law requiring only the assent of the will for their per
 formance.                                                   W. W. G.
     In the Library, were exhibited : —
  A Chinese Sun-dial and model of a Chain-pump ; and Chinese
      and Hindu playing-Cards ; Chinese Document, with the Em

42                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [AfarcA2l,
   peror's autograph, and Sir George Staunton's Credentials to the
    Court of Japan and Cochin-China [by the Royal Asiatic Society] .
Bodley's Revolving and Sliding Window-Sashes [by Mr. Bodley] .
Specimens of Plumose Alum and Minerals [by the Pharmaceutical
    Society].
A
Enlarged
Talbotypes
    Small self-inking
            Model
             — PortraitsPrinting
                   of the Lever
                           and Views
                                  Scapement
                                  Apparatus
                                         [by Messrs.
                                               [by Mr.
                                              [from   Henneman
                                                    the  Bank of England]
                                                        Bishop].  and Ma-.
   lone] .
Patent Pearl Glass Pictures [by Mr. Lane].
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 21.
               SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, V. P. in the Chair.
                             MR. BROCKBDON,
   On some Properties peculiar to Caoutchouc, and their Application*.
CAOUTCHOUC is a vegetable constituent, the produce of several trees ;
the most prolific in this substance are, Siphonia Caoutchouc, Urceola
Elastica, Ficus Elastica, .Vr. .• of these the Siphonia Caoutchouc extends
over a vast district in Central America, and the caoutchouc obtained
from this tree is best adapted for its manufactures. Over more than
 10,000 square miles in Assam the Ficus Elastica is abundant. The Ur
ceola Elastica (which produces the Gintawan of the Malays,) abounds
the islands of the Indian Archipelago. It is described as a creeper in in
of growth so rapid, that in five years it extends 200 feet, and is from
20 to 30 inches in girth. This tree can, without being injured, yield
by tapping, from 50 to 601bs. of caoutchouc in one season. A
curious contrast is exhibited in the tardy growth of the tree from
which the Gutta Percha is obtained. This tree does not come to its
prime in less than from 80 to 120 years. The produce cannot be
obtained but by the sacrifice of the tree. It is found in a concrete
state between the bark and the wood after the tree has been cut
down, and it is in this condition that, having been scraped out, it is
sent to our market.
   When coagulated by evaporation or agitation, caoutchouc sepa
rates from the aqueous portion of the sap of the trees which yield it.
This solid and fluid cannot afterwards be reunited, any more than
butter is capable of mixing with the milk from which it is separated.
Caoutchouc is a hydro-carbon. This chemical character belongs to
all varieties of the substance, and many other vegetable constituents,
though they differ materially in physical qualities. Some specimens

 1851.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       43
arc harder than Gutta Percha itself, while others never solidify, but
remain in the condition of bird-lime or treacle.
   The process termed the vulcanizing of caoutchouc was discovered
by Mr. Thomas Hancock in 1843.— A sheet of caoutchouc immersed
in melted sulphur absorbs a portion of it, and at the same time it
indergoes some important changes in many of its characteristic
properties. It is no longer affected by climatic temperature ; it is
neither hardened by cold, nor softened by any heat which would not
destroy it. It ceases to be soluble in the solvents of common caout
chouc, while its elasticity becomes greatly augmented and permanent.
   The same effect may be produced by kneading sulphur into,
caoutchouc by means of powerful rollers ; or the common solvents,
naphtha and spirit of turpentine, may be charged with a sufficient
amount of sulphur in solution to become a compound solvent of rub
ber. In these cases articles may be made in any required forms
before heating for the change of condition. It is necessary, however,
for this purpose, that the form should be carefully maintained
during the exposure to the heat necessary to effect the vulcanization
which leaves it in a normal state. A vulcanized solid sphere
 of 2-j inches in diameter, when forced between two rollers ^ inch
apart was found to maintain its form uninjured. In fact, it is the
 exclusive property of vulcanized caoutchouc to be able to retain any
 form impressed upon it, and to return to that form on the removal
of any disturbing force which has been brought to act upon it.
   Caoutchouc slightly expands and contracts in different tem
peratures ; it is also capable of being condensed under pressure.
A cube of 2^- inches, impactly secured, was subjected to a force
of 200 tons. The result was a compression amounting to -^ ; —
great heat appeared to have been evolved, and the excessive elasticity
of the substance caused a fly-wheel weighing five tons to recoil with
an alarming violence.
   The evolution of heat from caoutchouc under condensation is a
property possessed by it in common with air and the metals. It
differs, however, from the latter in being able to exhibit cold by re
action. Mr. Brockedon stated that he had raised the temperature of an
ounce of water 2° in about 15 minutes by collecting the heat evolved
by the extension of caoutchouc thread : he refers this effect to the
change in specific gravity. He contends that this heat thus pro
duced is not due to friction ; because the same amount of friction
is occasioned in the contraction as in the extension of the sub
stance, and the result of this contraction is to reduce the caout
chouc thus acted upon to its original temperature.
   Among the latest applications of the elastic force of caoutchouc
— the chief purport of Mr. Brockedon's lecture — attention was
directed :
   1. To Mr. E. Smith's Patent application of tubes of vulcanized
caoutchouc as torsion springs to roller blinds,— adjusted to the heavi
est external blinds of houses, or the most delicate carriage blinds; and

46                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.        [AfOrch 2 1 , 1 85 1 .
equally applicable to clocks and various machines as a motive
power.
   2. To the raising of weights (Mr. Hodges' Patent application). —
Short lengths of caoutchouc (termed by him Vulcanized power-pur
chases) are successively drawn down from or lifted to a fixed bearing',
and attached to any weight which it is required to raise ; when a suf
ficient number of these power-purchases is fixed to the weight,
their combined elastic force lifts it from the ground. Thus ten
purchases of the elastic strength each of 501bs. raise 500 Ibs.
Each purchase is six inches long and contains about l^oz. of
vulcanized caoutchouc. These ten purchases, if stretched to their
limit of elasticity not of their cohesive strength, -will lift 650 Ibs.
This power — the accumulation of elastic force — though it obey the
common law of mechanical powers, differs enough to be distinguished
as a new mechanical power.
    The same principle is applicable to relieve boats in tow from the
 strain they are subject to, and to easing the strain on ship's cables,
 especially where several boats are towing one vessel.
    3. Applied as a projectile force. A number of power-purchases,
 attached to the barrel of a gun constructed to project harpoons,
 will exert a power if suddenly relieved proportioned to their aggre
 gate forces.
    Similar contrivances have been made for projecting balls 200
 yards or more : a charge of No. 4. shot can be thrown 120 yards.
 On the same principle a bow was contrived in which (reversing the
 usual form) the string alone was elastic ; this bow throws a 30-inch
 arrow 170 yards.
    There were also exhibited adaptations of this material, for restrain
 ing furious horses,— for slinging horses whose limbs have been
 broken,— for enabling bed-ridden persons to assist themselves,—
 for strengthening feeble joints, and many other new and valuable
 purposes.                                                    W. B.
        the Library,
  AnInantique           (saidexhibited
                 Atlas were             belonged to Prince Talleyrand)
                               to have: —
     drawn on parchment by Nicolas Vallard of Dieppe, in 1547,
     illuminated in the style of the ancient Missals, and illustrated
     with views of the various countries and figures of their inhabi
     tants and animals, and upon which a Lecture was read before the
     Institute at Paris, in 1807, by M. Barbier duBocage [by Sir Thomas
     Phillipps,
  British        Bart. [presented
           Minerals    M.R.I.] by Adam Murray, jun. Esq. M.R.I.]
  Piece of Stucco from the Alhambra, and of Tessellated Pavement
     from Glastonbury, Models of Rudders, a Persian Astrolabe, &c.
  Fish   fromthetheUnited
      [from                Service Institution].
                     Red Sand-Stone,    Fifeshire [J. Tennant, Esq.]
  Specimens of Gutta Percha Manufacture [Messrs. Thorn & Co.]

                   [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS-]
                    institution of dsreat Britain,
                                  1851.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 28.
     WILLIAM POLE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer, in the Chair.
                NBVIL STORY MASKELYNE, Esq., M.A.
  O» the Connexion of Chemical Forces with the Polarization of Light.
ANY facts which can throw light upon the ultimate molecular
structure and condition of chemical compounds, cannot fail of pos
sessing interest of a high character, as well for those whose
thoughts only casually dwell upon questions of physical science, as
for the mathematician and the chemist. To the mathematician,
indeed, they would, if completely unfolded, supply the data for him
to undertake the resolution of the questions of chemical combination
and chemical change, by treating them as problems involving the
action of mechanical laws ; to the chemist, the acquisition of such
knowledge would be the removal of some of the profoundest diffi
culties of his philosophy : but such knowledge is only to be sought
in the most difficult paths of the whole range of science. The
question of the connexion of chemical type with crystalline form,
the fruitful cause of so much contention among mineralogists as to
the questions of mineral species, is one on which we have no com
plete and sure knowledge ; for the facts of dimorphism show, that
 implicated with this question are the actions of other forces, such as
electric condition, and above all the mysterious molecular alterations
 induced by heat. Another direction in which such inquiries have
 been pursued, has been in tracing the phenomena resulting from the
 property possessed by many bodies, of modifying a plane-polarized
 ray of light, by what is termed circular-polarization. This property,
 from its being proved to be, in a large number of cases, an expression
 of the molecular structure of the substance, and as such inseparable in
 many cases from its chemical existence, may be taken, whenever
 this can be shown to be the case, as an evidence of its individuality,
 and may be used to determine the question of the permanency or
 transitory character of the molecular type of the substance. The
  information thus gained may be but vaguely defined, and the truth
  but darkly seen, yet does it nevertheless afford a valuable and
  interesting point of view for studying the molecular nature of bodies.
    No. 4.                                                  E

40                    NOTICKS OF THE MEETINGS                 [AfflrcA 28,
   M. Biot has been for forty years enriching chemico-physical science
by a series of memoirs detailing the results of his study of these
phenomena. He has there shown the value of this means of tracing
changes in chemico-molecular constitution.
   M. Pasteur has carried forward this inquiry into a new channel
by tracing a connexion between this property in substances, of
circularly polarizing light, and their crystalline character.
   But as it would be impossible to explain the nature of his investi
gations, or their results, without a preliminary knowledge of the
meaning of the terms " circular polarization,'' and " hemihedrism," it
was necessary first to enter a little upon the explanation of them.
   Accordingly a ray was explained as being a direction of light,
having no relations to space which differed from each other in,
directions perpendicular to its length. Thus without complicating
the subject, by using the language of the beautiful wave-theory,
a ray might be imagined as a cylinder of minutest diameter
but indefinite length. When such a ray is reflected at a cer
tain angle from glass or such like substance it is split into two ;
one going into, and through the glass if it be not opaque, the other
being reflected from it. These two rays no longer possess the same
" absence of sides" as the original ray. For the one has been as it
were flattened down to a " strip," while the other has also been flat
tened similarly into a " strip," but the latter strip is at right angles
in regard to its " flattened plane" to what the other is. A similar
bifurcation of the ray is produced in the interior of what are called
doubly refracting crystals. This bifurcation and flattening of the ray
is termed " plane polarization " of it ; and it is so far a true instance
of polarity—as that the two rays have equal and similar properties in
opposed directions.
   This was exhibited by the Lime-light. The double image of a
small round hole formed by a crystal of Iceland spar was thrown on
a screen, and each beam shown to be most capable of reflection in a
plane in which the other was incapable of being reflected at all. The
action of the tourmaline as a doubly refracting crystal which absorbs
one of the rays was then explained ; and it was shown that the posi
tion of the tourmaline in which it intercepted one ray entirely, was
exactly the position in which it gave the other ray free passage.
The optic axis of a crystal was then defined to be a direction in it
along which the light could pass through the crystal without under
 going any change whatever. The central ray of a polarized beam of
 light, traversing a piece of calc spar along its optic axis, was shown
 to be intercepted or transmitted by a tourmaline, precisely as if the
 section of the crystal of calc spar were away.
    An exception was however stated to exist to this law of the
neutrality of the optic axis. When a section of quartz, cut so that
the beam could career along its optic axis, was put in the path of
the polarized ray, it was found that instead of permittiug the ray to
 be eclipsed by the tourmaline when this was placed in the position

 1851.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        47
 to eclipse it, that ray on the contrary fell on the screen endowed
 with beautiful colour ; and furthermore that the revolution of the tour
 maline induced the most brilliant succession of colours, in the order,
in the instance exhibited, of red, plum-colour, blue, green, orange, red.
It was shown, however, that another specimen exhibited these colours
in the reverse order of red, orange, green, blue, plum-colour, red ; in
which order the former specimen of quartz produced these colours
when the tourmaline was turned in the opposite direction. Hence
 these are termed right and left handed polarizations. The whole of
 these phenomena were attributed to a complicated set of movements
 of the light within the crystal, the resultant of which was practically
 a rotation of the plane in which the ray was capable of being re
 flected,— so that the thicker the crystal, the further round the tour
 maline had to be turned to permit the ray to pass it, or to be eclipsed,
 as the case might be. The opposite order of the colours was ex
plained by the fiction of supposing the one to be the effect of a left
handed thread to the screw and the other of a right handed thread
characterizing the spiral in which the plane of polarization was sup
posed to rotate. Of course this was only a popular way of explain
ing the phenomenon, it being really due to a more complicated series
of movements which were explained by Fresnel in the most
triumphant manner by the wave theory.
   The colour was accounted for by the idea of the red following a
longer spiral (having a coarser thread to the screw) than that of
the orange, this than the yellow, and so on up to the violet.
Without the tourmaline in front aU would emerge and form white
light ; but the tourmaline only allows such rays to pass it as are
capable of passing it in its particular position ; i. e. only such, the
rotation of whose plane has brought them round to the position of
the plane in which the tourmaline lets the light through.
   The singular fact of amethyst being a combination of alternate
layers of right and left-handed quartz was then exhibited, both by
throwing the image of the alternate layers on the screen, and after
wards was
beam           to produce
         by showing    that athe
                               neutrality
                                  general effect of a traversing
                                          of action.             polarizing ,
                                                         Other substances,
however, produce phenomena of circular polarization. Uncrystallized,
fused tartaric acid, and barley sugar, &c. produce them ; and these
bodies when dissolved, and many more in the form of liquids also, do
so, some of which were exhibited. But the silica of which quartz
consists entirely loses this property when divested of its crystalline
character, whether artificially or in its natural state as calcedony,
opal, &c. All other bodies retain it so long as their chemical
molecule retains its individuality of character.
    The next point to be made clear, was the meaning of that form
of crystallographic developement called " Hemihedrism." Hatty's
great law was, that similar edges or angles were always similarly
modified. The nature of similarity in edges or angles was then
pointed out, and the general idea of many crystallographers of a

 48                     NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS                [March 28,
  sort of nucleus or primitive form existing on which the crystal was
 formed, was explained, as also the nature of the developement of
  such a crystal by the modifications placed on the edges and angles
  according to the law before mentioned. But the exception to that
 law was not less remarkable for its generality of character than
 the law itself. This exception consists in the fact that very often
 crystals are found in which not every similar edge or angle was
 modified, but where every alternate similar edge or alternate similar
 angle was so. This circumstance was then illustrated by the actual
 truncation of some models ; and it was shown that such alternately
 developed or hemihedral crystals may be right and left, the upper
 terminal modification being to the right in the one case, and the
 corresponding and similar lower terminal modification being then to
 the left, while in the other case they are exactly the converse. Hence,
 one crystal is, as Pasteur describes it, " non superposable " to the
 other ; the one is as the image of the other reflected in a mirror,
 as the right hand is compared to the left.
    A beautiful connexion was then pointed out, as established long
 ago by the acute observation of Sir J. Herschel, that the plagiedral
 facettes of quartz indicated, by their relative positions on the crystal,
 zation.
 the        The crystallographic
       direction in which the crystal
                                    character
                                         wouldofrotate
                                                  thesethe plane was
                                                        facettes      then
                                                                 of polari-.
 pointed out, and their connexion shown with this hemihedrism.
 But the most beautiful instance of the connexion of hemihedrism in
 crystals with the direction of the rotatory power of the substance of
 which they are composed is afforded by the recent discoveries of
 Pasteur, which may now be almost traced to a law, enunciated thus :
 that where a substance is hemihedric when crystallized, and pos
 sesses the rotating character, the direction of the rotation is
 indicated by the nature of the hemihedrism.
    Paratartaric acid was then introduced. It was described as ex
 tremely like tartaric acid in its chemical reactions and identical
 with it in composition. It was similarly formed to the latter, and
 was found only one year in the cream of tartar of the wine of the
*Vosges. Pasteur separated the crystals of the Paratartrate of soda
 and ammonia into two several sets ; the one set he showed to be
 hemihedric to the right, the other set to the left. The former
 proved to be the salt of un acid rotating to the right, the latter of one
 rotating to the left. On examining these acids they were found in
 every single property, but this rotation, identical with one another
 and with tartaric acid. Yet when mixed they formed again the Pa
 ratartaric acid, which, like the amethyst, is without any action of
 a rotatory character, and the difference of which from the other two
 acids was then exhibited by the precipitation by the latter of a
 salt of lime which did not render either of the former turbid.
    Mr. Maskc'lyne then detailed the experiments of M. Pasteur on
 malic and aspartic acids and asparagine, and showed how all of
 these could be understood to contain chemically a molecular unit

1851.]                OF TIIK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      49
 common to all these and perhaps to tartaric acid, and only modified a
little by the super-position as it were of other substances, in combina
tion with it, upon the extremities of its molecule.
   He also dwelt on the possibility of the Paratartaric acid being a
quadribasic as the tartaric acid is a bibasic acid ; it being on this
view a conjugate acid consisting of the two united tartaric acids.
He then invited attention to the interesting nature of M. Blot's inves
tigation of the action of tartaric acid in solution in water, and he
showed that here the acid must be supposed capable of combining
with an indefinite or indeed an infinite amount of water, while in
other cases again, bodies (such as sugar for instance) exercise no
effect upon the water and do not seem to combine with, but only to
be dissolved in it. The former is an instance of a continuous and not
intermittent sort of combination ; and though we need not anticipate
a recurrence of the controversy of Berthollet and Proust, yet this
shows us that the actions of quantity or mass so dwelt on by the
former are not without a great significance ; and that the power that
can thus enable us to determine such important points in chemical
statics, is well worthy of the attention of the philosophic mind.
   Dr. Bence Jones permitted a Saccharimeter apparatus of Solei1's,
on the double-quartz-plate principle, to be exhibited, and explained
its use. Mr. Tennant also exhibited a mass of quite transparent
Iceland spar, and a beautiful crystal of plagiedral quartz.
   Since the delivery of the lecture, a letter has been received from
M. Pasteur stating that he had forwarded tor exhibition at and
illustration of this lecture, all the finest specimens of the crystals
which he has produced, which are further illustrated by models and
diagrams. They are the same as those which were exhibited at the
Academy of Sciences at Paris, and the liberality of M. Pasteur's act
will be appreciated by Members of the Royal Institution, when they
are reminded that the Paratartaric acid of which they are the
products is impossible to be obtained, from its having only once been
accidentally formed, and that these specimens therefore consist pro
bably of the only large accumulation of this body in existence. Aa
soon as they arrive they will be exhibited to the Members.
                                            NBVIL STORY MASKBLYNE.
   In the Library were exhibited : —
An Apparatus exhibiting the colours produced by Polarized Light,
    [by Mr. of
Specimens       Pyramidal Alum Crystals, Metallic Arsenic from Cali
              Newman].
   fornia, Chrome alum crystals — Nitrate of Potash — Tincal or
    Native Borax, -and Metallic Antimony [by the Pharmaceutical
   Society] .
Sanskrit MSS. — Ancient Pictures of Akbar and his Court, and Je-
   hangir and his Court [by the Royal Asiatic Society] .
Models and Diagrams to illustrate a New Theory of Naval Architec
    ture [by Mr. W. E. Hall].

50                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [April 4,
                 WEEKLYFriday,       April 4.MEETING,
                               EVENING
         H. R. H. PRINCE ALBERT, Vice Patron, in the Chair.
                          SIR CHARLES LYELL,
      On Impressions of Rain-drops in Ancient and Modern Strata.
FOOT-FRINTS of reptiles and birds have been observed on the surface
of several ancient strata, accompanied by cracks resulting from the
shrinkage of mud during desiccation, and it had been fairly inferred
that the rocks bearing these marks must have been formed on a beach,
between the level of high and low tide. It might therefore have been
presumed that the same combination of circumstances would favour
the preservation of impressions left by rain-drops, if any rain had
fallen on the surface of the same strata, when in a state of mud or
sand. Accordingly, memorials of rain have been met with, and Sir
Charles Lyell exhibited specimens of fossil rain and hail-prints,
collected by Mr. Redfield of New York, from the New Red Sandstone
of triassic age in New Jersey, and others of still older date, obtained
by Mr. Richard Brown, from green slabs and sandstones of the Coal
Measures of Cape Breton in Nova Scotia.
    Casts of rain-drops were first recognized in 1828 by Dr. Buckland
on the lower surfaces of slabs of quartzose sandstone, found by Mr.
Cunningham in the Storeton Hill quarries in Cheshire, where they
are accompanied by shrinkage cracks, foot-prints of Cheirotherium,
and ripple marks. Mr. Redfield and Sir C. Lyell observed others at
 Newark in New Jersey in 1841, in red sandstone and shale ; and still
 finer examples have been since met with at Pompton, in the same
 state, twenty-five miles from New York, by Mr. Redfield. The
 Lecturer had also an opportunity of observing, in 1842, that a shower
 of rain had left numerous impressions on the mud-flats exposed at
 low water, in estuaries communicating with the Bay of Fundy ; and
 he afterwards obtained a collection of specimens of the hardened mud
 from Dr. Webster of Kentville, some of which are marked by the
 drops of a heavy but transient shower which fell oq the 21st of July,
  1849. The average size of the hemispherical cavities is small, but
 some of them are no less than half an inch in diameter. Many of
 them are circular, but in some the longest diameter exceeds the
  shortest by yth, or even -^rd. They are surrounded by a small rim of
  mud, consisting of the matter which has been forcibly expelled from
  the pit by the falling drop ; and this marginal rim sometimes projects
  as much above the plane of the stratum, as the bottom of the pit ex

1851.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      51
tends below it. In those impressions which have been made when the
wind was blowing, and when the rain fell obliquely, the cavities are
not only of an oval shape, bat all deeper at one end than at the other.
Foot-prints of birds, and the winding tubular tracks of annelids are
seen on the same surface with the rain-prints. On splitting open
slabs formed by numerous thin layers deposited by successive tides,
impressions of previous showers are seen, and casts of the same,
standing out in relief on the under surface of incumbent layers.
    The Lecturer next considered the nature of certain small protube
rances, which might, on a cursory view, be mistaken for casts, which
project from the upper surface of certain layers of mud, and are
caused, some of them by dried bubbles of mud, and others by small
particles of solid matter, covered with a film of mud. He also dis
tinguished between the cavities produced by air-bubbles rising up
through the mud, which give rise to cavities differing in shape from
those formed by rain, as he has proved by several experiments.
    In illustration of the foot-tracks of quadrupeds, such as the musk-
 rat, the mine, the dog and others, so common on the recent red sand
 of Kentville, on the borders of the Bay of Fundy in Nova Scotia, Sir
 C. Lyell exhibited a copy of a brick, one foot square from Babylon,
 now in the British Museum, on which the track of a small animal of
the Ichneumon tribe, apparently the Asiatic Mongoose, is distinctly
 seen. This brick has been sun-dried (not baked in a kiln,) and must
 have been traversed by the creature, when the clay mixed with straw
 was still very soft. In the middle of the brick is an inscription in the
Babylonian cuneiform character, which according to Colonel Raw-
 linson's interpretation signifies that Nabokodrossor, King of Babylon,
built certain cities, &c. This king is the same as. the Nebuchad
 nezzar of scripture, so that the brick is twenty-four centuries old.
    When the tidal waters densely charged with fine sediment creep
 gently over a slightly inclined sand or mud-bank, they do not
 disturb the surface, especially when it has been baked hard in the
 sun, as happens in summer in Nova Scotia ; and the new layer of
 matter which is thrown down, fills up all superficial indentations,
 which serving as moulds are protected from further disturbance by
 the casts thus taken from them.
    Mr. Cunningham threw out as a conjecture, that the fine-grained
 quartzose substance of Storeton Hill, might have resulted from
 blown sand. That such was really its origin, Sir C. Lyell, who has
 himself examined the quarries on the Mersey, entertains little doubt ;
 for on the sea. shore near Savannah in Georgia, he saw the foot-
 tracks of raccoons and opossums which had been made in sandy mud
 at low water, in the course of being gradually filled up with blown
 sand, clouds of which were swept along by the wind from adjoining
 cliffs. This layer of sand when the tide rose again would in its turn
 be overspread by a new deposit of mud.
    After describing both the impressions and c. sts of rain occurring
 in the recent red mud of the Bay of Fundy, the Lecturer pointed

 52                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [April 4,
 out their close analogy with markings inscribed on rriassic slabs of
 sandstones in New Jersey, on which also ripple-marks, shrinkage
 cracks, and foot-prints of birds have been observed. The character
 of these ancient impressions may sometimes be seen to vary where
 the rain has fallen obliquely on rippled surfaces, the cavities being
 deeper on the windward and shallower on the leeward sides of the
 ridges formed by the ripple. Casts of rain-prints are seen on the lower
 surface of several sandstone strata. The direction of the rain is
 usually distinguishable, the longest diameters of the cavities being
 all parallel, and their deepest ends all on the same side. The
 markings attributed by Mr. Redfield to hail, are deep, irregular in
 form, and extremely angular in outline ; and the walls are steeper,
 especially at the deepest extremity of the excavation where they
 often overhang.
    The carboniferous rain-prints of Sydney, Cape Breton, observed by
 Mr. Richard Brown, are some of the most delicately sculptured on the
 laminae of shale. In some specimens they are quite separate from
each other, most of them oval and with distinct rims. Mr. Brown
 remarks that they only extended over a certain narrow zone, disap
pearing when the stratum containing them was traced further in each
 direction ; so that they appear to have constituted a narrow belt, as
 might be expected if they were formed on a sea beach. For when
rain falls on recent mud bordering the Bay of Fundy, impressions
are only made on one portion of the exposed surface, the upper part of
the bank (left dry for ten days or more after the highest spring
 tides,) being too hard to receive any imprints, and the lower part
near the water's edge being too soft. In some shales from Cape
 Breton, perfect casts are seen projecting from an under surface where
the drops are few in number, while in another stratum distinct casts of
a heavy shower are preserved in a fine-grained sandstone which
presents a warty and blistered appearance. The casts also of small
cracks, which must have traversed the subjacent clay, stand out in re
lief. Together with these memorials of rain are seen numerous
winding cylindrical cavities, open at the top and precisely resembling
these now formed by annelids on the recent mud of the Bay of Fun
dy. These strata occur in the same series of beds, in which so
many examples of buried forests occur, with the trunks of trees
standing erect, and having their roots attached to them. There are
also numerous rippled sandstones at different levels in the same for
mation.
    On re-examining the slab which he brought in 1846 from the
coal-strata of Greensburg, Pennsylvania, on which Dr. King first
found impressions of a carboniferous reptile. Sir C. Lyell finds not
only shrinkage-cracks but a multitude of small tubercles covering
the surface resembling the casts of rain-prints, and which he can
scarcely doubt are referable to pluvial action.
   In conclusion, the Lecturer enlarged on the important inferences
deducible from the discovery of rain-prints in rocks of such remote

  1851.]              OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       53
 antiquity. They confirm the ideas entertained of the humid climate
 of the carboniferous period, the forests of which we know were con
 tinuous over areas several hundreds of miles in diameter. The
 average dimensions of the drops indicate showers of ordinary force ;
 and show that the atmosphere corresponded in density as well as in
the varying temperature of its different currents with that which now
 invests the globe. The triassic hail, moreover, implies that some
 regions of the atmosphere were at this epoch intensely cold ; and
coupled with the foot-prints, worm tracks, ripple-marks, and the casts
 of cracks formed by the drying of mud, these impressions of rain clearly
point to the existence of sea-beaches where tides rose and fell,
and therefore lead us to presume the joint influence of the moon and
ann. Hence we are led on to infer that at this ancient era, the earth
with its attendant planet was revolving, as now, round the sun, as
the centre of our system, which probably belonged then as now to
one of those countless clusters of stars with which space is filled.
                                                                C. L.
    In the Library, were exhibited : —
Marine Worm from Tale-bank Quarry, Wensleydale, Yorkshire
    [presented by F. H. Gabriel, Esq., M. R. I.]
Transparent Iceland Spar ; an ancient Alabaster Canopic Vase, and
   a Vase in marble from Old London Bridge [by Mr. Tennant] .
Model of Nelson Column, Yarmouth ; Calabashes, Weapons,
   Cloth and Needle from New Guinea, &c. [from the United Ser
   vice Institution].
Grotesque   Figure (naturally formed) in Marble [by Mr. Eades] .
Turn-tables showing various Modes of diminishing Friction [from the
   RoyalofPolytechnic
Model                  Institution]
           an Anti-Friction         .
                             Wheel-Carriage,   &c. [by Mr. Coles].
A delicate Balance for Chemical Analyses [constructed by J. W. M.
   Marriott, Esq., M.R.I.]
Shakspearean Shield (a design for a bas relief by Luke Limner, Esq.)
   and Specimens of Bookbinding [from Messrs Leightons].
Specimens of Imitation Ivor)- [by Mr. B. Chiverton].

54                        NOTICES OF TUB MEETINGS                      [April 7,
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING.
                                Monday, April 7.
              William Pole, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer,
                                  in the Chair.
   Francis Bayley, Esq.                        The Lord Moreton.
   John J.
   Allen      Bigsby,
            Davis,  Esq.M.D, F.G.S. &c.       James
                                               Henry S.   Willes, Esq.
                                                       Twining,    Esq.
   Rev. Joseph Hambleton, B.D.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   Hugh M. Cairns, Esq.                        Edward Thornton, Esq.
   Alexander Matheson, Esq. M.P.
.were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Secretary announced that the Actonian Prizs of One Hundred
Guineas had been adjudicated to Thos. Wharton Jones, Esq. F.R.S.
for an " Essay on the Senses in General, and on the Sense of Vision
in particular, as illustrative of the Wisdom and Beneficence of the
Almighty."
   A Donation of £10. from John Pepys, Esq. M.R.I, was reported,
and the warmest thanks of the Members voted to Mr. Pepys for
this additional act of liberality to the Royal Institution.
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members ordered to be returned for the same ; —
   From
Jacob Bell, Esq. M. P. M.R.I, {the Editor) .— Pharmaceutical Journal, March and
   April, 1851. 8vo.
The Editor — The Athenaeum for February and March, 1851. 4to.
The Statistical Society of London —Journal, Vol. XIV. Part I. 8vo. 185) .
      Feb.Reeve
Messrs.     1851.and Benkam (the Publishers) — The Literary Gazette for Jan. and
Professor Faraday (the Author) —. Researches in Electricity, Series 24 — 27.
      4to. 1851.
   Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie fur Jan. 1851. 8vo.
   Signatures of some Eminent Fellows of the Royal Society, lithographed from
      the Charter-book (for Private Circulation by C. R.Weld). 4to. 1851.
 The Institution of Civil Engineers — Proceedings for March, 1851. 8vo.
 The Royal Institute of British Architects — Proceedings for March, 1851. 4to.

1851.]                       OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                               55
       Royal 1847—50.
The 8vo.       Society of Literature — Transactions, Second Series, Vol. II. and III.
   Proceedings, Vol. I. Nos. 1 — 20. 8vo.
      Life andEsq.—
W. Spence,        Works.Portrait of Rev. W. Kirby, F.R.S. &c. with Sketch of his
W. B. Carpenter, M.D. F.R. S. (the Author) —On the Mutual Relations of the
      Vital and Physical Forces. 4to. 1851.
The Author — The Apology of an Israelite for not becoming a Christian. 12mo.
       1851.
Charles Babbage, Esq. (the Author) — Thoughts on the Principles of Taxation
      with Reference to a Property Tax, &c. 8vo. 1851.
       Prosser, Esq.
John Espagne,         Life-Sub.
                  fonde  sur les R.Observations
                                     I. — Atlas Geographique
                                                  Astronomiques,  etc. par M.
                                                               et Physique     Alex, de
                                                                            de Nouvelle
       Humboldt, fol. Paris, 1812.
   Hone's Satirical Tracts : — The Political House that Jack built, Sec. 8vo.
       1819-20.
   A Letter from the King to the People. 8vo. 1820.
   The Queen's Rights and the People's Wrongs. 8vo. 1820.
       Wakefield
   Tracts,         ;—vol.
              in one       : viz. —Letter
                      Priestley's    Age to
                                          of the
                                              Reason,  by T. Paine
                                                 Philosophers       ; Reply by
                                                              and Politicians    Gilbert
                                                                              of France,
       Sec. Stc.
   Tracts circulated by the National Anti-Corn-Law League. 8vo. 1842.
Joseph    G. Cogswell,
       York,   1851.    Esq. — Alphabetical Index to the Astor Library. 8vo. New
The Author — Letters on Church Matters; by D.C. L., Vol. 1. 8vo. 1851.
       MSS.
       1816 —
 The Trustees    21.
                 of the British
               Alexandrino,   &c. Museum
                                   cura et labore
                                            — Vetus   H. Baber, A. Grsecum
                                                   H. Testamentum              e Codice
                                                                      M. 3 tomi.     fol.
    Descriptions of the Ancient Terracottas. 4to. 1810.
    Descriptions of the Ancient Marbles, Pt. 1—10. 4to. 1812 — 1845.
    Nummi Veteres in Museo, R. P. Knight ab ipso descripti. 4to. 1830.
    Catalogue of the Anglo-Gallic Coins. 4to. 1826.
    Catalogue of the Hargrave Manuscripts. 4to. 1818.
    Catalogue of the Burney Manuscripts, fol. 1840.
    Index to the Arundel and Burney MSS. fol. 1840.
    Catalogue of the Oriental MSS. Part 1 — 3. fol. 1838 — 41.
    Catalogue of the Manuscript Music. 8vo. 1842.
    Catalogue of the MSS. Maps, Charts, and Plans, 2 vol. 8vo. 1844.
    Greek Papyri, Part 1 . 4to. 1839.
    Select Papyri in the Hieratic Character, Part 1 — 3. fol. 1841—44.
    List of Mammalia. 12mo.
    Catalogue of Mammalia, Part 1 and 2.
    List   of Mammalia
        12mo.     1846.     and Birds of Nepal, presented by B. H. Hodgson, Esq.
    List of Additions to the MSS. 1841 — 1845. 8vo. 1850.
    List of Birds, Part 1 —3. 12mo. 1844 — 8.
    Catalogue of Reptiles ; Part 1, Tortoises, Stc. Part 2, Lizards. Part 3, Snakes.
        12mo. 1844—9.
    Catalogue of Amphibia, Part 2. 12mo. 1850.
    List of Osteological Specimens. 12mo. 1847.
    List of Lepidopterous Insects, Parts 1 and 2, and Appen'dix. 12mo. 1844 — 8.
     List of Hymenopterous Insects, Part 1 and 2. 12mo. 1846 — 48.
     List of Dipterous Insects, Part 1 — 4. 12mo. 1848 — 49.
     Nomenclature of Coleopterous Insects, Part 1 — 4. 12mo. 1847 — 9.
     List of Crustacea. 12mo. 1847.
     List of Myriapoda. 12mo. 1844.
    Catalogue of the Mollusca, Part 1 and 2. 12mo. 1849 — 50.
    Catalogue of Bivalve Mollueca, Part 1. 12mo. 1850.

 56                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    [April 11,
 The Trustees of the British Museum, continued : —
   Nomenclature of Molluscous Animals and Shells. 12mo. 1850.
   List of Homopterous Insects, Part 1. 12mo. 1850.
   List of the British Animals, Part 1, Radiata. Part 2, Sponges. Part 3, Birds.
      Part 4, Crustacea. Part 5, Lepidoptera. 12mo. 1848 —• 50.
   List of Donations, 1828 — 30. 4to.
   Inscriptions in the Cuneiform Character from Assyrian Monuments discovered
      by A. H. Layard, D.C.L. fol. 1851.
 The Asiatic Society ofBengal — Journal, Nos. 215, 216. 8vo. 1850.
 The Chemical Society — Journal, No. 13. 8vo. 1851.
 The Geographical Society of Bombay — Transactions, Vol.1, to VI. and Vol.
      VIII. Part1. 8vo. 1836 — 1848.
 The Royal Society — Proceedings, No. 59 and No. 77, parts 1, 2. 8vo. 1851.
   Transactions for 1850, Part 2. 4to. 1851.
   List of Members for 1 850. 4to.
Adam Murray, jun. Esq. M. R. I. — Specimens of British Minerals.
F. H. Gabriel, Esq. M.R.I. — Fossil Marine Worm from Tale-bank Quarry,
     Wensleydale, Yorkshire.
Wm. Bollaert, Esq. — Specimens of Minerals collected in the Texas (vide Trans.
      Geog. Soc. 1843 — 49.)
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                Friday, April 11,
         H. R. H. Prince Albert, Vice Patron, in the Chair.
                             Professor Faraday
                          On Atmospheric Magnetism.
On a former evening {January 24, page 1) it was shown that Oxygen
gas was magnetic, being attracted towards the poles of a magnet ;
and that like other magnetic bodies, it lost and gained in power as
its temperature was raised and lowered, and that the change occurred
within the range of natural temperatures. These properties it car
ries into the atmosphere ; and the object, this evening, was to show
how far they might be applied to explain certain of the observed
variations of the terrestrial magnetic force.
   If a source of magnetic power be considered (as a magnet) it
presents us with a system having polarity ; and if the parts which
are called the poles be taken as representing the most concentrated
condition of the polarity, then the contrary polarities, manifest ex
ternally in relation to the magnet, are perfectly definite, being exactly
equal to each other. If the magnet be irregular in the disposition of
its force, still the same definite character of the sum of the contrary
polarities holds good.
   External to the magnet those concentrations which are named
poles may be considered as connected by what are called magnetic

 1851.J               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        57
curves, or lines of magnetic force, existing in the space around.
These phrases have a high meaning, and represent the ideality of
magnetism. They imply not merely the directions of force, which are
made manifest when a little magnet, or a crystal, or other subject of
magnetic action is placed amongst them, but those lines of power
which connect and sustain the polarities, and exist as much when there
is no magnetic needle or crystal there as when there is ; having an
independent existence analogous to (though very different in nature
from) a ray of light or heat, which, though it be present in a given
space, and even occupies time in its transmission, is absolutely insen
sible to us by any means whilst it remains a ray, and is only made
known through its effects when it ceases to exist. The form of a
line of magnetic force may vary exceedingly from a straight line to
every degree of curvature, and may even have double and compli
cated curvatures impressed upon it. Its direction is determined by its
polarity, the two changing together. Its powers are such, that a
magnetic needle placed in it finds its place of rest parallel to it ; a
crystal of calcareous spar turns until its optic axis is transverse to it ;
and a wire which is unaffected when moved in or along it, has an electric
current evolved the instant 'that it passes across it : by these and by
other means the presence of the magnetic line of force and its direc
tion are rendered manifest.
   The Earth is a great magnet : its power, according to Gauss,
being equal to that which would be conferred if every cubic yard of
it contained six one-pound magnets ; the sum of the force therefore is
equal to 8,464,000,000,000 ,000,000,000 such magnets. The dispo
sition of this magnetic force is not regular, nor are there any points
on the surface which can be properly called poles : still the regions
 of polarity are in high north and south latitudes ; and these are con
 nected by lines of magnetic force (being the lines of direction) which,
 generally speaking, rise out of the earth in one (magnetic) hemi
 sphere, and passing in varied directions over the equatorial regions
 into the other hemisphere, there enter into the earth to complete the
 known circuit of power. A free needle shows the presence and
 direction of these lines. In London they issue from the earth at an
 angle of about 69° with the horizon (being the dip or inclination) ;
 and the plane in which they rise forms an angle of 23° W. nearly
 with true north, giving what is called west declination. Where the
 dip is small, as at the magnetic equator, these lines scarcely rise out
 of the earth and pass but a little way above the surface ; but where it
 is large, as in northern or southern latitudes, they rise up at a
 greater angle, and pass into the distant realms of space, from
 whence they return again to the earth in the opposite magnetic hemi
 sphere ; thus investing the globe with a system of forces like that
 about an ordinary magnet, which wherever it passes through the atmo
 sphere is subject to the changing action of its magnetic oxygen.
 There is every reason to believe that these lines are held in the earth,
 out of which they arise and by which they are produced, just as the

5S                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [April 11,
lines which originate in a magnet are held by it, though not in the
same degree ; and that any disturbance from above affecting them
will cause a greater change in their place and direction in the atmo
sphere and space above, than in the earth beneath.
   The system of lines of magnetic force around a magnet or the earth
is related by a lateral tension of the whole, analogous in some degree
to the lateral tension of lines of static electrical force ; both the one
and the other being easily made manifest by experiment. The
disturbance of the tension in one part is accompanied instantly by a
disturbance of the tension in every other part ; for as the sum of the
external powers of a system, unaltered at its origin, is definite and
cannot be changed ; so any alteration either of intensity or direction
amongst the lines of force at one place, must be accompanied by a
corresponding change at every other. So if a mass of soft iron on
the east side of a magnet causes a concentration of the lines of force
from the magnet on that side, a corresponding expansion or opening
out of the lines on the west side must be and is at the same time
produced ; or if the sun, on rising in the east, renders all the oxygen
of the air on that side of the globe less rnagnetic and less able there
fore to favour the transition of the' lines of terrestrial force there, a
greater number of them will be determined through the western
 region ; and even though the lines of force may be doubted by some
 as having a separate existence such as that above assumed, still no
 error as to the effects on magnetic needles would in that case be
 introduced, for they by experiment would be and are the same.
    The power of a magnetic body as iron or oxygen to favour the
transmission of lines of force through it more than other bodies not
magnetic, may be expressed by the term conduction. Different
bodies, as iron, nickel, oxygen, conduct in various degrees, and not
 only that, but the same body as iron or oxygen conducts in different
 degrees at different temperatures. When space traversed by uniform
 lines of magnetic force is occupied by a uniform body as air, the
 disposition of the lines is not altered ; but if a better conducting
 substance than the air is introduced, so as to occupy part of the
 space, the lines are concentrated in it, and drawn from other parts as
 shown by P. P. in the figure, or if a worse conducting substance is
 introduced, the lines are opened out as at D. D. In both cases the
 lines of force are inflected, and a small magnetic needle standing in
 them at the inflected part would have its direction changed accordingly.
 Experimental illustrations of these changes in direction are given

1851.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       59
in Mr. Faraday's paper in the Philosophical Transactions for 1 85 1 ,
Part I. Par. 2843, &c.
    Now this by the hypothesis ie assumed to take place in the atmo
sphere. Supposing it all at mean temperature, the lines of force
would have the direction determined by the arrangement of the
power within the earth. Then the sun's presence in the east would
make all the atmosphere in that region a worse conductor, and cause
it to assume the character of D ; and as the sun came up to and
passed over the meridian and away to the west, the atmosphere
under his influence would bring up changes in direction like those
 shown in either D or D ; it would therefore manifestly set a needle
in a given latitude in opposite directions as it passed by; and as
evidently set two needles in north and south latitudes in opposite
directions at the same moment of time. As the night came on and
a temperature lower than the mean came up from the east and
passed over, the lines of force would be inflected as in P or P., and
a reverse variation of the needle to that which occurred before
 would now take place.
    That natural effects of variation must be produced consequent
 upon the magnetic nature of oxygen and its daily variations of tem
 perature is manifest ; but whether they cause the observed variations,
 or are competent to do so, is a question that can only be decided
 after very careful enquiry. Observations are now made on the
 surface of the earth with extreme care in many places, and these are
 collated, and the average or mean result, as to direction and intensity
 of the earth's force, ascertained for every hour and season ; and also
 many remarkable, anomalous, and extra results evolved. A theory of
 the causes of any or all of these variations may be examined first by
 the direction which the varying needle does or ought to assume, and
 then by the amount of the variation. The hypothesis now brought
 forward has been compared with the mean daily variation for all the
 months in the year at north and south stations, as Toronto and
  Hobarton, and at many others near to and far from the Equator,
  and agrees in direction with the results observed far beyond what
  the author anticipated. Thus the paths described by the upper ends
  of free needles in the north and south hemispheres should be closed
  curves, with the motion in opposite and certain directions, and so they
  are :—the curves described by needles in north or south latitudes
  should be larger in summer and smaller in winter, and so they are :—
  anight or cold action should grow up in the winter months, and such
  is the case :—the northern hemisphere ought to have a certain pre
  dominance over the southern, because of its superior temperature,
  and that is so : —the disposition of land and water ought to have an
  influence, and there is one in the right direction : —so that in the
  first statement and examination of the hypothesis it appears to be
  remarkably supported by the facts. All these coincidences are
  particularly examined into and stated in the Philosophical transactions
   already referred to. The next step will be to ascertain what is the

60                   NOTICES OF THB MHTINO8.        [April 11, 1851.
amount of change in the conducting power of the air for given
changes of temperature, and then to apply that in the endeavour to
ascertain whether the amount of change to be expected is (as well
as the direction) accordant with that which really occurs.
                                                          M. F.
  Jn the Library were exhibited :—
Gilbert, de Magnete ; Kircher, de Arte Magnetica ; Churchman's
   Magnetic Atlas ; and the Magnetical Observations at Greenwich,
   St Helena. Toronto, and Bombay ; and Col. Sabine's " Unusual
   Magnetic Disturbances" [from the Royal Institution Library].
Minerals from Texas, collected and presented by W. Bollaert, Esq.
Portrait of Mr. Faraday by A. Blaikley, Esq.
Candelabras presented to the Marquis of Tweeddale [by Messrs.
Model
   Huntofand
Fairburn's  Machine
          Anchor
              Roskell].
                   invented
                      for Making
                            by Commander   Inglefield,
                                   Cotton-Cards        R.N.Fairburo,
                                                  [by Mr.    M.R.I.
   C. E.]
"A Retriever ;" First Proof of an Engraving by H. T. Ryall, from a
   Drawing by Sir E. Landseer [by Mr. J. L. Grundy].
New Water-mark in Bank-note paper, and Specimen of Paper split
   in three [by Mr. Oldham].
Nine Flints with Fossil Sponges, &c. from Salisbury ; a large piece
   of Native Copper, with Native Silver, Calcareous Spar &c. part
   of a piece weighing 30 tons from Lake Superior [by Mr. Tennant] .
Talbotypes and Photographs [by Messrs. Henneman and Malone] .

                       [for the use of members.]
         iBotal institution of d&reat Wtam.
                                         1851.
                              ANNUAL MEETING.
                                  Thursday, May 1.
William Polk, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                     in the Chair.
   The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors on the State of
the Institution was read and adopted.
   Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary,
to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor
Faraday, for their services to the Institution during the past year.
   The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
the ensuing year :—
         President—The Duke of Northumberland, F.R.S.
         Treasurer—William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
         Secretary—Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                       Managers.
John
W.
Sir
George
   F.R.S.
    John
    Charles
    R.Charles
       Forbes,
         Dodd,
        Hamilton,
           P. Fellows.
              Boileau,
                M.D.
                 Esq.
                 Lemon,F.R.S.
                       M.P.
                     Esq.Bart.
                           F.R.S.
                             Bart.
                              F.S.A.
                                F.R.S.LL.D.
                                    F.S.A.   George Moore, Esq. F.RS. F.S.A.
                                             Gen. Sir William Morison, K.C.B.
                                                M.P. F.R.S.
                                             The Lord Overstone.
                                             Frederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.
                                             Lewis Powell, M.D.
                                             John Webster, M.D. F.R.S.
Right
   F.R.S.Hon. T. B. Macaulay, M.A.            Charles Wheatstone, Esq. F.R.S.
                                              Col. Philip J. Yorke, F.R.S.
                                        Visitors.
William
Augustus
John   Bate
       Lettsom
          Carpmael,
            Bozzi
             Cardale,
                  Granville,
                       Esq.
                 Elliot,  Esq. M.D. F.R.S.    George Macilwain, Esq.
                                              Charles Blachford Mansfield, Esq.
                                              Edward Meryon, M.D.
                                              Henry Harwood Penny, Esq.
   F.L.S.                                     Henry James Prescott, Esq.
William Johnston, Esq.                        James Rennie, Esq. F.R.S.
 Henry Bence Jones, M.D. F.R.S.               William Noble Rule, Esq.
Edward Kater, Esq. F.R.S.                     Alfred S. Taylor, M.D. F.R.S.
       No. 5.

62                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                       \M(ty 2,
                              EVENING
                 WEEKLY Friday,       May 2.MEETING,
       THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, President, in the Chair.
                       THE ASTRONOMER ROYAL,
              On the Total Solar Eclipse 0/1851, July 2S.
THE Lecturer remarked that the subject which he had suggested
to the Managers of the Institution for the present Lecture might at
first sight appear meagre and common-place, hut that he believed it
would be found to be one of the highest interest : first, because
during a total eclipse we are permitted a hasty glance at some of
the secrets of nature which cannot be seen on any other occasion :
secondly, because the general phenomenon is perhaps the most
awfully grand which man can witness. Many of his audience had
probably seen large partial eclipses of the sun, and they might sup
pose that a total eclipse is merely an intensified form of a partial
eclipse ; but, having himself witnessed a total eclipse, he was able
to assure them that no degree of partial eclipse up to the last moment
of the sun's appearance gave the least idea of a total eclipse, as re
garded either the generally terrific appearances, or the singular
nature of some of the phenomena. Many years ago, in reading the
admirable essay in the Philosophical Transactions by the late Mr.
Baily on the eclipse (usually called that of Thales), the occurrence
of which suspended a battle between the Lydians and the Medes, he
had been struck by the cogency of Mr. Baily's arguments, which
showed that only a total eclipse could be admitted as sufficient to
produce the effect ascribed to it ; and by the remark (cited by Mr.
Baily) of Maclaurin and Lemonnier, that in an annular eclipse of
the sun, even educated astronomers when viewing the sun (nearly
covered by the moon.) with the naked eye could not tell that it was
not full. The appearances, however, in a total eclipse, as he should
afterwards mention, were so striking, that there could be no diffi
culty in believing the historian's account to be literally correct.
   Proceeding first to explain the simple causes of a solar eclipse, the
Lecturer remarked that the moon's distance from the earth is nearly
one four-hundredth part of the sun's distance, and that the moon's
diameter is very nearly one four-hundredth part of the sun's dia
meter, and that therefore, on the average, the sun's apparent
diameter and the moon's apparent diameter are very nearly equal.
But in consequence of the elliptic forms of their orbits, the sun'a

 1851.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         63
distance is liable to small variations, and the moon's distance to
very considerable variations : when the moon is at the most distant
part of her orbit, her apparent diameter is smaller than the sun's,
and if she happens at that time to be between a spectator and the
sun, she will be seen as a black disk covering the central part of
the sun and leaving a ring of light all round : when the moon is at
the nearest part of her orbit, her apparent diameter is larger than
the sun's, and she will, to a spectator in the proper locality, com
pletely cover the sun, and produce a Total Eclipse. But neither of
these thing! can happen unless the plane of the moon's orbit be in
such a position that the moon, when approaching the state of con
junction or new moon, is seen to pass not above the sun or below
the stm but over the sun.
    The Lecturer then called attention to the circumstance that four
successive total eclipses occur in the month of July at intervals of nine
years, namely 1 833, July 17; 1 842, July 8 ; 1 85 1 , July 28 ; and 1 860,
July 18. For the explanation of this curious circumstance it was ne
cessary to show, first, how it Happened that at intervals of nine years the
 moon's orbit was in such a position that, for a nearly definite apparent
 position of the sun, the moon's path would cross the sun's disk : se
 condly, how it happened that at intervals of nine years the moon was
 at nearly her smallest distance from the earth, so that her apparent
 diameter was larger than the sun's. In reference to the former, it
 was shown that the moon revolves in an orbit whose plane is in
 clined to the plane of the ecliptic (the apparent orbit of the sun round
 the earth), and that the inclination is nearly invariable, but that the
 position of the line in which the plane of the moon's orbit intersects
 that of the ecliptic is constantly changing, revolving steadily in the direc
 tion opposite to the moon's motion, and performing a complete revolu
 tion in something more than nineteen years. Therefore if one node
 or extremity of this line of intersection were directed nearly to the
 July sun in 1833, the opposite node would be directed nearly to
 the July sun in 1842, and so on for four successive periods of nine
 years ; and eclipses would be possible in July at the end of each
 period. But to show that they might be total eclipses, it was neces
 sary to remark that the moon revolves in an ellipse of which the
 earth occupies one focus (a point much nearer to one end than to the
  other) and that the position of this ellipse is constantly varying,
  its long axis turning round in the same direction as the moon's
  motion, and completing a revolution in nine years and a half. There
  fore if in 1833 the shorter end of the ellipse were nearly turned to
  the July sun, in 1842 the axis of the ellipse would have completely
  revolved, so that the shorter end of the ellipse would again be nearly
  turned to the July sun : and thus the eclipse which occurred, if
  total in 1833, would, if central, be total (not annular) in 1842 ; and
  so on for four periods of nine years.
     The Lecturer then called attention to the great difference in the
 directions of the shadow-paths across Europe, for the eclipses of 1842

64                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    [May 1,
and 1851 : (the former being from W. S. W. to E. N. E. nearly,
the latter from N. W. to S. E. nearly). This arose in part from
the circumstance that (as above explained) the former of these eclipses
occurred when the node or end of the intersection-line of the planes
of orbits, turned towards the July sun, was that at 'which the moon
rises to the north of the ecliptic, the latter when it is that at which
 the moon is descending to the south of the ecliptic. But the prin
 cipal cause of the difference is this ; that the former eclipse occurred
early in the morning, the latter in the afternoon : on placing a
terrestrial globe in the proper position for July, with its north pole
inclined considerably towards the sun, it is seen that, even if the
moon moved precisely in the ecliptic, the path of her shadow across
Europe before Europe came to the meridian would trend from the
south to the north ; but if Europe had passed the meridian it would
trend from the north to the south.
   Quitting the geometrical explanations, the Lecturer then pro
ceeded to describe some peculiar phenomena which had been observed
in eclipses, and first, one which had been observed most distinctly
in annular eclipses, and which is known by the name of " Baily's heads
and strings." When the preceding limb of the moon, traversing the
sun's disk, approaches very near the sun's limb, or when the following
limb of the moon is in the act of separating- from the sun's limb to
enter on the sun's disk, the two limbs are joined for a time — (no one
has estimated the duration with accuracy) — by alternations of black
and white points or strings. Phenomena, evidently of the same class,
have been observed in the transits of Venus and Mercury over the
sun's disk ; the black planet, when just lodged on the sun's disk, being
pear-shaped, with its point attached to the black sky. The Lecturer
was able to state, in his own experience at the Royal Observatory,
that at the same transit of Mercury this phenomenon was seen
with some telescopes and was not seen with others. In the annular
eclipse of 1836 observed at Konigsberg, where the moon's limb but
just entered completely on the sun's, and where consequently it
grazed along the sun's for many seconds of time, the phaenomenon
appeared to resolve itself simply into points of light seen between
lunar mountains. The Lecturer expressed himself generally satisfied
with Professor Powel1's explanation, that the phenomenon originates
in that inevitable fault of telescopes and of the nervous system of the
eye which tends to extend the images of luminous objects (producing
what is generally termed irradiation), and thus enlarges the sun's
disk towards the sky, towards the moon or planet, and towards the
bottoms of its hollows.
   In describing the total eclipse of 1 842 (which perhaps was better
observed than any one preceding it) the Lecturer insisted on our obli
gation to M. Arago, who had prepared the preliminary notices, and had
used his powerful personal influence in inducing persons to make ob
servations at numerous stations in the south of France ; and had
afterwards collected and compared the observations. Besides these

 1851.]                 OF THE UOYAL INSTITUTION.                      65
 French observations, and the observations made by astronomers
 officially located in the path of the shadow, we have the observations
of M. Schumacher who went to Vienna, of MM. Otto Struve and
Scbidlowsky at Lipetsk, (the former of whom was sent expressly by
the Russian government,) of Mr. Baily who went to Pavia, and of
the Lecturer himself who went to the Superga (near Turin).
   It appears that, with M. Arago's telescope, the whole circum
ference of the moon was visible when the moon had entered on only
about two-thirds of the sun's diameter. Whatever may be the cause
of this unusual appearance, it seems to require the use of a telescope
with a small number of glasses in the highest state of polish.
   As the totality approached, a strange fluctuation of light was seen
by M. Arago and others upon the walls and the ground, so striking
that in some places children ran after it and tried to catch it with
their hands.
   Of the awful effect of the totality, and of the suddenness with
which it came on, it is difficult to give an idea. The Lecturer cited
an expression from Dr. Stukely's account of the total eclipse of 1 744,
observed on a cloudy day, " that the darkness came dropping like a
mantle :" and compared it with his own, in similar weather, " that the
clonds seemed to be descending." But all agree in the description of
livid countenances, indistinct and sometimes invisible horizon, and
general horror of appearance. It is well that we are enabled, by
means of instances collected by M. Arago, to show that these are
not simply the inventions of active human imaginations. In one
case, a half-starved dog, who was voraciously devouring some food,
dropped it from his mouth when the darkness came on. In another,
a swarm of ants, who were busily carrying their burdens, stopped
when the darkness came on and remained motionless till the light
reappeared. In another, a herd of oxen, as soon as the totality was
formed, collected themselves into a circle and stood with their horns
outwards. Some plants (as the convolvulus and silk-tree acaciu)
closed their leaves.
   The darkness at Venice was so great that the smoke of the steam
boats could not be seen. In several places, birds flew against
houses, &c. Where the sky was clear, several stars were seen. In
several places a reddish light was seen near the horizon. A heavy
dew was formed at Perpignan.
   The Lecturer cited an instance which had been related to him by
M. Arago, in which the Captain of a French ship had beforehand
arranged in the most careful way the observations to be made : but,
when the darkness came on, discipline of every kind failed, every
person's attention being irresistibly attracted to the striking ap
pearances of the moment, and some of the most critical observations
were thus lost.
   The most remarkable phenomenon observed in all preceding total
eclipses, and seen equally in this, is the ring of light surrounding the
moon, called the corona.         The Lecturer described the magical

C6                       NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [May 2.
change, from the state of a very narrow lune of solar light (the
contour of the moon being totally invisible,) to the state of an entire
dark moon surrounded by a ring of faint light, as most curious and
striking. The progress of ths formation of the ring was seen by
his companion, and by some other persons : it commenced on the
side of the moon opposite to that at which the sun disappeared.
In the general decay and disease which seemed to oppress all nature,
the moon and corona appeared almost like a local disease in that
part of the sky. In some places, the corona was seen as distinctly
double ; it would appear that the ring which the Lecturer saw
(whose breadth, by estimate of repeated duplication, he found to be
about one-eighth part of the moon's diameter, or four minutes of arc
nearly) was the inner of the two rings seen by M. Arago and others.
The texture of the corona appeared in some places as if fibrous, or
composed of entangled thread ; in some places, brushes or featheis
of light proceeded from it. One photometric estimate of the quantity
of light in the corona, cited by M. Arago, gave it equal to one-
seventh part of full moonlight. From a chromatic analysis of its
light by means of an ordinary prism, it appeared to be deficient in
green rays.
     The Lecturer characterised the inquiry into the origin and locality
of this corona as one of the most interesting connected with the
 eclipse. It had been specially indicated by M. Arago (see the
Annuaire du Bureau des Longitudes, 1842) as a very important sub
ject of inquiry whether the corona is concentric with the moon or
with the sun ; but his recommendation had received very limited
 attention. The general tenor of the evidence went to prove that
 the corona belongs to the sun. This, however, was not the opinion
 of more ancient writers, who tacitly consider it as the atmosphere
 of the moon.
     But the most remarkable of all the appearances were the red
 mountains or flames apparently projecting from the circumference of
 the moon into the inner ring of the corona, to the height of one mi
 nute of arc at the smallest estimation, or a much greater height by
 other estimations. It was afterwards discovered that these had been
 seen before by Vassenius, a Swedish astronomer, who observed the
 eclipse of 1733 at Goteborg, (a place very favourable for the approach
 ing eclipse), and whose account is given in the Philosophical Trans
  actions, vol. xxxviii. He terms them " subrubicundae nonnullae
 maculae, extra peripheriam disci lunaris conspectae, numero tres aut
 quatuor." This observation, however, was not known to any of the
 observers in 1842, and all were therefore taken by surprise. Drawings
 were exhibited of these red mountains as seen at Perpignan, Narbonne,
  Vienna, Pavia, Superga, and Lipetsk. It was shown that, by a trace
  still visible on the engraving, the drawing first made at Vienna had
  coincided very exactly with that made at Pavia ; that the Narbonne
  observations would be very exactly reconciled with them by suppos
  ing the error (very likely to occur to unpractised astronomers) of

1851.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         67
taking the north limb to be the upper limb ; that at 'Perpignan,
Superga, Lipetsk, the lowest of the red prominences was not seen :
and that at Superga and Lipetsk only was the middle one of the
upper prominences seen, though in several places an irregular band
of red light had been seen of which one salient point might be the
prominence in question. In all the places where the order of forma
tion had been observed, the same prominence (the left-hand upper
prominence) was defined as the first seen.          At Perpignan this
was observed by M. Mauvais to show itself first as a small point
and to project gradually as from behind the moon. The discordance
in these representations did not appear to the Lecturer at all startling ;
it was not greater than the discordance in the accounts given by two
good observers in different rooms of the same building at Padua.
   The determination of the locality and nature of these red pro
minences is one of the most difficult of all connected with the
eclipse. The first impression undoubtedly was that they are parts
of the sun. If so, their height, at the lowest estimation, is about
thirty thousand miles. The principal objection, however, to their
solar location is the difference in their forms as seen at different
places : thus at Perpignan they are represented as widest at the top :
at all other places they are widest at the base. Moreover at some
places, as Pavia and Vienna, where they were seen a long time, they
underwent no change : whereas at Perpignan one at least was seen
to slide out as from behind the moon. In all cases, however, much is
to be allowed for the hurried nature of the observation.
    The only theory which has been formally propounded as explain
ing them is that of M. Faye, who conceives them to be the result of
a kind of mirage.
    The Lecturer explained the nature of ordinary mirage (the kind
 of reflection produced by the hot air adhering to a heated surface
 of any solid) and described the distortion produced in the image of
a star as seen in the Northumberland telescope of the Cambridge
Observatory, when first mounted in a square pyramidal tube, whose an
gles were constructed more solidly than its sides, reducing the inner
form to an octagon. When this tube had become warm before obser
vation in the open air, the angle-blocks remained warm after the sides
and the internal air had become cool, and a kind of mirage was pro
 duced which distorted the image of a star into four long rays like the
 sails of a windmill. M. Faye has particularly adverted to this in
 stance, and conceived that in the circumstances of our atmosphere at
 the time of the eclipse, where the air on one side only of the path of
 light is somewhat heated by the sun, sufficient explanation might be
 found for the distortion of some inequalities of the moon. The
 Lecturer professed himself totally unable to follow this theory into
 details, remarking only that in the rapid passage of the moon's sha
 dow he conceived it impossible to find air in the state required for
 theThe   Lecturer then adverted to that part of his subject of which
      explanation.

68                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [May 2,
all that had been already said was only introductory, namely the
approaching eclipse of July 28. After quoting an American news
paper, showing the great interest excited by this eclipse beyond the
Atlantic as one of the strongest inducements for Americans to visit
Europe in the coming summer, he invifed attention to its course
across Europe. Entering Norway near Bergen, the shadow crosses
both coasts of Norway, both coasts of Sweden, and the eastern
coast of the Baltic : then ranges through Poland and the south
frontier of Russia across the sea of Azof through Georgia to the
Caspian Sea. It passes Christiania, Goteborg, Carlscrona, Danzig,
Konigsberg, Warsaw, and Tiflis. A great part of this course,
especially that from Bergen to Konigsberg, is very accessible by sea,
and Warsaw by land. The Lecturer trusted that many English
travellers might be induced to observe this eclipse. If possible,
stations should be chosen as well near the northern and southern
boundaries of the shadow as near the centre. No particular skill ia
astronomical observation is required, the phenomena being rather of
a more generally physical kind : and indeed, as far as the observa
tions of the eclipse of 1842 showed, the travelling physicists had
been more successful than the stationary astronomers. The appa
ratus required would depend on the special objects of the observer ;
a telescope and a watch might be considered indispensable in every
case : for analysis of light, a common prism and a polariscope might
be taken by some persons : photometry, actinometry, &c., might be
interesting to others, and appropriate instruments would he required :
other observers would be interested in meteorology. The apparatus
which the Lecturer considered it most important to perfectionate
now, for use during the eclipse, is photogenic apparatus ; it would be
impossible to set too high a value on a series of Daguerreotypes or
Talbotypes of the sun and corona taken during the eclipse.
   The Lecturer concluded by saying that a series of suggestions for
the observation, accompanied by a map, had been prepared by a
Committee of which he is a member, and were nearly ready to leave
the printer's hands : and he undertook to transmit a copy of these
suggestions to any person who would make application to him.
                                                           G. B. A.
   In the Library were exhibited :—
Improved Orrery
Apparatus            [by Messrs.
            to illustrate         Newtons].
                          the Pendulum  Experiment [by Mr. Bishop] .
      Wickes,
" Towers         Spires of England ''— the original drawings [by C.
            andEsq.]
 Hindu Mythological Paintings [by the United Service Institution].

1851.]                  OP THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           69
                   GENERALMonday, MONTHLY   May 5.MEETING,
William Polb, Esq., M.A„ F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
   The Secretary announced that the President had nominated the
following Vice-Presidents for the ensuing year :—
   William Pole, Esq., Treasurer R.I.           Rt. Hon. T. B. Macaulay.
    Sir John P. Boileau, Bt.                    The Lord Overstone.
   W. R. Hamilton, Esq.                         Professor Wheatstone.
                     Admiral Sir George Sartorius, R.N.
.was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
    Wm. Ashton, Esq.                            The Lord Lovaine.
    George Chenevix, Esq.                       Hon. Henry A. Murray, Capt.
    George J. Eyre, Esq.                           R.N.
    John Fergus, Esq., M.P.                     Miss F. S. Solly.
    Alfred Hooper, Esq.                         Wm. Raikes Timins, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    William Thos. Brande, Esq. F.R.S L. & E. &c. was re-elected as
Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
   From
 Members     ordered to be returned for the same ; —
 O. J. Guthrie, Esq., F.R.S.—Plans and Sections of the Several Lines of Railway
     in Ireland laid out under the direction of the Commissioners, fol. 1837.
 The Royal Geographical Society—Journal, Vol. XX. Part II. 8vo. 1851.
 Thos. Fisher, Esq. (the Author) —Dial of the Seasons; or a Portraiture of
     Nature. 12mo. Chart to Ditto (on Roller) Philadelphia. 1845.
 Edward Thornton, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author) —The History of the British Empire
     in India. 6 Vols. 8vo. 1851.
 The Hon. East India Company—Magnetical and Meteorological Observations
     made at Bombay in 1846. 4to. 1849.
    Magnetical Observations in 1847, Part I. 4 to. 1850.
 The Commissioners in Lunacy—Reports to the Lord Chancellor, 1844 to 1850.
 W. R. Hamilton, Esq. F.R.S. M.R.I. Sfc.—Bibliotheca Grenvilliana ; or Biblio
     graphical Notices of Rare and Curious Books forming part of the Library of
     the Right Hon. Thos. Grenville, by J. T. Payne and Henry Foss. 3 Vols.
     8vo. 1842.
 M. Faraday Esq. Full. Prof. Chem. R.I.—Relations des Expériences pour
     determiner les principales Lois Physiques et les Donnees numeriques qui
     entrent dans le calcul des Machines a Vapeur, par M. V. Regnault. Partie I.
     4to. Paris. 1847.

70                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                       {May 9,
  MSmoires pre'sente's par Divers Savants a l'Acade'mie des Sciences de
    l'Institut de France. Tome IX. 4to. Paris, 1846.
  Monatsbericht der KOnigl. Prenss. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin.
    Feb. 1851. 8vo.
     Royal
The II.     Society
          8vo.      of Van Dieman's Land—Papers and Proceedings, Vol. I. Part
                 1850.
The Royal Astronomical Society—Monthly Notices, Vol. XI. Nos. 1—i. 8vo.
     1850-1.
Commander Inglefield, R.N. M.R.I, (the Author) —A New Theory of Terrestrial
    Magnetism, &c. 8vo. 1851.
The American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 45. 8vo. 1850.
Rev. W. IV. Ellis, M.A. (the Author) —Ten Lectures on Romanism, Tracta-
    rianism, etc. 12mo. 1851.
James Yearsley, M.R.C.S., M.R.I, (the Author) —A New Mode of Treating
    Deafness. 12mo. 1850.
   Elongated Uvula and other Morbid Conditions of the Throat, &c. 8vo. 1851.
   Deafness practically illustrated. 12mo. 1850.
The Institution of Civil Engineers—Transactions, Vol. III. Parts 2—5. 1840-2.
    4to.
   Minutes of Proceeding for 1837, 1840, 1841, 1844, 1845, 1846, 1847, and
     parts of 1848, 1849, 1850. 8vo.
   Do. for April, 1851. 8vo.
   Catalogue of the Library of the Institution of Civil Engineers. 8vo. 1851.
   List of Members, Dec. 1850. 8vo.
The Royal Society of Edinburgh—Proceedings, No. 33, 34. 8vo. 1848-9.
The Royal Institute of British Architects—Proceedings, April, 1851. 4to.
The Horticultural Society of London—Journal, Vol. VI. No. 2. 8vo. 1851.
The Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings, Vol. IV. Part III. 8vo. 1850.
J. C. David, Esq. (the Author) Geographical Botany and Astronomy, &c. 4to.
     1850.
   The Hebrew Alphabet, a Key to the Divine and Universal Language, 1842.
Jacob Bell, Esq. (the Editor) —The Pharmaceutical Journal for May, 1851.
Reginald Stuart Poole, Esq. (the Author) —Horae ./Egyptiacae : or, the Chronology
     of Ancient Egypt. 8vo. 1851.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                  Friday, May 9.
               The Duke of Northumberland, President,
                                   in the Chair.
      The Rev. Baden Powell, M.A. F.R.S. F.R.A.S. F.G.S.
          SAV1LLIAN PROFESSOR OP GEOMETRY IN THE UNIVERSITY OF OXFORD.
 On the Recent Experiment showing the Rotation of the Earth by means
                                 of the Pendulum.
 The experiment alluded to has been the subject of so much popular
 notice at the present time that it would be needless to go into a
 particular description of its nature or object. If fully verified, the

1851.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         71
result would however hardly amount to any more palpable proof to
the senses than other astronomical phenomena afford ; in this case,
as well as in those, the conclusion is equally derived from reasoning
on the actual appearances.
   An idea of such an effect seems to have occurred long ago,
and is mentioned in a paper in the Phil. Trans. 1742, No. 468, by
the Marquis de Poli, in the course of some observations on the
pendulum of a different kind. He remarks, " I then considered
(adopting the hypothesis of the Earth's motion) that in one oscilla
tion of the pendulum there would not be described from its centre
perfectly one and the same arc in the same plane :"— but he does
not pursue the subject, as being foreign to his immediate objeqt.
   It appears also (see Comptes Rendus, 1851, No. 6) that in 1837
Poisson had hinted at such an effect, but supposed it of insensible
amount.
   To some minds difficulties present themselves in the first instance,
which are easily removed by a few simple illustrations. In the first
place the deviation from parallelism to itself, of the meridian of any
place, during the rotation of the Earth, is a simple geometrical question
easily determined, and the inclination expressed by a trigonometrical
formula. In the next place the independence of the motion of the
 pendulum, notwithstanding that the point of support is carried along
 with the earth in its rotation, and that the whole seems to form a
 part of the earth, is a point easily elucidated by very simple experi
 ments, in which the vibration of a small pendulum is seen to continue
 parallel to itself notwithstanding a motion given to the point of
 support ; the effect being in fact only a simple consequence of the
 coexistence of two motions communicated to a body at the same
 time. A beautiful apparatus, lent by Mr Bishop for showing this, was
 exhibited on the present occasion.
    The experiment originally made by M. Foucault was repeated and
 confirmed under the inspection of M. Arago, and other eminent
 scientific men with all due precautions in Paris, as also at Ghent,
 Brussels, and elsewhere. In England besides the public repetitions
 at the Russell, London, and Polytechnic Institutions, by Dr. Roget,
 Mr. Bishop, and Mr. Bass, the experiment has been tried at York
 by Professor Phillips, and at Bristol by Mr. Bunt, with careful atten
 tion to all the circumstances likely to ensure the avoidance of sources
  of error, and to secure precise results. At the Royal Institution
  on the present occasion the experiment was exhibited under two
 modifications by Dr. Bence Jones and by Mr. Bass. Other observers
 have also repeated it in various places, especially at Dublin, where
 Messrs. Haughton and Galbraith, Fellows of Trinity College, have
 pursued the research with all imaginable precautions, and have
 obtained results somewhat different from those of other observers.
 According to nearly all the other experiments the rate of deviation
 continued uniform : according to Messrs. Haughton and Galbraith,
 it varied : and they seem to have been the only observers who have

  72                   NOTICES OF Till. MEETINGS                 [Mi"/ 9,
watched through a complete revolution, the time of which was ob
served to be 28h. 26m.
   The sources of probable error are numerous and not easy to be
effectually guarded against. The most formidable, perhaps, is the
extreme difficulty of causing the pendulum to vibrate truly in one plane,
and to prevent its motion in a narrow ellipse. When this takes place,
and the arc is considerable, the direction of the major axis is con
tinually changing, owing to a well known mechanical cause (see Her-
sche1's Outlines of Astronomy, p. 444) ; but this deviation is
always in the same direction as that of the original motion of the
pendulum, and consequently changes when that direction is changed.
The true deviation may be distinguished from this, in that it is
always from E. to W., independently of the direction of the original
impulse ; and the ball always passes accurately through the centre
in every oscillation, whereas in the former case it never does.
   For great accuracy, a variety of other precautions are requisite, as
to the perfect freedom of suspension, guarding against currents, &c. ;
It is, however, possible that the elliptic deviation may oppose that due
to the earth's rotation, while the latter may manifest itself in spite of
the former.
   It is extremely probable that many of the public repetitions may
have been affected bythese causes of error ; yet some of those
referred to have been made by men of so much eminence and experi
ence as observers, as to render it highly improbable that they should
not have been sufficiently guarded against every source of fallacy.
The accordance of many of the results at different places within fair
limits of error, is also a strong argument in favour of their accuracy
and trustworthiness.
    The rates of deviation for one hour as determined at different
places do not seem to be more discrepant than would accord gene
rally with the differences of latitude. The experiment at Paris gave
about 1 1° 30', at Bristol 1 1° 42-, at Dublin rather more than 12°, at
York about 13°.
    To apprehend the theoretical principle it is necessary to take
into account, 1st, the simple inclination of two successive posi
tions of the meridian of a place to each other after any interval of
time : 2nd, the independence of the motion of the ball of the pendu
lum, of the rotation of the point of support : and, 3rdly, that the ball,
 though free in this sense, is not however wholly free, being continually
 drawn down by gravity in a direction continually changing (relatively
 to the original direction of vibration,) as the earth revolves. Hence,
though from the second cause the ball would have a tendency always
 to preserve a motion parallel to its original motion, and thus to deviate
regularly from the meridian, it will (from the third cause) not preserve
 this exact parallelism, but will take an intermediate direction. The
 exact determination of this direction cannot be made on any general
considerations, but must be the result of detailed mathematical inves
 tigation.

  1851.]               Or THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          73
    Thus in general in any illustrative or analogous case, so long as
 the atis of vibration continues parallel to itself, the arc of vibration
 will continue parallel to itself ; but if the axis do not continue
 parallel, the direction of the arc of vibration will deviate. This dis
 tinction has been laid down and illustrated experimentally, by Mr.
 Wheatstone.
    The investigation as pursued by M; Binet (Comptes Rendus, 1851,
 No. 6-7,) as well as by other mathematicians, is primarily founded on
 the method long since proposed by Euler, of resolving the rotatory
 motion of one point on the earth's surface into two, one about the
 vertical of that point, the other about an axis at right angles to it :
 of which the latter is the part effective in determining the direction
 of gravity on the pendulum, and is proportional to the sine of the
latitude of the point.
    M . Binet makes this general thedrem the foundation of an analy
 tical investigation, in which the conditions of the motion of the pen
 dulum generally are expressed by certain differential equations, the
 integration of which conducts him to certain expressions, which when
 simplified by the consideration of limiting the vibration to small arcs,
 gives the azimuthal velocity uniform in the direction from E. to W.
 and in a simple proportion to the sine of the latitude : giving there
 fore the deviation for one hour in the latitude of Paris about 1 \\° and
 the time of a complete revolution 32h 8". An investigation has also
been made independently by the Astronomer Royal, leading to very
 nearly the same result.
    Other mathematical solutions have also been proposed by Dr.
Day of Bristol, and by Mr. J. R. Young (late Professor of Mathe
matics at Belfast). The latter gentleman has obtained as a conse
quence of his investigations one remarkable result, which he states
thus:
    " The arc of the circular rim of the table subtended by the angle
 of deviation at its centre, is always (in one revolution of the earth)
exactly equal to the difference in length of the two parallels of latitude
described by the centre and extremity of the meridional diameter of
 the table."' [See Mechanic's Mag. May 3rd & 10th, 1851.]
    The lucid and able illustrations of the subject given by Professor
Sylvester have thrown much light on the explanation.
    Modifications of the principle have been suggested by M. Chasles,
on the idea of the difference of rotatory velocity between any two
points on the same meridian, which difference, insensible as it might
seem to be for the minute length of a vibration, he shows, will in
successive vibrations become sensible. This idea is nearly the same as
that announced by Laplace (Mecanique Celeste, vol. iv. c. 5.), who in
fers a deviation in the plane of a projectile fired in the direction of the
meridian. The same idea has been discussed also by other mathe
maticians : and has been further carried out by M. Poinsot who
has suggested, that if two balls suspended by separate strings,
hanging together in contact, and consequently both partaking in

74                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.            [3/fly 9, 1851.
the velocity of rotation of that point of the earth, were to be sud
denly separated by releasing a spring placed between them, and at
first confined by a string, they would then show the difference of
velocity, belonging to points on the earth at that distance apart, and
would consequently revolve round the vertical. (See Comptes Ren-
dus, 1851, No. 14.)
    A beautiful variation of the experiment has been suggested by Mr.
Bravais (Comptes Rendus, 1851, No. 6.) in which a perfectly circular
 motion is communicated to a pendulum (by a peculiarly- ingenious
contrivance) the time of whose revolution will be different according
as its direction conspires with or opposes that of the earth.
    If all torsion in the thread could be got rid of, a ball simply sus
pended and furnished with an index in its equator would be seen to
rotate. But the torsion destroys the effect. This is the suggestion
of M. Baudrimont (Comptes Rendus, 1851, No. 8.)
    But by far the most complete idea not only of the general prin
 ciple, but of the precise law of the sine of the latitude, is obtained
from the beautiful apparatus constructed by Mr. Wheatstone, in
 which the pendulum is replaced by the vibrations of a coiled spring,
 the axis of which can be placed in any required inclination or latitude
 with respect to a vertical semicircular frame, which is made to revolve
 about its vertical radius, and the direction of the vibrations is seen to
 change in a degree proportioned to the sine of the latitude or incli-
 ation ; as for example for lat. 30 the sine = ^ : and consequently if
 the vibration be originally in the meridian, when the meridian has re
 volved 180°, the deviation = 180° x £ = 90" or is at right angles
 to the meridian.
    This apparatus was exhibited at the lecture.
     Upon the whole the experiment is one of high interest and import
 ance : some discrepancies or difficulties in the different views taken of
 the theory as well as in the observed results, seem to indicate that the
 subject, however apparently simple, has not yet been thoroughly
 worked out, — and to point to the desirableness of further repetitions
  of the experiments, if possible in vacua, and with increased precautions,
 as well as to a revision of the dynamical and analytical processes, by
 which possibly any seeming difficulties may be cleared up.
                                                                   B. P.
    In the Library were exhibited :—
 Silver chased Sword-hilt, dated 1642, containing ten Portraits,
     Frederick William, Stadtholder of Holland, and his Court.
 The Mouse-deer and the Guanna, mounted by Messrs. Leadbeater.
 Two inlaid Derbyshire Tazzas, &c. [by Mr. Tennant].
  Lithographed Fac-Similes [by Messrs. Aslibee and Tuckett].
  Figures in Coloured Biscuit, soft-metal bronzed, and Serpentine
     stone [by Messrs Cundall and Addey].
  Silver-gilt Shield—" Boadicea " [by Messrs. Hunt and Roskell].

                 [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
                  gjngtttutton of dsreat I3rttain,
                                1851.
                WEEKLYFriday,      May 16.
                             EVENING       MEETING,
        THE LORD OVERSTONE, Vice President, in the Chair.
                     CAFTAIN W. H. SHIFFARD,
               On Central America and the Ship-Canal.
CAFTAIN Shippard commenced by alluding to the very great impor
tance of communications, whether by canal or railway, through the
Isthmuses of Suez and Darien. He then referred to the various
modes proposed for traversing the latter, and stated what he
conceived to be the advantages, that would result from a ship-
canal through Nicaragua, referring throughout his discourse to a
Relief Model before him, furnishing the complete physical features of
the country from the Port of Realejo on the Pacific, including
the Lakes Leon and Nicaragua, down to the south of the Rio
San Juan on the Atlantic, based upon the English, French, and
Spanish Admiralty surveys, and upon French, Spanish, German,
 Dutch, and American authorities.
   He then read a series of notes respecting the political cha
racter, geographical features, and natural history of Central Ame
rica; and concluded by giving a historical sketch of the con
nexion between that country and the British Government, since
the early part of the 17th century, by means of the Mosquito
nation, the Governors of Jamaica, &c.
                     Electric Currents in Plants.
   MR. FARADAY communicated a brief verbal notice of the results
 obtained by M. Becquerel in his recent researches into the nature
 and directions of the Electric currents which may, or do exist in
 the different parts of a tree or other plant ; and also of those
 which exist in relation to the tree and the surrounding earth. By
 the insertion of terminals attached to the galvanometer into
 various parts of the tree, effects were obtained which indicated
 that the current is from both the bark and the heart-wood
 through the instrument to the cambium or parts between the bark
 and the wood. As regards the relation of the vegetative process
 to the atmosphere, the earth was found positive to the paren-
      No. 6.                                                 G

7t,                    NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS                   [May 23,
chyma, which was relatively negative. As the earth is relatively
negative to the serene atmosphere above, it would appear that
the vegetative process acts in a direction contrary to that of
the causes which give the earth and air around it their relative
electric states. (Vide Annalcs de Chimie, 1851, tome xxxi. p. 40.)
    In the Library were exhibited —
Maps and Views of Central America and Drawings of the Inhabitants,
    Antiquities, Animals, and Plants [by Capt. Shippard].
The Trogon Resplendens and other birds from Central America
    [by Messrs. Leadbeaters] .
A small gold figure from Bogota — Models of a boat built for
    Capt. Parry's Polar Expedition, and a cutter by Mr. T.
    Roberts ; an Indian Gun ; Mocassins, &c. [by the United
    Service Institution].
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 23.
        THB REV. JOHN BARLOW, M.A., F.R.S., Secretary R. I.
                                in the Chair.
                         WILLIAM HOSKINO, Esq.
       FROFESSOR OF ARCHITECTURE AND Or EM1INEERINO CONSTRUCTIONS AT
                           KINO'S COLLEGE, LONDON.
                    On Ventilation by the Parlour Fire.
THB term Ventilation does not strictly imply what we intend by its
use in reference to Buildings used as dwelling-houses, or otherwise
for the occupation of breathing creatures. To ventilate is defined
" to fan with wind ;" but one of the main objects for which houses
and other enclosed buildings are made, is shelter from the wind,
Inasmuch, however, as the wind is but air in motion, and we can only
live in air, air may not be j-lmi out of our houses, though, for
comfort's sake, we refuse to admit it in the active state of wind. But
in doing this — in shutting out the wind,— we are apt to put ourselves
upon a short allowance of air, and to eke out the short allowance by
using the same air over and over again.
    There is a broad line of distinction, indeed, to be drawn between
in-door and out-door ventilation ; for although the principles upon
which nature proceeds are the same, the operation is influenced by
the circumstances under which the process may he carried on.
Whether it be on the hill-side, open to the winds of heaven, or in a
close room from which all draught of air is excluded, the expired

1851.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           77
breath, as it leaves the nostrils heated by the fire in the lungs, rises, or
seeks to rise, above their level, and may not be again inhaled. Out of
doors the cooler or leas heated air of the lower level presents itself
for respiration unaffected by the spent exhaled air, but in a close
apartment the whole body of included air must soon be affected by
whatever process any portion of it may have undergone. The process
by which Nature carries off spent air, purifies, and returns it
uncontaminated, is thus checked by the circumstances under which
we place ourselves within-doors. All our devices for shelter from
the weather, and for domestic convenience and comfort, tend to
prevent the process provided by Nature from taking effect according
to the intention in that respect of the Creator. We not only confine
ourselves, indeed, and pen up air in low and close rooms, but we
introduce fire by which to warm the enclosed air ; wanting light
within our dwellings when daylight, fails, we introduce another
sharer iu the pent-up air of our rooms, being fire indeed in another
form, but generally under such circumstances, that it not only ab
stracts from the quantity, but injures the quality of what may remain.
 But fire, whether in the animal system, in the grate, or in the lamp,
 cannot long endure the imagined limitation of air. There must be
access of air — of vital air — by some channel or other, or the fire
 will go out.
   An open fire in the grate must however have a vent for some
of its results, or it will be so disagreeable a companion that its
 presence could not be endured, even as long as the most limited
 quantity of air would last; and the fire will compel the descent of air
 by the vent commonly supplied under the name of a flue — a chimney
 flue — to render its presence tolerable in a closed room, if a supply
 be not otherwise obtainable. But as the outer air at the higher level
 of the top of a chimney, because of the rarity of the air in and above
 the flue, responds to the demand of the fire less easily than the
 lower air, or that at and about the level of the fire ; and the lower
 air, or air ut the lower levels, forces its way in, therefore, by any
 opening it can find or make — through the joints of the flooring-
 boards and under the skirtings — the supply passing first up or
 down the hollow lathed and plastered partitions, sometimes even
 up from the drains ; and through the joints under and about the
 doors and windows. If these channels do not exist, as they may not
 when the joiners' work and the plastering are good, or when the open
 jomts referred to are stopped up by any means, the fire smokes, and
 every known means of curing the chimney failing, means are sought
 of obtaining heat without the offending fire.           Ventilation is not
 thought of yet.
    The open fire may be made to give place to the close stove or to hot
 air-pipes, to hot-water pipes, or to steam pipes—which make hot the air
 about them in a close room without causing draughts. But the
 warmth obtained in pipes is costly under any circumstances. Air
 does not take up heat freely, unless it be driven and made to pass

78                       NOTICES OF THE MEETING!!                [May 23,
freely over the heated surface ; and there being little or no con
sumption of air, and consequently little or no draught, in connexion
with heated bodies, such as close stoves and hot pipes, the heat from
them is not freely diffused, and is not wholesome. There is with all
the expense no ventilation.
    Stoves and hot pipes are, moreover, exceedingly dangerous inmates
in respect of fire. Such things are the most frequent causes, directly
or indirectly, of fires in buUdings. Placed upon, or laid among or about
the timbers and other wood-work of hollow floors, and hollow parti
tions, and in houses with wooden stairs, more conflagrations are
occasioned by hot pipes and stoves, than by any thing else, and per
haps more than by all other things together.
    Open stoves with in-draught of air warmed by being drawn
quickly (when it is drawn quickly) over heated surfaces may be
made part of a system of safe and wholesome in-door ventilation ;
but to be perfect there must be also out-draught with power to
compel the exit of spent or otherwise unwholesome air. But the
arrangements for and connected with such stoves are special and
therefore costly, unless the buildings in which they may be em
ployed have been adapted in building to receive them. An in
draught stove may however be applied with great advantage as
it regards the general warmth and ventilation, in the lowest story of
any house, if there be compelled out-draught at the highest level
to which it will naturally direct itself if it be not retained, so that the
in-draughted air, tempered as it enters, may be drawn out as
it becomes spent, or otherwise contaminated.
     But this must be considered in all endeavours to effect in-door
 ventilation, or the endeavour will fail. The air must be acted upon,
 and not be left, or be expected, to act of itself, and to pass in or
 out as may be desired merely because ways of ingress and egress are
 made for it. Make a fire in a room, or apply an air-pump to the
 room, and the outer air will respond to the power exerted by either
 by any course that may be open to it, and supply the place of that which
 may be consumed or ejected ; but open a window in an otherwise close
 room and no air will enter ; no air can enter, indeed, unless force
 be applied as with a bellows, whereby as much may be driven out as
  is driven in, with the effect only of diluting not of purifying.
  Even at that short season of the year in which windows may be'
  freely opened, unless windows are so placed as to admit of the
  processes of out-door ventilation being carried on through them
  by a thorough draught from low levels to high levels, open
  windows are not sufficient to effect thorough in-door ventilation.
  There must for this purpose be in every room a way by
  which a draught can be obtained, and this draught must take
   effect upon the most impure air of the room, which is that of the
   highest level. The chimney opening may supply a way at a low
   level, and a draught may be established between it and the window,
  but the air removed from the room by such a draught is not neces

1851.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      79
sarily the spent or foul air. But make an opening into the chimney
flue near the highest level in the room, that is to say, as near as
may be. to the ceiling, and if a draught be established between the
window and the flue by this opening, the ventilation is complete;
that is to say again, if there be draught enough in the chimney
flue from any cause to induce an up-current through it, or if there be
motion of the external air to drive the air in at the window and
force an up-current through the flue.
    Windows may not be put open in the long enduring colder
season, however, and for the same reason in-draughts of the outer
air by any other channel are offensive and injurious. To open a
door for the sake of air is but a modification of opening a window,
and, if the door be an internal one, with the effect of admitting already
enclosed, and, probably, contaminated air. Means of efficient in
 door ventilation, must therefore, be independent of windows and
 doors ; and the means should be such as will lead to a result at
 once wholesome and agreeable.
     Many plans have been suggested, and some have been carried
 into effect, of warming air, and then forcing it into or drawing it
 through buildings, and, in the process of doing so, removing the
 foul or spent air from the apartments to which it may be applied.
 Some of these plans are more and some are less available to whole
 some and agreeable in -door ventilation, but even the best are rather
 adapted- to large apartments, such as those of Hospitals, Churches,
 Theatres, and Assembly-Rooms, than to private dwelling-houses in
    Plansthehave
 which           been
             rooms are small
                        proposed,
                             and labour
                                   too, for   costeconomical
                                         and the               ventilation
                                                   are to be economised.
 of dwelling-houses; but they seem to be all in a greater or lets
 degree imperfect. Ways of access are provided in some cases fc r
 the outer air directly to the fire in every apartment, to feed the
 fire, and indirectly to ventilate the room ; way of egress in
 addition to the chimney opening and the chimney flue being
 sometimes provided for the spent air of the room ; sometimes,
 indeed, as before indicated, by an opening into the chimney
 flue near the ceiling. A direct in-draught of cold air is not
 agreeable, and it may be pernicious, but if the outer air become
 warm in its way to the inmates of the room, the objection to ita
directness ceases. If however the warmth is imparted to it with
 foulness, the process does not fulfil the condition as to wholesome-
 ness, and this is the case, when the outer air is admitted at or
 near to the ceiling to take up warmth from the spent and heated
 atmosphere of the higher levels. Having undergone this process,
 it is not the fresh air that comes warmed to the inmates, but a
 mixture of fresh and foul air that cannot be agreeable to any inmate
 conscious of the nature of the compound.
   The endeavour on the present occasion was to show how the familiar
 fire of an apartment may be made to fulfil all the conditions necessary

80                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [May 23 ,
to obtain in-door ventilation, to the extent at least of the apart
ment in which the fire may be maintained, and while it is maintained.
    A fire in an ordinary grate establishes a draught in the flue
 over it with power according to its own intensity, and it acts
with the same effect, at least, upon the air within its reach, for
the means which enable it to establish and keep up the draught in
the flue. The fire necessarily heats the grate in which it is kept
up, and the materials of which grates are composed being necessarily
incombustible, and being also ready recipients and conductors
of heat, they will impart heat to whatever may be brought into
contact with them.
    It is supposed that the case containing the body of the grate is
set on an iron or stone hearth in the chimney recess, free of the
sides and back except as to the joints in front. Let all communi
cation between the chamber so formed about the back and sides of
the grate and the chimney flue be shut off by an iron plate, open only
for the register flap or valve over the fire itself. External air is to
be admitted to the closed chambers thus obtained about the grate
by a tube or channel leading through the nearest and most con
 venient outer wall of the building and between the joists of
 the floor of the room, to and under the outer hearth or slab
 before the fire, and BO to and under the back hearth in which
 sufficient holes may be made to allow the air entering by the tube
 or channel to rise into the chamber about the fire-box or grate.
 Openings taking any form that may be agreeable are to be made
 through the cheeks of the grate into the air-chamber at the level
 of the hearth. In this manner will be provided a free inlet for
 the outer air to the fire-place and to the fire, and of the facility
 to provided the fire will readily avail itself to the abolition of all
 illicit draughts. But the air in passing through the air chamber in
 its way to the fire which draws it, is drawn over the heated surfaces
 of the grate and it thus becomes warmed, and in that condition
 it reaches the apartment.
    An upright metal plate set up behind the openings through cheeks
 of the grate, but clear of them, will bend the current of warmed air in
 its passage through the inlet holes, and thus compel the fire to allow
 what is not necessary to it to pass into the room ; and if the opening
 over the fire to the flue be reduced to the real want of the fire, the
consumption of air by the fire will not be so great as may be supposed,
 and there will remain a supply of tempered air waiting only an induce
 ment to enter for the use of the inmates of the apartment. An opening
 directly from the room into the flue upon which the fire is acting with
a draught more or less strong, at a high level in the room, will afford
this inducement ; it will allow the draught in the flue to act upon the
heated and spent air under the ceiling, and draw it off ; and in doing
so will induce a flow of the fresh and tempered air from about the
body of the grate into the room.
    The mode thus indicated of increasing the effect of the •familiar fire.

 1851.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         81
 and making it subservient to the important function of free and whole
 some ventilation, is not to be taken as u mere suggestion, and now for
 the first time made. It has been in effective operation for six or seven
 years, and is found to answer well with the simple appliances referred
 to. But it is the mode and the principle of action that it is desired
 to recommend, and not the appliances, since persons more skilled in
 mechanical contrivances than the author professes to be, may probably
 be able to devise others better adapted to the purpose.*
    The mode referred to of warming and ventilating apartments by
their own fires is most easy of application, and in houses of all kinds,
great and small, old and new, and as the warmth derived from the
fire in any case, comes directly by the in-draughted air, as well as
by radiation of heat into the air of the apartment, fuel is econo
mized. If the register flap be made to open and shut, by any
means which give easy command over it, so that it may be opened
more or less according to the occasion, and this be attended to, the
economy will be a>sured; for it is quite unnecessary to leave the same
space open over the fire after the steam and smoke arising from
fresh fuel have been thrown off, as may be necessary immediately after
coaling. The opening by theregister valve into the flue may be reduced
when the smoke has been thrown off, so as to check the draught of air
through the fire, and greatly to increase the draught by the upper
opening into the flue, to the advantage of the ventilation and to
the saving of fuel, while the heat from the incandescent fuel will
be thereby rather increased than diminished.
    Moreover the system being applicable in the cottage of the labourer,
as fully and as easily as in the better appointed dwellings of those who
need not economize so closely as labouring people are obliged to eco
nomize, the warmed air about the grate in a lower room may be con
veyed directly from the air-chamber about the grate by a metal, or pot
pipe, up the chimney flue, and be delivered in any upper room
next to the same flue and requiring warmth and ventilation, the
process of ventilation applied to the lower room being applicable
to the upper room also.
    The indicated means by which winter ventilation is obtained are not
of course equally efficient in summer, for the draught of the fire is
wanting ; but the inlet at the low level for fresh air, and the outlet for
the spent air at the upper level continuing always open, the heat
which the flue will in most cases retain through the summer aided by
that of the sun's rays upon the chimney top, secures a certain
amount of up-draught, which is not without its effect upon the in
draught by the lower inlet even when windows and doors are shut.
    While it is obvious that the air drawn into any house for the
purpose of in-door ventilation need not be other than that which
   • The appliances used by Mr. Hoskirig, will be found more fully described
in hi» " Healthy Homes" published by Mr. Murray.

  82                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [May 23,
  would enter by the windows of the same house, it may be unnecesary
 to enter into any inquiry as to the condition of the air heretofore
 spoken of as fresh and pure. " Fresh " and " pure " applied to air
  must be taken to mean the freshest and purest immediately obtainable,
 and that will be the same whether it be drawn in through a grated
 hole in a wall, or by a glazed opening close by it in the same wall.
 But it is a fair subject for inquiry whether,—speaking in London to
 Londoners,— the air about our houses in London is as pure,— or as
 free from impurity,— as it might be.
    The out-door ventilation of large towns may be taken to be more
 complete above the tops of the houses and of their chimneys than it
 is or, perhaps, can be among and about the houses ; — the processes
 of Nature are there not only unchecked, but are in fact aided by the
 heat thrown up by the chimneys into the upper air, and impurities
 which can be passed off by chimney flues, will be more certainly
 and more effectually removed and changed by Nature's chemistry,
 than if they are kept down to fester under foot and to exhale in
 our streets and about our doors and windows.
    At this time every endeavour is made to provide for removing from
 our dwellings all excrementitious matter, and all soluble refuse, by
 drains into sewers, and so by the sewers to some outfall for discharge.
 The drain necessarily falls towards the sewer, and the sewer again
 to its outfall, and the sullage or soil drainage being rendered liquid
 thus passes in the usual course.       But the usages and the neces
 sities of civilized life cause a large proportion of the liquid refuse
 from dwelling-houses to pass off in a heated state, or to be
 followed by hot water arising from culinary processes, and from
washing in all its varieties. The heat so entering the drains causes
 the evolution of fetid and noxious gases from the matters which go
 with, or have gone before, the hot water ; and with these gases
 house-drains almost always, and sewers commonly, stand charged.
 They are light fluids and do not go down with the heavy liquid
 matters from which they have been evolved, but they seek to rise,
and constantly do rise in almost every house through imperfections
 or derangements of the flaps and traps which are intended to keep
them down, but which only, when they do act, compel some of the
foul air to enter the sewers, and there to seek outlet to the upper
air which they find by the gulley gratings in the streets.
    It can hardly be said perhaps that too much attention has been
given of late to the scour of sewers by water ; hut it is most certain
that too little attention has been given to the considerations last
stated, for nothing has been done to relieve the drains and sewers
of their worst offence. The evolution of foul and noxious gases in
the drains is certainly not prevented by scouring the sewers. In
the mean time the poison exists underfoot, and exudes at every
pregnable point within and about our houses, and it rises at every
grating in our streets, though the senses may become dull to them
by constant suffering.

 1851.]               OF THE HOVAI, INSTITUTION.                    83
   Now this is an evil which can be greatly ameliorated, if it cannot
indeed, be wholly cured ; but it is by a process that to be effective
must be general, and, therefore, it must be added, compulsory. The
process is of familiar application in the ventilation of mines, and
particularly of coal mines.— An up-cast shaft containing a common
chimney flue carried up at the back of every house, and connected
with the house-drains at their highest level would give vent to
the foul air in the drains, and discharge it into the upper air. —
The foal air evolved by heat expands, and expanding it rises,
and rising it would be followed by cold air settling down by the gul-
ley gratings in the streets, thus constituting their inlets downcast
shafts, and the sewers and drains themselves channels for the cur
rents setting to the up-cast shafts, by which they would be relieved.
The down draught into the sewers would carry with it much soot
and fine dust, which would settle upon the liquid current and pass
off with it, and so remove some of the tangible as well as the in
tangible impurities, before referred to, from the air in our streets
and about our houses.
   Much in this way might be effected by the aid of causes in con
stant operation ; but if the up-cast shaft to every house were also a
fire-flue, or were only aided by the draught of a neighbouring fire,
the up-current would be sufficient not only to prevent the house
drains from retaining foul air, but the foul air would be thrown off
into the upper air with better effect and be dissipated innocuously
and without offence instead of steaming as it now does from the sewers
into the air where it cannot be avoided.                   W. H.
                 Artificial Production of the Ruby, $c.
   M. EBELMAN of the Sevre works near Paris being present with
various specimens of the minerals which he has produced artificially ;
Mr. FARADAY stated the process and results generally to the Members.
The process consists in employing a solvent, which shall first dissolve
the mineral or its constituents ; and shall further, either upon its
removal or a diminution of its dissolving powers, permit the mineral
to aggregate in a crystalline condition. Such solvents are boracic
acid, borax, phosphate of soda, phosphoric acid &c. :—the one
chiefly employed by M. Ebclmun is boracic acid. By putting
together certain proportions of alumina and magnesia, with a little
oxide of chrome or other colouring matter, and fused boracic acid,
into a fit vessel, and enclosing that in another, so that the whole
could be exposed to the high heat of a porcelain or other furnace,
the materials became dissolved in the boracic acid ; and then as the
heat was continued the boracic acid evaporated, and the fixed
materials were found combined and crystallized, and presenting true
specimens of spinel. In this way crystals having the same form,

84                       NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [May 30,
 hardness, colour, specific gravity, composition, and effect on light as
the true ruby, the cymophane, and other mineral bodies, were prepared,
and were in fact identical with them. Chromates were made, the
emerald and corundum crystallized, the peridot formed, and many
 combinations as yet unknown to mineralogists produced. Some of
 the crystals of spinel of recent production which M. Ebelman ex
 hibited had facets the eighth of an inch or more on the sides. [Vide
 Annales de Chimie, 1848, tome xxii. p. 211 ]                    M. F.
     In the Library were exhibited :—
Cunningham's Patent Mode of Reefing Topsails [by H. Cunning
     ham, Esq.].
 Gage's Cataplasmes Galvaniques [by Dr. Bence Jones] .
Specimens of Porphyritic Granite, from Fowey, Cornwall, worked
Stag-      Mr. J. H. Meredith
      by Candelabrum    [by Messrs.
                                [by Mr.
                                     Hunt  H. Meredith].
                                        J. and Roskell], &c. &c.
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             • Friday, May 30.
          THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, President in the Chair.
                         COLONEL H. C. RAWLINSON.
                    A Few Words on Babylon and Nineveh.
 REFERRING to the interest which is now attached to the Assyrian
 Inscriptions, owing to the recent discoveries at Nineveh and Babylon,
Colonel Rawlinson proposed to explain what Cuneiform writing was,
how it had come to be deciphered, and what bad been learnt from
it.
     Cuneiform characters did not belong to any particular lan
guage, or any particular alphabet, or even to any particular system
of writing. The natives of Western Asia in antiquity made use
generally of letters, formed for the convenience of sculpture with
the arrow-head and wedge, instead of the curves and lines which
have since become the standard elements of writing. Among
such nations the Assyrians occupied the first place ; then came
the people of Susiana and Elymais and of Babylonia, and Chal-
i i.i ,1 ; and the series was terminated by the Armenians, the Scy
thians and the Persians. An alphabet consisting of nearly 400
signs, which had been perhaps originally a complete system of
picture-writing, and in which to the latest period of its existencethe

1851.]              OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        85
ideographic or symbolic element continued to occupy a promi
nent place, served with unimportant modifications' to express the
languages of all these nations except the Scythians and Persians.
This was called the First Class of Cuneiform writing.
   The oldest form of it was the Assyrian, dating perhaps as early us
2500 B.C. ; and in immediate connexion with that system, not only
in regard to the forms of the letter, but more particularly as being
applied to a language closely allied, if not identical, were the alpha
bets of Babylon and Chaldaea. The alphabets of Susa and Ely-
nmis. although in all probability superior in point of antiquity
to the Babylonian and Chaldacan, were much further removed
from the parent Assyrian type in regard to form, and were applied
to languages of a total different family ; while the Armenian again,
the latest of all the Cuneiform alphabets of the first class, ap
proached very closely in form and organization to the Assyrian,
but was also used to express a language altogether distinct from
any of the other dialects. The second class of Cuneiform writing
derived like those of the first class from the Assyrian but more
remotely and greatly simplified, was appropriated to the language
of the aboriginal Scythic population of Central Persia ; and the
third class, in which the Cuneiform signs had been at length
reduced to the representation of a regular literal and phonetic alpha
bet, was invented in the time of Cyrus the Great for the use of the
inhabitants of Persia proper, who were then the dominant tribe in
western Asia.
   With regard to the languages expressed by these alphabets, Col.
Rawlinson observed that the Assyrian, Babylonian, and Chaldaean
were closely allied and constituted one of the earliest, if not the
earliest of the Semitic dialects, of which any traces are now extant.
The languages preserved in the Inscriptions of Susa, of Elymais, of
Armenia, and in the centre column of the trilingual tablets of Persia,
belonged to the Tartar or Allophylian family ; and the Persian closely
resembled the Vedic Sanscrit.
   After explaining at what periods the different alphabets were used,
who were the nations using them, and where the monuments,
revealing to us these records of the early world, have been disco
vered, Colonel Rawlinson proceeded to explain and practically to
illustrate the process of decipherment.
   Copies of two Persian Cuneiform Inscriptions were exhibited
which had been found at Hamadan (the ancient Ecbatana) and had
supplied the first elements of decipherment. It was shown that these
inscriptions were identical, with the exception of certain groupes ;
and it was further pointed out that the position of the groupes
thus individualized naturally suggested the idea of proper names
and indicated a succession of three generations. Historical testimony
authorized the attribution of the monument in question to the
line of kings who succeeded Cyrus the Great, and the names accor
dingly of Hystaspee, Darius, and Xerxes were applied at hazard to

86                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [.May 30,
the Cuneiform groupes, the result being, as these were actually the
true names recorded, that twelve correct phonetic values were thus
determined on the first essay at decipherment.
   The alphabet was subsequently completed by a dissection of
fresh materials, such as the genealogy of Darius preserved at Behis-
tun, an enumeration of the Satrapies of the Persian Empire, several
well ascertained titles, and more particularly a series of grammatical
inflexions and terminations which were elaborated by a careful
analysis and identified with their Sanscrit correspondents. Simulta
neously with the progress thus effected in alphabetical decipherment,
a general knowledge was obtained of the Persian language, a supply
of materials, not less valuable for philology than for history, being
furnished by the great inscription of Behistun recording the auto
biography of Darius Hystaspes, which notwithstanding its inac
cessible position on the face of a precipice at an elevation of four or
five hundred feet from the plain. Colonel Rawlinson succeeded in
copying.
   The next step was to render the knowledge thus obtained in the
simplest branch cf Cuneiform science available for the examination
of the more difficult. It had been fortunately the custom of the
Achaemenian kings to append to their vernacular records transla
tions in the Scythian and Babylonian Languages, and it was certain
therefore, as the Persian tongue was now thoroughly understood,
that if their trilingual records were sufficiently extensive, the
Babylonian language could be deciphered and rendered generally
intelligible through the Persian key. To this task accordingly
Colonel Rawlinson had devoted himself; but owing to the extreme
difficulty and complexity of the Babylonian system of writing,
 (ideographic and phonetic signs being intermingled, and the phonetic
signs bearing often several distinct syllabic values), and more
 especially owing to a defectiveness of materials, for a small portion
only of the Babylonian translation at Behistun was recoverable, his
progress had been necessarily slow and for a long period anything
but satisfactory. Recently however by the aid of an extensive and
profound examination of the independent inscriptions of Assyria and
Babylonia, more certain results had been obtained, and there could
now be little question, but that a continued application of patient
labour and critical skill, was alone required to render the Assyrian
inscriptions at least as well understood as the Persian.
   The third portion of the lecture referred to the results in regard to
general knowledge at which we had already arrived through the
interpretation of Cuneiform records. These results, although they
contained nothing of any salient interest, were equally varied and
extensive. We had obtained a general outline of the history of
Western Asia from a period at least as early as the emigration of
Abraham from Chaldaea, down to the age of Alexander the Great ;
and of many portions of that great historical interval we had the
most minute and circumstantial notices, the Assyrian kings having

1851.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        87
often chronicled the public transactions of their respective reigns
with characteristic brevity, but with what appeared to be a conscien
tious and painstaking accuracy. Estimating the duration of the
Assyrian monarchy at 1900 years, or from about 2500 to 600 B. C.,
there must have been a line of at least seventy kings, independent of
interregnums. Of this line, however, there have only been recovered
as yet the names of about twenty-five kings, and the longest succes
sion that has been found consists of eight, or at most ten, consecutive
generations. In Chaldaea and Babylonia, the historical information
obtained has been even more fragmentary; for although we have now
the names of nearly twenty kings, there is no continuous genealogy
beyond that of father and son. A list of six, or perhaps eight, kings
is given in the inscriptions of Armenia ; and Susa and Elymais con
tribute several independent royal titles.
    Besides the historical inscriptions of Assyria and Babylonia, there
are many other miscellaneous Cuneiform documents. One class of
 inscriptions refers particularly to the construction of the palaces and
 temples, the architectural description resembling in its detail the
 Scriptural account of the building of Solomon's Temple. Others
 are especially devoted to the enumeration of the gods and the
 declaration of their titles and attributes, the figures of the deities
 invoked being sometimes engraved upon the monuments by way of
 illustration ; evidence being thus afforded that the winged and
 monstrous forms depicted on the Assyrian marbles in the British
 Museum, are in no case intended to represent the Assyrian Gods,
 but have exclusively a symbolical signification. A pictorial repre
 sentation was exhibited at this lecture of the Babylonian Pantheon
 copied from that interesting monument named Michaux's Stone, and
 an attempt was made to identify the figures, which evidently belonged
 to a Planetary or Celestial system of worship, with the gods mentioned
  in scripture, and commonly noticed in the inscriptions.
     A further class of documents was noticed consisting of inscriptions
  on pieces of stone, of pottery and of " terra cotta." These inscrip
  tions represented conveyances of property, deeds of sale, leases,
  contracts, mortgage bonds, and appeared sometimes to constitute
  documents resembling the exchequer bills and bank notes of modern
  times. It was conjectured indeed that prior to the introduction of
  coined money, the Assyrians and Babylonians must have made use
   of the clay cakes of which great numbers are now found in the
  country, as a circulating medium, thus, as it were, anticipating the
   modern invention of a paper currency.
      A resum.4 was then given of the information afforded by the
   inscriptions as to the Political Geography and the Ethnography of
   Western Asia, at a period long anterior to what we have been
   hitherto accustomed to regard as authentic history, and the
   Lecturer stated in conclusion, that although he was about to return
   almost immediately to the East, he should leave sufficient data in the
   hands of the learned of Europe to enable them, as materials were

88                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [Jlttie 2,
accumulated, to carry out with complete success the work of
Assyrian decipherment and interpretation.                      H. C. R.
   [For further information on this interesting subject, the Members
are referred to the Journal of the Royal Asiatic Society, Vols,
x. xi. xh. .
   In the Library were exhibited :—
Kircher, Tunis Babel — Kaempfer, Amcenitates Exoticae — Inscrip
   tions in the Cuneiform Character, published by the British Mu
   seum — Layard's Nineveh and its Remains — C. J. Rich, Memoir
   on Babylon — Morier's Travels in Persia [from R. 1. Library],
A Slab of Ivory from Nineveh, magnified 9 times — Lion Hunt,
   bas relief, from N. W. Palace, Nimroud, orginal size [by G.
   Scharf, Esq].
Babylonian Bricks, &c. [from R. I. Museum].
Models of Column from Birs Nimroud, Egyptian Obelisks, and Vases
   [by Mr. of
Specimens        Gold Quartz and Alluvial, from California [by Capt.
              Tennant].
   Jackson] .
Objects (named) from Hindostan and Persia [by Royal Asiatic
   Society] .
Protean Stone (imitation of Marbles) — Imitation Ivory [by Mr
   B. Chiverton].
Vase
Great from
Fac-Simile
        Exhibition
             Athens
             of Seal —
                     of Exchequer,
                         Roman Vase,
                      Commemoration temp.
                                       &c.
                                        Shield,
                                           [United
                                           Edw.  designed
                                                  IIT.Service
                                                        [by by
                                                            Mr. L.Barclay].
                                                                   Limner,.
                                                              Institution]
   executed
Group   of Natural
              by Elkingtons
                     Objects coated
                              [by Messrs.  Leightons].
                                     with Silver  [by Mr. Shuckard] .
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, June 2.
William Pole, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                    The Earl of Liverpool, G.C.B.
                    William Raikes Timmins, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   Laurence Engstrom, Esq.              Wm. H. Fitton, M.D. F.R.S.
   Mansfield Parkyns, Esq.              W. S. W. Vaux, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.

 1851.]                        OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                 89
   The decease of Sir William Morison, K.C.B. M.P. &c. late Mana
ger of the Royal Institution, was announced from the Chair.
   The Managers reported,
   That henceforth the Upper Library would be kept open from 10
o'clock A.M. till 10 o'clock P.M. on every day that the Institution
is open ; except on those Fridays on which the Weekly Evening "
Meetings are held, when it would be closed at 4 o'clock P.M., and
at such times as it may be closed by special order.
   They further reported that they had engaged Mr. C. W. Vincent,
son of the Keeper of the Library, as Assistant in the Library, at a
salary of £35 per annum.
   The following Presents were announced and the thanks of the
Members ordered to be returned for the same ; —
  From
John Prosser, Esq. — Four Political Tracts (by Dr. Johnson). 8vo. 1770-5.
The Institution of Civil Engineers — Proceedings for May 1851. 8vo. 1851.
    F.
    1851.
       Stevenson, F.R.S.
W. demonstrating         the fallacy
                               (the Author)
                                      of the supposed      presented tooftheWater.
                                              — MemoirComposition                     l2mo.
                                                                             Royal Society
Gordon Willoughby James Gyll, Esq. M.R.I. — The Enchiridion ; or Sum of
    Human Science. 12mo. 1826.
The Geological Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 26. 1851 .
John Weale, Esq. (the Editor) — London Exhibited in 1851. 12mo. 1851.
  Rudimentary Book-Keeping; by James Haddon, M.A. 12mo. 1851.
   Rudimentary Treatise on Logarithms, &c. by H. Law, Esq. 12mo. 1851.
Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society — Medico-Chirurgical Transactions,
    Vol. xxvii —xxxii. 8vo. 1844-9.
George Ruth, Esq. (the Author) — An Account of Ascents in the Victoria and
    Nassau Balloons, in 1838, 1849, 1850; and an Appendix by W. H. Jones,
    consisting of Tables for Measurement of Heights, &c. 8vo. 1851.
G. B. Airy, Esq. Astronomer Royal, Sfc. — Suggestions to Astronomers for the
    Observation of the Total Eclipse of the Sun, on July 28, 1851. 8vo. 1851.
Hercules Sharpe, Esq. M.R.I.— Nouvelle Route pour la Californie et de la
    Colonisation de Costa Rica. 8vo. Paris. 1851.
    IX.
    matique
M. Faraday,     Esq.,
           Nos.de       Full.
                         16. Prof.
                  7 1'—Academie4to. Impenale
                                      Chem.
                                       1850. R.I.des  Bulletin de
                                                   —Sciences         Classe
                                                                delaSt.     Physico-Mathe-
                                                                        Petersbourg.  Tome
Alexander Harpur, Esq. (the Author) — An Inquiry into the Essential Nature of
    Phenomena or Perceptible Existence, &c &c. 8vo. 1850-1.
Allen Davis, Esq. M.R.I.— Communications on Farming, by Hewitt Davis. 8vo.
    1831-50.
     Managers
The of           of the London
       " La Description       de l'Egypte,"
                                   Institution.—A
                                              &c. (Not   Published.) Account
                                                     Bibliographical           and Collation
                                                                        8vo. 1838.
     Royal Institute of British Architects. — Proceedings for May, 1851.
The 1851.                                                                               8vo.
The Atheneeum Club. — Annual Report, &c. for 1851. fol.
    Orders,
Edward       Lovell,22,Esq.,
          B. April          1850.
                               M.R.I,   (the Author)
                                     12mo.   1850. — Hand-Book of the New Chancery
  The Monthly Digest, 1850: an Analytical Digest of Equity, Commen Law,
   Ditto.
    Statutes.
          Nov. 8vo.
   Bankruptcy,    1850Ecclesiastical
                          —   April, 1851.
                           1850.             8vo.v 1851.
                                      and Criminal     Cases, &c., with a Digest of the

90                              NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS,                          ' Jimr 6,
     Vereini zur
Der 1849-50.             Berlin, 1849-50.
                 4to. BefSrderung    da Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen,
    Engineers,
Benj.               Esq. M.R.I.April
        Gibbons,Birmingham,              23, 1851. 8vo.
                                  — Proceedings       of the Institution of Mechanical
Henry
    decided
    by W.
Reginald  J.H.in
        Twining,
              Morley,
                 Morley,
                  theEsq.,
                       Supreme
                           M.R.I,
                           Esq.
                        Esq.     Courts
                                  2(the
                             M.R.I.—An
                                     vol.Author.)
                                          in8vo.
                                             Analytical
                                              India,—&c.
                                                      Inquiry
                                                    1850.Digest
                                                         with an
                                                               into
                                                                 ofIntroduction
                                                                    all
                                                                     thethe
                                                                         Nature'and
                                                                            Reported Appli
                                                                                      Cases;
                                                                                and Notes
    cation of Perspective and Foreshortening. 8vo. 1850.
TheJune,
Jacob  Bell,1851.
     Editor  —Esq.,
                 The8vo.
                      M.P.,
                       Athenxum         May,Editor.)
                             M.R.I,for(the      1851. The Pharmaceutical Journal for
Charles Babbage, Esq., (the Author) — The Exposition of 1851 ; or Views of the
    Industry, the Science, and the Government of Englond. 8vo. 1851.
— Me Dotral, Esq. — Specimens of Franklinite and Red Oxide of Zinc.
                       WEEKLY Friday,  EVENING   June 6. MEETING,
              THE DIM OF NORTHUMBERLAND, President,
                                      in the Chair.
                      PROFESSOR ALEXANDER WILLIAMSON,
                              UNIVERSITY COLLKOI, LONDON.
 Suggestions for the Dynamics of Chemistry derivedfrom the Theory
                                    of Etherification.
THB human mind is only capable of understanding complicated
phenomena when prepared by the study of simpler ones ; and one of
the most remarkable illustrations of this necessary order is afforded
by the preparation of dynamical laws by the consideration of sta
tical facts. In statics we consider phenomena in a state of rest,
while in dynamics we study their change ; and this distinction has
been concisely stated by saying that the transition from the sta
tical to the dynamical point of view, consists in superadding the
consideration of time to that of space.
   To represent the unknown cause of any change in phenomena, the
word FORCE has been formed, and is generally retained until the law
of that change has been discovered ; so that the dynamics of a
subject may be said to constitute the explanation of the phenomena
belonging to it.
   It unfortunately often occurs that names are mistaken for expla-
natioHS, and people deceive themselves with the belief that, for
instance, in attributing chemical decompositions to affinity, attrac
tion, contact-force, catalysis, &c., they explain them.
   But owing to the necessary dependence of investigations on our

 1851.]                  OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                            .J [
mental operations, there is always a deficiency of facts corresponding
to the imperfection of theory ; — that is, we only seek and see those
facts which are more or less connected with our theoretical notions,
and in most cases shut our eyes to such cases as appear contrary to
them. This is peculiarly the case with chemical theory and chemical
facts at the present day ; for our atomic theory represents only cer
tain simple and definite proportions of combination, and our re
searches have been fruitful in the investigation of such cases alone,
the number of compounds of which we know nothing being infinite,
compared to those definite ones which we have studied.
    In feet, it is certain that if we could sufficiently disengage our
minds from preconceived notions on the subject, we should view
those substances, which, by more or less troublesome processes, we
separate out from the bodies presented to us by nature, rather as
 exceptional and artificial products, than as the most normal and
natural.
   The lecturer submitted that the definite compounds hitherto ex
clusively acknowledged and studied by chemists, are in truth only
exceptionally simple cases of combination, and that the consideration
of chemists is only limited to them, because the atomic theory is as
 yet purely statical. The atomic theory has hitherto been tacitly con
 nected with an unsafe and unjustifiable hypothesis, namely, that the
 atoms are in a state of rest ; the dynamics of chemistry will com
mence by the rejection of this supposition, and will study the degree
and kind of motion which atoms possess, and reduce to this one fact
the various phenomena of change, which are now attributed to occult
forces. But although it will probably be generally used in con
nection with the atomic theory, the fact of motion is independent of
any particular theory ; and however the properties of matter may be
conceived, it will remain true, that a change of place among the
representatives or possessors of these properties, is constantly going
on, which produces the phenomena of chemical combination.
   Chemical science has proved the indestructibility of matter, but it
has yet to prove the indestructibility of motion or momentum by
showing its transfer and dispersion among atoms.
   There are many primd facie evidences that time is necessary for
chemical action : — but this fact, although it has been noticed, has not
as yet entered into the explanation of phenomena.
   The one instance in which a certain regular motion of the con
stituents of a mixture was first proved, is the process of etherification,
of which the anomalous character has long since attracted the atten
tion and study of many of the most eminent chemists, and has given
rise to various theories which respectively represented part of the
phenomena.
intermediate
standard
and  briefly
   TheNo.lecturer
           of7.alluded
               comparison
                 ethers,
                      referred
                        tothat   evidence
                                  to
                                   thethe
                           theforalcohol
                                       various
                                          and
                                           afforded
                                           importance
                                              various
                                               chemicalthe
                                                        of
                                                    bybodies
                                                        groups
                                                           having
                                                            formation
                                                             allied
                                                                 or molecules,
                                                                    a H
                                                                    to itofhave
                                                                            the
                                                                       correct

 9'2                    NOTICES    OF THE MEETINGS               \Jtlue 6,
of late years been incorrectly represented comparatively to metallic
 oxides and ethers, and that the weight of alcohol which is truly
 equivalent to ether or water, is not 46 but 23.
     Having proved by a direct experiment that the formation of ether
from alcohol is effected by substituting ethyle ( C? H$ ) for ^ of the
hydrogen of that body, the process of etherification by sulphuric acid
was explained by a diagram, on which half the hydrogen in sulphuric
acid was shown to change places with its analogue ethyle in alcohol ;
and that the peculiarity of the process, t. e. its continuity, is owing
to this change of place between hydrogen and ethyle, first taking
place in one direction and then in the opposite ; that is, that sul
phuric acid becomes sulphovinic acid by taking up ethyle instead of
an atom of hydrogen, and that it is then re-converted into sulphuric
acid by resuming hydrogen instead of this ethyle, the first change
forming water, the second ether.
     By using successively two different alcohols, it was shown that the
two steps of this decomposition can be separated and their reality
proved. The process of etherification is thus effected by a succes
sion of double decompositions, each of which considered individually
is perfectly conformable to the law of definite proportions ; but the
alternation and continuous succession so clearly proved in them, is a
fact unexplained by that law. A complete analogy between this
process and the more familiar cases of chemical action is therefore
only to be established by finding in these latter a similar atomic
motion.
    A little reflection is sufficient to show that such a motion actually
exists. The fact of diffusion is in reality nothing but a change
of place between atoms, effected by the mere action of the particles
on one another ; and there are many mechanical evidences of the
communication of momentum from masses to atoms, and inversely.
     It seems perhaps difficult to reconcile the apparent rest of the
constituents of a mass with the existence of a continuous atomic
motion ; but there are many cases in which a rapid and continuous
motion produces to our senses the appearance of a phenomenon at
rest : thus, the rapid revolution of a white sphere produces the
appearance of a circle at rest when seen in front, and that of an ellipse
when viewed obliquely.
    There are of course many points of view from which the motion
of atoms may be considered ; but it is inasmuch as it produces or
facilitates decomposition, that the chemist has to regard it. We have
in etherification an evidence of the tendency of atoms of analogous
nature to change places continuously ; and it is natural to suppose
that the facility of this interchange must be greater in proportion
to the analogy between the molecules, and greatest between like
molecules. The lecturer expressed a confident hope that he would
soon be able to give a direct experimental evidence of this conclusion,
and proceeded to show how the admission of it explains, without the
supposition of occult forces, the occurrence of double decompositions
and the action of masses.

 1S51.]             OF THB,ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        S3
    The exchange of analogous particles actually constitutes double
 decomposition ; and its occurrence in alternately opposite directions
causes the two substances used to alternate with the two other com
pounds formed by the exchange of their bases ; so that in such a mix
ture, four substances are constantly to be found, the quantity of each
substance corresponding to the average number of atoms which, in
each moment of time, are in that state of combination.
   Now it is clear that if an equal number of atoms of a hydrogen -
talt, and of an iron-salt, reacting on one another, form a certain
amount of the products of their double decomposition, a greater
number of those products will be formed by doubling the quantity of
the hydrogen-salt ; for, the facility of interchange of iron with
hydrogen remaining the same, the atoms of the iron-salt will then
come more frequently in contact with those of the hydrogen-compound.
Thus, on mixing a solution of sesquichloride of iron with sulpho-
cyanide of hydrogen, a deep red colour gave evidence of the inter
change of iron and hydrogen, forming sulphocyanide of iron and
hydrochloric acid : but this exchange was not an operation effected
once for all on the decomposing substances just coming in contact,
but is constantly going on in the mixture ; and the quantity of the
products of this interchange remains constant, because a similar
double decomposition, equal in absolute number of atoms per unit of
time, is constantly going on between these products, reproducing the
original compounds. In evidence of this, the counterpart of the
decomposition of sesquichloride of iron by hydrosulphocyanic acid
was shown in the expulsion of this last acid by hydrochloric,
proved by the gradual diminution of the red colour on adding
hydrochloric acid.
   It is well known that caustic soda expels ammonia from its salts.
But ammonia also expels soda : for it was shown, that a mixture of
ammonia and hydrochlorate of soda dissolves less chloride of silver
than the same quantity of ammonia alone ; and consequently, that a
saturated solution of chloride of silver in aqueous ammonia is pre
cipitated by dissolving chloride of sodium in it. The same occurs
with the ammonio-sulphate of copper.
   In conclusion, the lecturer referred to the question of the relative
velocity of transfer of analogous atoms in opposite directions, which
necessarily determines the proportion of the elements of two salts,
contained in the form of their products of double decomposition,
on these salts being mixed. On the mixture of equivalent pro
portions of a couple of salts in aqueous solution, a certain amount of
decomposition ensues, forming two other salts, and the chemical force
may be considered proportional to the quantity of one couple compared
to that of the other. Now as the proportion is only kept up by the
number of exchanges in the one direction being ABSOLUTELY the same
in each moment of time as those in the opposite direction, it i»
clear that the relative velocity of interchange must be greatest be
tween the elements of that couple of which the quantity is least ; and

94                     notices of the meetinos               [June 13,
chemical force must be inversely proportional to the velocity of these
interchanges.                                             A. W. W.
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Specimens of the right and left Tartaric Acid and their Salts, exhi
   biting hemi-hedrism in their Crystalline Forms — with Models and
   Figures illustrating their characters ; sent by M. Pasteur to
   illustrate the lecture given by Mr. Maskelyne on Friday, March
   28. [by of
Specimens       Kreatine
              Nevil StoryandMaskelyne,
                              KreatinineEsq., Mr. p.
                                          [by vide    45.] .
                                                   Bullock]
Woorari or Ourari Poison, and arrows armed with it, used by the
   natives of Guayana to kill game, supposed to be prepared from
   Strychnos — Upas Antiar Poison from Java— Specimens of Glu
   ten Bread, and Bread from Janipha Manchot, British Guiana [by
   the Pharmaceutical
Pheasants                  Messrs.. Leadbeaters] .
             [mounted bySociety]
Four Photographic Views of Edinburgh from Negatives on Glass, by
   Messrs. Ross and Thompson, Edinburgh [by Messrs. Henneman
   and Malone] .
A Series of 23 drawings made from Sketches taken on the spot, illus
  trating the Life and Writings of Wordsworth [by Mr. T. L.
  Shuckard] .
The late Bishop of Chichester (in Machine Sculpture) [by Mr. B.
   Chiverton.]
Fac-Similes of Ancient Coins [by Mr. Barclay.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, June 13.
      The Duke of Northumberland, President, in the Chair.
                          On Schonbein'sFaraday,
                         Professor        Ozone.
The object of the speaker was to give a brief account of the present
state of this subject ; taking at the same time notice of the ancient
facts which belong to it, and the high hopes of progress which it
offers for the future. Ozone is produced when the electrical brush
passes from a moiet wooden point into the atmosphere, and indee

 1651.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      95
  in almost every case of electrical discharge in the air ; or when
  water is electrolyzed, as in the case of a dilute solution of sulphuric
 acid or sulphate of zinc ; or when phosphorus acts at common
 temperatures on a moist portion of the atmosphere. For the latter
 case take a piece of clean phosphorus about half an inch long which
  has been recently scraped ; put it into a clean two-quart hottle, at a
 temperature of about 60° F. with as much water as will half cover
 the phosphorus ; close the mouth slightly so that if inflammation
 take place no harm may happen ; and leave it. The formation of
 Ozone will quickly occur, being indicated by the luminous condition
 of the phosphorus, and the ascent of a fountain-like column of smoke
 from it. In less than a minute the test will show Ozone in the
 air of the bottle, in five or six hours it will be comparatively
 abundant ; and then the phosphorus being removed and the acids
 formed at the time washed out, the bottle may be closed and made
 use of when required for experiments.
    The test for Ozone is as follows : 1 part of pure iodide of
 potassium, 10 parts of starch, and 200 parts of water are to be
boiled together for a few moments. A little of this preparation placed
on writing paper with a brush being introduced into the Ozone
atmosphere is rendered instantly blue from the evolution of iodine :—
 or if bibulous paper be dipped into this solution, and then dried, it
forms Schonbein's Ozonometric test : for a slip being introduced dry
into an atmosphere supposed to contain Ozone, after remaining
 there a longer or shorter time, on being removed and then moistened,
 instantly becomes more or less deeply blue if Ozone be present.
    Ozone when obtained by the three very different processes
described is identical in every respect : its properties are as follow :
 1. It is a gaseous body of a very peculiar odour : when concentrated
 the odour approaches to that of chlorine ; when diluted it cannot be
 distinguished from what is called the electric smell. 2. Atmospheric
 air strongly charged with it renders respiration difficult, causes
 unpleasant sensations, and produces catarrhal effects (by acting
powerfully on the mucous membranes). Such air soon kills small
animals, as mice, placed in it ; so that Ozone in its pure state must be
highly deleterious to the animal economy. 3. It is insoluble ill water.
4. Like chlorine, bromine, and the metallic peroxides, it is a powerful
electromotive substance. 5. It discharges vegetable colours with a
chlorine-like energy. 6. It converts phosphorus ultimately into
phosphoric acid ; it combines with chlorine, bromine, and iodine ; it
does not unite with nitrogen under ordinary circumstances, but does
when lime water is present ; and nitrate of lime is formed from which
nitre may be readily obtained. 7. At common and even low tem
peratures it acts powerfully upon most metallic bodies, producing the
highest degree of oxidation they are capable of. Lead and even
silver is carried at once to the state of peroxides ; arsenic and
antimony produce arsenic and stibic acids. 8. It transforms many
of the lower oxides into peroxides ; thus, the hydrate of the oxides of

 96                   NOTICV8 OF THK MKKTINO8                   [Jttne 13,
 lead, cobalt, nickel, and manganese become in it peroxides : the basic
 oxide of silver undergoes the same change. 9. It decomposes
 rapidly the solid and dissolved protosalts of manganese ; the hy-
 drated peroxides of the metal being formed, and the acid of the salts
 evolved. 10. It decomposes the solution of the tribasic acetate of
 lead ; the peroxide of that metal and the ordinary acetate being
 formed. 11. It rapidly converts the protosalts of iron and tin into
 persalts. 12. It destroys many hydrogenated gaseous compounds ;
 the combinations of hydrogen with sulphur, selenium, phosphorus,
 iodine, arsenic, and antimony are thus affected. It appears to unite
 chemically with olefiant gas in the manner of chlorine. 13. It in
 stantly transforms the sulphurous and nitrous acids into the sulphuric
 and nitric acids, and the sulphites and nitrites into sulphates and
 nitrates. 14. It changes many metallic sulphurets (as those of lead
 and copper) into sulphates. 15. It decomposes many iodides in
 their solid and dissolved state. By its continued action iodide of
potassium becomes converted into iodate of potassa. 16. It changes
 both the crystallized and dissolved yellow prussiate of potassa into
the red salt, potash being evolved. 17. It produces oxidizing
 effects upon most organic compounds, causing a variety of chemical
 changes •. thus guaiacum is turned blue by it. From the above
 enumeration it would appear that Ozone is a most ready and power
 ful oxidizer, and in a great number of cases acts like Thenard's
 peroxide of hydrogen, or chlorine or bromine.
    A number of the actions of this body, such as the bleaching of
indigo and litmus, the peroxidation of metals, the conversion of
sulphurets
like           of sulphates,
       actioninto  the Ozone &c.; were
                                  and shown,
                                       many illustrations    supplied
                                              to illustrate the        by
                                                                chlorine-
 M . Schonbein himself were exhibited.
    With respect to the nature of this body, the two chief
ideas are — that it is a compound of oxygen analogous to
the peroxide of hydrogen, or that it is oxygen in an allotropic
state, i. .•. with the capability of immediate and ready action
impressed upon it. When an ozonized atmosphere is made as dry
as possible, and then sent through a red hot tube, the Ozone disap
pears, being converted apparently into ordinary oxygen, and no
water or any other result is produced. This agrees with the known
fact, that heat prevents the formation of Ozone, and also with
the idea that Ozone is only oxygen in an allotropic state. To show
that heat prevents the formation of Ozone a little voltaic battery
was associated with a fine platina wire helix, insulated, and connected
with the electrical machine ; at first the circuit between the battery
and the helix was left incomplete ; and then on working the
machine the brush thrown off from the helix affected the test
paper, before described, by the Ozone in it ; but when the con
nexion was complete, so that the helix was ignited, then the
electrical brush from it had no power of producing any effect of
Ozone.

18.5t.J             OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        97
   The speaker described the presence of Ozone in the atmosphere,
the mode of testing its presence, and the probable effects it produced
there. He referred to Schonbein's recent experiments on the insu
lation of the oxygen of the air and the peculiar effects produced by
this action. He showed by experiments the more recent results of
the association of oxygen by light with oil of turpentine and other
bodies ; and the production of bleaching compounds vying with
the hypochlorite of lime in energy. He made it manifest by experi
ment, that when ether vapour is mixed with air, and a hot platina
wire or glass rod introduced, the ether in becoming partially
oxidized to produce acid, also produces Ozone, the results bleaching
indigo powerfully ; and he stated that sulphurous acid, ether, tartaric
acid, and many other substances which being first mixed with
air or oxygen were then exposed to sunlight, exerted bleaching
powers often of a very high degree. The evening concluded with
the expression of certain theoretical expectations, or rather possibili
ties, which were put forth as indicating the probable fertility and
importance of the subject, and fitted to excite such philosophers as
were engaged in the consideration of the physical qualities of the
particles of matter to examine how far the phenomena of Ozone
might be carried onward in the illustration and extension of their
researches.
    In the Library were exhibited : —
Studies of Light and Shade (Views in Switzerland,) exemplifying one
   of the rapid modes employed by Artists to convey the impressions
   they have received to paper or canvas ; and which remains as a
   reminiscence of their first ideas while they are engaged in com
   bining form, light, shade, and colour into one harmonious whole
   [by G. Barnard, Esq.]
A (so called) Blind Fish, and a kind of Lobster from a Mammoth
   Cave in Kentucky, United States— Dr. Wyman, in the American
   Journal Natural Sciences for 1843, has described a (blind ?) fish
   which he thinks analogous to but not identical with the Ambly-
   opsis Spelaeus described by Dr. Dekay in the Fauna of New York.
   Professor Owen (Lectures on Comparative Anatomy, Vol. II. page
   175.) has given a plate of the brain of the Amblyopsis Spelaeus
   [by G. Macilwain, Esq. M.R.I., &c.]
Photographs (by Dr. A. Taylor) from Negatives taken on the spot
   (those in Paris by Mr. Mayall, those in Upper Egypt by Mr.
   Spencer Wells) [by Dr. A. Taylor, M.R.I. &c.]
Specimens of Malachite (Carbonate of Copper) from an open cavern
   at the surface of the ground, near Ambrix on the Western (Congo)
   Coast of Africa, exhibiting the manner of the formation of the
   Mineral as a Stalactite [by C. B. Mansfield, Esq. M.R.I.]
Magnetic Stone found at Sangor, Central India [from the Museom
   of Economic Geology] .

98                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.         [June 13, 1851.
Specimens of Meconic Acid — Sulphate of Strychnia — Codea —
   Furfuramide (Fownes) [by T. N. R. Morson, Esq. M.R.I.]
Eagle Owl (Stryx Bubo) — Snowy Owl (Strix Nyctea) — Snowy
   Owl (Ibis Rubra) [mounted by Messrs. Leadbeaters.]
Specimens of Tea, adulterated by the Chinese by facing it with a
   mixture of Prussian Blue, Turmeric, and Gypsum, containing 45|
   per cent. of sand and dirt, [by Robert Warrington, Esq.]
Zinc, Steel and Iron, brassed and bronzed by Salzede's process [by
   Messrs. Green and Prince] .
Allotropic Phosphorus [by Dr. Percy].
An Apparently Fossil Human Leg, (from Bermuda) — Specimens of
   Lace- bark Tree,) from Jamaica) — Mexican Boots — Wax Taper,
   (from Bahia) — Carved Box, (from New Zealand) — [by the
   United Service Institution.]
Nobili's Specimen of Metallo-Chrome, presented by himself to the
   Royal Institution.
Specimens of Coral [by Mr. Tennant] .

                      [for the use of members.]
        IBopal institution of dBreat ^Britain.
                                     1851.
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
            George Dodd, Esq.,       M.P.,
                               Monday,      F.S.A.,
                                          July 7.     in the Chair.
         FrankDeacon,
         John    Bradshaw,
                         jun.Esq.
                                Esq.          Thomas Rogers,
                                              Alexander          Esq.Esq.
                                                          Stewart,
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   William Henry Blaauw, Esq., F. S. A. was unanimously elected a
Manager of the Royal Institution in the room of General Sir William
Morison, K.C.B. deceased.
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  From
Anonymous—A Plea on behalf of Publicans against Drunkards, by B. D. 12mo.
    1851.
  The Whole Doctrine of the Sabbath, as set forth in the Holy Scriptures, &c.
    by J. W. 12mo. 1851.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 217, 218. 8vo. 1850-1.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. (the Editor)—The Pharmaceutical Journal, July, 1851. 8vo.
    1851.
Bkekrode, Prof. S.Xthe Author) —Jaarboekje van Wetenschappen en Kunsten ;
    vierde Jaargang. 12 mo. Gorinchem, 1850.
British and Foreign Bible Society—The Holy Bible, in 25 Languages.
  The Old Testament in German and Hebrew.
  The New Testament, in 42 Languages.
   Other Parts of the Bible, in 15 Languages.
  Reports, Vol. V.—XV. 1818.— 1848. 8vo.
British Association for the Advancement of Science—Report of the Twentieth
    Meeting held at Edinburgh, 1850. 8vo. 1851.
Carpenter, William B.,M.D., F.R.S. {the Author) —Principles of Physiology,
    General and Comparative. Third edition. 8vo. 1851.
Council of Education of Bengal—General Report of Public Instruction in the
    Lower Provinces of the Bengal Presidency, 1849, 1850. 8vo. Calcutta, 1851.
Editor—The Architectural Quarterly Review, Vol. I. No. 1, 8vo. 1851.
   The Athenaeum for June, 1851.
Faraday, M. Esq.—Kaiserlichen Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien.
        Denkschriften :—
    Philosophisch-Historische Classe, Band I. und II. Abtheilung I. Wien, 1850.
    Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Classe, Band I. Wien, 1850. 2te.
     Band, lste und 2te Lieferung. 4to. Wien, 1850.
No. 7.                                                      I                  ;

 100                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                          [July 7,
   Sitzungsberichte : —                          ,
       Math. -Nat. Classe, Oct.—Dec. 1850. Phil.-Hist. Classe, Oct.—Dec. 1850.
          8vo. Wien, 1851.
     Fontes Rerum Austriacaram, Band III. Abtheilung 2. 8vo. Wien, 1851.
      beschrieben
     Die  Antiken von
                    Cameen
                        JosephdesArneth.
                                   K. K. Miinz   und Antiken
                                          Fol. Wien,     1849. Cabinettes in Wien :
      nettes
     Die     in Wien
         Antiken  Gold: beschrieben
                        und Silber Monumente
                                      von Joseph des
                                                   Arneth.   Fol. und
                                                      K. K. Miinz     Antiken
                                                                   Wien, 1850. Cabi-
     Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin,
      MSrz und April, 1851. 8vo.
     Jahresbericht des Physikalischen Vereins zu Frankfort-am-Main, 1849-
      50. 8vo.
    Atte dell' Academia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei, Anno IV. Sessione 1-3. 4to.
      Roma, 1851.
Franklin Institute—Journal, 3rd Series. Vol. XX. 8vo. Philadelphia, 1850.
Jones, T. Wharton, F. R. S. (the Author) —The Wisdom and Beneficence of the
    Almighty as displayed in the sense of Vision. (The Actonian Prize Essay for
     1851.) 16mo. 1851.
Linnean Society of London—Transactions. Vol. XX. Part 3. 4to. 1851.
     Proceedings, No. 44. 8vo. 1851.
Lovetl, E. B. Esq. M. K. J. (the Editor) —The Monthly Digest, June, 1851. 8vo.
Nicol, W., Esq. M. R. I.—Fac-simile in all but colour of the Remains of a
    Portrait on Panel of William Shakspeare, by Richard Burbage his fellow
    Player and Partner, 1597. — 1851.
Royal Astronomical Society—Proceedings, Vol. XI. No. 5, 6, 7. 8vo. 1851.
Royal Institute of British Architects— Lists of Members, Report of Council, &c.
    4to. 1851.
  Proceedings for June, 1851. 4to.
Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 78, sheet 3. 8vo. 1851.
  Philosophical Transactions for 1851. Parti. 4to. 1851.
Savage, Miss A.—A Dictionary of the Art of Printing by W. Savage. 8vo. 1841.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XIV. Part 2. 8vo. 1851.
Taylor, A. S., M. D., F. R. S., M. R. J.—Report on the Water of the West Mid
    dlesex Water-works Company, by A. S. Taylor, M. D. and A. Aikin, F. L. S.
    8vo. 1851.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, January
    zu April, 1851. 4to.
Weale, John, Esq.—Rudimentary Treatise on Ship-building, by James Peake,
   N.A. Parts II & III. 12mo. 1851.
  Examples and Solutions in the Differential Calculus, by James Haddon,
    M.A. 12mo. 1851.
Webster, John, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I., fyc. St. Luke's Hospital for Lunatics-
   Physicians' Report for 1850. 8vo. 1851.
  On the Health of London during the Six Months terminating March 29, 1 85 1 .
    8vo. 1851.

1851.]                     OP THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           101
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                              Monday, November 3.
                    Sir Charles Fellows, in the Chair.
   Thomas Rogers,           Esq. was admitted a Member of the Royal
Institution.
    Warren De la Rue, Esq. F.R.S.              Robert Hanbury, jun. Esq.
    Samuel Gaskell, Esq.                       Walter Spencer Stanhope, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Managers reported, that they had appointed Thomas Whar
ton Jones, Esq., F. R. S. to fill the vacant office of Fullerian Pro
fessor of Physiology.
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
   From
Members      returned for the same :—
     1850-1.Impiriale
Academie                    Sciences de St.&c.
               SciencesdesMathématiques,         Tome IV. Livraisons6e 3Serie.
                                            Petersbourg—Memoires,         & 4. 4to.
    1851.
   Memoires    par des Savans Etrangers. Tome VI.         Livraisons 5 & 6. 4to.
Admiralty, Board of—Contributions to Astronomy and Geodesy: by T.
    Maclear, Esq. 4to. 1851.
Airy, G. B., Esq., F R.S., Astronomer Royal—Reports of the Astronomer
    Royal on Greenwich Observatory, 1836 to 1851. 4to.
American Philosophical Society—Proceedings, No. 46. 8vo. 1851.
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, No. 203, 219, 221. 8vo. 1849-1851.
Ayrton, W. S., Esq. (the Author) —Suggestions referred to those interested in
    the Reform of the Law. 8vo. 1851.
Barlow, Rev. John, M.A., F.R.S., Sec. R.I. — Report of the History, and
    Recent Collation of the English Versions of the Bible; adopted by the
    American Bible Society. 8vo. 1851.
Bell, Jacob, Esq., M.P., M.R.I., (the Editor) —The Pharmaceutical Journal for
    August to November. 8vo. 1851.
Bigsby.John J., M.D., M.R.I., Sfc. (the Author) —The Shoe and Canoe; or
    Pictures of Travel in the Canadas, &c., with Plates and Maps. 2 vol.
    16mo. 1850.
Chemical Society—Journal, No. 14, 15. 8vo. 1851.
Council of Education, Calcutta—Annual Report of the Medical College of
    Bengal, 1850-1. 8vo. 1851.
D.C.L. (the Author) —Letters on Church Matters, Vol. II. 8vo. 1851.
Duprez, M. F. (the Author)—Me"moire sur un Cas particulier de l'Equilibre des
    Liquides. 1™ Partie. 4to.
Editor—The Athenaeum for July to October 1851. 4to.

102                           NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                                  [2Voi\ 3,
     mie
     1851.der
Faraday,         Esq., F.R.S., 8[c.—
            M.,Wissenschaften     zu Berlin
                                         Monatsberichte
                                               ; Mai, Juni,der       und August,
                                                                JuliKonigl.   Preuss.         8vo.
                                                                                     1851. Akade-
    4to. Berlin, 1851.
   Verhandlungen        der Konigl. Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1849.
     with Charts.
   Lieutenant          4to. Investigations
                  Maury's     Washington, 1851.  of the Winds and Currents of the Sea.
     translated in
   Researches          edited by W.Electricity,
                  andMagnetism,         Gregory, M.D.&c. byParts
                                                               Karl 1 Baron        Reichenbach
                                                                       and 2.von8vo.    1850. ;
   Die totale Sonnenfinsterniss am 28 Juli, 1851 — Vortrag von Professor S.
     Stampfer. 8vo. Wien, 1851.
   Tijdschrift voor de Wisen Natuurkundige Wetenschappen uitgegeven door
    ¦de Eerste Klasse van het Koninklijk Nederlandsche Instituut van Weten
     schappen, &c. Derde Reeks, Vierde Deel. Amsterdam, 4to. 1851.
Franklin Institute — Journal, Vol. XXII. No 1. 8vo. 1851.
Geological Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 27. 8vo. 1851.
Glover, J. H. Esq. (Librarian to Her Majesty) — Bibliothecae Regiae Catalogus,
     5 vol. Fol. 1820-1829.
     16mo.
Grant,           Gregor, Esq. (the Author) — Madonna Pia, and other Poems. 2 vol.
          James1848.
Hennen, J., M.D. M.R.I. — St. Gervais-les-Bains et le Mont Blanc — Apercus
     topographiques, pittoresques et scientifiques. 18mo. Paris. [1851.]
       Majesty's and
HerMagnetical       Government
                        Meteorological
                   Observations,    1841-6,
                                   (by   Col.
                                            Observatory
                                                E.4to.Sabine)
                                                            at the
                                                          1851.     Cape of Good made
                                                               — Observations               Vol.the
                                                                                     Hope, at     I.
Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. VI. Nos.3, 4. 8vo. 1851.
   List of Members, 1851.
     12mo. 1821. and Philosophical Society — List of Communications, 1812-21.
LiverpoollLiterary
   Proceedings. No. 1—6. 8vo. 1845-51.
   Laws, 8vo. 1848.
     Law,E.&c.
Lovell,          Esq.July,
             B. for         August,
                       M.R.I,   (the Editor)
                                       September,
                                               — Theand     October.
                                                         Monthly         8vo.
                                                                    Digest       1851. Common
                                                                            of Equity,
     the
     Life-Boat
          Duke of
Northumberland,  Models
                    Northumberland
                      Dukesubmitted
                             of — Report     with
                                              of the
                                        to; competeMapsCommittee
                                                        forand
                                                            thePlans. appointed
                                                                 premium  Folio.
                                                                            offered
                                                                                 to1851.
                                                                                     by
                                                                                     examine   the
                                                                                        his Grace
     X. 8vo.
Radcliffe          1851.
            Trustees,   Oxford — Astronomical Observatory, Oxford, in 1849. Vol.
      reichsFriedrich
Raumer,       und dervon,Franzosischen
                             Hon. Mem.Revolution,
                                             R. I. &c. (the     Author) —8vo.
                                                           1740—1795.              Leipzig,Frank-
                                                                             Geschichte      1850.
Real Academia de Ciencias de Madrid — Memorias, Tomo I. Tercere Serie,
         Ciencias de
      Resumen         las Actas: en
                   Naturales      Tomoel ario
                                           I. academico
                                               Parte I. 4to. de 1849    & 1850,
                                                                    Madrid,      por elsecretario
                                                                              1850.
        perpetuo Dr. Dom M. Lorente. 4to. Madrid. 1850.
Rennie, James, Esq. FR.S. M.R.I. — Mathematical Tracts, by G. B. Airy. 3rd
     edition. 8vo. 1842.
Royal Agricultural Society of England—Journal, Vol. XII.                            Part I. 8vo.
      1851.
Royal Astronomical Society — Monthly Notices, Vol. XI. No. 8. 8vo. 1851.
    Memoirs, Vol. XIX. 4to. 1851. — Proceedings, Vol. X. 8vo. 1850.
Royal     College of Surgeons of England—List of Fellows and Members, 8vo.
      1851.
 Royal Cornwall Polytechnic Society—Eighteenth Annual Report. 8vo. 1850.
Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land— Papers and Proceedings, Vol. I. Part 3.
      8vo. Tasmania, 1851.
Royal Society of Edinburgh—Transactions, Vol. XX. Part 2. 4to. 1851.
    Proceedings, Nos. 40, 41, and Title, Contents, &c. to Vol. II. 8vo. 1851.
     of the
Smyth,       RoyalW.Geographical
           Capt.       H., R. N., (the
                                     Society,
                                           Author)
                                                 May    26, 1851.at 8vo.
                                                     —Address                 1851.
                                                                       the Anniversary    Meeting

 1851.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                            103
Squire, Peter, Esq., M.R.I, (the Author) —The"New London Pharmacopoeia,
    translated and arranged in a Tabular Form with the Edinburgh and Dublin
    Pharmacopoeias. 8vo. 1851.
Statistical Society—Journal, Vol. XIV. Part 3. 8vo. 1851.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Mai
    und Juni, 1851. 4to. Berlin.
Weak, John, Esq.—Rudimentary Treatise on Mensuration, by T. Baker, C. E.
    12mo. 1850.
  Manual of "the Mollusca, or Rudimentary Treatise on Shells Recent and
    Fossil ; by S. P. Woodward. 12mo. 1851.
Webster, John, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I.—Homoeopathy. Report of the Speeches
    on Irregular Practice delivered at the 1 9th Meeting of the Provincial Medical
    and Surgical Association. 8vo. 1851.
H'rontchenho, M. le Comte, Sfc.—Annates de l'Observatoire Physique Central de
    Russie, par A. T. Kupffer, Anne'e 1847. 4to. St. Petersbourg, 1850.
                   GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, December 1.
      Professor Charles Wheatstone, F.R.S., Vice President,
                                  in the Chair.
   Warren De la Rue, Esq. F.R.S. was admitted a Member of the
Royal Institution.
   Bernard Edw. Brodhurst, Esq.                John George Dodson, Esq.
   John William Digby, Esq.                    Edward Dolman Scott, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   Col. Julius G. Griffith was unanimously elected a Visitor of the
 Royal Institution in room of C. B. Mansfield, Esq., resigned.
   The Secretary reported, that the following Arrangements had been
made for the Lectures before Easter, 1852 :
    Six Lectures on Attractive Forces, (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory,)
—by Professor Faraday.
   Twelve Lectures on Animal Physiology—by T. Wharton Jones,
 Esq., F. R. S., Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R. I.
    Eleven Lectures on the Physical Principles of the Steam Engine—
by the Rev. John Barlow, M. A., F. R. S., Sec. R. I.
    Eleven Lectures on some of the Arts connected with Organic
 Chemistry—by Professor Brande.
    (Laboratory Lectures.) Twenty-five Lectures on the Chemistry
 of the Metals—by Charles Blachford Mansfield, Esq.

104                           NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.                  [DeC. 1, 1851.
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same ; —
    From
Asiatic Society of Bengal—Journal, Nos. 108-110. 8vo. 1850.
Astronomical Society (Royal) —Monthly Notices, No. 9. 8vo. 1851.
Bache, Dr. A. D., Superintendant of the United States Coasts Survey—Charts of
      the Survey, 31 sheets.
Babbage, Charles, Esq. (the Author) — The Exposition of 1851, &c. Second
      Edition. 8vo. 1851.
    1851,
Bell,       8vo.
        Jacob, Esq. M.P. M.R.I, (the Editor) —PharmaceuticalJournal for December,
Faraday, Prof.—Papers
Editor—Athenaeum              relating to 1851.
                         for November             4to.
                                           the University  of Sydney, New South Wales.
      8vo. 1851.
    Bulletin de la Classe Physieo-Mathematique de 1'Academic Imperialc de St.
      Petersbourg.
    Rapporte          Tomedella
                 Generale    IX. No.
                                  Pubblica
                                       209-216.   4to. 1851.
                                             Esposizione             ' Naturale e Indus
                                                           dei Prodotti
      trial della Toscana, fatta in Firenze nel Novembre, 1850. 2 vol. 8vo.
      Firenze, 1851.
    Memoria della Struttura Geologica delle Alpi degli Apennini e dei Carpazi,
      di Sir R. I. Murchison : traduzione dall' Inglese ed Appendice sulla Toscana
      dei Professori Cav. P. Savi e G. Meneghini. 8vo. Firenze, 1851.
 Geological Society—Quarterly Journal, No. 28. 8vo. 1851.
 Institution of Civil Engineers—Proceedings for Nov. 1851.
 Lovell, E. B. Esq., M. R. I., (the Editor)—The Monthly Digest, Nov. 1851. 8vo.
Morgan, J. M. Esq., M. R. I., (the Editor)—The Triumph, or the Coming Age of
      Christianity, &c. 12mo. 1851.
    Richard Baxter and other Divines on Christian Society. 18mo. 1851.
       the Trinity,
 Morell,             &c. by M.
            Rev. Deacon,        A. LifeD.Subscriber
                             S. Clarke,                  I.—The Scripture Doctrine of
                                            D. 8vo. R. 1851.
 Royal Irish Academy—Proceedings for 1850-1. 8vo.
 Royal Society of London—Proceedings, Nos. 4, 5, 6, of Vol. VI. 8vo. 1851.
 Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U.S.—Smithsonian Contribution to Know
       ledge, Vol. II. and Appendix to Vol. III. 4to. 1851.
    Fourth Annual
    Portrait           Report. and
               of J. Smithson               of Smithsonian Institution.
                                  8vo.View1850.
     Reports on Planet Neptune and Public Libraries. 8vo. 1851.
     Proceedings of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
       4th Meeting. 8vo. 1850.
  Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen—Verhandlungen, Juli und
      August, 1851. 4to.
 Wood, W., M.D., (the Authorj-fRemtaks on the Plea of Insanity and on the
       Management of Criminal Lunatics. 8vo. 1851.
 Yates, James, Esq. F. R. S., M. R. I. (the Author) —Additional Observations on
      the Bulla worn by Roman Boys, &c. 8vo. 1851.

                                  1852.
                  WEEKLY      EVENING
                           Friday,            23.
                                   January MEETING,
      SIB JOHN P. BOILEAU, Bart., F.R.S. V.P. in the Chair.
                          PROFESSOR FARADAY, ~
                    On the Lines of Magnetic Force.
THAT beautiful system of power which is made manifest in the
magnet, and which appears to be chiefly developed in the two
extremities, thence called ordinarily the magnetic poles, is usually
rendered evident to us in the case of a particular magnet by the
attractive or repulsive effect of these parts on the corresponding
parts of another magnet ; and these actions have been employed,
both to indicate the direction in which the magnetic force is
exerted and also the amount of the force at different distances.
Thus, if the attraction be referred to, it may be observed either
upon another magnet or upon a piece of soft iron ; and the law
which results, for effects beyond a certain distance, is, that the
force is inversely as the square of the distance. When the dis
tances of the acting bodies from each other is small, then this
law does not hold, either for the surface of the magnets or for
any given point within them.
   Mr. Faraday proposes to employ a new method, founded upon
a property of the magnetic forces different from that producing
attraction or repulsion, for the purpose of ascertaining the direction,
intensity, and amount of these forces, not to the displacement 6f
the former method but to be used in conjunction with it ; and he
thinks it may be highly influential in the further development of
the nature of this power, inasmuch as the principle of action,
though different, is not less magnetic than attraction and repulsion,
not less strict, and the results not less definite.
   The term line of magnetic force is intended to express simply
the direction of the force in any given place, and not any phy
sical idea or notion of the manner in which the force may be
there exerted ; as by actions at a distance, or pulsations, or
waves, or a current, or what not. A line of magnetic force may
be defined to be that line which is described by a very small
magnetic needle, when it is so moved in either direction corre

106                   NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                  \_Jlln. 23,
spondent to its length, that the needle is constantly a tangent to
the line of motion ; or, it is that line along which, if a transverse
wire be moved in either direction, there is no tendency to the
formation of an electric current in the wire, whilst if moved in
any other direction there is such a tendency. The direction of
these lines about and between ordinary magnets is easily repre
sented in a general manner by the well known use of iron filings.
   The method of recognizing and taking account of these lines of
force which is proposed, and was illustrated by experiments during
the evening, is to collect and measure the electricity set into
motion in the moving transverse wire ; a process entirely different
in its nature and action to that founded on the use of a magnetic
needle. That it may be advantageously employed, excellent con
ductors are required ; and therefore those proceeding from the
moving wire to the galvanometer were of copper 0.2 of an inch
in thickness, and as short as was convenient. The galvanometer,
also, instead of including many hundred convolutions of a long
fine wire, consisted only of about 48 or 50 inches of such wire
as that described above, disposed in two double coils about the
astatic needle : and that used in the careful research contained
only 20 inches in length of a copper bar 0.2 of an inch square.
These galvanometers shewed effects 30, 40, or 50 times greater
than those constructed with fine wire ; so abundant is the quantity
of electricity produced by the intersections of the lines of magnetic
force, though so low in intensity.
   The lines of force already described will, if observed by iron filings
or a magnetic needle or otherwise, be found to start off from one
end of a bar magnet, and after describing curves of different magni
tudes through the surrounding space, to return to and set on at the
other end of the magnet ; and these forces being regular, it is evident
that if a ring, a little larger than the magnet, be carried from a
distance towards the magnet and over one end until it has arrived at
the equatorial part, it will have intersected once all the external lines
of force of that magnet. Such rings were soldered on to fitly shaped
conductors connected with the galvanometer, and the deflections of
the needle observed for one, two, or more such motions or intersec
tions of the lines of force : it was stated that when every precaution
was taken, and the results at the galvanometer carefully observed,
the effect there was sensibly proportionate for small or moderate arcs
to the number of times the loop or ring had passed over the pole.
In this way, not only could the definite actions of the intersecting
wire be observed and established, but also one magnet could be
compared to another, wires of different thickness and of different
substances could be compared, and also the sections described by
the wire in its journey could be varied. When the wire was the
same in length, diameter, and substance, no matter what its course
was across the lines of force, whether direct or oblique, near to or far
from the poles of the magnet, the result was the same.

1852.]                 OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     107
   A compound bar magnet was so fitted up that it could revolve on
its axis, and a broad circular copper ring was fixed on it at the middle
distance or equator, so as to give a cylindrical exterior at that place.
A copper wire being made fast to this ring within, then proceeded to
the middle of the magnet, and afterwards along its axis and out at
one end. A second wire, touched, by a spring contact, the outside of
the copper ring, and was then continued outwards six inches, after
which it rose and finally turned over the upper pole towards the first
wire, and was attached to a cylinder insulated from but moving round
it. This cylinder and the wire passing through it were con
nected with the galvanometer, so that the circuit was complete ; but
that circuit had its course down the middle of the magnet, then
 outwards at the equator and back again on the outside, and whilst
always perfect, allowed the magnet to be rotated without the external
 part of the circuit, or the latter without the magnet, or both together.
 When the magnet and external wire were revolved together, as one
 arrangement fixed in its parts, there was no effect at the galvan
 ometer, however long the rotation was continued. When the magnet
 with the internal wire made four revolutions, as the hand of a watch,
 the outer conductor being still, the galvanometer needle was deflected
 35° or 40° in one direction : when the magnet was still, and the outer
 wire made four revolutions as the hands of a watch, the galvan
 ometer needle was deflected as much as before in the contrary direc
 tion : and in the more careful experiments the amount of deflection
 for four revolutions was precisely the same, whatever the course of
 the external wire, either close to or far from the pole of the magnet.
Thus it was shewn, that when the magnet and the wire revolved in
 the same direction, contrary currents of electricity, exactly equal to
 each other, tended to be produced ; that those outside resulted from
 the intersection by the outer wire of the lines of magnetic force
 external to the magnet ; that wherever this intersection was made
 the result was the same ; and that there were correspondmg lines
 of force within the magnet, exactly equal in force or amount to those
 without, but in the contrary direction. That in fact every line of
 magnetic force is a closed curve, which in some part of its course,
 passes through the magnet to which it belongs.
    In the foregoing cases the lines of force, belonging as they
 did to small systems, rapidly varied in intensity according to their
 distance from the magnet, by what may be called their divergence.
 The earth, on the contrary, presents us, within the limits of one
 action at any one time, a field of equal force. The dipping needle
 indicates the direction or polarity of this force ; and if we work in
  a plane perpendicular to the dip, then the number or' amount of
 the lines of force experimented with will be in proportion to the
 area which our apparatus may include. Wires were therefore
 formed into parallelograms, inclosing areas of various extent, as
 one square foot, or nine square feet, or any other proportion, and
 being fixed upon axes equidistant from two of the sides could

108                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [Jan. 23,
have these axes adjusted perpendicular to the line of dip and then
be revolved. A commutator was employed and associated, both
with the galvanometer and the parallelograms, so that the upper
part of the revolving wire always sent the current induced in it
in the same direction. Here it was found that rotation in one
direction gave one electric current ; that rotation in the reverse
direction gave the contrary current ; that the effect at the gal
vanometer was proportionate to the number of rotations with the
same rectangle ; that with different sized rectangles of the same wire
the effect was proportionate to the area of the rectangle, i. e. the num
ber of curves intersected, &c. &c. The vicinity of other magnets
to this magnet made no difference in the effect provided they
were not moved during the experiments ; and in this manner the
non-interference of such magnets with that under investigation was
fully established.
   All these and other results are more fully stated and proved in
papers now before the Royal Society. The general conclusions are,
that the magnetic lines of force may be easily recognized and taken
account of by the moving wire, both as to direction and intensity,
within metals, iron or magnets, as well as in the space around ; and
that the wire sums up the action of many lines in one result : That
the lines of force well represent the nature, condition, direction, and
amount of the magnetic forces : That the effect is directly as the
number of lines of force intersected, whether the intersection be
direct or oblique : That in a field of equal force, it is directly as the
velocity ; or as the length of the moving wire ; or as the mass of
the wire : That the external power of an unchangeable magnet is
definite yet illimitable in extent ; and that any section of all the lines
of force is equal to any other section : That the lines of force within
the magnet are equal to those without : and that they are con
 tinuous with those without, the lines of force being closed curves.
                                                                [M.F.]
   In the Library, were exhibited :—
Portrait of Shakspeare (fac-simile in all but colour of the remains
   of a Portrait on Panel by his partner, Richard Burbage, 1597).
   [Presented by W. Nicol, Esq. M.R.I.]
Whitworth's Surfaces : — i.e. Two Iron Plates, the surfaces made*
   so true by scraping, not grinding, that when one is placed on the
   other, they will not touch until the film of air between them
   becomes displaced by the weight of the upper plate. [Exhibited
   by Mr. J. G. Appold.]
Model of Appold's Centrifugal Pump. [Exhibited by Messrs. Watkins
   and Hill.]
Hodges' Power-Accumulators. [Exhibited by Mr. Hodges.]

1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                  109
Stereoscopes (on Brewster's principle) illustrating the Phenomena of
   Binocular Vision, as explained by Professor Wheatstone. [Exhi
   bited by Mr. Claudet.]
Talbotypes from the Great Exhibition, by Mr. Henneman.
A Telescopic Camera Lucida and a Microscope with improved
   Mechanism, by Mr. C. Varley.
Specimens illustrating Claussen's Processes of Preparing Flax, Hemp,
   &c. [Exhibited by Dr. Ryan.]
Minerals. [Exhibited by Mr. Highley, jun.]
Model (in similar materials) of the Lion, Bull, and Column from
   Nineveh in British Museum. [Exhibited with permission of Dr.
   Layard.]
Carving on wood by Mr. W. G. Rogers.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, January 30.
   W. R. HAMILTON, Esq., F.R.S. Scc. Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          PROFESSOR BRANDE,
                       On Electro-Magnetic Clocks.
 MR. BRANDE began by adverting to the various opinions which
 had been entertained in reference to the mutual relations of elec
 tricity and magnetism, previous to the grand discovery of Oersted
 in 1819. As soon as the influence of an electrical current upon a
 magnetic needle had been developed by the researches of that
 eminent philosopher, many most important applications of the fact
 almost of necessity suggested themselves, amongst which the
 wonders of the electric telegraph were to be included. Another
 result of Oersted's discovery was the electro-magnet ; the power
 namely, of conferring by proper adjustments of an electric current
 any degree of magnetism upon a bar of soft iron : and inasmuch
 as these magnetic energies cease the moment that the electric
 current ceases, so we have it in our power to render any conve
 nient form of soft iron, such as bars, or horse-shoes, powerful
 magnets at one moment, and at the next, entirely withdrawing
 all their powers ; and this, simply by making and breaking the
 contacts upon which the flow of electricity from voltaic arrange
 ment depends. In this way a horse-shoe magnet was made
 alternately to lift and drop a weight, to raise and depress a loaded
 lever, and to bend and release a spring. These effects were merely
 due to the attractive force of the electro-magnet upon holders and

110                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [Jan. 30,
bars of soft iron, with proper contrivances to prevent the interfering
influence of the residuary magnetism which in such cases is more
or less retained by the iron core of the coil. Another form of this
application of electro-magnetism as a motive power consists in so
arranging the electro-magnets that the poles may be alternately
inverted, and so made to act upon adjacent permanent bar-magnets,
both attractively and repulsively : these forms of the apparatus
were also exhibited.
   Mr. Brande then stated that upon examining Mr. Shepherd's
electro-magnetic clocks at the Great Exhibition in Hyde Park, he
had been especially struck by the excellent illustration which they
afforded of the exclusive use of electro-magnetism as their moving
power, its force being employed to give impulse to the pendulum,
to propel the ordinary movement of the clock, and to effect the
striking of the hour ; no auxiliary weights or springs being in any
case employed : and thinking the whole subject worthy the attention
of the Members of the Royal Institution, had determined to bring
it before them at one of their Friday Evening Meetings. He had
therefore applied to Mr. Shepherd for such information and assis
tance as he required, and this had not only been cheerfully, but
liberally given, Mr. Shepherd having furnished him with the
pendulums, clocks, models, and diagrams, then before them, and
with much useful information in reference to the whole subject.
    Mr. Brande first explained the mechanism of the pendulum,
which is so arranged as to make and break an electric circuit, and
consequently to make and unmake a horse-shoe magnet at each
vibration. Each time that the magnet is made it attracts its
armature, which lifts certain levers : one of these is concerned in
raising a weighted lever and causing it to be held up by a latch
or detent ; the magnet is then unmade in consequence of the
pendulum breaking the circuit, and the armature is released, when
the pendulum lifts the latch, and allows the weighted lever to
fall, which, in falling, strikes the pendulum so as to give it an
adequate impulse : then the circuit is again completed, the armature
attracted, the levers moved, the weight raised, and held up by the
detent ; another vibration breaks the circuit and releases the arma
ture ; the pendulum then raises the detent, the weight falls, and
in falling its arm strikes the pendulum, and gives it an impulse ; and
so on.
   But the pendulum at each vibration not only makes and breaks the
electric circuit of the battery which maintains its own action, but
also, and simultaneously, that of a second battery, of which the duty
is to make and unmake the electro-magnets belonging exclusively to
the clock or clocks, which are upon this circuit. These electro
magnets act upon the extremes of one or more horizontal bar-magnets,
so as alternately to attract and repel their opposed poles, and which
carry upon their axis the pallets, by the alternating motion of which
to the right and the left, the ratchet wheel is propelled onwards at

1852.]                  OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      Ill
the rate of a tooth each second, and the axis of this ratchet wheel
carries the pinion which moves the other wheels of the clock.
   The circuit of the battery connected with the striking part of the
clock is only completed once in an hour, %and is connected with an
electro-magnet so arranged, as by means of a proper lever to pull the
ratchet wheel attached to the notched striking wheel one tooth
forward every two seconds, and each tooth is accompanied by a blow
on the electro-magnetic bell. The number of blows depends upon the
notched wheel, the spaces on the circumference of which are adapted
to the number to be struck, and when this is complete, a lever falls
into the notch, and in so doing cuts off the electric current, which is
not re-established through the striking electro-magnet, till the next
hour, when a peg upon the hour wheel pushes the striking lever
forward so as to cause it to be depressed by a similar peg upon the
minute wheel.
   Such is an outline of the mechanism of these clocks ; but it is
impossible to render further details upon the subject intelligible
without reference to diagrams. A very large working model of the
clock and of the striking apparatus, constructed for the occasion by
Mr. Shepherd, was exhibited in the Theatre, as well as a model of
the pendulum and its appendages made under the direction of Mr.
C. V. Walker, to whom Mr. Brande was also indebted for a signal
bell, upon the principle of Mr. Shepherd's clock bells, for the purpose
of giving notice to the railway switchmen of the approach of trains
in foggy weather.
   Mr. Brande concluded by describing the arrangement of Mr.
Shepherd's clocks as adopted in the extensive warehouse of Mr.
 Pawson in St. Pau1's Churchyard, where eight dials are maintained
in action by an electro-magnetic pendulum in the counting-house,
and adverted to the Electric Clock at the Tunbridge Station of the
 South Eastern Railway, and to the intention of the Astronomer
 Royal to establish one at Greenwich for the purpose of sending time
signals to the different Metropolitan Railway Stations, and to the
Palace at Westminster.
                                                            [W. T. B.]
    In the Library were exhibited :
 Wheatstone's Wave-line Apparatus. [Exhibited by Mr. Appold.]
   aLeadbeaters]
     Africa,
       Groupthe
 Balaeniceps   ofRex,
                  Humming-birds.
                   property
                    . the King
                             of Mans6eld
                                   Stork,
                                     [Mounted
                                          from
                                           Parkyns,
                                                 theExhibited
                                               and   Esq.
                                                      Interior
                                                            M.R.I.
                                                               by
                                                                of Messrs.
                                                                       and
                                                                    ;North
    aUnited
 Head    of a Service
       Model   of the from
              Walrus  Institution.
                       Milk-yoke
                            the Arctic
                                   Knapsack, and
                                       Regions    a Mandingo
                                               — other           from the
                                                        objects,Dagger  —

  112                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [Feb. 2,
  The Relational and Differential Slate, by Alfred Smee, Esq.
  Specimens of Jewelled Porcelain [by Messrs. Copeland] and
     of French Flower- carving [by Mr. W. G. Rogers] .
 Models of Warming, Ventilating, Distilling, and Culinary Apparatus,
    by M. Andreoleti.
                    GENERAL         MONTHLY
                                Monday,               2.
                                           FebruaryMEETING,
         The Duke of Northumberland, F.R.S., &c. President,
                                     in the Chair.
    Bernard Edward Brodhurst, Esq. was admitted a Member of the
 Royal Institution.
        Hewitt Davis, Esq.                       Right Hon. Baron Parke.
         duly elected
 were Robert              Lutwidge,
                  W. S.Members      of the
                                       Esq.Royal   Institution.
                                                Alfred   J. Woodhouse, Esq.
    The following Presents were announced ; and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same : —
   From
Agricultural Society, Royal — Journal, Vol. XII. No. 2. 8vo. 1 852.
     1851.Society, Royal — Journal, Vol. XIII. Part1. Vol. XIV. Part 2. 8vo.
Asiatic
 Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 222, 223. 8vo. 1851.
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XII. No. 1. 8vo. 1851.
Athenceum Club — List of Members, &c. 1851
Basel  — die Naturforschende Gesellschaft — Bericht, 1848-50. 8vo. Basel,
     1851.
Beke, C T., Ph. D. fy. (the Author) — Enquiry into M. D' Abbadie's Journey to
     Kaffa to discover the source of the Nile. 8vo. 1851.
   Summary of Recent Nilotic Discovery. 8vo. . 1851 .
   On the Alluvia of Babylonia and Chaldaea. 8vo. 1851.
       Jacob, 8vo.
Bell,1852.           1852.(the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for January,
               Esq. M.P.
     Cataract.
Brodhurst,        8vo. E.1850.
             Bernard      Esq. M.R.I, (the Author) — Of the Crystalline Lens and
Buist, Dr. G. (the Author) — Some Observations on the " Remarks of Com
    mander Montriou." 8vo. 1851.
Chemical Society — Journal, No. 16. 8vo. 1851.
Devincenzi, Signore Giuseppe (the Author) — Discorsi, 8vo. Napoli, 1845.
   Delle Strade Ferrate Italiane, &c. 8vo. Napoli, 1848.
Editor — The Athenaeum for December 1851, and Jan. 1852. 4to.
Ellis, Messrs., Exeter — Map showing the Time kept by Public Clocks in various
   Towns of Great Britain, 1851. .

 1852.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           113
Faraday, Professor — Monatsbericht der Konigl. Prcuss. Akademie zu Berlin,
   Sept., Okt. 1851. 8vo.
Franklin Institute of Philadelphia — Journal, Vol. XXII. No. 2, 3, 4, 5, 8vo.
   1851.
Geographical Society, Royal — Journal, Vol. XXI. 8vo. 1851.
Glasgow, Philosophical Society of — Proceedings, Vol. III. No. 3. 1850-1, 8vo.
    1851.
Hookham; Mr. T. — The New Quarterly Review, No. 1 . 8vo. 1852.
Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. VII. Part1. 8vo. 1852.
Lovell, E. B , Esq. M.R.I., (The Editor) —The Monthly Digest. Decemher
    1851, and January 1852. 8vo.
Mackinnon, William A. Esq. M.P., F.R.S. {the Author) — History of Civilisation
    and Public Opinion ; 3rd Edition. 2 vol. 8vo. 1849.
Museum of Practical Geolory — Introductory Discourses. 8vo. 1851.
   On the Opening of the School, Nov. 6, 1851, by Sir H. T. De la Beche, C.B.,
    F.R.S.
   On   the National Importance of Studying Abstract Science, &c. by Lyon
    Playfair,
   On         C.B., F.R.S.
       the Relations   of Natural History to Geology and the Arts, by Edward
    Forbes,
   On        F.R S.
       the Importance   of Cultivating Habits of Observation, by Robert Hunt.
Ryan, Dr. J. — The Flax-Movement, &c. by the Chevalier Claussen. 8vo. 1851.
  On Claussen's Flax-Cotton, by E. M'Dermott. 8vo. 1851.
   Claussen's Specification. (Mech. Mag. No. 143.)
Tilt, Edward John, M.D. (the Author) — On the Diseases of Menstruation and
    Ovarian
   On         Inflammation.
       the Preservation          Health1850.
                         of the12mo.     of Women at the Critical Periods of Life.
    16mo. 1851.
Turner, Thomas, Esq. (the Author) — The Law of Patents and Registration of
    Invention and Design in Manufactures. 8vo. 1851.
Twining, T. jun.Esq. M.R.I, (the Author) — Notes on the Organisation of an
    Industrial College
  Jahrbiicher          for Artisans.
                des Vereins            8vo. 1852.
                             fur Naturkunde   im Herzogthum Nassau ; Siebentes
    Heft. 8vo. Wiesbaden, 1851.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Sept.
    und Okt. Berlin, 1851.
Weale, John, Esq. — Rudimentary Treatises. 12mo. 1851.
   Clay Lands and Loamy Soils, by Professor Donaldson.
   Descriptive Geometry (with Atlas, 4to.) by J. F. Heather, M.A.
   Equational Arithmetic, by W.- Hipsley.
   Steam and Locomotion, by J. Sewell, L. E. Vol. I.
  Art of Painting on Glass, from the German of Dr. M. A. Gessert.
   Essay on the Art of Painting on Glass, from the German of E. O. Fromberg.
   Art of Playing the Piano-forte, by C. C. Spencer.
White, Walter, Esq. (the Author) — Papers on Railway and Electric Communi
    cations, Arctic and Antarctic Explorations, and the Sanitary Movement.
     12mo. 1850-1.
Wilkinson, H. Esq., M. R.A. S. (the Author) — Observations on Muskets, Rifles,
    and Projectiles. 12mo. 1851.
Willich, C. M. Esq. (the Author) — Annual Supplement to Tithe Commutation
    Tables, 1851. 8vo. 1852.
Wrontchenko, M. le Comte, Ministre de Finance, Russie — Annates de 1' Observa-
    toire Physique Centrale de Russie, 1848, Par A. Kupffer. 4to. 1851.
   Compte Rendu Annuel, 1850. 4to. 1851.
Wyld,J. Esq. M.P. (the Author)— Notes on the Distribution of Gold throughout
    the World, &c. 8vo. 1851.
B. W. Pickersgill, Esq. R.A. — Portraits of Baron Cuvier, and Sir James^Ross
     (Engraved from Paintings by himself.)
Samuel Colt, Esq. — American Revolving Pistol.


                  [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
         ISoral glngtitution of dsreat Britatn,
                                1852.
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 6.
       THR DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, F.R.S., President,
                             in the Chair.
                 JOHN SCOTT RUSSELL, ESQ., F.R.S.
                   On Wave-line Ships and Yachts.
THE subject placed on the list for consideration this evening has
been suggested by the assertion, which within a year or two has been
so often repeated, that our Transatlantic brethren are building
better ships than ourselves ; that in short Brother Jonathan is going
ahead, while John Bull is comfortably dozing in his arm-chair ; and
that if he do not awake speedily, and take a sound survey of his
true position, he may soon find himself hopelessly astern.
   Two questions of a practical nature arise out of this alarming
assertion ;— 1st, whether the Americans are really in any respect
superior to the English in nautical matters ; 2nd, whether in order
to equal them we are to be condemned to descend into mere
imitators, or whether we have independent ground from which we
can start with certainty and originality on a new career of improve
ment in Naval Architecture ?
   In the outset I beg permission to say, that I am not one of those
who shut their ears to the praises of our young and enterprizing
brethren over the water, or view their rapid advancement with
jealousy. It has been my good fortune to know some distinguished
highly educated American gentlemen, philosophers, politicians,
engineers, and ship-builders ; men whom I should be proud to call
Englishmen. I have for the last fifteen years been kept by them
well informed of the progress of Steam Navigation in that country ;
and I beg therefore to express my perfect belief in the accounts we have
heard of their wonderful achievements in rapid River Steam Naviga
tion. I am satisfied, as a matter of fact, that 21, 22, 23 miles an
hour have been performed, not once, but often, by their River Steam
boats. To that we cannot in this country offer any parallel.
   The next point in which they also had beaten us was in the con
struction of the beautiful Packet-ships, which carried on the
passenger trade between Liverpool and America before the era of
Ocean Steamers. These were the finest ships in the world, and they
were mainly owned and sailed by Americans.
   The next point at which we have come into competition with the
No. 8.                                                  K

116                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [Fi'l). 6,
Americans has been lately in Ocean Steam Navigation. Three
years ago they hegan : they were immeasurably behind us at starting ;
they are already nearly equal to us ; their Transatlantic Steam-
packets equal ours in size, power, and speed. In regularity they are
still inferior. If they continue to advance at their present rate of
improvement, they will very soon outstrip us.
   Next I come to the trade which has long been peculiarly our own,
the China trade. The Clipper ships they have recently sent home
to this country have astonished the fine ships of our own Smiths and
Greens. Our best ship-owners are now trembling for their trade and
reputation.
   Finally, it is true that the Americans have sent over to England a
yacht called the America, which has found on this side of the
Atlantic no match ; and we only escaped the disgrace of heY having
returned to America, without any of us having had the courage to
accept her defiance, through the chivalry of one gentleman, who
accepted the challenge with a yacht of half the size, on this
principle, so worthy of John Bull, " that the Yankee, although he
might say that he had beaten us, should not be able to say that
we had all run away."
   Such then at present is our actual position in the matter of Ships,
Yachts, and Steam Navigation, a position highly creditable to the
Americans, and which deserves our own very serious consideration.
   I propose to-night to examine a little into the physical causes of
the naval success of the Americans ; but before doing so, permit me
to point out a moral one, which later in the evening you will also
find to lie at the bottom of the physical causes. It is this ; — John
Bull has a prejudice against novelty ; Brother Jonathan has a preju
dice equally strong in favour of it. We adhere to tradition, in trade,
manners, customs, professions, humours ; Jonathan despises it. I
don't say he is right and we are wrong; but this difference becomes
very important, when a race of competition is to be run.
   These preliminary remarks find immediate application in the
causes which have led to our loss of character on the sea. The
Americans, constantly on the alert, have carried out and applied
every new discovery to the advancement of navigation ; while with
the English, naval construction and seamanship is exactly that
branch of practice in which science has not only been disregarded,
but is altogether despised and set aside. The American ships shew
what can be done by modern science unflinchingly put in practice ;
the English shew what can be done in spite of science and in
defiance of its principles.
   The immediate cause of the defects of English ships, and the most
glaring instance of the outrage of all true principle in the practice
 of navigation, was to be found for many years in the English
Tonnage law. It was simply an Act of Parliament for the effectual
 and compulsory construction of bad ships. Under that law, the
 present fleet of merchant ships and of ship-builders has chiefly
 grown up, and though at length and only recently abrogated, its
 influence is still left behind and is widely prevalent. This Act

    1852.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    117
   of Parliament compelled the construction of bad ships under
   heavy penalties. The old Tonnage law, according to which ships were
   built and registered and taxed and bought and sold, virtually
   said to the builder and owner, " Thou shalt not build a ship of
   the necessary beam to carry sail ; Thou shalt not give her the
   depth and height necessary to security and sea-worthiness ; Thou
   shalt not build her of any suitable shape for speed, under penalty
   of 20, 30, and 40 per cent of fine for every ton of freight so
   carried in such ship." In short the law offered a premium on
   a ship, the amount of which was in the proportion of her being
   wall-sided, top-heavy, crank, unweatherly, and slow : while it
  inflicted a penalty in the shape of port charges and all pilot, harbour
  dues, lights, &c. in proportion to her fitness and reputation as a
  sea-worthy, fast, and wholesome ship. To cheat the law, that is to
  build a tolerable ship in spite of it, was the highest achievement
  left to an English builder, and formed his continual occupation.
      The manner in which the English system was opposed to the good
  qualities of a ship, especially speed, is only to be understood by an
  analysis of these qualities. The two examples selected for illustration
  of the qualities of sailing vessels, were — the yacht America, built
  without restriction of any kind, and the yacht Titania built under the
  restrictions of the law of measurement of Tonnage, which is still
  retained in all its deformity by the English Yacht squadron.
     It was shewn how the element of " stand-up-ativeness" is dependent
  on the beam of the vessel at the water-line ; how the power of carry
  ing sail depends on this element, and how this element is prohibited
 to the utmost by the Yacht Club's law of Tonnage. Another element
  of the vessel, the area of her vertical longitudinal section immersed
  in the water, is by another portion of the law compelled to be reduced
  in an injurious degree. — It was next shewn that in the other ele
 ments of the form of the two vessels they were nearly identical ;
 and that they were both under water constructed on the Wave Prin
 ciple in its most perfect form. But for the existence therefore of
 these antiquated laws our yacht-builders and our ship-builders would
 have had nothing to fear from competition. Happily the mercantile
 Tonnage law had been altered and the new law was all that could be
 desired ; and in consequence a new race of fast ships were rapidly
 springing up. The old Yacht law unhappily remained. It is pecu
 liarly unfortunate, however, that the evils bad laws have done, do not
 die with them ; and in this instance it has been found that when men
have been trained for generations under a bad system, their preju
dices remain too deep-rooted to achieve a sudden change of exis
tence, and keep them in the deep and worn ruts of routine, by habits
of thought and opinion almost inveterate. It is, however, to be hoped,
that in the next ten years the English will escape from their preju
dices, and that the rising generation will supply no unworthy com
petitors to their young and emancipated brethren on the other side
of the water.
    It appeared from the comparison which was instituted between
the construction of American and English vessels, that the American

 118                      NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS                     [Feb. 6,
 ship-builders have gained over the English chiefly by the ready aban
  donment of old systems of routine and the adoption of the true prin
  ciples of science and the most modern discoveries. They have changed
  their fashions of steamers and ships to meet new circumstances as
  tiny arose. For River Steamers they at once abandoned all the
  known sea-going forms, and created an absolutely new form and
  general arrangement both of ship and machinery. We, on the other
  hand, subject to the prejudices of a class, invariably attempted to
  make a river steamer as nearly as possible to resemble a sea-going
  ship propelled by sails. We were even for a long time so much
  ashamed of our paddle-wheels, that we adopted all sorts of inconve
  nient forms and inapt artifices to conceal them, as if it were a high
  achievement to make a steam-vessel be mistaken for a sailing vessel.
      The fine sharp bows which the Wave Principle has brought to our
  knowledge have been adopted in this country with the greatest re
  luctance, and those who adopt them are often unwilling to allow that
  they are wave-bows, and would fain assert that " they always built
  them so," were it not that ships' lines are able to speak for themselves.
  The Americans however adopted the wave-bow without reluctance,
  and avowed it with pleasure the moment they found it give them
  economy and speed. In like manner, the Americans having found
  the wave-bow or hollow bow good for steamers, were quite ready
  to believe that it might be equally good for sailing vessels. We on
   the other hand have kept on asserting that though we could not
   deny its efficacy for steamers it would never do for vessels that were
   meant to carry sail. The Americans on the contrary immediately
   tried it on their pilot-boats, and finding it succeed there, avowed at
   once, in their latest treatise on Naval Architecture, the complete
   success of the principle ; not even disclaiming its British origin.
   To prove to ourselves our insensibility to its advantages — they built
   the America, carried out the wave principle to the utmost, and
   despising the prejudices and antiquated regulations of our Clubs,
   came over and beat us.
      The diagrams and models which were exhibited shewed the water-
   lines of the America to coincide precisely with the theoretical wave
   line.
      In one other point the Americans had shewn their implicit faith in
   science, and their disregard of prejudice. Theory says, and has always
   said, " Sails should sit flat as boards." We have said, " They should
   be cut so as to hang in graceful waves." It has always been so ; we
   have always done it. The Americans believed in principle, and with
   flat sails went one point nearer to the wind, leaving prejudice and
   picturesque sails far to leeward.
             the refinements
   useInallother               of sciencebeat
                  points the Americans     in their
                                               us byrigging
                                                     the use and  tackle ; They
                                                              of science.  they,
   it
   they
. in  isefficiency
          true,
           do so have
                 ; and
                   as toby
                      well
                         employ
                            as
                            employing
                                  better educated
                                         a smallerand
                               in economy.          number
                                                      more of   hands, beat
                                                             intelligent men —us
       Faith in the value of Science, for the uses of practice, and a deter
    mination to carry it straight out with a total disregard of previous

    1852.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                  119
   prejudice, ia the characteristic of American Naval Architecture and
   Nautical Practice. Disbelief in the power of prejudice and the
   virtue of routine is the principle which this example inculcates ;
   and if it lead us to believe in science and our own judgment,
   and to emancipate ourselves from the trammels of prejudice grown
   old under unwise laws, and to cease from building ships by Acts of
   Parliament and Club laws, the recent victory of the America and the
  present victory of American Packet- ships will prove to have been
  benefits in disguise.                                      fj S R 1
      In the Library, were exhibited :—
  Model of the Yacht " America." [Exhibited by Mr. Scott Russell.]
  Model of Apparatus for enabling a Ship's Company to take to the
      Boats simultaneously, and for the rapid disembarkation of Troops,
      by Julius Jeffreys, Esq. F.R.S., M.R.I., and Model of a Safety
      Boat Sling for a similar purpose, by Mr. Landells.
  Model of a Brig with Revolving Masts, &c. — and Sculptured
     Windows from Akbar's Palace. [From United Service Institution.]
  Models of Bones of Iguanodon, &c. and Impression of Labyrintho-
     don. [Exhibited by Mr. Tennant.]
  Printing in Colours : L'Allegro, II Penseroso, and View of Notting
     ham. —Portrait of a Child ; and Walter and Jane, in Water Colours.
     — Portrait of Joseph Hume, Esq. M.P., in Crayons, — by Mr. C.
     B. Leighton.
  Talbotype Portraits by Messrs. Henneman and Co.
  Specimen of Pearl Enamelled Glass, and Jewelled Papier Mache.
      [Exhibited by Messrs. Allen.]
 A Crozier, carved in wood, by Mr. W. Rogers.
 Microscope by Mr. Varley.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 13.
          THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
                  W. R. GROVE, ESQ., M.A., F.R.S.,
           On the Healing Effects of Electricity and Magnetism.
 IN the early periods of philosophy when any unusual phenomenon
attracted the attention of thinking men it was frequently referred to
a preternatural or spiritual cause ; thus with regard to the subject
about to be discussed, when the attraction of light substances by
rubbed amber was first observed, Thales referred it to a soul or
spiritual power possessed by the amber.

120                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Feb. 13,
    Passing to the period antecedent to the time of more strict
inductive philosophy, viz. the period of the Alchemists, we find many
natural phenomena referred to spiritual causes. Paracelsus taught
that the Archaeus or stomach demon presided over, caused, and
regulated the functions of digestion, assimilation, &c.
    Van Helmont, who may he considered in many respects the turning
point between Alchemy and true chemistry, adopted with some
modification the Archaeus of Paracelsus and many of the opinions of
the Spiritualists, hut shewed tendencies of a more correctly inductive
character ; the term ' Gas ' which he introduced, gives evidence of
the thought involved in it by its derivation from ' Geist ' a ghost or
spirit. By regarding it as intermediate between spirit and matter, by
separating it from common air and by distinguishing or classifying
 different sorts of gas he paved the way for a more accurate chemical
 system.
    Shortly after the time of Van Helmont lived Torricelli, who by
 his discovery of the weight of air was mainly instrumental in
 changing the character of thought and inducing philosophers to
 introduce, or at all events to develope the notion of fluids, as agents
 which effected the more mysterious phenomena of nature, such as
 light, heat, electricity, and magnetism.
    Air being proved analogous in many of its characters to fluids as
 previously known, the idea of fluids or of an ether was carried on to
 other unknown agencies appearing to present effects remotely
 analogous to air or gases.
     Sound was included by some in the same category with the other
 affections of matter, and as late as the close of the last century a
 paper was written by Lamarck to prove that sound was propagated
 by the undulations of an ether. Sound is now admitted to be an
 undulation or motion of ordinary matter, and Mr. Grove considered
 that what have been called "the imponderables, or imponderable
 fluids, might be actions of a similar character, and might be viewed
 as motions of ordinary matter.
     Heat was at an early period so viewed, and we find traces of this
 in the writings of Lord Bacon. Rumford and Davy gave the
 doctrine a greater development, and Mr. Grove in a communication
 made by him at an Evening Meeting of this Institution in 1847,
 shewed that what had hitherto been deemed stumblingblocks in the
 way of this theory of heat, viz. the phenomena presented by what
 have been called latent and specific heat, might be more simply
 explained by the dynamic theory.
     In this evening's communication he brought forward some experi
  ments and considerations in favour of the extension of this view to
  electricity and magnetism, an extension which he had for many
  years advocated, and which was, in his opinion, supported by many
  analogies.
     The ordinary attractions and repulsions of electrified bodies
  present no more difficulties when regarded as being produced by a
  change in the state or relations of the matter affected, than did the
  attraction of the earth by the sun, or of a leaden ball by the earth ;
  the hypothesis of a fluid is not considered necessary for the latter,
  and need not be so for the former clasti of phenomena.

 1852.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      121
    In the cases of heating or ignition of a conjunctive wire or con
 ducting body through which what is called Electricity is transmitted,
 we have many evidences that the matter itself is affected, and in some
 cases temporarily, in others, permanently changed ; thus if a wire of
 lead is ignited to fusion by the voltaic battery, the fused lead being
 kept in ft channel to prevent its dispersion, it gradually shortens,
and the molecules seem impressed with a force acting transversely
to the line of direction of the electricity ; at length the lead gathers
up in nodules which press on each other as do, to use a familiar
illustration, a string of figs.
    With Magnetism we have many instances of the molecular change
 which a ferreous or magnetic substance undergoes when magnetized.
 If the particles are free to move, as for instance iron filings, they
arrange themselves symmetrically. An objection may be made
arising from the peculiar form of the iron filings, but Mr. Grove in
the year 1845, shewed that the supernatant liquid in which magnetic
 oxide had been formed, and which contains magnetic particles not
 mechanically but chemically divided, exhibits when magnetized a
 change in the arrangement of the molecules, as may be seen by its
 effect on transmitted light ; — a molecular change is also evidenced
 by the note or sound produced by magnetism, and by other effects.
    Assuming that the molecules of iron change their position inter se
 upon magnetization, then by repeated magnetization in opposite
 directions, something analogous to friction might be produced ; and
just as a piece of caoutchouc when elongated produces heat, (as it was
on this occasion experimentally shewn to do) so a bar of soft iron
might be expected when subjected to rapid changes in its magnetic
state, to exhibit thermic effects.
    With the aid of the large magnet of the Institution and of a
commutator for changing the direction of the Electricity a bar of
soft iron was alternately magnetized in opposite directions ; and in a
few minutes a thermometer placed in an aperture in the iron shewed
a rise of temperature of 1,5° Fahrenheit ; the bar being separated
from the magnet by flannel, and the magnet being at a notably lower
temperature than the bar, this heat could in nowise be attributed to
conduction.
   The effect of Electricity in the disruptive discharge as in the Voltaic
arc and the electric spark, would seem at first sight to offer greater
difficulties of explanation on the dynamic theory. The brilliant
phenomenal effects of the electric discharge, and the apparent absence
of change in the matter affected by it, would at first lead the observer
to believe that Electricity was a specific entity.
   With ordinary flame or the apparent effects of combustion however,
the idea has to a great extent been abandoned that such visual
effects are due to specific matter, and it is regarded by many as an
intense motion of the particles of the burning body. So with
Electricity, if in regard to the disruptive discharge it can be shewn
that the matter of the terminals or of the intervening medium is
changed, the necessity for the assumption <?f a fluid or ether ceases,
and, to say the least, a possibility of viewing Electricity as a motion
or affection of ordinary matter is opened.

122                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                (/''•//. 13,
    To make evident to the audience the relation of the electrical dis
charge to combustion and the fact that the terminals were themselves
affected, the Voltaic arc was taken, first between silver and then
between iron terminals ; in the first case a brilliant green coloured
flame was produced, and in the second a reddish scintillation or spur
fire effect, just as in the ordinary combustion of the metals.
    So with the discharge of Franklinic Electricity between the same
two metals, a strip of silvered leather gave the bright green discharge,
while a chain of iron gave the spur fire effect.
    The known transport of particles of the terminals from one pole to
the other,— the different effects of different intervening media on
induction as shewn in Faraday's experiments,— the polar tension of
such media, &c. were instances of the train of molecular changes
consequent upon electrical action.
    Hitherto the polarity of the gaseons medium existing between the
metallic or conducting terminals of the electrical circuit was only
known as a physical polarity and not shewn to have an analogous
chemical character with that existing in electrolytes anterior to elec
trolysis ; but Mr. Grove stated that in a recent communication to
the Royal Society he had shewn that mixtures of gases having oppo
site electrical or chemical relations, such as oxygen and hydrogen, or
compound gases such as carbonic oxide, were electro-chemically
 polarized or had their electro-negative and electro-positive elements
thrown in opposite directions : thus if a silvered plate be made
 positive in such gases it is oxidized, if negative the dark spot of
 oxide is reduced ; and an experiment was shewn in which such a plate
 was thus oxidized and the spot reduced in gaseous media.
     Here, as in the other experiments, was an effect on the terminals
 and an effect of polarization of the intermedium. In the experi
 ments hitherto shewn, solid terminals were used ; it became important
 to examine what would be the effect of liquid terminals, for instance
 water ; the spark or disruptive discharge of Franklinic Electricity
 was readily obtained from its surface, but hitherto no voltaic
 battery had been found to shew a discharge at any sensible distance
 from the surface of water.
     Mr. Gassiot had procured to be constructed 500 cells of the
  nitric acid battery, the combination discovered in 1839 by Mr.
  Grove and first shewn at this Institution in the year 1840. The
  cells of this battery were all well insulated by glass stems, and as
  regards intensity of action it was probably far the most powerful
  ever seen. Mr. Gassiot had kindly lent this apparatus for the
  illustration of this evening's discourse, and by its aid Mr. Grove
  was able to shew an experiment which he had first made when
  experimenting with Mr. Gassiot some time ago, and which produced
  the effect he had long sought for, viz. a quantitative or voltaic dis
  charge at a sensible distance from the surface of water. The.
  experiment was made as follows : — a platinum plate forming the
  anode of the battery was immersed in a capsule of distilled water,
  the temperature of which was raised. A cathode or negative
  terminal of platinum wire was now made to touch for a moment

1852.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    123
the surface of the water and immediately withdrawn to a distance
of about quarter of an inch ; the discharge took place, the extremity
of the platinum wire was fused and the molten platinum attached
to the wire but kept up by the peculiar repulsive effect of the
discharge was exhibited, as it were, suspended in mid-air, giving an
intense light, throwing off scintillations in directions away from the
water and only detaching itself from the wire when agitated.
    Here water in the vaporous state must be transferred, for the
immersed electrode gate off gas, without doubt oxygen, and the
molecular action on the negative fused platinum resembled, if it
were not identical in character with the currents observed on the
surface of mercury when made negative in an electrolyte.
    It may be objected to the theory proposed, that electrical effects
are obtained in what is called a vacuum, where there is no inter
medium to be polarized ; but this objection, though not applicable
to the projection of the terminals, could hardly be discussed until
experimentalists had gone much further than at present in the
production of a vacuum ; the experiments of Davy and others had
shewn that we are far off from obtaining any thing like a vacuum
 where delicate investigations are concerned.
    The view of the antient philosophers that Nature abhors a
vacuum which had been much cavilled at, and was supposed to be
 exploded by the discovery of Torricelli, Mr. Grove thought had
 been unjustly censured : giving the expression some degree of meta
 phorical license, it afforded a fine evidence of the extent and accuracy
 of observation of those who were unacquainted with inductive
 philosophy as a system, but who necessarily pursued it in practice.
 Whether a vacuum was possible might be an open question, experi
 mentally it was unknown.
    Lastly, in answer to those who might ask, to what practical
 results do researches such as these lead ? what accession of physical
 comfort or luxury do they bring ? Mr. Grove took occasion to offer
 his humble protest against opinions now perhaps too generally
 prevalent, that science was to be viewed only or mainly in its utili
 tarian or practical bearings. Even regarding it in this aspect, were
 it not for the devotion which the love of knowledge, which the
 yearning anxiety to penetrate into the mysteries of our being and
 of surrounding existences induced ; the practical results of science
 would not have been attained ; the band of Martyrs to Science
 from Socrates to Galileo would not have thought and suffered
 without a higher incentive than the acquisition of utilitarian
  results : without disparaging these results, indeed regarding them
  as necessary consequences of any advance in scientific knowledge,
  he considered that the love of truth and knowledge for themselves
  was the great animating principle of those who rightly pursued
  science ; that, based upon an enduring quality of our common nature,
  this feeling was rooted in far firmer foundations, that it led to
  greater and more self sacrificing exertions, than any capable of being
  induced by the hopes of augmenting social acquisitions, and was
  an attribute and an evidence of the non-transient part of our being.
                                                          . [W. R. G.]

124                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Fe6. 20,
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Native Salts from Tarapaca, Peru, presented by W. Bollaert, Esq.
Crystals of Meconic Acid, Morphia, &c. [Exhibited by T. N. R.
   Morson, Esq. M.R.I.]
Specimens of Harmotome, and Calc Spar Crystals. [Exhibited by
   Mr. Highley, jun.]
Spanish Terra Cottas; and a Drawing after Lucca di Robbia, by
   Mr. W. G. Rogers.
Porcelain Vessels for Chemical Purposes, from the South of France.
   [Exhibited by W. T. Copeland, Esq.]
Minie"s Projectiles, used by the Chasseurs of Vincennes. [Exhibited
   by J. Prosser, Esq.]
Native Gold from California — Green Carbonate of Copper — Car
   bonate of Lime, &c. [Exhibited by Mr. Tennant.]
Microscope by Mr. Varley.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, February 20.
      THB DOKB OF NORTHUMBERLAND, F.R.S., &c. President,
                              in the Chair.
       On some Relations MR.          PENROSE,
                               F. C. to
                          of Science    Architecture considered as
                               a Fine Art.
SCIENTIFIC considerations not only apply to the Constructive in
Architecture, but also to its aesthetic element.
   Science was denned by the Lecturer as " the knowledge which is
derived in the first instance from the observation of natural pheno
mena aided by reflection upon the results of such observation," and
he classed under the head of Science, so defined, all careful consi
derations of the analogy of Nature and Art.
   In all the most perfect works of art the economic and aesthetic
ends are answered together. Illustrations were drawn from the
beauty of the tapering shaft of a Greek column, which with the same
amount of material has more stability than if cylindrical; and from
the graceful form of the Eddystone lighthouse, of which the contour
was chosen chiefly with reference to the form of greatest resist
ance.
   The perception of beauty is an innate idea implanted in man by
his Creator, and the only really perfect examples are to be looked
for in Nature ; but the highest works of art may come so near per
fection that we can propose no material change which would not
more or less injure their beauty. The most important lesson which
can be learnt from a careful examination of Nature is that no design
is perfect until the utmost attainable utility is combined with the

1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       125
highest degree of heauty, neither quality at all interfering with the
other. We further learn that humble buildings should be simple
and subordinate to, but not irrespective of, the more noble ; that
these should exhibit order and symmetry, but should differ among
themselves in Character ; efficiency rather than beauty to be looked
for in absolutely concealed construction, but ugliness scarcely to be
tolerated under any circumstances in features exposed to the eye.
The mere rule " Decorate the useful," although good as far as it
goes, is inadequate, for the beauty should be a function of the use,
and the use of the beauty.
   The Lecturer proceeded to inquire in what Styles of Architecture
are found the best illustrations of the application of Scientific prin
ciples to aesthetic ends, — i. e. for the elaboration of beautiful form :
observing with reference to the conventional rules which form the
grammar (as it \vere) of each particular style, that these rules were
subordinate to principles founded on science and common sense ;—
that their object was to prevent confusion and ignorant caprice, and
were made for the use of the architect and not for his embarrass
 ment.
   The Architecture of Greece alone exhibits satisfactory evidences
of the application of Science to Fine Art. The Romans actually
gloried in the abnegation of the highest aims of art, and no peculiar
refinements were to be found in their Architecture, even after the
 most diligent examination. The Architecture of the thirteenth
 century, with all its beauties, is so overrun with curious fancies,
 whether arising from carelessness or symbolism, that the abnormal
 varieties, which in Greek Architecture point out a principle, are in
this style, in the majority of instances, mere caprice, as far at least
as art is concerned.
    Alberti and Brunelleschi, and the great masters who revived
 classical art, who so wonderfully succeeded in adapting an ancient
 Architecture to the uses of their day, and who formed out of it a
 living style unshackled by timid retrospection, do not seem to have
 used any peculiar refinements ; neither do their chief followers in this
 country, Inigo Jones and Sir Christopher Wren. Palladian Archi
 tecture having fallen into feeble hands was, in this country, ejected
 by an ill-digested importation of Greek Architecture, to which it did
 not do justice, either in respect of artistic or of scientific treatment ;
 but it chiefly failed from overlooking the proper use to which the
 Architecture of the Greek temple should he applied by us.
    " It should be proposed as a standard of excellence, as an abstract
 model for our guidance, and not as one suitable for direct imi
tation."
    The Architecture now in fashion is treated in a manner scarcely
 less retrospective than the last mentioned, and great as are its in
 trinsic excellencies, is peculiarly unplastic and opposes itself to the
 exhibition of mechanical power or scientific refinement.
    The late attempts to revive Greek Architecture were much ham
 pered by a feeling of the necessity of carrying symmetry to an
 extreme which is not found in the original.

   126                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    [Feb. 20,
                                                                X
      A natural type of the picturesque Gothic Architecture may be
   found in the varied landscape, and of the Greek, in the symmetries
   of the animal creation ; but as in Nature animals, abstractedly sym
  metrical, are thrown into varied postures and groups, so the
   Greek Architect used the principle of asymmetria in his ichnography ;
  that is, in his ground plan he avoided placing one building directly
  before another, and turned the lines of those which were independent
  of each other to different points of the compass, — thus obtaining
  variety in perspective, fine gradations of light and shade, and an
  expression of individual character among the buildings themselves.
  This principle was illustrated by a plan of the Acropolis of Athens.
     In this irregular oblong figure, extending from West to East, the
  point fixed by the nature of the ground, is the Western Entrance
  where the Propylaea stand. The Parthenon placed near the ceptre
  and highest portion of the area, but towards the Southern edge of
  the rock, is so turned as %, offer an angular view from the Propylaea.
 The latter building being dependent on the Parthenon, its lines are
  built parallel to those of that temple, and so serve by repetition to
  increase the effect of the principal object ; especially in the general
 views from
 pylaea.            same time
            At the West,  whentheir
                                  the axes
                                       Parthenon
                                           do notis coincide,  butthe
                                                      seen above          of
                                                                    thatPro-
 the Propylaea falls altogether to the North of the Parthenon. The
 Erechtheum, the building of second importance, is placed a little
 North of the axis of the Propylaea, and is turned obliquely with
 respect to it, at such an angle as to show its South side distinctly.
 The colossal statue of Minerva Promachus, stood Eastwards of the
 Propylaea, and nearly in the direction of its axis, at a distance of about
 120 ft. The pedestal of this statue again was placed somewhat
 obliquely, and there are several platforms at different points and at
 various levels, which served (there is little doubt) as foundations for
 small temples, which converge towards the statue of Minerva Pro
 machus, thus producing ever)' variety of angle. And lastly, the
 small temple of Nike Apteros on the platform of the Propylaea, and
 to the West, is placed at an angle differing by 18° from parallelism
with it.
    The Erechtheum, a small building, and the Propylaea are complex
in their forms, but the Parthenon (neglecting minute variations)
is rigidly symmetrical. Tn large buildings the effect of perspective
introduces sufficient variety. One of the greatest sources of pleasure
in Architecture, is the act of reconstructing mentally the real form
from an image modified by perspective. That this may be possible —
the square and rectangles simply related to it, and the circle should
predominate in the ground plan, however much it may be desirable
to use more varied parallelograms, the ellipse, or figures of greater
variety in the Elevation, which may be seen from the proper point
of view almost unaffected by perspective.
    The Greek Doric temple is the one form of building ancient or
modern which can be pronounced, humanly speaking, perfect. This
perfection resulted from the concentrated efforts of several ages.
Not by introducing violent changes after each experiment, and so

1852.]                  OF THK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         127
throwing aside all advantage to be derived from them, but by con
tinually improving them by the application of a scientific and re
fined criticism.
    The early temple consisted of an oblong cella, the shrine of the
god, surrounded by a Peristyle, or colonnade, usually leaving an
ambulatory all round the cella. This composition was covered by a
single roof from end to end, with a triangular pediment, or flat gable
end, at each extremity. In the latest and most complete examples
 we find the simple general form preserved, but combined with a
highly organized construction. The most important peculiarities
are these. The contours of all the columns are delicate curves.
The axes of the columns, with scarcely an exception, inclined inwards
    The process
towards   analogy
           the temple,
                  ofofrefinement
                       nature
                         and the
                              in horizontal
                                 all
                                 would
                                     bodies
                                        seemwhich
                                              to be
                                            lines have
                                                    are
                                                     as follows
                                                        aemployed
                                                          slight : — to exert
                                                                   curvature.
force or pressure at a distance from their attachment to a fixed
point, would soon suggest the practice of making the columns
taper. The earliest builders would indeed find this done to their
 hands in the trunks of trees, which found a place in the supports of
 the hut, more or less the archetype of the Greek temple. It
 would then be observed that a column built with straight sides,
 i. e. tapering as the frustum of a cone, would appear attenuated or
 drawn in in the middle — owing to the eye not judging of the form
 absolutely as an instrument, but bringing into the calculation cer
 tain feelings derived from contrast, which make the apparent differ
 from the real form.
     The causes which lead to this apparent attenuation seem to be
 chiefly these : —
     There is some reason for imagining that a frustum of a very
 sharp cone will under any circumstances appear formed of concave
 instead of straight sides, but this effect, if it take place at all, will be
 very slight : other causes however affecting such a frustum when
 used as a column are more influential.
     The eye will rest longer upon the top and bottom of the shafts
 than on any intermediate points, and this relative importance pos
 sessed by those situations will make the intermediate diameters
 appear too small, when compared with the two extremities of the
  shaft.
     This effect will be further increased by inequalities of chiaro-
  oscuro. For the relative excess of light on the upper part, owing
 to the deep back ground of shade under the Portico, and the actual
  excess on the base owing to the greater amount of reflected light,
  will throw the balance of light in favour of the extremities, and
  according to a principle familiar to observers of Nature the brighter
  parts will appear broader on that account. Among the most obvious
  illustrations of this phenomenon are the apparent disc of a fixed star ;
  the magnified appearance of a distant candle ; the sudden ap
  pearance of dilation in the disc of the moon when issuing from a
  fleecy cloud, or its opposite appearance of stooping on entering it,
  so poetically described by Milton. From all these, and possibly

 1 28                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Feb. 20,
other causes united, the tapering shaft of the column will appear
attenuated, unless its contour he made just so much convex, as to
counterbalance these optical illusions. This entasis as it is called,
literally bow-stretching, as applied in the columns of the Parthenon
is formed by an accurate hyperbolic curve, which increases the
diameters a little below the middle by the amount of .114 ft. in a
shaft 31.4 ft. long. The directions of the axes of this hyperbola
are vertical and horizontal ; the constant number which expresses
the eccentricity is 30 ; and the principal axis one Greek foot ; the
vertex does not occur in the shaft and is just two diameters of the
column below the base.
    The columns of the Propylaea are also hyperbolic, but differ from
the last mentioned, in that the vertex of the hyperbola occurs near
the middle.
    When this difference had been pointed out by measurement, the
variation of character resulting therefrom to the two columns be
came appreciable ; but in all the Athenian examples the entasis is so
slight, that the first investigators of the remains of Greek architec
ture, whose eyes were accustomed to the palpable bulging of the
columns built by the architects of the 16th and 17th centuries, were
deceived by its delicacy, and reported that the Greek columns had
no entasis.
            Table of Entasis of different columns at Athens.
                             Actual measurement        In terms of length
                                    in Feet.                of Shaft.
      Erechtheum                      0195     . . .             i
      Theseum                          023    .  . .
      Parthenon                        057    . . .              i
      Propylaea
      Small order                     0343    . . .
      Large order                     0627    . . .
    The entasis being established, a second process of refinement
would lead to the inclination of the axes of the columns.
    The diminution is so entirely in conformity with Nature, that the
artifice more or less escapes observation, and the upper diameter
does not appear so much smaller than the lower as it really is.
This circumstance may combine with the others before mentioned,
to demand the entasis, but it immediately produces the effect which
the inclination of the columns seeks to remedy. For by how much
so ever the sum of the upper diameters is apparently increased, by
so much is the appearance of length in the architrave greater than
in the stylobate (or step on which the columns stand), and the
columns appear to have a fan-like divergence from the base line,
unless the length of the architrave be reduced. This was effected
by the Greeks by contracting the distance between the capitals of
the extreme intercolumniations. This contraction in the Parthenon
produces an inclination of .228 ft. in the angle columns in each
direction, entailing a parallel inclination inwards in all the interme
diate columns of each colonnade. Several subordinate inclinations

1852.]                OF THB BOYAL INSTITUTION.                      129
in the other vertical lines are exhibited in the following tahle taken
from the Parthenon, and the other Athenian examples are more or
less analogous.
       Columns                       inwards      1      in     150
       Walls                           do.        1      in       80
       Face of Tympanum . .            do.        1      in     100
       Antae                         forwards      1     in       80
       Faces of Cornice ...             do         1     in     1 00
       Faces of Acroteria . .          do.        1      in       20
    The horizontal lines when absolutely straight appeared sunk in
the middle. In the great temple at Paestum, the convexity which
 is intended to obviate this effect is only found in the fronts ; and in
the Propylaea at Athens, where the continuity of the stylobate is in
terrupted, the curvature is only found in the entablature, the centre
 columns being longer than those towards the angles ; thus pointing
 to the influence of the raking lines of the pediment as the origin of
this optical illusion. The curvature of the stylobate and of the
 flanks followed from the generalization of this idea. This ten
 dency of the eye to be deceived by the contrast of lines, was illus
 trated by the following experiments : —
    A drawing having been prepared of two columns placed side by
 side, the shafts of which were formed with perfectly straight lines,
 on each side of these, and from top to bottom, the lecturer drew a flat
 circular arc, convex to the outline of one of the columns, and con
 cave to the other. The column placed between the two concave
 lines instantly seemed attenuated, whilst in the other, about which
 the convex lines were drawn, the effect of a palpable entasis was
 produced. An outline of a pediment had also been provided, con
 sisting of the horizontal cornice and the two inclined roof lines.
 The cornice was at first alone visible, and appeared perfectly straight,
 as it really was, but when the raking lines of the pediments which
 had been concealed were shown in combination, it appeared to sink
 in the centre. Lastly an elevation of the front of the Parthenon
 drawn to a scale of one-twentieth of the fall size, from exact
 measurements obtained at Athens, was exhibited. The line of the
 cornice, really curved, appeared to be straight, owing to the con
 trast of the inclined lines of the pediment, until a string was strained
 from end to end, when the curvature became evident.
    The lecturer proceeded to describe some of the smaller details of
 the architecture, in which many instances of geometrical science
 are to be found.
    The parabola and hyperbola selected with the parameters at the
 vertex, small in comparison with the length of the arc employed,
 were used in almost all cases where great variety of curvature was
  sought. There were even some indications of a knowledge of the
  determination of the radius of curvature in a Conic Section.
     A moulding of circular section was used in the Parthenon only
 in the crowning member or Cymatium.
     It was observed that lines of determinate varied curvature were
  preferable to those arbitrarily drawn, and still more to patched

 130                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.            i /•'</;. 20, 1852.
combinations of the arcs of different circles, in which each circle
 seemed always struggling to express its own curvature, and dis
cordant with the sequence of the general line.
    In conclusion the lecturer said that the object of the architect
 should be to study what the Greeks and other real advancers of art
achieved, and to extend their principles by embodying as much as
possible the science of the day.
   It was not the curved lines or the use of the Conic Sections in
the mouldings which produced their excellence, but because they
pursued art in the right way ; they availed themselves of whatever
methods would obviate the optical illusions which impaired the
beauty of their architecture, and of whatever geometrical figures
would in the most simple manner give them the determinate varied
curves in which they delighted.
   Several instruments for drawing curves by continued motion
invented by the Lecturer also were exhibited : one for drawing the
hyperbola by means of a variable triangle, with a constant base
sliding on the asymptotes of the curve. (The same instrument would
also draw the conchoid of Nicomedes.) An instrument on the
principle of a skeleton cone for drawing all the conic sections — and
an instrument for drawing the Cissoid of Diocles, with variations of
that curve; Penrose and Bennett's registered Helicograph for
drawing all the varieties of the equiangular spiral from the circle to
drawing
the        of anline.
      straight               specimen
                    IonicA capital,  afterof the
                                              its Erechtheum  ; and
                                                  operation was     shewn     in a ,
                                                                         a simple
instrument invented by Mr. Jopling for drawing a fine wave, or
line of beauty, by means of the curve lemniscata, and an oblique
elliptic trammel, made from a pattern proposed by the same in
ventor.                                                           [F C- p -
   In the Library were exhibited : —
   Athens, &c.used
Instruments            in Measuring
                  by Mr.                 the Parthenon ; and Sketches of
                            F. C. Penrose.
   Presented
"The           by the
        Principles       Athenianof Architecture,
                     of Society      Dilettanti. by F. C. Penrose, Esq."
   man andViews
Talbotype     Co. of the Parthenon, Athens, &c. by Messrs. Henne-
Geometric Curves and Apparatus used in drawing them, with descrip
   Examples
   tionhim
   by          of
                theEntasis,"
         by toMr.   Joseph
                     Library,Jopling.
                               &c.
                                R. I.]     [See "byAnMr.
                                    8vo. 1849,             Jopling,
                                                        Impulse         Art ; and
                                                                   to presented
Specimens of Glass Mosaic, by Mr. G. H. Stevens.
   Addams,
Models         Smoke-Consuming
           of and   Coupland.          Furnaces, &c. by Messrs. Juckes,
Model of Galloway's Tubular Boiler. [Exhibited by Mr. Arm
   strong.]
   Institution.
Sepulchral    Seals and other Antiquities, from the United Service
A Painting on Marble, by Paul Brill. [Exhibited by Mr. H . Brooke. ]
Dies and Medals, by Mr. G. Barclay.

                      [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
          *fforal 3jnstitutton of dEfteat Britain,
                                     1852.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, February 27.
         THE DUKB OF NORTHUMBERLAND, F.R.S. President,
                                 in the Chair.
                    DR. LYON PLAYFAIR, C.B., F.R.S.
  On three important Chemical Discoveries from the Exhibition of
     1851 — A. Mercer's Contraction of Cotton by Alkalies; — B.
     Young's Paraffine and Mineral Oil from Coal; — C. SchrStter's
     Amorphous Phosphorus,
     [The following statements and arguments were supplied by DR. LYON
 PLAYFAIR as embodying considerations which he desired to impress on the
 attention of the Memberi of the Royal Institution.]
 IT is incumbent on those who, like myself, have been connected with
 the Great Exhibition, to inculcate its teachings in order that it may
 influence the future, by being a starting point for industry. Unless
 it imparts new life to productive industry, it has failed in the attain
 ment of its object, and will, in history, degenerate into the record of
 a gigantic show, fitted only to pander to an idle curiosity. All of us
 have, no doubt, examined it with a higher object, and have derived
 lessons varying in character and amount according to the opportunities
which we enjoyed in their acquisition. Those who have attended to
 its teachings with regard to the comparative progress of manufactures
 in different countries, owe it as a public duty to announce their con
victions on a subject of such large social importance.
    My official connection with the Exhibition has enabled me to give
more attention to it than most of those whom I have the honour to
address, and convictions unfavourable to our position, as an industrial
nation, have impressed themselves with such force upon my mind,
that you will not be surprised that I seize every opportunity of
directing public attention to them. I have already done so in a
formal manner, on two previous occasions, and I rather depart from
the custom of bringing before you subjects of original research at
these evening meetings, in order that I may advocate the necessity
of a more intimate union between science and practice in this
country, at an Institution, whose proudest boast it is to have largely
advanced the discovery of abstract truths, while it has always
encouraged, at the same time, their applications to the increase of
human resources and enjoyments.
    In this lecture, however, I shall rather urge this point as a natural
      No. 9.                                            L

132                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [Feb. 27i
consequence of the subjects chosen for illustration of my argument
than by any doctrinal exhortations, because these are not needed
to strengthen your general convictions.
   Our nation has acquired a proud position among the industrial
states of the world, partly by the discoveries of her philosophers,
partly by the practical powers and common sense of her population,
but chiefly by the abundance and richness of her natural resources.
 Our fuel is abundant and cheap, and our iron and the lime necessary
for its production are associated with it, so that all three may be
extracted together under the most favourable circumstances. These
local advantages gave to our country enormous powers of production,
and, under the favouring influences of an accidental combination, it
supplied its produce to the rest of the world. Circumstances
remaining the same, our industrial position was secured, and we have
been thus lulled into a fatal apathy ; for conditions were in fact
varying with great rapidity, and the world at large was passing
through a state of remarkable transition.
   Setting aside the questions of capital and labour, which are not
adapted for discussion in this place, the progress of manufactures is
made up of two factors, possessing very different values. One of
these represents the raw produce,— the other, the intellect or science
employed to adapt it to human wants. As civilization advances, the
value of the raw material as an element of manufactures diminishes,
while that of the intellectual element is much enhanced. Improve
ments in locomotion by sea and land spread over the world the raw
material formerly confined to one locality ; and a time arrived when
a competition of industry became a competition, not of local
advantages, but of intellect.
   It was obvious that when improved locomotion gave to all
countries raw material at slight differences of cost, that any superiority
in the intellectual element would more than balance the difference.
Tin- Continental States, acting on a perception of this truth, saw
that they could only compete with English industry by instructing
their populations in the principles of science. Hence have arisen,
in their capitals, in their towns, and even in their villages, institu
tions for affording a systematic training in science ; and industry has
been raised from the rank of an empirical art to that of a learned
profession. The result is seen in the fact that we now meet most
European nations as competitors in all the markets of the world.
The result is palpably forced upon us by our actual displacement
from markets in which we had a practical monopoly. The result
was obvious in the Exhibition, where we saw many nations, formerly
unknown as producers, frequently approaching, and often excelling
us in manufactures, our own by hereditary and traditional right.
   The teaching of the Exhibition was to impress me with the
strongest conviction that England, by relying too much on her local
advantages, was rapidly losing her former proud position among
manufacturing nations ; and that unless she speedily adopted mea
sures to cultivate the intellectual element of production, by instruct
ing her population in the scientific principles of the arts which they

 1852.]               OF T.I. ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    133
profess, she must inevitably and with rapidity lose those sources
of power, which, in spite of the smallness of her home territory,
have given to her so exalted a rank among nations.
   With these convictions you will not be surprised that I have
chosen subjects connected with the Exhibition, although I have no
merit or part whatever in their discovery. I have selected them for
the following reasons.
   We have a great reliance on the practical sagacity or common
sense of our population, — certainly superior to that of any part of
Europe : but we have not strengthened it by communicating scien
tific knowledge to those who are entrusted with the exercise of this
practical power ; and, hence, this common sense, unaided by the
rules of science, has gradually assumed a sway over our manufac
tures. In other words, conjectural judgments have usurped the
place of systematic knowledge. Practice and science have been
followed out separately, as having no immediate connection. This
separation, and even practical antagonism, has been fatal to our pro
gress in industry ; for manufacturers, as a body, have ceased to per
ceive that abstract science forms the roots of the tree of industry,
and that to separate them is to sever the tree from its roots. In
order to restore vigour to our declining industry, it is essential that
confidence in the powers of science should be imparted to practice,
and that the latter should be taught that it is, even as a question of
social policy, highly important to encourage discoveries in abstract
truths, however apparently remote from practice ; because science
only benefits industry by its overflowings, arising from the very
fulness of its measure.
   Every abstract truth, in its due time, adds to human resources
and enjoyments, and it is this text that I wish to inculcate from
examples derived from the Exhibition. One of the last generaliza
tions of the great Berzclius, was that of allotropism, a name only
eleven years old, and fully explained by him only six years since ;
and yet this generalization, apparently, at the time, only of abstract
interest, entirely remote from practical application, produced as fruit
the three most original, and, I think, the most important, practical
discoveries of the Exhibition.
   Having thus introduced the subject of his Lecture, Dr. Playfair
proceeded to offer certain examples of allotropism. It had long
been known that bodies crystallized in two or more incompatible
forms. Thus, carbonate of lime as arragonite crystallizes in prisms ;
whereas as calcareous spar it crystallizes in rhombs. Sulphur also
crystallizes in two incompatible forms ; so does the garnet. This is
termed dimorphism. When two such forms exist they are found
to be maintained in unequal stability ; it appears, in fact, as if one
form was normal, and the other forced or strained. Thus a prism
of arragonite is subject to change into rhombs of calc spar; and
sulphur crystallized by heat in oblique rhombic prisms passes in a
few days into a mass of rhombic octohedrons. Not only may the
chemical and physical characteristics of such dimorphous bodies

134                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [Feb. 27,
differ, but their colour and their specific gravity. Thus, the sulphuret
of iron (Fe. Sj), when crystallized in cubes, is persistent in the
air ; but when occurring in a rhombic form, readily passes into cop
peras or sulphate of iron.
    Applying the preceding remarks to non-crystallized bodies, it was
equally found that many were susceptible of allotropic modification.
Thus cinnabar and vermilion were of precisely similar chemical
composition with the black sulphuret of mercury. Again, the sesqui-
sulphuret of antimony might be black or orange. Iodide of mercury
is commonly red ; when heated, however, it passes into a yellow
powder, which by simple pressure and rubbing with a hard body
becomes red again. Sugar is a remarkable instance of a solid
capable of assuming two allotropic states ; as sugar candy it is crys
tallized, as barley sugar it is amorphous ; yet the composition of
 sugar in either case is the same. Nor are liquids exempt from the
 strange state of allotropism, — sometimes indeed manifesting a
 condition even beyond allotropism (isomerism), and not allowing us
 to reconvert them to their primitive state. Thus the chemical com
 position of oil of turpentine, of rosemary, of lemons, of copaiba, are
 identical, yet no one of these bodies has hitherto been turned into
 the other. The steroptane of otto of roses is identical in compo
 sition with coal gas, yet chemists are unable to change one into the
 other. The term isomerism has been commonly employed in rela
 tion to bodies of like atomic composition, and has reference to
 equality of parts. The term allotropism is a better denomination,
 and has reference to the condition of unlike properties.
     The preceding remarks by Dr. Playfair were introductory to an
 exposition of the respective discoveries of Mr. Mercer, Mr. Young,
 and Dr. Schrotter.
     A.— Mercer's process consists in bringing cotton fabrics in contact
 with a solution of soda (cold), or a solution of dilute sulphuric acid,
 by subjecting it to either of which processes cotton acquires certain
  remarkable properties. In the first place, the texture becomes very
  much corrugated, and hence proportionably finer ; it also assumes
  acid properties, rendering it more capable of taking up dyes. The
  process of induction which led Mr. Mercer to his final discovery was
  curious. He started from the point of investigating the laws which
  determined the flow of water at various temperatures through minute
  tubes. From water he proceeded to aqueous saline solutions ; from
  tubes he proceeded to their equivalent, namely, closely-folded woven
  tissue. Selecting for this purpose a thick reduplication of calico,
  fold on fold, and employing an aqueous solution of soda, Mr. Mercer
  found that, by passing the solution through the calico, soda was
  removed. This removal he attributed to the act of filtration ; but,
  subsequently finding that mere immersion of the calico in the same
  solution effected a like result, he concluded that the result was due
  to an actual combination of the cotton with the soda — a calico-a/e
   of soda (if the lecturer might be permitted that form of expression)
  was generated.

 1852.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     135
    The result of this agency of soda was, as formerly remarked, a
 physical corrugation, and an acquisition of certain chemical qualities.
The former change was evident to the eye. Dr. Playfair exhibited
two stockings, one of which being nearly double the size of
the other, although both came equal in size from the loom.
 The difference had been occasioned solely by chemical not me
 chanical agency. Dr. Playfair, in developing the numerous practical
 applications of this physical effect, showed that, besides the most
 obvious one of producing a material of increased fineness, the cotton
 thus prepared was far more capable of being dyed. Hot soda solu
 tion would not answer ; and this fact was remarkable and had its
 analogue in those salts which deposited themselves anhydrous on
 boiling. Instead of soda sulphuric acid might be employed ; in
 which case it formed, in combination with the cotton fibre, an easily
 decomposable conjugate acid.
  B.— Some years agoLiebig stated that one of the greatest discoveries
of chemistry would consist in converting coal-gas into a solid form,
 thus enabling it to be burned like a candle. This had, in a manner,
 been accomplished by Mr. Young. About three years since, Dr.
 Playfair drew the attention of Mr. Young to a spring of mineral oil,
containing paraffine, and occurring in a coal-mine in Derbyshire.
The liquid had been extensively applied by Mr. Young as a lubrica
 ting agent ; a use which Reichenbach had long ago suggested.
 After a period, however, this spring ceased to flow, when Mr.
 Young applied himself to an investigation of the theoretical con
 ditions under which it might be artificially formed. This gentle
 man saw that it would be difficult to convert gas into an allotropic
 form, whereas it was evident that gas must first come from a
 solid ; hence he hoped to succeed in procuring the body before it
 assumed its gaseous state.
   The illuminating portion of coal gas consists chiefly of olefiant
gas, and the latter is isomeric with solid paraffine. But the allo-
tropism does not end here ; the peculiar slow distillation of coals
yielding solid paraffine, also yielded another isomeric or allotropic
compound in the form of a lubricating oil, besides the additional
products of a burning oil, and naphtha.
   Dr. Playfair now explained, by the aid of a diagram, the slow
distillation process of Mr. Young, employed in generating his allo
tropic form of olefiant gas, and directed the attention of his audience
to some candles made of coal paraffine on the lecture table.
   C.— Schrotter's process of manufacturing amorphous or allotropic
phosphorus was the third in Dr. Playfair's series. The properties
of phosphorus in its ordinary condition are well known. It is spon
taneously inflammable and highly poisonous ; whereas the amorphous
or allotropic phosphorus is neither spontaneously inflammable nor
poisonous. Hence its great use in the manufacture of lucifer and
congreve matches ; an operation which not only imperilled the pre
mises wherein it is conducted, but also the lives of those conducting
it, causing the most frightful and fatal disease of the jaws and
facial bones.
   Common phosphorus, when heated to about 460 or 480, change*

1 36                     NOTICES OF THE MBBTING8               /•'.//. 27
into the allotropic condition, but a slight increment of heat changes
it back again. Hence the manufacture of this substance on a large
scale is attended with difficulties which Or. Playfair had no doubt
would be eventually overcome by the energy of Mr. Sturge the
patentee. The specific gravity of ordinary phosphorus is 1.77 —
of amorphous phosphorus, 1.964. Common phosphorus is soluble
in bi-sulphuret of carbon, whereas the amorphous variety is not.
Common phosphorus bursts into flame when brought into contact
with iodine, whereas the amorphous or allotropic variety does not.
Common phosphorus is luminous at very low temperatures, whereas
the amorphous variety only commences to be luminous at a tem
 perature of 500° F. In forming lucifer matches by means of
 allotropic phosphorus, there is experienced the difficulty that it does
 not ignite by friction ; hence it has to be mixed either with chlorate
 of potash, oxide of lead, or sulphuret of antimony, when friction
 takes effect and generates flame.
     Having thus discussed the experimental portion of his lecture,
 Dr. Playfair concluded as follows : —
     These three practical discoveries, for I think they are entitled
 to be considered as such, and not merely as inventions, have ema
 nated from men all highly educated in chemical science. It is a
 proud subject of praise and of congratulation, that the two first dis
 coverers, Mr. Mercer and Mr. Young, have, by the aid of science,
 raised themselves from the position of working artizans to that of
 employers in works involving considerable capital in their prosecu
 tion. Science has been to them a true power, the more so as in the
 arts which they profess, the manufacturers have usually been men
 of technical and not of scientific knowledge. The very fact of their
 success is a convincing evidence of what an immense development
  our industry might receive, if its sons were able to take advantage
 of the knowledge which science is constantly showering down upon
 the world.
     There is a wide chasm between the laboratory of the philoso
  pher and the workshop of the manufacturer — a chasm which must
  be bridged over by those who understand the nature of the foun
  dations on either side. In general it is not the duty of the philoso
  pher to do this ; it is more important for social progress, that he
  should continue to benefit the world by new accessions of truth,
  leaving to others to apply them to the promotion of the comforts
  and happiness of the human race. If technical men become disci
  ples of science, then their acquaintance with the wants and require
  ments of manufacturers would enable them to derive from its teach
  ings the knowledge requisite to apply it to the desired ends.
   Science should roll on, as it does now, a mighty river, from the
   abundant waters of which streams may be derived to fertilize the
   lands over which they pass ; for in the course of nature, these over
   flowings are restored in the form of refreshing showers. Their
   beneficial effects will however depend upon the skill of those who

  1852.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    137
  construct the channels destined to direct the waters for the uses of
 industry.
     It is no new truth that science should always he ready to benefit
  industry by instructing those engaged in it, rather than by directly
 uniting with it. This truth is as old as the mythology, where we find
 no celestial so beneficent to industrial arts as Minerva,- although she
 always preserved an independent existence, notwithstanding the
 passionate wooing of Vulcan, the god of industry. We have had it
 inculcated by the sages of all countries, strongly enforced by our
 own Bacon, and eloquently advocated in the theatre of this Institu
 tion by Davy.
    Abstract science could not, if it would, cause itself and industry
 to progress satisfactorily by means of its discovering philosophers.
 There must be other means of conveying its God-born truths to in
 dustry, in order to freshen and invigorate its existence. The results
 of continental success indicate that the true way for those requiring
 aid is to come to the fountain of knowledge and take that which
 they need.
     I need not detain you longer on this subject, except again to urge
 you to consider what must be the result of the system of instruction
 pursued abroad. In addition to many provincial schools, France has
 two central colleges of arts and manufactures, in one of which 300
 of the best youth of France commence their education in science just
 where our colleges leave off, and after two years, they are poured into
 the provinces to impart to industry the principles of science which
 they have there attained. Prussia, Austria, Russia, and the Northern
 States are encouraging the same kind of education, and even yet
 more extensively. Need we be surprised, then, that they are pro
 gressing so rapidly in manufactures, in spite of their dear fuel and
 machinery. Recollect that we have reached that state when in
 future the competition of industry must be a competition of intellect.
    Is England in a prepared state to meet this intellectual competi
 tion ? Have we adapted the system of instruction in our schools to
 the wants and necessities of the age ? Has science, or a knowledge
of God's works and God's goodness and wisdom, yet become an
important part of the instruction of our sons of industry, or, do we
not, by an antiquated notion, preserve the idea that the classical
learning of the thirteenth century is all-sufficient for the requirements
of the nineteenth century ?
    These questions are truly important if we desire to see England
keep her ground in the industrial struggle of nations. I wish not
to underrate any branch of human learning ; but I do vehemently
desire to see banished from our schools the bed of Procrustes, to the
dimensions of which our children are clipped or extended until they
are so changed in their natural aspirations for science, that it is very
difficult, in after life, to communicate that amount which is necessary
for its application to industry. I need not say, therefore, that until
scientific instruction be added to the general system of education of
our youth, that England cannot expect to be foremost in the in
dustrial race of nations.

138                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      . h:!l. 27,
   Already we see our capital largely employed to import foreign
talent into our manufactures, and by this, in many cases, we retain
our superiority. But it does not require much acumen to perceive
the wretchedness of this policy as regards the nation, which, careless
of the education of her own sons, sends her capital as a premium to
the advancement of that intellectual knowledge in foreign states,
who use it as the means of her destruction.
   Excuse me if I have expressed my convictions on these points
more strongly than you feel them ; but they have taken such strong
hold on my mind, that I cannot see safety for the future of our nation
unless by a great and comprehensive improvement in the instruction
of her people. I shall conclude in the language of Davy, when he
addressed you on the benefits conferred by this Institution both on
science and on industry : —
   " There is no country which ought so much to glory in the
progress of science as this happy island. Science has been a prime
cause of creating for us the inexhaustible wealth of manufactures ;
and it is by science that it must be preserved and extended. We
are interested as a commercial people ; we are interested as a free
people. The age of glory of a nation is also its age of security.
The same dignified feeling which urges men to gain dominion over
nations, will preserve them from the dominion of slavery. Natural,
and moral, and religious knowledge are of one family ; and happy is
the country, and great its strength, where they dwell together in
union."                                                              [L. P.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
   nite,
   Esq. and
Specimens    ofSulphate
          M.R.I.]Corals ofandStrychnia.
                                Madrepores[Exhibited
                                             ; Iodide of    T. N. R. Morson,
                                                        by Morphia,     Gadoli-
   from Assam.
Specimens            [Exhibited
             of Fossil   Wood from by Dr.
                                       eight  different M.R.I.]
                                          Roxburgh,      strata, and a Sword
   Exhibition
    [Exhibited
Large            by
                  by Mr.
         Stereoscopic Wheatstone's
                         Talbotype
                          Henneman.]   Improved
                                      Views           Interior ofStereoscope.
                                              of theReflecting      the Great
   Falls
    Dr. Mantell
Views        and Interior
         of—the     Portraits
                  and  others,
                            of the
                                of
                                Daguerreotyped
                                    Great
                                    Professors
                                           Exhibition,
                                                   by Mr.and
                                                  Brande    andof E.
                                                                  the Niagara
                                                            Mayall.     Forbes,
 Chinese
    Mr. Sichart.]
 Nassau    Candelabrum
           Carving in Tree-Roots
                           in Silver by
                                      — Messrs.    Monkey.
                                         Dog and Hunt           [Exhibited by
                                                          and Roskell.
 Carvings in Wood, — Dead Larks — Group of Dead Animals —
    Cherub's Head in Box-wood, by Mr. W. G. Rogers.
 Gems: Diamonds — A Large Emerald, (the property of the Duke
    of Devonshire) — Sapphire, Topaz, &c. — and a Model of the
    Koh-i-noor. [Exhibited by Mr. Tennant.]
Models of Moore's Patent Glass Ventilator, by Messrs. Moore.

1852.]                 OF THK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      139
Drawing in Water Colours — Hall Sands, Devon, by G. Barnard,
   Esq.
Microscopes by Messrs. Varley.
   In the Ante-room were exhibited : —
A Model of a Martello-tower, near Genoa, constructed for the
   Drawing Classes at Rugby School, by Mr. G. Barnard, from
   Sketches made on the spot ; and Drawings made from the Model
   by his Pupils.
                 GENERAL
Sir John P. Boileau,       Bart.,
                         Monday,
                               MONTHLY
                                  F.R.S,,
                                   March 1,   1852.
                                              MEETING, in the Chair.
                                           Vice-President,
   Samuel Gaskell, Esq.                Alfred James Woodhouse, Esq.
   Robert S. W. Lutwidge, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   J. G. Appold, Esq.                    Abel Jenkins, Esq.
   Rev. J. Brownbill.                     Francis IJoyd, Esq.
   Octavius Browne, Esq.                 Charles Lyall, Esq.
   George Edward Dering, Esq.            Kenneth Macaulay.Esq., Q.C.
   George Field, Esq.                    George WhitlockNicholl, Esq.
   Matthew Flower, Esq.                  Rev. C.Pritehard,M.A., F.R.S.
   Lieut.-Colonel Francis Vernon          Samuel Tomkins, Esq.
         Harcourt.                        Edward Owen Tudor, Esq.
   Thomas Henry, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution. ¦
   The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had
been made for the Lectures after Easter, viz. : —
   Eight Lectures on the History and Practice of Sculpture, by
 R. Westmacott, R.A.
    Eight Lectures on the Physiology of Plants, by Dr. E. Lan-
 KESTER, F.R.S.
    Six Lectures on Points connected with the Non-Metallic Elements
— by Professor Faraday.
    The following Presents were announced ; and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same : —
   From
 Astronomer-Royal. — Astronomical and Magnetical and Meteorological Obser
   vations at Greenwich in 1850. 4to. 1852.

 140                       notices of the meetings                     [March I,
 Astronomical Society (Royal) — Memoirs, Vol. XX. 4to. 1851.
    Monthly Notices, Vol. XI. 8vo. 1851., and Vol. XII. No. 2 & 3. 8vo.
        1852.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.P. (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for Feb. 1852.
 Botfield, Beriah, Esq., F.R.S., F.S.A., M.R.I, (the Editor) . — Original Letters
     relating to the Ecclesiastical Affairs of Scotland, 1603 — 1625. 2 vols. 4to.
     1851.
 Institute of British Architects (Royal). — Proceedings, Feb. 1852. 8vo.
 Institute of Civil Engineers — Proceedings, Feb. 1852. 8vo.
 Commissioners in Lunacy — Sixth Annual Report. 8vo. 1851.
Society of Dilettanti — An Investigation of the Principles of Athenian Archi
     tecture, &c., by F. C. Penrose, Architect, M.A. Folio. 1851.
 Editor — The Athenaeum for Jan. 1852. 4to.
Editor — The Chemical Record for February, 1852. 8vo.
 Faraday, M. Esq. (the Author) — Experimental Researches in Electricity.
      28th Series. 4to. 1852.
    Kaiserliche Akademie zu Wien : Phil.-Hist. Classe: —
    Denkschrifte, 2te Band, 2te Abtheilung. 4to. 1851.
    Sitzungsberichte, 6te Band und 7te Band, Heft 1 UDd 2. 8vo. 1851.
    Die Alterthtimer vom Halstatter Salzberg: von F. Simony, obi. fol. 1850.
       Math.-Nat. Classe
    Archaelogischen       : — von Joseph Arneth. obi. fol. 1851.
                      Analecten,
    Denkschrifte, 2te Band, 3te Abtheilung. 4 to. 1851.
    Sitzungsberichte, 6te Band und 7te Band, lte und 2te Hefte. 8vo. 1851.
    Archiv fur Kunde (Ester. Geschicbts-Quellen, 5te Band, 3te und 4te Hefte;
     und6teBand. 8vo. 1850-1.
    Pontes Rerum Austriacarum, 4te Band. 8vo. 1851.
    Notizenblatt, No. 2 — 18. 8vo. 1851.
     1851.
    Atti  dell' Academia Ponteficia de' Nuovi Lincei, Anno IV. Sess. 5, 6. 4to.
    Monatsberichte der KOnigl. Preuss. Akademie zu Berlin, Nov. und Dec.
     1851. 8vo.
 Geological Society — Quarterly Journal, No, 29. 8vo. 1852.
Jopling, Joseph, Architect (the Author) — An Impulse to Art, or Ancient Greek
     Principles for Volutes, &c. and Examples of Entasis. 8vo. 1848-9.
Lawson, H., Esq., F. R. S. — The Thermometer-Stand. 8vo.
Lovell, E. B., Esq., M. R. I. (the Editor) — The Monthly Digest. Feb. 1852.
 Manning, F., Esq., M.R.I. — Account of the Kenilworth Buffet with elaborately
     carved relievos, illustrative of Kenilworth Castle in the Elizabethan Period,
     designed and manufactured by Messrs. Cookes and Sons, Warwick, for the
     Grand Exhibition of 1 85 1 . 4to. 1851.
Newman, Mr. J. — Instructions for using Newman's Standard and Portable
     Barometers and Daniell's Hygrometer. 8vo. 1845-52.
Neale, Edward Vansittart, Esq., M. R. I. (the Author) — " May I not do what
      I will with my own ? " Considerations on the Present Contest between the
     Operative Engineers and their Employers. 12mo. 1852.
Prince, C. Leeson, Esq. (the Author) — Results of a Meteorological Register
     kept at Uckfield, Sussex, for 1851.
Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XIV. Part 4. 8vo. 1852.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhan dl ungen , Nov.
     und Dec. 1851.
Vincent, B. (Assist. Sec. R. I.) — Histoire de la Guerre de Sept Ans en Alle-
     magne de 1756 a 1763, parM. J. W. D'Archenholtz : traduite de l'Allemand,
     par M. D'Arnex. 12mo. Berne, 1789.
   The North American and West Indian Gazetteer. 12mo. 1776.
Bollaert, W. Esq. — Specimens of Native Salts from Tarapaca, Peru.

1852.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     141
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, March 5.
      W. R. HAMILTON, Esq. F.R.S., F.S.A., Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
         GIDEON   ALGERNON
             President           MANTELL,
                        of the West         Esq., LL.D.,
                                    London Medical           F.R.S.,
                                                   Society, &c.
On l/u Structure of the Iguanodon, and on the Fauna and Flora of tfie
                             Wealden Formation.
THB geological phenomena of the South-East of England, com
prising the lithological characters and organic remains of the
Diluvial, Tertiary, Cretaceous, Wealden, and Oolitic deposits, were
described in two Lectures delivered to the Members of the Royal
Institution by Dr. Mantell in 1836 and 1849. In those dis
courses the Fauna and Flora of the Wealden were cursorily noticed,
and the Iguanodon and other gigantic terrestrial reptiles, whose
fossil remains have invested the strata of Tilgate Forest with a high
degree of interest, were briefly alluded to. The present Lecture
was restricted to a consideration of the Fauna and Flora of the
countries whence the deposits constituting the Wealden districts
were derived ; and the osteological characters of the most remarkable
fossil Saurians peculiar to this geological epoch, were especially
illustrated.
    After a concise exposition of the characters of the various
formations which have succeeded, and now overlie, or in other
words, are of more recent origin than the Wealden, — namely, the
Drift or Diluvium, containing bones of large mammalia, as the
Mammoth, Mastodon, Rhinoceros. Horse, Deer, &c ;— the .Eocene,
or ancient tertiary strata of the London basin, abounding in marine
 exuviae of special and for the most part extinct types ;— and the
 Cretaceous or Chalk-Formation, comprising the White-Chalk of the
 North and South Downs, and the Chalk-marl, Gait, and Greensand,
 of Surrey, Kent, and Sussex, the whole characterized by innumerable
 marine shells, zoophytes, fishes, reptiles, &c. of extinct species and
 genera ; — Dr. Mantell proceeded to illustrate the structure of the
 1guanodon as exemplified by the isolated parts of the skeleton hitherto
 discovered, and of which numerous examples were exhibited on the
tables of the Institution.
    The perfect germ, and the unused tooth, of the Iguanodon, are
 characterised by the prismatic form of the crown, which is traversed
 on the thick enamelled face by three or four longitudinal ridges, and
 has the lateral margins denticulated, and the summit finely crenated ;
 in this state the teeth resemble those of the living Iguana of the
 West Indies, — a resemblance which suggested the generic name of
  Iguanodon. But the fossil teeth are of enormous size in comparison
 with their recent prototypes ; for the teeth of the Iguana are as

 142                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                        [J/flrcA 5,
small as those of the mouse, while those of the Iguanodon are
often one inch wide, and three inches in length. Specimens ex
hibiting the above characters are however, rare ; the summit
of the crown is visually more or less worn away by use, and
the fang removed by absorption from the pressure induced by the
upward growth of the successional teeth. In the first example
discovered by Dr. Mantell (in 1820), the crown was ground down
so as to present on its inner face a smooth oblique surface with
a cutting edge on the summit, and the marginal crenations
were worn away; in this state the fossil so strikingly resembled
an upper tooth of a Rhinoceros, that Baron Cuvier pronounced it to
belong to a species of that genus. Numerous teeth in different
stages of growth and detrition were at length obtained, and the rep
tilian character of the animal to which they belonged was satisfac
torily determined. Three years since, the first specimen of the lower
jaw was discovered by Captain Lambart Brickenden, in the same
quarry in Tilgate Forest from which the earliest known tooth was
obtained ; and subsequently a portion of the upper jaw with teeth,
has been procured from the Hastings' strata.
    Referring to his various Memoirs on the Iguanodon in the Phi
losophical Transactions, and to his recent work on the Organic
Remains in the British Museum,* for details, the Lecturer stated,
that while' the compound structure of the lower jaw, and the
mode of dentition, established the reptilian character of the ori
ginal animal, the maxillary organs presented a nearer approach
to those of certain mammalia, than is observable in any other
reptiles. The teeth in the upper and lower jaw were arranged
in a sub-alternate order as in ruminants ; the face of the crown,
or that having the thickest coat of enamel, is placed mesially
or on the inner side of the lower teeth, and on the external sur
face of the upper. The anterior part of the lower jaw is eden
tulous, and its symphysial extremity forms a scoop- like process,
which resembles the corresponding part of the inferior jaw of the
Edentate mammalia, as for example the Mylodons : and the great
number and size of the vascular foramina of the jaw indicate a
greater development of the lips, and integuments, than occurs in
any existing animals of the class Reptilia; the sharp ridge bor
dering the deep groove of the symphysis, in which there are
likewise several foramina for the exit of nerves and blood-vessels,
evidently gave attachment to the muscles and integuments of the
lip : while two deep pits for the insertion of the protractor
muscles of the tongue, manifest the mobility and power of that
organ. There are therefore strong reasons for supposing that the
lips in the Iguanodon were flexible, and in conjunction with the
long fleshy prehensile tongue, were the chief instruments for
seizing and cropping the leaves, branches, and fruit, which from
the construction of the teeth we may infer constituted the food of
       PetrifactionsThe
the* "original.                Teachings,ofor the
                         mechanism
                     and their                     maxillary
                                              a Hand-book     organs
                                                          to the Gallery as  eluci-
                                                                         of Organic
Remains of the British Museum," one vol. 1851, published by H. G. Bohn.

1852.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.             .         143
dated by recent discoveries is thus in perfect harmony with the
remarkable characters which rendered the first known teeth so
enigmatical : and in the Wealden herbivorous reptile we have a
solution of the problem, how the integrity of the type of organi
zation peculiar to the class of cold-blooded vertebrata was main
tained, and yet adapted, by simple modifications, to fulfil the
conditions required by the economy of a gigantic terrestrial reptile,
destined to obtain support from vegetable substances : in like man
ner as the extinct colossal herbivorous Edentata, which flourished
in South America, countless ages after the country of the Igua-
nodon and its inhabitants had been swept from the face of the
earth.
    The structure of the cervical, dorsal, and caudal vertebra, of the
ribs, the pectoral and pelvic arches, the sacrum formed of six anchy-
losed vertebrae, the bones of the extremities, and certain dermal
appendages, were successively described, and illustrated by drawings
and specimens. From the facts adduced Dr. Mantell infers that this
stupendous reptile equalled in bulk the largest herbivorous mam
malia, and was as massive in its proportions ; for living exclusively
on vegetables, the abdominal region must have been greatly de
veloped. Its limbs were of proportionate size and strength, to sup
port and move so enormous a carcass ; its length, as proved by re
cent discoveries, was of crocodilian proportions, for there is no
doubt that the tail was very long ; and the largest Iguanodon
may have attained a length of from fifty to sixty feet.
    The Hyl<eosaurus, Megalosaurus, and several other genera of
reptiles were severally noticed, and reference made to the speci
mens in the British Museum. The Pelorosaurus was next described
somewhat in detail, and the characters of the stupendous humerus,
or arm-bone, (4^ feet long), scapula, clavicle, vertebrae, sacrum,
and pelvis, were pointed out, with the view of illustrating a most
interesting discovery made but a few days previously by S. H.
Heckles, Esq. of St. Leonard's.
    With much labour and skill, Mr. Beckles had succeeded in ex
tracting from a block of Wealden sandstone lying on the Sussex coast,
 and which was only visible at low-water, the perfect radius and ulna
 (bones of the fore-arm), and humerus (arm-bone), of a gigantic rep
 tile, which Dr. Mantell pronounced to be a new species of Pelorosaurus,
 and proposed to name Pelorosaurus Becklesii. The generic identity
 and specific difference between this humerus and that of the Pel.
 Conybeari, which was placed beside it, were pointed out, and the
 remarkable modification of structure presented by the ulna was
 explained'. The arm-bone of the P. Conybeari is 54 inches long, the
 corresponding bone of a Gavial or gangetic Crocodile 18 feet long,
 in Dr. Grant's Museum, is but 11^ inches ; the humerus discovered
 by Mr. Beckles is 22^ inches in length, and the bones of the fore
 arm are 16 inches long. A portion of the scaly cuirass which
     The Lecturer
 covered              andtook
           the limbsthen  is composed
                               a rapid view
                                        of hexagonal
                                             of the other reptiles
                                                      plates,      that were
                                                              was exhibited.
 contemporary with the Igimnodon, enumerating the PterodartyJes or

  144                   NOTICES OF I'M I. MEETINGS              [Mn/r/i 5,
  flying lizards, and several genera of Crocodilians and Chelonians.
  Examples of marine and fresh-water turtles are not uncommon
  in the Wealden deposits ; and the strata near Swanage have
  furnished many beautiful specimens to the researches of Mr. Bower-
  bank.
     Of Fishes there are nearly forty known species in the Wealden,
 which are chiefly referable to the Ganoid and Placoid orders. The
  fishes most abundant in the rivers of the Jguanodon country were
 two or three species of Lepidotus, — ganoids closely allied to the
 Bony or Gar-Pike of America ; their teeth and scales are everywhere
 to be met with in the Tilgate strata.
    The Invertebrate Favna comprised many genera of Insects, a
 few Crustaceans, and numerous fresh-water Mollusca. The Insects
 (for a knowledge of which we are mainly indebted to the scien
 tific acumen of the Rev. P. Brodie) amount to several hundred
 specimens, comprising between thirty and forty families or genera,
 and are referable for the most part to the orders Colcoptera, Or-
 thoptera, Neuroptera. Hemiptera, and Diptera. Among them are
 several kinds of Beetles, Dragon-flies, Crickets, May-flies, and other
 familiar forms which are closely allied to species that inhabit tempe
rate climates.
    Mollusca. The most numerous shells belong to the genera Cyclas
 and Paludina ; of the latter, which is a genus of fresh-water snails,
 there are a few species that abound in the Wealden Clays and
 Purbeck beds, and form extensive strata of shelly limestone, the
 compact masses of which are susceptible of a good polish and are well
 known by the names of Sussex, Petworth, and Purbeck Marble ; the
latter was in great request in the medieval ages, and is the material
 of which numerous tombs and monuments, and cluster columns in
 our ancient Cathedrals are constructed. Two common inhabitants
 of our pools and streams, the Planorbis and Limneus, also occur.
 Several species of Unto, some of which rival in magnitude the pearl-
 mussels of the Ohio and Mississippi, likewise abound in the Wealden
 deposits. Fresh-water Entomostraceans, Cyprides, of several species,
 swarm in many of the clays and iron-stone beds of Sussex and the
Isle of Wight.
    The FLORA of the country of the Iguanodon appears to
have been as rich and diversified as the Fauna. Forests of
 Coniferte, referable or closely allied to Abies, Pintis, Araucaria, Cu-
pressus, and Juniperus, clothed its hills and plains : with these were
associated arborescent and herbaceous Ferns, comprising upwards
of thirty species ; together with many Cycadeacete, and trees allied to
the Dractena, Yucca, S(C. Equistaceous and Lycopodiaceous plants
also abounded ; and even the common inhabitants of our streams,
the Chara, flourished in the rivulets of that marvellous region.
    As examples of the vegetation of the Wealden period, Dr.
Mantell described the petrified forest of conifers and cycadeae in
the Isle of Portland: the accumulation of fossil firs and pines
exposed on the southern shore of the Tsle of Wight ; and the coal
field of Hanover, which entirely consists of the carbonized foliage.

]852.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      145
trunks, and branches, of coniferous trees, drifted from the country
of the Iguanodon.
    The facts thus rapidly noticed prove that during the deposition of
the Wealden, Oolitic, and Cretaceous strata, there existed an
extensive Island or Continent, diversified by hills and valleys, and
traversed by streams and rivers teeming with fishes, crustaceans,
and mollusca, closely allied to types which at present inhabit the
fresh-water of temperate regions ; and that with these were asso
ciated fluviatile turtles, and crocodilian reptiles, whose living
analogues are restricted to tropical climes. Colossal herbivorous
 and carnivorous saurians, differing essentially in structure from all
 known existing forms, were the principal inhabitants of the dry
 land ; and these, together with flying lizards, and possibly a few
 birds, and very small mammalia, constituted the vertebrate fauna
 of the country, or countries, which supplied the materials of the
 Wealden strata, and of the fluvio-marine deposits which are interca
 lated with the purely oceanic beds of the Oolite and Chalk.
     Thus it appears, according to the present state of our know
 ledge, that the classes Mammalia and Aves, which constitute the
 essential features of the terrestrial zoology of most countries, were
 represented through a period of incalculable duration solely by
 two genera of very diminutive mammals, and a few birds ; while
 the air, the land, and the waters, swarmed with peculiar rep
 tilian forms, fitted for aerial, terrestrial, and aquatic existence.
     Admitting to the fullest extent the effect of causes that may be
  supposed to have occasioned the absence of mammalian remains in
  the secondary deposits, yet the immense preponderance of the reptile
 tribes is unquestionable. Some authors have attempted to account
 for this anomaly by assuming that antecedently to the Eocene
 period, our planet was not adapted for the existence of mammalia, in
  consequence of its atmosphere being too impure to support higher
 types of animal organization than the cold-blooded vertebrata. But
  the certainty that some forms of marsupial and placenta! mammalia
  inhabited the countries of the Megalosaurus and Pterodactyle, — that
  birds in all probability existed with the Iguanodon, — and the fact
  that insects and mollusca, and trees and plants, which now inhabit
  regions abounding in birds, and mammalia, nourished during the
  " Age of Reptiles,"— demonstrate that the physical conditions of
  the earth, and the constitution of the atmosphere, and of the
  waters, differed in no essential respect from those which now prevail,
  and that the laws which govern the organic and inorganic king
  doms of nature have undergone no change.
      That the class Reptilia was developed during the periods em
  braced in this discourse to an extent far beyond what has since
   taken place appears to be indisputable; nor can any satisfactory
  solution of the problem be offered from the data hitherto obtained.
   Future discoveries may however show that coeval with the country
   of the Iguanodon there were regions tenanted by birds and
  mammalia ; and that the almost exclusively reptilian fauna of the
  lands whose zoological and botanical characters have formed the

 146                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.                   [March 5.
subject of this Lecture, was but an exaggerated condition of that state
of the animal kingdom which is exhibited by the present fauna of
the Galapagos Islands.*
   In conclusion Dr. Mantell alluded to the recent discovery of
reptilian remains (the Telerpeton Elginense, and the presumed
Chelonian foot-tracks') in the Old Red Sandstone of Morayshire.f
in proof of the necessity of bearing in mind the salutary caution
of Sir Charles Lyell, " that as our acquaintance with the living
creation of past ages must depend in a great degree on what
we term chance, we ought never to assume that the first creation
of any type of animals or plants took place at the precise point
where our retrospective knowledge happens to stop."
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Section of Bones of the Iguanodon, shewn by the Microscope.
   [Exhibited by A. J. Woodhouse, Esq. M.R.I.}
Drawing of the Notornis Mantelli, by Mr. Gould, and Drawings
   of the Iguanodon by J. Martin, Esq., R.A., &c. [Exhibited by
   Dr. Mantell.]
Fossils from the Coal-pits, Lesmahago, Scotland, presented by
   Captain Inglefield.
Portrait of Mrs. S. C. Hall by D. Maclise, and Frame carved by Mr.
   W. G. Rogers.
   C. H. Smith.]
Specimens    of Sussex and Purbeck Marbles. [Exhibited by Mr.
   Apteryx
Otter,        and Cocks—ofmounted
        Fox, Australis,        the Rock,by from
                                            Messrs. Leadbeaters.
                                                 Brazil and California, and
   with
   Mr. with
Tazza    specimens
        Tennant.]
              Engraving,
                       of Marbles,
                             "Nature,"      and Bronzes.
                                       &c. after                Vases inlaid
                                                 Lawrence —[Exhibited    by
Manganese Oxyd and other Minerals.             [Exhibited by Mr. Highley,
Specimens
Models      of Chasing
         of the           in Silver,ofbySavery,
                 Steam-Engines                   Newcomen, and of Watt.
                                         Mr. Higgins.
   [Exhibited by Mr. Addams.]
The Circulation of the Sap in the Nitella flexilis, a Water-plant,
  was shown microscopically by Mr. C. Varley.
  In the Ante-room was exhibited : —
A Sectional Model of Condensing Engine bv Messrs. Watkins and
  Hill.
           * See " Wonders of Geology," Sixth Edition, p. 893.
           t Lyell's " Manual of Geology," Fourth Edition, p. x.

                    [FOB THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
         ISoral 3Institutton of dsreat Britain,
                                  1852.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 12.
             Sir CHARLES LEMON,        Bart., LL.D., F.R.S.
                               in the Chair.
            WILLIAM B. CARFENTER, M.D., F.R.S., &c.
 On the Influence of Suggestion in Modifying and directing Muscular
                   Movement, independently of Volition.
PUBLIC attention has recently been so much attracted to a class of
phenomena, which has received the very inappropriate designation of
Electro-Biological, or simply Biological, and so much misapprehension
prevails regarding their true nature and import, that it becomes the
Physiologist to make known the results of scientific investigation,
directed in the first place towards the determination of their genuine
ness, and in the second to the elucidation of the peculiar state of
the nervous system on which their production depends.
   With regard to the genuineness of the phenomena themselves,
the Lecturer stated that he could entertain no doubt whatever ;
since they had been presented to himself and to other scientific en
quirers, by numerous individuals, on whose honesty and freedom
from all tendency to deceive themselves or others implicit reliance
could be placed. But from the account commonly given of these
phenomena,— to the effect that the will of the ' biologized' subject
is entirely subjected to that of the operator,— he entirely dissented ;
and believed
tion           that one
     is essentially     of reverie,
                     he should  he able
                                    in which
                                         to show  voluntary
                                              the that       control
                                                       the state     over
                                                                 in ques*
the current of thought is entirely suspended, the individual being
for the time (so to speak) a mere thinking automaton, the whole course
of whose ideas is determinable by suggestions operating from with
out. The ' biologized ' individual cannot get rid of any notion with
which he thus becomes possessed, by any effort of his own ; because
the abeyance of his voluntary power alike prevents him from directing
the current of his thoughts into another channel, and from having
recourse to his ordinary experience for the correction of its fallacies ;
and so long as he is under its domination, all his conversation and
actions are nothing else than an expression of it. A condition very
     No. 10.                                           M

148                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [AfflrcA 12,
similar to this is often seen in that form of artificial somnambulism
 which is termed ' hypnotism ' by Mr. Braid, and less frequently in
natural somnambulism.*
     But it is the peculiar feature of the ' biological ' state, that the
 subject of it is still awake, that he has generally the use of all his
 senses, and that he has in most cases a perfect recollection of what
 has taken place, when he returns to his ordinary state of mental
activity, though sometimes the recollection does not extend to par
ticulars.
     All the phenomena of the ' biologized ' state, when attentively
examined, will be found to consist in the occupation of the mind
by the ideas which have been suggested to it, and in the influence
 which these ideas exert upon the actions of the body. Thus the ope
 rator asserts that the ' subject ' cannot rise from his chair, or open
 his eyes, or continue to hold a stick ; and the ' subject ' thereby
becomes so completely possessed with the fixed belief of the impos
sibility of the act, that he is incapacitated from executing it, not
because his will is controlled by that of another, but because his will
is in abeyance, and his muscles are entirely under the guidance of
his ideas, tio again, when he is made to drink a glass of water, and
is assured that it is coffee, or wine, or milk, that assurance, delivered
in a decided tone, makes a stronger impression on his mind than
that which he receives through his taste, smell, or sight ; and not
being able to judge and compare, he yields himself up to the
' dominant idea.' f Here, again, we perceive that it is not really
the will of the operator which controls the sensations of the subject ;
but the suggestion of the operator which excites a corresponding
idea, the falsity of which is not corrected, simply because the mind
 of the subject, being completely engrossed by it, cannot apprehend the
truth less forcibly impressed on it through his own senses. Not
only muscular movements, but other bodily changes, attest the
   * In natural somnambulism, the mind is generally engrossed by some ' dominant
idea ' of its own, and cannot he directed by external suggestions, except such as
may be in harmony with it. There are numerous instances on record, however,
 (among the best known of which is that of the Officer who served in the expedi
tion to Louisburgh in 1758, and at whose expense his comrades were accustomed
to amuse themselves, as narrated by Dr. James Gregory) in which the current
of thought and the course of action of a natural somnambulist have been entirely
governed by the suggestions of those around.
   •f- It is very curious to observe, in some instances, the perplexity arising from
the contrariety between the opposing sensory impressions. The mind seems
unable to reconcile this contrariety, and yields itself up to the impression which
is most strongly felt. Sometimes it is convinced by the repeated assurances of
the operator, so long as the taste alone is opposed to them, but attaches a superior
importance to the indications of sight ; in other individuals, again, the indications
of sight may be put aside, and yet the 'subject' cannot be made to believe
what is in opposition to his sense of taste. There are some individuals who can
never be thus played upon, notwithstanding that their muscular movements and
their purely mental conceptions are completely amenable to this kind of direc
tion.

1852.]                 OF THB Ioir A!, INSTITUTION.                   149
reality of this domination ; thus a biologized subject may be brought
to feel the apartment so intensely hot, that a perspiration breaks out
upon his skin ; or he may be so persuaded of its coldness, that he
forthwith begins to shiver; and sleep may often be induced, by
assuring him that in a few minutes he will be obliged to give way
to it. In a case witnessed by the Lecturer, a lady to whom chloro
form had been twice administered (so that she was aware of the
the mode of its action) was made to believe that she was again in
haling it ; she soon passed into the usual insensibility, and remained
perfectly unconscious for a few minutes, after which she came to
herself in the manner she would have done if she had really been
under the influence of chloroform.
   The same general statement applies to what has been designated
as ' control over the memory.' The subject is assured that he cannot
remember the most familiar thing, his own name for example ; and
he is prevented from doing so, not by the will of the operator, but
by the conviction of the impossibility of the mental act, which en
grosses his own mind, and by the want of that voluntary control
over the direction of his thoughts, which alone can enable him to
recal the desiderated impression. And the abolition of the sense
of personal identity,— Mr. A. believing himself to be Mrs. B., or
Mrs. C. believing herself to be Mr. D., and acting in conformity with
that belief,— is induced in the same mode ; the assurance being
continually repeated, until it has taken full possession of the mind
of the ' subject,' who cannot so direct his thoughts as to bring his
familiar experience to antagonize and dispel the illusive idea thus
forced upon him.
   Now almost every one of these peculiar phenomena has its parallel
in states of mind whose existence is universally admitted. Thus the
complete subjection of the muscular power to the ' dominant idea '
is precisely what is experienced in nightmare; in which we are
prevented from moving so much as a finger, notwithstanding a
strong desire to do so, by the conviction that the least movement is
impossible. The misinterpretation of sensory impressions is con
tinually seen in persons who are subject to absence of mind, who make
the most absurd mistakes as to what they see or hear, taste or feel,
in consequence of the pre-occupation of the mind by some train of
thought, which renders them unable rightly to appreciate the objects
around them. In such persons, too, the memory of the most fami
liar things,— as the absent man's own name, for example, or that
of his most intimate friend,— is often in abeyance for a time ; and it
requires but a more complete obliteration of the consciousness of the
past, through the entire possession of the mind by the intense con
sciousness of the present, to destroy the sense of personal identity.
This, indeed, we often do in effect lose in ordinary dreaming and
reverie. The essential characteristic of both these states, as of the
' biological ' condition, is the suspension of voluntary control over the
current of thought, so that the ideas follow one another suggestively ;

150                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [March 12,
and, however strange or incongruous their combinations or se
quences may appear, we are never surprised at them, because we
have lost the power of referring to our ordinary experience. It is
well known that the course of ordinary dreams is often determined
by impressions received through the organs of sense, although the
individual may not be conscious of them a* such; and those who are
prone to reverie are well aware that the direction of their thoughts
depends in many instances, not merely upon the previously existing
associations between their ideas, but upon the excitement of new
ideas by external impressions.
   There is one phenomenon of the ' biological ' state, which has been
considered pre-eminently to indicate the power of the operator's will
over his subject ; namely, the induction of sleep, and its spontaneous
determination at a given time previously ordained, or by the sound
of the operator's voice, and that only. It is well known that the
expectation of sleep is one of the most powerful means of inducing it,
especially when combined with the withdrawal of the mind from
everything else which could keep its attention awake ; both these
conditions are united in an eminent degree in the state of the biolo
gized subject, whose mind has been possessed with the conviction
that sleep is about to supervene, and is closed to every source of
distraction. Nor need the waking at a given time, or upon a given
sound (and upon that only), be accounted at all more strange ; for
it is a matter of familiar experience, that this is often determined, in
the case of an ordinary sleeper, by the impression under which he
passes into unconsciousness ; the fixed intention to awake at a .cer
tain hour being productive of the exact consequence ; and the habit
 of attention to a particular sound, as that of a clock, bell, voice, &c.,
causing the sleeper to awake upon the slightest provocation from it,
although his slumbers are not broken by noises of far greater in
tensity.
    Thus, then, however strange the phenomena of the ' biological '
state may at first sight appear, there is not one of them, which, when
closely scrutinized, is not found to be essentially conformable to facts
whose genuineness every physiologist and psychologist is ready to
admit. And the chief marvel is, that a state in which these pheno
mena are so easily and constantly producible, should be capable of
being induced by so simple a process as that of gazing for a time at
a small fixed object at arm's length from the eyes.*
    It is not, however, in any large proportion of individuals, that this
 state can be induced ; probably not more than one in twenty, or
at most one in twelve. Males appear equally susceptible of it with
   * The " Electro-Biologists," as they term themselves, at first maintained that
 a wonderful virtue resided in the little disk of copper with a zinc centre, to
 which they directed the gaze of their ' subjects.' It is now universally admitted,
 however, that any object which serves as a point d'appui for the fixed gaze, it
 equally efficacious.

   1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      151
  females ; so that it cannot be fairly set down as a variety of ' hysteri
  cal ' disorder.    Generally speaking, those who have most of the
  power of voluntary abstraction are most easily affected in this mode ;
  more especially if, at the same time, they are of an excitable or ima
  ginative temperament.
     It now remains to enquire, whether any such Physiological ac
  count can be given of this state, as shall enable us to refer it to
  any of the admitted laws of action of the Nervous system. This,
  the Lecturer stated, wus the point which he was most desirous of
• elucidating ; and in order to prepare his auditors for the reception
  of his views, he gave a brief explanation of those phenomena of
  • reflex ' action (now universally recognized by Physiologists), in
  which impressions made upon the nervous system are followed by
  respondent automatic movements. Such movements have hitherto
  been distinguished into the excito-motor, which are performed, without
  the exciting impression being necessarily felt, through the instru
  mentality of the Spinal Cord and the nerves connected with it ; and
  the sensori-motor, in which sensation necessarily participates, the
  respondent motions not being executed unless the impressions are felt,
  and their instrument being the chain of Sensory Ganglia (collectively
  constituting the ' sensorium ' ) which lies between the Spinal Cord
  and the Cerebrum, and is intimately connected with both. The au
  tomatic movements of breathing and swallowing, which continue
  during a state of profound insensibility, are examples of the former
  group ; whilst the start upon a loud sound, the closure of the lids
  to a flash of light, or the sneezing induced by dazzling of the eyes,
  as well as by irritation in the nasal passages, are instances of the
  latter. The whole class of purely emotional movements may be
  likened to these ; for in so far as they are involuntary, and depend
  upon the excitation of certain states of m'md by external impressions,
  they must be considered as ' reflex, ' in the general sense of that
  term.
     Now the usual modus operandi of sensations is to call forth ideas
  in the mind ; and these ideas, associated or not with emotional states,
  become the subjects of intellectual processes, which result at last in
  a determination of the Will. The movements which we term volun
  tary or volitional differ from the emotional and automatic, in being
  guided by a distinct conception of the object to be attained, and by a
  rational choice of the means employed. And so long as the Volun
  tary power asserts its due predominance, so long can it keep in
  check all tendency to any other kind of action, save such as ministers
  directly to the bodily wants, as the automatic movements of breathing
  and swallowing.
     The Cerebrum is universally admitted to be the portion of the
  nervous system, which is instrumentally concerned in the formation
  of ideas, the excitement of the emotions, and the operations of the
  intellect ; and there seems no reason why it should be exempted
  from the law of ' reflex action ' which applies to every other part of

152                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    [March 12,
 the nervous system.* And as we have seen that the emotions may
act directly upon the muscular system through the motor nerves,
 there is no a priori difficulty in believing that Ideas may become the
 sources of muscular movement, independently either of volitions or
 of emotions.— The relations of these different modes of action of the
 nervous system, and the place which this idea-motor form of • reflex '
 operation will hold in regard to the rest, will be made more apparent
 by the following tabular arrangement.
                             -THE WILL            . Volitional Movement
Intellectual proccsscs.
           t
       Emotions
          notic               -CEREBRUM         ^-Motor Impulse
          1
          \deas
         Ideas
           t
      Sensations-
         nsatii                          GANGLIA^—^-Motor impulse
           t
     Imprcssions            -^•SFINAL CORD        y Motor impulse
    Now if that ordinary upward course of external impressions, —
whereby they successively produce sensations, ideas, emotions, and
 intellectual processes, the will giving the final decision upon the
 action to which they prompt, — be anywhere interrupted, the im
pression will then exert its power in a transverse direction, and a
• reflex ' action will be the result. This is well seen in cases of
injury to the Spinal Cord, which disconnects its lower portion from
the sensorium without destroying its own power ; for impressions
made upon the lower extremities then excite violent reflex actions, to
which there would have been no tendency if the current of nervous
force could have passed upwards to the Cerebrum. So, if sensations
be prevented by the state of the Cerebrum from calling forth ideas
through its instrumentality, they may react upon the motor apparatus
in a manner which they would never do in its state of complete
functional activity. This the Lecturer maintained to be the true
account of the mode, in which the locomotive movements are main
tained and guided in states of profound abstraction, when the whole
attention of the individual is so completely concentrated upon his
   • To Dr. Laycock is due the credit of first extending the doctrine of reflex
action to the Brain.

  1852.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    153
 own train of thought, that he does not perceive the objects around
 them, although his movements are obviously guided by the impres
 sions which they make upon his sensorium. And he adverted to a
 very remarkable case, in which the functional activity of the Cere
 brum seemed to have been almost entirely suspended for nearly a
twelvemonth, and all the actions of the individual presented the
automatic characters of consensual and reflex movements.
    On the same grounds, it seems reasonable to suppose that when
ideas do not go on to be developed into emotions, or to excite intel
lectual operations, they, too, may act (so to speak) in the transverse
direction, and may produce respondent movements, through the
instrumentality of the Cerebrum ; and this will of course be most
 likely to happen, when the power of the Will is in abeyance, as has
been shown to be the case in regard to the direction of the thoughts,
in the states of Electro- biology, Somnambulism, and all forms of
Dreaming and Reverie. Here the movements express the ideas that
may possess the mind at the time ; with these ideas, emotional states
may be mixed up, and even intellectual operations may be (as it
were) automatically performed under their suggestive influence. But
so long as these processes are carried on without the control and
direction of the Will, and the course of thought is entirely deter
mined by suggestions from without, (the effects of which, however,
are diversified by the mental constitution and habits of thought of the
individual) such movements are as truly automatic, as are those more
directly prompted by sensations and impressions, although origina
ting in a more truly psychical source. But the automatic nature of
the purely emotional actions can scarcely be denied ; and as it is in
those individuals in whom the intellectual powers are the least ex
ercised, and the controlling power of the Will is the weakest, that
the Emotions exert the strongest influence on the bodily frame, so
may we expect Ideas to act most powerfully when the dominance of
the WTill is for the time completely suspended.
   Thus the idea-motor principle of action finds its appropriate place
in the physiological scale, which would, indeed, be incomplete without
it. And, when it is once recognized, it may be applied to the
explanation of numerous phenomena which have been a source of
perplexity to many who have been convinced of their genuineness,
and who could not see any mode of reconciling them with the known
laws of nervous action. The phenomena in question are those which
have been recently set down to the action of an " Od-force," such,
for example, as the movements of the ' divining-rod,' and the
vibration of bodies suspended from the finger ; both which have been
clearly proved to depend on the state of expectant attention on the
part of the performer, his Will being temporarily withdrawn from
control over his muscles by the state of abstraction to which his
mind is given up, and the anticipation of a given result being the
stimulus which directly and involuntarily prompts the muscular
movements that produce it.
                                                         [W. B. C.]

154                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 {March 12,
    In the Library were exhibited : —
Testimonial (in silver) to Dr. Conolly, by Messrs. Hunt and
    Roskell.
Geological Section of Well sunk at the Bank of England, Jan. 1852.
    [Exhibited by Thomson Hankey, jun. Esq., Governor of the Bank.]
Two Cases of Indian Butterflies — Lion's Cubs — an Elephant's
    Tusk, — from the United Service Institution.
Sundhya, or Daily Prayers of the Brahmins, illustrated by Mrs. S. C.
    Belnois — Japanese Sandals, Reaping-hook, Pen and ink case,
    Telescope-tube, Playing-Cards, Tea-kettle, and Tobacco-pouch
    — Chinese and Japanese Dictionary — Tablet of Earth from tomb
    of Ali, used at their devotions by the Mahometans of the Shiah
    Sect, — from the Royal Asiatic Society.
Femur of the Plesiosaurus, from the Kimmeridge Clay, Bucks —
    Ammonites heterophyllus — Vertebrae of Ichthyosaurus from Lias,
    Lyme, Dorset — Fossil wood, &c. [Exhibited by Mr. Tennant.]
Varley's Microscope with Lever stage movement, shewing Infusoria,
    Rotatoria, Monoculi or Water fleas, in which the heart was seen
    beating, and all their internal structure, their eggs, their young,
    and the muscles which move the eyes.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 19.
     Wm. Pole, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice President,
                               in the Chair.
                      J. J. Bigsby, M.D., F.G.S.,
Member of the American Philosophical Society (late British Secretary to the
                      Canadian Boundary Commission),
   On the Physical Geography, Geology, and Commercial Resources of
                              Lake Superior.
 [The following statements are partly derived from the able reports
and charts of Messrs. Bayfield, Logan, Foster, Owen, and others
in the service of the' governments of Great Britain and the United
 States, Dr. Bigsby's own researches on the northern shores of the
 Lake, for 440 miles, having supplied the remainder.]
    Lake Superior is included between W. Longitude 84° IS' and
 92° 19'— and N. Latitude 46° 29' — 49° 1'. It is to the east
 of, and near to, the swell of high land which, stretching from the
 Rocky Mountains to Lake Superior, in wide undulating plains.

1852.]                  OF THE UOYAL INSTITUTION.                              155
divides the waters of the Mexican gulf from those of Hudson's
Bay ; — and then, bifurcating, one fork proceeds on the north side
of Lake Superior eastwards towards Labrador, in groups of broken
hills, while the other fork passes 'south- east as a rough and high
country into the lowlands of the United States. It therefore occupies
an oblong crescent-shaped hollow, with a general direction rather
to the north of east. It has literally thousands of lakes on its
north, and hundreds on its immediate south. It is 1750 miles
round, 420 miles long, and 163 in extreme breadth. It is 597
feet above the Atlantic. Its greatest known depth is 792 feet.
Soundings of 300, 400, 600 feet are common ; but extensive shallows
and flats prevail in parts.
   The hydrographic basin of Lake Superior is singularly small, parti
cularly on the south shore, where the tributaries of the River Mis-
sissipi and Lake Michigan often approach within 5 and 10 miles of
the lake. It seems to be its own fountain head.
   The water is clear, greenish, extremely pure, pleasant to the
taste, and soft from the nearly total absence of limestone from these
regions. An imperial pint only contains s 0i0 tf part of a grain of
mineral matters — carbonates of lime and magnesia, sulphate of
lime, peroxide of iron, and the oxide of manganese.
   The average annual temperature of the water , is 40° F. ; being
about the same as that of the ocean at certain great depths. In
June, the lake is often covered with ice ; and in the middle of
July, the surface-water freezes in the morning — with patches of
snow in the clefts of the rocks. At this period of the year, or a few
days later, the smaller lakes on the north are steadily at 72° and
74°. F.
    Lake Superior is not undergoing secular drainage. It is lowest
in April, and highest by a few feet, in September. The great
annual variations of rain of these countries produce corresponding
changes of level. There are no tides, and no cycle of years for lake-
levels.
    Barometric changes produce curious local oscillations of level.
Thus the furious rapids, called the Falls of St. Mary, on the river
of discharge so named, are sometimes left dry. Messrs. Foster and
Whitney have seen the oscillation come from the centre of the lake
in a wave 20 feet high — curling over like an immense surge, crested
with foam, and breaking on the shore, diminishing as it approached
it. On this occasion (Aug. 1845) it was the harbinger of a violent
storm.*
    The amount of water leaving the lake is small ; for its outlet is
often shallow, and the current weak.
   * A violent gale of wind, concurring with a local rise of level, will sometimes
throw large stones or logs of wood 150-200 yards inland, and 30-40 feet above
the usual water margin—as in three instances seen by Prof. Agassiz (L. Superior,
pp. 95 and 106), and by Dr. Bigsby. (Journ. Roy. Instn. xviii. 15.)

 156                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS              [March 19.
   The Climate is more arctic than temperate, although the lake is
but little to the north of Milan. It is much colder than Sikla in
Russian America, 10° further north ; because the latter is screened
from polar winds. Winter begins in the middle of October by a
succession of gales and snow storms ; and from November till
May the ground is covered with close packed, granular snow :
but the earth is not frozen deep, so that, in spring, before all the
snow is gone, the forest is in leaf. The annual range of the
thermometer is 125° F. the mean 42° 14' F., the lower extreme
— 31°, the higher 94°; all these observations having been made by
good observers, with excellent instruments. August is the hottest
month.
   On a mean of 1 2 years, the Winds blow about equally from all
quarters ; from the N.W. the most frequently — from the South
the least frequently.
   (The principal promontories, bays, rivers and heights of Lake
Superior were pointed out on the map.)
   The scenery of Lake Superior is striking ; — its features are large
and open (of which an example was shewn in a Sketch on the East
Coast). The eye ranges over high lands and shoreless waters.
The scanty and dwarfed woods of the north coast, the rocks, isles,
and rivers full of cascades, have an impress of their own— not
warm, soft, and umbrageous like those of Lake Erie ; but rugged,
bare and chill — arctic. The scene is oceanic, — the waves are
large and high. Some of the plants, the Lathyrus Maritimus and
the Polygonum Maritimum, for instance, on the beaches, and many
of the insects disporting about, are those of the distant Atlantic.
   In winter, Lake Superior might be called the " Dead Sea ;" every
living thing is gone, save the shivering inhabitants of some few
white settlements. The Indian and the wild animals have retreated to
the warm woods far away ; and the sun looks down, from a
bright blue sky, on the leaden waters, now narrowed by huge
fields of ice — a small dark speck on an almost illimitable expanse
of snow.
   On the south shore, there are in the extreme east, high terraces
and treeless plains of blown sand for many miles inland and along
shore, succeeded by the high sandstone precipices, called the Pictured
Rocks, battered into fanciful shapes by the violence of the waves.
Then comes a low rocky coast for 200 miles or more, backed by
dense forests, often mountainous, as at the Huron, Bohemian, and
Porcupine mountains. The scene is dark with the verdure of
northern evergreens, and is here and there diversified with small
clearings, and the smoke of distant mines ascending among the
uplands. The bays are often deep—full of little iron-stained streams ;
and the promontories stretch for miles into the lake.
   The Eastern and Northern shores are different — more naked,
steeper, ever abounding in dome-shaped hills, or in ridges, rising
by steps, scantily covered with trees either stunted or scorched with

1852.]                  OF THE liliYAI. INSTITUTION.                       157
fire. (Large sketches were exhibited representing the lofty basaltic
country about Fort William, and the softer hill-scenery of Black
Bay.)
    With the exception of the Fur trading stations, there are no white
settlements on the north shore : — and this from its general bar
renness. At the Peek River, soil was imported in bags with which
to raise a few potatoes.
    The Fauna and Flora of Lake Superior are semi-arctic — or sub-
alpine. Professor Agassiz has treated, of both in his late valuable
publication on this lake. He found twenty-three new species of fish,
and states that Lake Superior constitutes a special ichthyological dis
trict. The reason of this evidently lies in the coldness and extreme
purity of the water, its slow departure towards the ocean, and the
 absence of weedy bays, and of lime rocks.
    It would seem that some portion of its animal life are waifs and
strays from grand geological periods long passed away — as we see
in its herrings, minnows, and the new genus Percopsis. Connected
with this subject, Prof. Agassiz conjectures that much of North
America was dry land when the rest of the world was under water ;
and that thus its physical condition was less altered than elsewhere.
Dr. Bigshy was inclined to believe this, for had Canada been as long
under water as other large tracts, we should probably have had in
some part of its vast extent, a member or two, at least, of the meso-
 zoic rocks ; but there is no such thing — not a single relic of lias,
 oolite, or chalk, in the extraordinary heaps of debris which overspread
 these countries.
    Geology.* The rocks of Lake Superior have been arranged under
three principal heads, as follows : —
    1 . The Metamorphic. — Greenstone, chloritic, talcose, clay and
          greenstone slates, gneiss, quartzite, jasper, rock and saccha-
          roid limestone.
    2. The slqueous. — Calciferous sandstone, Cambrian sandstone
          and conglomerates.
    3. The Igneous. — Granite, Sienite, Trap, in various states.
    The place and extent of these rocks having been pointed out on a
map, Dr. Bigsby stated that the geological system of Lake Superior
is a consistent and closely connected whole, forming a beautiful and
easily read example of geological action in moulding the surface of
our globe.
    The lake may best be presented at once to the mind as a trough
or basin of Cambrian (or Silurian) sandstone, surrounded, and
framed as it were, by two orders of rocks, in the form of irregular
and imperfect zones; the inner consisting of trap, with its conglo
merates; and the outer, of metamorphic, flanking igneous rocks.
   * This branch of the subject was illustrated by numerous coloured Diagrams,
and specimens of native copper, and of the rocks of the lake.

 158                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS              [March 19,
    1 . The Metamorphic rocks, with the exception of (Juartzite and
 Jasper, are the oldest in the lake, and support great sheets of the
 abovementioned sandstone unconformably ; all these rocks being
 upheaved and altered by the intrusion of igneous rocks in instances
 innumerable. This group of rocks are entirely destitute of the traces
 of animal life.
    The country they occupy on the south shore, with a general
 NNW. dip, may be best described as a rough table land of the
 various slates, out of which short hills of granite, gneiss, trap, &c.
 emerge in great numbers, with an almost constant east and west
 direction.
    On the east and north shores the metamorphic rocks have a W.
 and \VSW. strike, when visible. The slates of the north side of
 Michipicoton Bay run WNW., NW., and N.
    The Jasper and Quartzite are merely altered sandstone and there
fore younger than the other rocks of this group.
    2. The Aqueous Rocks. The youngest of these is Calciferous
Sandstone. It exists as a broad band on the south-east shore, resting
on the sandstone soon to be noticed. It is highly magnesian and
siliceous in parts. A patch of it in Grand Island contains shells.
(Logan.)
   The Cambrian Sandstone seems to be the floor or basement of
nearly all the hike, for the following reasons : —
    1. Wherever it occurs, whether in immense sheets on the east
         and south shore, or in smaller areas on the north coast, it
         invariably dips towards the centre of the lake.
   2. It can be recognised, paving the lake for some miles from the
         main in many places.
   3. The soundings of Captain Bayfield exhibit, for large spaces, the
         uniformity of level to be expected from the presence of hori
         zontal strata.
   4. Because it constitutes Caribou Island, 40 miles from the nearest
         main land.
   This sandstone is very ancient ; and is supposed by Mr. Logan
to be Cambrian on the north shore and lower Silurian on the south —
a supposition, the latter clause of which, though extremely probable,
is not yet established.
   It has no fossils ; but its ripple marks, impressions of rain-drops,
and sun-cracks, are plentiful and perfect.
    It is more commonly red, and is composed of the debris of gra
nitoid rocks, in nearly horizontal strata, except near intrusive rocks,
when it rises to an high angle, hardens, and even passes into true
Jasper, porphyry, gneiss or quartzite. There is reason to think
that this sandstone is interleaved with trap. (A Landscape was ex
hibited of the Sand stone Rocks, south shore.)

.1852.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    159
    The Conglomerate is of the same age with much of the sandstone ;
and is almost invariably placed between it and the trap.
    The conglomerates of Keweenaw and Isle Royale consist of rounded
bowlders of trap, with a few Jaspers, cemented by red iron sand ;
but those of Memince and Nipigon contain also granites, quartzites
 and sandstones ; thus indicating a difference of age.
    3. Igneous Rocks. Granite every where forms the nucleus of an
 anticlinal axis, in two parallel lines running E. and W.on the south
 east side of the lake, flanked by metamorphic and sedimentary rocks.
 Both it and Sienite are plentiful.
    Trap Rocks. The ancient lavas of the lake are in very large
 quantities, and are well displayed. They are the great 'depositories
 of copper. For convenience sake, they may be divided into three
 principal forms.
    1st. The highly crystalline mountain masses,— sometimes anti
          The bedded
    2nd. clinal         trap, at various angles of inclination.
                and sienitic.
    3rd.   Dykes intersecting igneous and metamorphic rocks.
    They are all portions of one long series of volcanic operations.
    Trap creates the great headland of Keweenaw, with its lines of
 stair-like cliffs and hills. (It was shewn in a large diagram and
 described as typical of the trap of the whole lake.) The trap of
 Keweenaw is met with in three contiguous and parallel belts, going
 WSW., and separated by bands of conglomerate, sometimes very
 thin, often numerous, and prolonged sometimes for 40 or 50 miles.
 These three belts have been named the outer, northern, and
 southern ; the last being highly crystalline, or sienitic, and abound
 ing in chlorite. It is an anticlinal to the rocks on both sides. The
 other two belts are bedded traps, and with their interleaved conglo
 merates dip northerly. They all coalesce at Portage Lake and after
 proceeding to Montreal River, 130 miles in the whole, soon after
 disappear under horizontal sandstone westwards.
    The north belt is the most metalliferous ; and contains the cele
 brated Cliff and other rich mines. In the Keweenaw district it is
 the cross vein which yields the native copper — either in sheets and
  blocks or mixed in with the usual crystallizations, such as datholite,
  prehnite, stilbite, quartz, &c.
     On the Ontonagon River the metalliferous veins run with the strike.
  The copper is pure, and has interspersed through its substance, scales
  of pure silver ; but without chemical union.
     The copper is confined to the trap, as an universal rule.
     The North shore of Lake Superior is eminently trappose; and
  especially about Fort William, where a region at least 120 miles long
  consists of basalt, amygdaloid, porphyries, jasper, conglomerate, and
  sandstone in the same mutual relations as on the south shore.

  160                  NOTICBS OF THE MKRTINOS                [March 19,
     The trap dykes, traversing granites and other crystalline rocks
 indifferently are a singular feature on the north shore and abound
 chiefly from Written Rocks to the bottom of Michipicoton Bay.
 By their dark and undeviating course through the grey, red, or
 green rocks of the rugged coast, they strike the eye of the most
 incurious — if only as ruined staircases, crossing bays and headlands
 and climbing hills for miles. Their size, number, and direction are
 irregular. They may be solitary, or twenty in company — some
 times all parallel and close together. They often run with the
 general trend of the coast.*
     Mr. Logan divides them into three varieties, according as they
 are homogeneous, sienitic or porphyritic.
     Professor Agassiz distributes the dykes of the whole lake into six
 systems — each with its own mineral character and direction — its
 own epoch of upheaval ; and each he announces to have been an
 important agent in giving shape and direction to the district in
 which it occurs. He truly says that the general outline of the lake
 is the combined effect of many minor geological events taking place
 at different periods. With some truth in it, this theory does not
 seem to take into sufficient account the pre-existing metamorphic
 and granitic rocks, and it overlooks the variety observed in the
 directions of the dykes in the same neighbourhood.
     Dr. B. stated that if he might be allowed to hazard an opinion, it
 would be, that this curious assemblage of dykes — abounding as
 much in the S. as on the N. coast—pervading all the crystalline
rocks indiscriminately, had ascended independently from the unseen,
distant, mass of trap beneath. They appear in many ways peculiar,
and have no visible connexion with the traps he had been describing.
    Before the emergence of either traps or granites, Lake Superior
received its great outlines from the metamorphic rocks,— thrown
into their present position by still earlier upward movements : for
on the eastern half of both shores of the lake they strike E. and W.
with little variation, while on the western half, these far extending
rock-masses strike WSW. and S\V. — giving thus, to the lake,
a general eastward direction, with a gentle curve to the north, as
stated before. This done, Cambrian Sandstone slowly took posses
sion of the trough of the lake — just as we see a certain shell marl
is doing now. The anticlinal Granites, which appeared afterwards,
only concurred in the same effects; — shaping and elevating the
adjacent lands.
    In after-geological times important modifications arose in the
form of the lake. Promontories were pushed out, and islands
raised up by successive outbursts and overflows of trap from separate
fissures of great length — those for example of Keweenaw, Thunder
Mountain, and Isle Royale — all intercalated with conglomerates,
   » Vide Quart. Journal of Roy. Inst. Vol. XV1H. p. 244. Bigsby on Lake
Superior.

1852.]                     OF THE IIOYAL INSTITUTION.                         161
formed in agitated seas between eruptions ; — at different and most
probably distant times, judging from the fact that some of the conglo
merates are altogether trappose, while others abound in granite and
other bowlders.
    We thus obtain the general order of all these events, and little
more ; but the knowledge is worth having. From the position of
the up-lifted mural cliffs, we see that the upheaving impulse came
from the south-east.
    Drift. The groovings and striae are almost always northerly here.
New proofs are daily accumulating to shew still more decisively
the northerly origin of the foreign drift of Lake Superior. One of
these is the fact that the limestone bowlders on the north shore are
upper Silurian,* and derived from the large calcareous basins some
hundreds of miles north of Lake Superior : from whence Dr. B. had
brought characteristic fossils. Another is found in the occurrence
of bowlders of iron ore, in heaps, on the north side of certain cliffs,
but which are absent on the south side — the original site of the
 ore, being to the north of the cliffs, and near Lake Superior.
    A Sketch was exhibited of a Wisconsin prairie, dotted with northern
blocks dropped from icebergs.—From Dr. D. Owen.
    Commercial Resources. — Agriculture will only be carried on in
parts of the south shore. Large quantities of white fish, and of furs
 are annually exported.
    The chief staple of Lake Superior is native Copper. For ages
 be/ore the appearance of Europeans in America, this metal was
 supplied from hence to the Indian nations far and near. The tumuli
 of the Mississipi, &c. contain the identical copper of this lake.
 Traces of ancient mining in Keweenaw, Ontonagon, and Isle Royale
 are abundant, in the form of deep pits (a ladder in one), rubbish,
 stone mauls, hammers, wedges, and chisels of hardened copper.
 In a native excavation, near the river Ontonagon, with trees five
 hundred years old growing over it, lately lay a mass of pure copper
  81 tons in weight, partly fused and resting on skids of black oak.
     Modern explorers have hitherto only found two centres of metallic
 riches on the south coast, — that of Keweenaw and of Ontonagon.
  In the first are the valuable mines of the Cliff, North American,
 North-western and other companies. In the Ontonagon centre is
 the Minnesota and fifteen other mines.
     At the Cliff mine three large steam engines are employed (1852) ;
  with 250 men;— and at the North American mine, two engines,
  with 160 men. Most of the other mines, forty in number, are
 assisted by steam power. Three thousand miners are in work
  altogether, and the general population is fast increasing. Native
  copper is the principal object. Silver is always present, and occa
  sionally in masses of considerable size. According to authentic
    * Containing Pentamerus, Spirifer, Leptaena (alternata) atrypa, various corals,
  minute trilobites, orthocerae, and some cytherinx.

162                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.               [March 19.
accounts, dated February, 1852, many new mines have been opened
lately ; and all are worked more systematically than heretofore, —
generally by contract.
   There are now in the Cliff mine masses of pure copper within view
estimated to weigh 700 tons in the whole ; and on the lands of the
Minnesota Company, one block weighing 250 tons. The copper
shipped in 1851 was about 1600 tons, valued at £130,000. This
copper is stated to be of great excellence in the manufacture of
wire, ordnance, and ship-sheathing.
   The large beds of specular and magnetic iron ore, on the south
east side of the lake, are as yet only worked on a small scale.
   At this moment the business of mining has ceased on the Canadian
side of the Lake. There is little doubt, however, but that profitable
deposits will, sooner or later, be discovered here.
                                                                 [J. J. B.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Falls in the Black River, Lake Superior, and other Views in Canada,
   by Dr. J. J. Bigsby, M.R.I.
Roman Glass Vase, a small Bottle, and a Lamp found in the church
   yard of St. Stephen's (near St. Alban's) about 6-1- ft. deep, a quarter
   of a mile from the Roman Verulam. The Vase contained pieces of
   bone and was much broken ; it was repaired by Mr. Doubleday
   of the British Museum as far as possible. Not any part of the
   rim was discovered. [Exhibited by S. R. Solly, Esq., M.R.I.]
   [See a Pamphlet by M. H. Bloxam, Esq., on the Roman Sepul
   chral Remains found near St. Alban's, 8vo. 1849, — presented to
   the R. I. Library by Mr. S. R. Solly.]
Specimens of British Glass and Porcelain. [Exhibited by Mr.
   Apsley Pellatt.]
Models of Marine Engines : — Double Cylinder Engine and Vibrating
   Engine — and Engine of the "Great Western." [Exhibited by
   Messrs.
Rough       Maudslays
         Models         and Field.]Steam-hammer and of Maudslav's
                  of Nasmyth's
   VibratingofCylinder,
Diagrams                fromSteam
                Nasmyth's           Pile-driver.
                              the Royal             Laboratory.by Mr.
                                        Institution[Presented
   Nasmyth.]
Model of the Disk-Engine by Mr. R. Addams.
A Group of Humming-birds, from S. America, and a Group of
   Tanagers from neighbourhood of Rio Janeiro, Mounted by Messrs.
   Leadbeaters.
Mr. Varley exhibited a Vial Microscope in which were shewn the
   circulation of the sap of a Plant, and a group of Trumpet ani
   malcules. The rapid motion of their cilia by which they catch
   their prey was perceived.

                     [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
           IBopal 3jnstitution of (0reat Britain,
                                      1852.
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, March 26.
          SIR JOHN P. BOILKAU, Bart., F.R.S., Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
                          PROFESSOR E. COWFBR,
       On the Principles of the Construction and Security of Locks.
 PROFESSOR Cow FER, after pointing out the peculiarities of construc
 tion in the more celebrated Locks of ancient and modern times,
 explained the mode by which Mr. Hobbs had succeeded in picking
 Bramah's, and other locks, and suggested additional means of
 security against such a procedure. His remarks were elucidated by
 numerous large models and diagrams.
     Long continued illness has unfortunately prevented Professor
 Cowper from supplying an abstract of his discourse.
    In the Lock
 Wooden          andwere
            Library         made by the
                      KeyExhibited      : —negroes of Jamaica, and another
    of a different form — Lock of wicket of the Castle of Pown-
    ghur — Key found in the thatch of an old house, St. Andrew's. —
    Profile of General Wolfe sketched in pencil by Harvey Smith,
    one of his Aide-de-Camps, a short time before his death at
   Quebec,
Wire         — to
        Models  from
                   illustrate
                      the United     Service Institution.
                               the Cleavage    of the Diamond, &c. — and
   Large Pieces of Topaz Rock and Crystal of Beryl. [Exhibited
   by Mr.onTennant.]
Portrait       copper of Maurice of Nassau, probably by Mirevelt.
Bust
   [Exhibited
       of Thomas
Specimens       Printing
             of by Carlyle,
                    John Hicks,
                           in Esq.
                                Colours
                                    by H.by
                                    Esq.    Weigall,
                                             Blocks, Esq.
                                          M.R.I.]    by Messrs. C. B. and
   G. Leighton.
Design of Galloway's Tubular Boiler as adapted to Steam-boat
   purposes, by Mr. R. Armstrong.
A Set of Talbotype Apparatus ; the Camera with improved Sliding
   Front — Talbotype, Negative and Positive, and various Por
   traits, by Mr. Henneman.
Boxes, and other Articles manufactured from Muslin and Cotto,n
   Mache, by Mr. G. Hart.
Paintings on China. [Exhibited by W. T. Copeland, Esq.]
      No. tl.                                             N

164                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [April 2,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, April 2.
                  SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, in the Chair.
                          SIR CHARLES LYELL,
   On the Blackheath Pebble-bed, and on Certain Phtenomena in the
                Geology of the Neighbourhood of London.
THERE are two kinds of flint-gravel used for making roads in the
neighbourhood of London, both of them in certain places superficial,
but which are of extremely different ages. The yellow gravel of
Hyde Park and Kensington so often found covering the " London
Clay " may be taken as an example of one kind ; that of Blackheath,
of the other. The first of these is, comparatively speaking, of very
modern date, and consists of slightly rolled, and, for the most part,
angular fragments, in which portions of the white opaque coating of
the original chalk flint remains unremoved. The more ancient gravel
consists of black and well-rounded pebbles, egg-shaped or spherical,
of various sizes, exhibiting no vestige of the white coating of the ori
ginal flints, yet showing by the fossil sponges and shells contained in
them that they are derived from the Chalk. In the pits of Black-
heath and the neighbourhood, where this old shingle attains at some
points a thickness of 50 feet, small pieces of white chalk sometimes
occur, though very rarely intermixed with the pebbles. If we meet
with thoroughly rounded flints in the more modern, or angular
gravel, it is because the latter has been in part derived from the de
nudation of the older bed.
   The researches of the Rev. H. M. De la Condamine have shown
that the sand and pebble-beds of Blackheath and Greenwich Park,
inclose in some of their numerous layers, freshwater shells of extinct
species, such as Cyrena cuneiformis, &c. agreeing with fossils which
characterize the Lower Eocene beds at Woolwich. At Lewisham
the pebble- bed passes under the London Clay, aud at Shooter's Hill
this clay overlies it in great thickness.
   At New Charlton, in the suburbs of Woolwich, Mr. De la Conda
mine discovered a few years ago a layer of sand in the midst of the
pebble-bed, where numerous individuals of the Cyrena tellinella
were seen standing endwise, with both their valves united, the pos
terior extremity of each shell being uppermost, as would happen if
the mollusks had died in their natural position. Sir Charles Lyell
described a bank of sandy mud in the delta of the Alabama river at
Mobile, on the borders of the Gulf of Mexico, where, in 1846, he
had dug out, at low tide, specimens of a living species of Cyrena,
 and of a Gnathodon, which were similarly placed, with their shells
 erect, a position which enables the animal to protrude its siphons

1852.]                 OF THR ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      165
upwards, and draw in water to lubricate its gills, and reject it when
it has served the purposes of respiration. The water at Mobile is
usually fresh, but sometimes brackish. Sir Charles examined lately
the Woolwich beds with Mr. Morris, and they verified Mr. De la
Condamine's observations, observing there several dozen specimens
of the Cyrena tellinella in an erect position. From this circumstance
the Lecturer infers, that a body of fresh or river water had been
maintained permanently on that spot during the Eocene period, and
the presence ofrolled oysters in the associated pebbly layers, with other
marine shells, mixed with species of Melanopsis, Melania, Cerithium
and Neritina demonstrate that the sea occasionally invaded the same
area. To an overflow of the pebbly sand in which the Cyrenae lived
by salt water, may probably be attributed the poisoning of the mollusks
which left their shells uninjured on the spot where they had lived.
   The stratum called " the shell-bed," which contains at Greenwich,
Woolwich, Upnor near Rochester, and other places, a great mass
of fresh water, brackish-water and marine shells, especially oysters, is
observed everywhere to underlie the great pebble-bed. Its mode
of occurrence implies the entrance of one or more rivers into the
Eocene sea in this region. Other rivers draining adjoining lands
are indicated by a similar assemblage of fluvio-marine fossils near
 Guildford and at Newhaven in Sussex. The vicinity of land to the
 South and West of Woolwich is shown by the occurrence at New
Cross, Camberwell, and Chelsea of Paludina and Unio in strata
evidently a prolongation of the Woolwich beds, and by fossil leaves
of dicotyledonous trees and layers of lignite in some of those loca
lities. On the other hand at the junction of the " London Clay."
and the subjacent " plastic clays and sands," when followed in an
opposite or easterly direction towards Herne Bay and the Reculvers,
all signs of the freshwater formation disappear, and the pebble-bed
is reduced to a thin layer, often a foot or a few inches in thickness.
The origin of this shingle may have been chiefly due to the action of
waves on a sea-beach. Its accumulation in great force at certain
points where freshwater shells abound, seems to imply the entrance of
rivers into the sea, which brought down some flints, and arrested the
 progress of others travelling as beach pebbles along a coast line,
in a certain direction determined by the prevailing currents and
winds. The spreading of the pebble-bed over a wide area may
be accounted for by supposing a gradual subsidence of land, and the
 continually shifting of the coast -lines upon which shingle accumulated.
This same subsidence is required to explain the superposition of the
London Clay, a deep-sea deposit to the Blackheath or Woolwich beds
which are of shallow water or littoral origin. One of the rivers of
the Lower Eocene period swept into the sea at Kyson near Wood-
bridge in Suffolk the bones of a monkey of the genus Macacus, of a
marsupial quadruped allied to the opossum, of a Hyracotherium,
 and other mammalia, which have been determined by Professor Owen,
 and which throw light on the inhabitants of the land, at an era an
tecedent to the deposition of the Ixmdon Clay.

166                    NOTICES 0V THE MEETINGS                  [April 2,
   Sir C. Lyell then exhibited some sections, recently published by
Mr. Prestwich,* illustrative of the geology of the environs of London,
and gave a rapid sketch of the successive Eocene groups from the
London Clay and overlying Bagshot series with its nummulites to
the Barton and Hampshire freshwater formations with their fossil
quadrupeds. He then alluded to the tertiary strata next in the
ascending order which he had recently studied in Limburg, Belgium,
which are not represented in England, and next to the Miocene
faluns of Touraine and the Pliocene strata or crag of Suffolk, and
lastly to the still more modern glacial period and the brick-earth
of the valley of the Thames. The last mentioned formation contains
the bones of extinct quadrupeds mingled with shells of recent species
terrestrial and fluviatile.
   The numerous and important changes in the fauna of the globe, at
tested by these successive assemblages of extinct species, belonging
to different tertiary eras, attest the vast lapse of ages, which separate
the time when the freshwater beds of Woolwich and Blackheath were
formed from the human period. But revolutions of another and no
less striking kind have taken place contemporaneously in the physi
cal geography of the northern hemisphere, revolutions on so great a
scale that the greater part of the present continents of Europe, Asia,
Northern Africa and North America with which the geologist is
best acquainted, have come into existence in the interval of time
here alluded to. It may also be confidently affirmed that the colos
sal chain of the Alps is more modern than the tertiary shingle of
Blackheath. There was deep sea at the period when the London
Clay was forming, precisely in the area where the loftiest mountains
of Europe now rise into the regions of perpetual snow. In proof
of this the Lecturer referred to the works of several modern geolo
gists, especially to those of Sir Roderick Murchison, and to a Lecture
delivered by Sir Roderick in the Royal Institution to show that the
nummulitic formation which belongs to the Eocene period, and not to
the very oldest part of that period, attains an elevation in some por
tions of the Swiss Alps of 8,000 or even 10,000 feet, and enters
into the structure and composition even of the central axis of the
Alps having been subject to the same movements and partaking of
the same foldings and contortions as the underlying cretaceous and
oolitic strata.
   Sir Charles Lyell next proceeded to show that a great series of
volcanic eruptions had occurred in Europe since the older Eocene
strata of the neighbourhood of London were deposited. Not only
Vesuvius and Somma as well as Etna and the extinct volcanoes of
Southern Sicily but the trachytic and basaltic eruptions of the ex
tinct volcanoes of central France are more modern than the London
Clay. The evidence consists not only of the superposition of igneous
rocks several thousand feet thick, to lacustrine strata of the middle
   • " Prestwich, Geological Enquiry respecting the Water-bearing strata
around London, Stc." Van Voorst, 1851.

  1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    167
 and upper Eocene periods, but also to the absence in the pebble-beds
 constituting the base of the tertiary series of Auvergne, Cantal, and
 Velay of any pebbles of volcanic origin.
     The Lecturer concluded by stating that the formation of every
 mountain chain and every elevation and depression of land bears
 witness to internal changes at various depths in the earth's crust.
 The alteration has consisted sometimes of the expansion, and
 sometimes of the contraction of rock, or of the semi-liquifaction
 or complete fusion of stony masses and their injection into rents of
 the fractured crust occasionally manifested by the escape of lava
 at the surface. Every permanent alteration therefore of level may
 be regarded as the outward sign of much greater internal revo
 lutions taking place simultaneously far below. Even the precise nature
 of the changes in the texture of rocks produced by subterranean
 heat and other plutonic influences since the commencement of the
 Eocene period can be detected in a few spots especially in the
 central axis of the Alps where the disturbing agency had been
 intense. The table might be covered with specimens of gneiss,
 micaschist and quartz rock, once called primitive, and once supposed
 to be of a date anterior to the creation of living beings, which
 nevertheless were sedimentary strata of the Eocene period which
 assumed their crystalline form after the flints of Blackheath were
 rolled into shingle, and even after the shells of the London clay
and the nummulites of the overlying Bagshot sands were in ex
istence.
    Yet however remote may be the antiquity of the Blackheath pebble-
bed as demonstrated by the vast amount of subsequent change in
physical geography, in the internal structure of the earth's crust and
in the revolutions in organic life since experienced, its origin is pro
bably as widely separated from the era of the Chalk as from our own
times. For the fossils of the chalk differ as much from those of the
oldest tertiary strata near London, as do the last from the organic
beings of the present era. Nevertheless the white Chalk itself with
its flints is considered by every geologist as the production of a
modern era, when contrasted with the long series of antecedent rocks
now known, each formed in succession when the globe was inhabited
                                                             [C. L.]
by peculiar assemblages of animals and plants long since extinct.
In the Library were exhibited : —
Fifty Pebbles from Blackheath and Woolwich, collected by the late
   Major Boys of Woolwich — Specimens of Gold Quartz, Sul-
   phuret of Mercury from California, and Topaz with Mica, &c.
    [Exhibited by Mr. Tennant ]
Bronze Cast of Napoleon, taken shortly before death — Judge
   Fraser's Lion-spear — CafFre Instruments of War. [Exhibited by
   Dr. W. V. Pettigrew, M.R.I. &c.]
Seaward's Patent Brine-valve and Saline Detectors — and specimen

1 68                    NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                  L •'/"'''' 3,
    of the Salt deposited on a boiler. [Exhibited by Messrs. Sea
   ward and Capel.]
The " Crouching Venus " of the Vatican, in Alabaster, — Machine
    Sculpture, by Mr. Cheverton.
A piece of Micacious Iron from Penrice, near Adelaide, New South
    Wales. [Exhibited by Mr. S. Hall.]
Photographs of Paris, &c. by Capt. R. A. E. Scott, R.N. [Exhibited
    by Sir Charles Fellows, V. P. R. I.]
Bracelet, — Ruby surrounded by Diamonds. [Exhibited by Madame
    Ratte.]
Lord       and Roskell.]
    HuntFaversham's    Prize Ox (in silver). [Exhibited by Messrs.
            RESIGNATION OF PROFESSOR BRANDE.
                                                    April 3rd, 1852.
    On the 16th of March Mr. Brande communicated to the Managers
 his desire to retire from the Chair of Chemistry which be had
 held since May, 1813. This day he gave his final lecture, at the
 conclusion of which he addressed his audience in the following
 words : —
     " In this course I have endeavoured to show the intimate rela
 tions that subsist between abstract science and the useful arts —
 between the refinements of modern chemistry and the improved and
 extended condition of some of our leading manufactures; — and,
 having brought it to a conclusion, I must take my leave. I may
 truly say that I unwillingly resign my professorship ; but the attacks
 of hoarseness to which I am subject have of late so much interfered
 with my duties here, and are so manifestly aggravated by any
 exertion of voice, as to render the measure one, if not of necessity,
 at least of prudence.
     " In the year 1812, when Sir Humphry Davy retired from office,
 I was desired by the Managers of this Institution to prepare a pro
 bationary course of lectures, which I delivered at this table in
  1813, and was immediately after elected to the vacant chair; so
 that I have been officially attached to the Royal Institution for a
  period of forty years. During the greater part of that time, namely,
  from 1815 to 1848, I also delivered a series of lectures and de
  monstrations on theoretical and practical chemistry in the Laboratory
  below. They were intended for all denominations of students, and
  were given thrice weekly, from October to May. They were the first
  lectures in London in which so extended a view of chemistry, and
  of its applications, including technical, mineralogical, geological, and
  medical chemistry, was attempted ; and I look back upon them with
  much satisfaction, because I think I may fairly claim for them the
  merit of having completed the scheme, and added to the usefulness
  of this Institution ; of having helped to diffuse that knowledge and

 1852.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    169
love of the science now so general ; of having done so amongst all
grades and classes of students ; of having, therefore, fulfilled one of
our principal objects.
    " As to the lectures in this theatre, I must not pretend to conceal
from you that I relinquish them with regret. The teaching of che
mistry here has always been a delight to me ; and to have success
fully taught it for so extended a period, and to such an audience,
 has been, and indeed can be, the privilege of a very few ; and believe
 me, I duly appreciate it, and that I look back with feelings, which
 I cannot represent in words, at the confidence which the successive
 Managers of this Institution have placed in me ; and at the uninter
 rupted kindness and attention with which my imperfect endeavours
to set forth the truths of chemical science in their varied relations,
as evidences of the wisdom, power, and beneficence of the Creator
 on the one hand, — and, on the other, in their multifarious bearings
upon the sister sciences and upon the useful arts, have been re
ceived.
    " There are also other considerations which necessarily press them
selves upon me at the present moment, arising out of a retrospect of
the very large portion of my life which has been passed within these
walls, and as an officer of this establishment. I rejoice in leaving
it, in all respects, more prosperous than at any former period ; its
scientific fame more pre-eminent ; its foundations more secure ; its
halls more frequented ; ifs usefulness more acknowledged ; and I
cannot help discerning in this Institution one fertile source of that
popularity of science, and extension of schools for scientific instruc
tion, which so peculiarly distinguish the present age, and has more
especially manifested itself in this mighty metropolis.
    " Looking personally at the Royal Institution, I revere it, as my
alma mater, where as a schoolboy I listened to the fruitful eloquence
of Davy, and afterwards partook of his acquaintance and friendship ;
where I acquired the patronage of Sir Joseph Banks ; where I was
singled out by Wollaston as his successor in the secretaryship of the
Royal Society ; where I came into the frequent contact of the chiefs
of science, and of literature and art ; where Faraday became my
pupil, colleague, and friend. These, I assure you, are only a
very few of the proud and pleasing reminiscences which accompany
me from this place ; and they are unsullied and unalloyed ; they
have never been clouded, tainted, or embittered. I again, therefore,
thank you for all your partiality and kindness ; and in gratitude to
Providence, in whose hands are all the issues of our lives, I respect
fully beg you to accept my affectionate farewell."
   The Secretary being then called to the Chair, it was moved by
Sir Charles Clarke, Bart., seconded by John Pepys, Esq., and car
ried unanimously, that the thanks of the Meeting be returned to
Professor Brande for the great benefits which the Institution had
derived from the zeal, ability, and urbanity, with which he had dis
charged the duties of his office during the long period of thirty-nine
years.

170                    NOTICES OF THK MKKTINGS                  [April 5,
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             April 5, 1852.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
   Octavius Brown, Esq.                 Charles Lyall, Esq.
   Rev. James Brownbill.                George Whitlock Nicholl, Esq.
   Abel Jenkins, Esq.                  Edward Owen Tudor, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Lord Ashburton.                  Rev. Cyril Page.
    Hon. Augustus Calthorpe.            Wyndham Portal, Esq.
    John Spofforth Dixon, Esq.          Alexander Shaw, Esq.
    William Windharu Horner, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    The following Report was read : —
                  RESIGNATION Or FROFESSOR BRANDE.
                                   " Royal Institution, April 5, 1852.
    " The Managers report : That at their Meeting held on the 16th
 ult. Professor Brande announced his intention to resign his Profes
 sorship of Chemistry in the Royal Institution on account of his
 health : Whereupon it was Resolved : That the Committee of
 Managers receive with great regret the communication from Mr.
 Brande that he feels compelled on account of his health to resign
 his Professorship of Chemistry, and in accepting his resignation,
 they wish unanimously to express to him their high sense of the
 ability, intelligence, and urbanity, with which, during thirty-nine
 years he has fulfilled the duties of his office ; —
     " That it was on that day also Resolved : That in further testi
 mony of the high estimation entertained of Mr. Brande's eminent
 services, he be recommended to the Members of the Institution for
 Election as Honorary Professor of Chemistry ; and that these Reso
 lutions should be communicated to Mr. Brande.
     " The Minutes containing these Resolutions having received the
 confirmation of the Managers at the following Meeting of the Com
 mittee held on this day, the Managers report them to the Members ;
  and in eo doing they invite the Members to confer on Professor
 Brande that high distinction which he will most appreciate, and
 which will be most expressive of their estimation of his services."

1852.]                      OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                               171
   On the Motion of Professor Faraday, seconded by Sir John P.
Boileau, Bart., and agreed to unanimously, —
   W. T. Brande, Esq., F.R.S., L. & E., was put in nomination
from the Chair as Honorary Professor of Chemistry in the Royal
Institution (in conformity with Chap. XIX. Art. 2. of the Bye-
laws).
   The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
Table and the thanks of the Members ordered to be returned for
the same.
   From
Anonymous — Fair Play: Political Thoughts addressed to Moderate Men: by
       Jacob,
Bell,one       Esq. (the Editor)
          of Themselves.               The Pharmaceutical Journal for March, 1852.
                             8vo. —1852.
    8vo.
Bowles, Vice- Admiral, [the Author) — Thoughts on National Defence ; 3rd Edi
     tion. 8vo. 1852.
Brande, Professor, F.R.S. —Chemical Gazette, Vol. I. — IX. 8vo. 1842-51.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Proceedings for March, 1852. 4to.
Editor — The Medical Circular and General Medical Advertiser, Nos. 1 — 6,
      (and case). 4to. 1852.
Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings for March, 1852. 8vo.
   Proceedings, Vol. IX. Part 2. Vol. X. Part 1. 8vo. 1851-2.
   List of Members, 1851. 8vo.
Faraday, St. Esq. — Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie zu Berlin,
     Jan. und Feb. 1852. 8vo.
Franklin Institute, Philadelphia — Journal, Vol. XXIII. No. 1. 8vo. 1852.
Graham George, Esq. (The Registrar-General) — Report of the Mortality of
     Cholera in England, 1848-9. 8vo. 1852.
Hankey, Thomson, jun. Esq. (Governor of the Bank of England) — Section of the
     Well sunk at the Bank of England, 1851.
Holland, Henry, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — Chapters on Mental Phy
     siology. 8vo. 1852.
Lawrence, Hon. Abbott (the American Minister, Sfc.) — Second Report on Meteo
     rology of the United States, 1843-5. obi. fol. 1850.
London Library, Committee of the — Catalogue of the London Library, Vol. II.
     8vo. 1852.
Lovell, E.
Moxon,       B., Esq.Esq.,
          Edward,           Editor)
                       (theM.  R. I. — The
                                         Poetical
                                             Monthly
                                                  Works   of John
                                                      Digest       Keats, 1852.
                                                              for March,           1851.
                                                                          16mo. 8vo.
   Life, Letters, and Literary Remains of John Keats, edited by Richard Monck-
Nasmyth,      James, Esq.
        ton Milnes.         — Diagrams
                        16mo.     1848. of Nasmyth's Patent Steam Hammer and
     Piledriver.
Frosser, John, Esq. (Life-Sub. R.I.) — Views in Syria, Palmyra, Antioch, &c.
     folio.
Scoffern,
Royal       John,of
         Society     London
                  M.B.,   F.S.A.,
                             — Proceedings,
                                   (the Author)Vol. VI. Nos. Weapons
                                                 — Projectile 7 — 10. of   War 1and
                                                                         8vo.    852.Ex
     plosive Compounds. lCmo. 1852.
   A Treatise on the Sugar and Sugar Apparatus of the Great Exhibition.
        12mo. 1852.
Scrope, G. Powlett, Esq., M.P. (the Author) — History of the Manor and An
     cient Barony of Castle Combe, Wilts. 4to. 1 852.
 University of London — London University Calendar, 1852. 12rao.
 Wheatstone, Professor C, F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — Contributions to the
     Physiology of Vision, Part II. 4to. 1852.
 Wyld, George, M.D., (the Author) — The Liver the Regenerator or Hydrogenator
     in Animals, &c. 8vo. 1852.

172                  NOTICES OF THE MKKT1NGS                  [s1fril 23,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 23.
    W. POLE, Esq. M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
            THE REV. BADEN POWELL, M.A., F.R.S., &c.
                8AVILIAN FROFESSOR OF GEOMETRY, OXFORD,
                  On the Analogies of Light and Heat.
THE researches of Sir W. Herschel, Sir J. Leslie, M. De La Roche,
and others, long since established the existence of well marked dif
ferences in character, not only between the radiation from the Sun
and that from terrestrial sources, but even among these latter,
according as the source was luminous or not : and this especially
as regarded its transmissibility through various screens and the
absorptive effect of different surfaces.
   But the most striking peculiarity in the radiation from flame was
established by Sir W. Herschel and afterwards extended to gas-lights
by Mr. Brande, in that even at considerable distances, after passing
through a thick glass lens, without heating it, the concentrated rays
produced heat on a blackened thermometer at the focus, exactly as
in the case of the solar rays.
   This pointed to a peculiar distinction (also recognized by Sir J.
Leslie) and shewed that the mere proportion of heat transmitted by
a screen (as in De la Roche's experiments) was not the essential
characteristic, but that further distinction as to the specifc nature of
the rays, was wanted. This want it was attempted in some measure
to supply in some experiments by the author of this paper, (Phil.
Trans. 1825) in which the character of the different rays as to TRANB-
MISSIBILITY through screens was examined IN COMBINATION with the
conditions of the ABSORBING SURFACE.
   This last is a point even yet little understood ; but thus much is
clear : —
   (1) A certain peculiarity of texture in the external lamina is
favourable to the absorption of radiant heat, probably in all cases.
   (2) Darkness of colour is peculiarly favourable to the effect for
the Sun's rays, and wholly overrules the first condition.
   In terrestrial luminous hot bodies it does so to an extent suf
ficient to give very marked indications. But this (as the author
shewed, in the experiments referred to), applies to that portion only
of the compound rays, which is also transmissible through glass,
the non-transmissible portion is subject wholly to the former con
dition, as are all the rays from non-luminous sources (as was shewn
by Leslie and others).

1852.]                   OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           173
   Hence the distinction of at least two species of heating rays
emanating at the same time from the same luminous source.
   From the neglect of this distinction much confusion has been kept
up : and statements involving such confusion have been repeated
from one elementary treatise to another.
   Again ; notwithstanding that the experiments of Leslie and others
on the absorption of heat from non-luminous sources, as well as those
of Professor Bache on the radiation from surfaces, demonstrate that
the effect has no relation whatever to colour, yet the contrary asser
tion has been often persisted in.
    Again " dark heat" is often spoken of without recollecting that
rays of the very same quality and properties exist in the compound
radiation from luminous sources.
   The conclusions drawn from later experiments, (performed with
all the advantages derived from the beautiful invention of the thermo
electric instrument of Nobili,) in many instances, are still vague,
from want of attention to the distinction of different species of heat
emanating at the same time from the same source.
    Melloni, in a most extensive and valuable series of experiments,
taking as the sources of heat successively flame, incandescent metal,
  oiling mercury, and boiling water, and applying in each instance
a long series of substances as screens, estimated the proportion of
rays out of 100 stopped, which was very different for each screen
 and each source : evincing wide differences in " diathermaneity,"
while rock salt alone was almost totally " diathermanous " to rays
from all sources alike.
    But we must still ask, what species of rays were those respectively
 stopped and transmitted ? To take the per centage simply is ambi
 guous ; the body of rays is not homogeneous ; the property of trans-
 missibility should be viewed in combination with other properties
 of the specific rays, such as those evinced in their relations to the
 texture or colour of the absorbing surface.
    Nor is the ambiguity removed, though the difference of source
 is specially referred to, if the heterogeneity of rays from the same
 source be overlooked. The mere classification of sources into lumi
 nous and non-luminous will not suffice : still less a reference to their
 temperatures ; it being perfectly well known that the temperature of
 luminosity is very different for different substances.*
    Again Melloni has shewn that the diathermaneity is not pro
 portional to transparency, by a classified series of transparent screens
 with the lamp.
     It must however be recollected that the term " diathermaneity "
 is applied indiscriminately to a heterogeneous body of rays : out
 of which some species of rays are entirely stopped, others entirely
 transmitted ; and the great differences in " diathermaneity " for heat
    * References in detail to all the different researches here mentioned, will be
 found in the Author's Two Reports on the state of our knowledge of Radiant
  Heat in the British Association Reports, 1832 and 1840.

 174                 NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [April 23,
from different sources, which Melloni has also established, are nothing
else than absorption of FECULIAR rays by each medium, not more
anomalous than the corresponding absorptions of luminous rays by
different transparent media so little as yet reduced to law.
   While rock salt is analogous to colourless media for light, alum on
the other hand is totally impermeable by heat from dark sources,
and partially so by rays from the lamp ; that is, wholly impermeable
for that portion of the rays which are of the same kind as those from
non-luminous sources, and permeable to the others.
   By other sets of experiments Melloni shewed that rays from the
lamp transmitted in different proportions by various screens and
then equalized, were afterwards transmitted by alum in equally va
rious proportions : or as he expresses it " possess the diathermancy
peculiar to the substances through which they had passed."
   But this implies no new property communicated to the rays.
It shews that as different specific rays out of the compound beam
were transmitted in each case by the first screen, alum, though im
pervious to the lower heating rays, is permeable by these higher
rays ; and in different degrees according to their nature; an effect
simply dependent on the heterogeneity of the compound rays from
a lamp.
   Again with differently coloured glasses peculiar differences of dia-
thermaneity were exhibited with rays from a lamp, incandescent
metal, and the sun : but not more various or anomalous than the
absorption of specific rays of light.
   And besides considerations of this kind it must always be borne
in mind that a blackened surface (like that which was used in all
these experiments) itself is unequally absorptive for the different rays.
   The solar heat being freely transmissible through all colourless
transparent media along with the light, there would be no peculiar
advantage in experimenting on the solar spectrum formed by a
rock-salt prism. Melloni however with such a prism on interposing
a thick screen of water, found the most heating rays (i. e. those at
or beyond the red end) intercepted, as they are known to be by
water : and this caused the position of the relative maximum to be
apparently shifted higher up in the spectrum, even to the position
of the green ray.
   On the other hand many coloured glasses, he found, absorbed the
rays in various proportions, yet they left the point of maximum heat
unaltered : i. e. though variously absorptive for the higher rays,
they were not of a nature to stop the lower, or most heating rays.
   One result indeed is recorded which seems at variance with all
other experiments on the solar rays : a peculiar green glass (tinged
by oxide of copper) was found to absorb so entirely all the most
heating rays that the remaining portion produced no heat, though
when concentrated by a lens they gave a brilliant focus. Speaking
generally however, these experiments only confirm what is on all
hands admitted, vis. that the illuminating and heating powers follow
Ttry different laws, with relation to the different rays.

1852.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       175
   The grand discovery by Melloni of the true REFRACTION OF HEAT
even of that kind which constitutes the whole radiation from dark
sources, by means of the roek salt lens and prism, and its extension
by Professor Forbes to the determination of the index of refraction
(/i) for the most heating rays from all sources both luminous and
non-luminous, gave the first actual proof of the real analogy, of the
propagation of heat by waves in an etherial medium : which was
further carried out when it was shewn from Cauchy's theory that
for different wave lengths (X) there must be in every medium a
 certain limit of all refrangibility : that is, as we suppose (X) to in
crease, large changes in (X) will give continually smaller changes
in (/i), and when (X) is very great compared with (AJ) the intervals
of the molecules, then the index (/*) assumes its limiting value
which is not greatly below that for the extreme red ray, and with
this, the index for the lowest heat coincides.
    This is seen directly from the formula *
  -I = p _ Q ( ^ )' + R (-^)*_ &c., which when we sup
pose (-:- ) = 0 will have for its limiting value I — j = V P
    The results from observation for Rock salt compared with this
theory are as follows :
                                  Rock Salt.
                                                      M
               rays
                                          obs.                 theory
           mean light                     1.558                  . .
             red ray                      1.540
          X = .000079                      . .                   . .
                                                                1.529
         dark hot metal                   1.528                  . .
               Limit                                            1.527
    But it is to the capital fact established by Professor Forbes, of the
polarization of heat from dark sources (for with luminous sources
little doubt could exist), with all its remarkable train of consequences,
that the complete analogy with light is seen in the most uninter
rupted point of view ; — the transverse vibrations, the dipolarization,
the consequent interferences, the production of circular and elliptic
vibrations under the proper conditions, — to those familiar with the
    • See the Author's Treatise " On the Undulatory Theory applied to the Dis
persion of Light," &c. London, J. W. Parker, 1841, pp. 71-122.

176                   NOTICES OF THF MEETINGS                 [dpril 23,
wave-theory present an irresistible accumulation of proof of the
identity of the rays of heat with a succession of waves in an etherial
medium : exhibiting different properties in some dependence on their
wave-lengths.
   Among the most recent researches on the subject are those of
Mr. Knoblauch (of which a translation is given in Taylor's Foreign
Scientific Memoirs, Part xviii. and xix.) and they are not to be sur
passed for extent and accuracy of detail.
   One series is devoted to the examination of the alleged differences
in radiation of heat proportioned to the temperature of the source.
This as before observed is an untenable hypothesis, but Mr. Knob
lauch distinctly refutes it by a series of experiments on alcohol flame,
red hot metal, hydrogen flame and an argand lamp, whose tempera
tures are in the order of enumeration beginning with the highest :
but the power of their heat to penetrate screens is found to follow
exactly the reverse order. And even with lower stages of heat, the
effects bear no proportion to the temperatures as such. Hence the
effect is evidently not due to a mere extrication of the heat of tem
perature, but is of a peculiar kind. In a word, agreeably to the pre
ceding remarks, the different species of rays, more or less compounded
together in the several cases, exhibit their diversities of character in
developing heat by their absorption. One very peculiar result is.
that Platinum, at a stage intermediate between red and white heat,
transmits through all the screens employed rather less heat than
when at a red heat. That is, these intermediate rays are of such a
wave-length as to be subject to a peculiar absorption by these screens :
while at the same time possibly less of the former may be emitted.
   In another section Mr. Knoblauch adverts to the effects of sur
faces on the absorption of rays, and particularly remarks (p. 205) ;
" The experiments of B. Powell and Melloni have shewn that one
"and the same body is not uniformly heated by rays from different
" sources, which exert the same direct action on a blackened thermo-
 " scope ;" a statement which does not very intelligibly express any
conclusion of the author's. Mr. Knoblauch however supports it by
elaborate experiments shewing, as might be anticipated, that an ar
gand lamp affects a surface of carmine less, and one of black paper
more, while a cylinder heated to 212° affects the carmine more and
the black paper less.
   Another extensive series, on the effect of surfaces on radiation, is
directed to shew that the effect is independent of the source whence
the heat so radiated, was originally obtained.
   Among the very multifarious results referring to screens and sur
faces obtained by Mr. Knoblauch, it can here only be remarked that
none of those varied facts appear to present anything at variance
with the principles here advocated, while in the general conclusions
which he indicates at the close of his memoir, the author though
professedly avoiding all hypothesis, yet distinctly intimates his con
viction of the heterogeneity of the heating rays increasing as the
condition of the source rises in the scale from n low heat up to lumi

1852.]                OF THK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        177
nosity or combustion : and that the diversities of heating effect on
different media, are due to a selective absorption of particular species
of rays, from peculiarities in the nature of those substances, and
analogous to the absorption of particular rays of light by coloured
media.
    It must not however be omitted to notice, however briefly, another
recent set of researches of high interest, those of M. Silberman ; in
which (among others) the very remarkable fact is established, that
on transmitting a narrow ray of heat from a heated wire, through
rock crystal, there is a singular difference according as the ray passes
parallel or perpendicular to the axis of the crystal : the effect being
indicated by having the further side of the crystal coated with a fine
composition of wax, the portion of which in the direction of the ray
is melted in a circular form in the first instance and in an elliptical
in the second.
    The general fact of the heterogeneity of heating rays, especially
from luminous sources, is fully recognized by Melloni as in some
sense the conclusion from all his experiments.
    The hypothesis that this heterogeneity consists simply in differences
of wave-length would seem a probable one ; though it is still possi
ble, as Professor Forbes suggests, that some other element may also
enter into the conditions.
    This view has been extended by M. Ampere so as to refer both
luminous and heating effects to the same rays : — a view contro
verted by Melloni, chiefly on the ground, evinced by several classes
of experiments, that the intensity of the heating effect (especially in the
solar rays) follows no proportion to that of illumination ; an argu
ment which really amounts to little unless the theory obliged
us to infer that the amount of illumination must follow the same
law as that of heat ; which it manifestly does not ; since the
nature of the effect in the one case is wholly dependent on the
unknown constitution of the optic nerve ; according to which some
precise proportion of the impinging vibrations, with a particular
wave-length, is that which gives the greatest perfection of vision :
while for heat the effect has no reference to such peculiar conditions,
but is dependent in some way on longer wave-lengths, and pro
bably more simply connected with the intensity or amplitude of the
vibrations.
    On this theory our view of the case would be thus : —
    A body heated below luminosity begins to give out rays of large
wave-length only. As it increases in luminosity it continues to send
out these, and at the same time others of diminishing wave-lengths,
till at the highest stage of luminosity it gives out rays of all wave
lengths from those of the limit greater than the red end of the
spectrum, to those of the violet end, or possibly less.
    Rays of all these species are transmissible and refrangible by Rock
salt ; and many of them with numerous specific distinctions by other
media.

 178                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.       [April 23, 1852.
   They are all more or less capable of exciting heat when absorbed
or stopped: though in some the effl'Ct is perhaps insensible. Both
this property and that of their transmissibility seems to depend in
some way on the wave-length, though in no simple ratio to it.
   The absorptive effect due to texture of surfaces has some direct
relation to the magnitude of the wave-length, especially near the
limit. While that due to darkness of colour is connected with
shorter wave-lengths such as belong to rays within the limits of the
light spectrum : and in any case when a ray impinges on any absorb
ing substance, its vibrations, being stopped, communicate to the mole
cules of the body vibratory movements of such a kind as constitute
heat of temperature.
   The peculiar molecular constitution of bodies which determines
their permeability or impermeability to rays of any species, gives
rise to all the diversities of effect, whether luminous or calorific.
We thus escape all such crude ideas, at once difficult and unphiloeo-
phical, as those cither of two distinct material emanations producing
respectively heat and light, or of a conversion of one into the other ;
and obtain a view far more simple and consistent with all analogy.
                                                             [B. P.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Dr. W. B. Herapath's Iodine of Disulphate of Quinine (a crystalline
   substance which has the power of Polarizing a ray of Light like
   a tourmaline. [Exhibited by Col. P. J. Yorke, M.R.I.]
Specimen of Decorative Drawing (by a Lady). [Exhibited by C.
   B. Mansfield, Esq., M.R.I.]
Specimens of Carving in Wood, by Mr. W. G. Rogers.
Wire Models illustrating Geometry, Crystallography, &c. [Exhibited
   by Mr. Tennant.]
Plan of Battle at horodino — Nelson's hat — Antique Military Ac
   coutrements, &c. [From The United Service Institution.]
Ancient sword of State formerly carried before the Bishop of Trevea.
   [Exhibited by Messrs. Hunt and Roskell.]

                     [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
      IRopal institution of ©teat Britain.
                                     1852.
                    EXTRA EVENING MEETING.
                          Wednesday, March 31.
               SIR CHARLES LBMON, BAHT, M.P., F.R.S.
                                 in the Chair.
                     M. P.-H. BOUTIGNY (d'Evreux).
                  Etudes stir les Corps it I'(tat splrfroidal.
LBS Phenomenes qui se rapportent a cette partie de la Physique ont
du 6tre entrevus des la plus haute antiquite. Le premier qui fit
chauffer un silex, un morceau de granit ou un mctal quelconque, et
qui laissa tomber accidentellement ou volontairement sur sa surface
quelques
tait        goutteslorsqu'on
     pas comme        d'eau dut1'echauffait
                                  remarquerdans      cette
                                               que les     eau ne seordinaires.
                                                        conditions    compor-
En remontant aux traditions les plus reculees, peut-etre trouvait-on
la trace de cette observation dans ces paroles du Livre de La
Sagesse (verset 19 du chap, xix) : " Le feu surpassant sa propre
" nature, brulait au milieu de 1'eau, et I'eau oubliant la sienne ne
" l'i~ki» nail point." Au moyen age, les verriers paraissent avoir
euse a cette
connu           art. Quelle
          leur propriety   et enque
                                  avoir
                                     soitfait
                                           1'antiquite  de cette assez
                                              une application           ingeni-
                                                                 remarque,   on
peut dire que les phenomenes qui s'y rapportent n'ont et(5 reellement
observes que vers le milieu du dernier siecle, et a peu pres dans le
nirinc tems par Eller* et par Leidenfrost.f Depuis lors le petit
nombre de physiciens qui se sont occupes de ce phenomene, n'ont
presque rien ajoute ni aux experiences qui 1'eussent reproduit sous
de nouvelles formes, ni a son explication theorique.
   Tout le monde a observe que lorsqu'on laisse tomber quelques
gouttes d'eau dans une capsule rongie au feu, cette eau, loin de se
repandre sur le metal et de le mouiller, prend la forme de globules
qui roulent a sa surface sans y adherer. Voila I'experience vulgaire
qui i-t le point de depart de toutes les rechcrches de cet ordre.
Dans les cours de Physique, on s'etait contente de dire que 1'eau,
            • Histoire de 1'Acad6mie dp Berlin, 174fi, page 42.
            t De aqua: communis qualitatibus. Duisbuurg, 179C.
     No. 12.                      O

180                        NOTICES OF THR MEETINGS                [March 31,
mise en contact avec un corps incandescent, n'adherait point :.\ sa
surface et s'evaporait plus lentement que lorsque le meme corps
etait porte seulement a la temperature ou le liquide entrait en ebul
lition ; mais on n'avait il<mm- de ce phenomene aucune explication
satisfaisante.
    Lorsqu'on projette quelques gouttes d'eau sur une plaque d'argent
legerement concave, a la temperature ordinaire, le liquide en mouille
la surface et y adhere par tous ses points en contact. Si 1'on echauffe
cette plaque, au moyen d'une lampe a 1'alcool, 1'eau, parvenue a la tem
perature de 100 degres, se convertit en vapeur et passerait tout entiere
a cet etat dans un temps determine' ; mais si 1'on continue d'elever
la temperature de la plaque, au de la de 142° par exemple, le phe
nomene change de nature ; 1'eau cesse d'adherer a la plaque d'argent,
elle ne s'etend plus a sa surface, et semble se replier sur elle-meme
en prenant la forme d'un spheroide applati de haut en has. La
temperature jusqu'alors fixee a 100°, s'abaisse subitement a + 100°
— x, et reste fixe a ce degre, quelqu' effort que 1'on fasse et en
 jil;ii;aut 1'appareil dans les conditions calorifiques les plus energiques.
L'evaporation loin d'etre augmentee par cette elevation excessive de
temperature, diminue au contraire a ce point qu'une meme quantite
 d'eau pour se reduire en vapeur, exige cinquante fois plus de temps
 que lorsqu'elle est soumise a la temperature de I'lbullition. Enfin il
 s'etablit dans le spheroide des ondulations regulieres, entrecroisees,
 parfaitement visibles et qui offrent la plus grande analogic avec
 celles qui sont produites par les corps sonores mis en vibration.
 La meme experience repe^ee avec la plupart des autres liquides,
 donne des resultats qui ne varient que proportionnellement aux
 limites respectives de leur point normal d'ebullition.
     Tel est
 quelles       le phe'nomene
            obeissent          principal
                       les liquides des qu'ils
                                         : telles
                                               cessent  d'etre
                                                  sont les     soumislois
                                                           nouvelles         loi
                                                                       a laaux-
 ordinaire de 1'equilibre de temperature, loi qui ne s'exerce que
 dans des limites determinees et assez restreintes.
     Voici les experiences -J 1'aide desquelles on peut rendre parfaite
 ment sensibles les moindres details de ce phenomene. Que 1'on
 prenne un corps tree combustible, de 1'azotate d'ammoniaque, par
 exemple, qui s'enflamme a une assez basse temperature, et qu'on le
 projette sur une capsule de platine, rougie a 1'aide d un eolipyle ; ce
 corps entrera en fusion, prendra la forme spheroidale, ne brulera
 point et ne se decomposera qu'avec beaucoup de lenteur. Retirez
 alors 1'eolipyle, laissez refroidir la plaque jusqu'au degre ou cet
 azotate s'enflamme ordinairement, aussitot il fusera et s'ennammera :
 singulier exemple d'un corps tres combustible qui ne brule point dans
 les circonstances qui sembleraient les plus favorables a sa combustion
 et qui brule des qu'on le soustrait a 1'action d'une trop vive chaleur.
     Si au lieu d'azotate d'ammoniaque, on projette de 1'iode sur une
 plaque rougie, tant que celle-ci sera tres chaude, les vapeurs d'iode
 seront a peine visibles ; mais si on la laisse refroidir, 1'iode s'etalera
 a la surface en donnant naUsance aux belles vapeurs violettes qui le

  1852.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        181
 ques grammes Enfin,
 caracterisent.            lorsqu'onleverse
                   d'eau distillee,      liquide
                                              danspasse
                                                    une capsule  rougie
                                                         rapidement     I'frat
                                                                      & quel-
 spheroidal ; il n'adhere point a la capsule, n'entre pas en ebullition
  et s'evapore lentement. Si 1'on plonge dans le spheroide la boule
  d'un thermometre, celui-ci accusera invariablement une temperature
 plus basse que celle de 1'eau bouillante ; mais si on laisse refroidir la
 capsule, le thermometre serelevera a 100°, 1'eau entrera en ebullition
 tumultueuse et s'eVaporera rapidement dans le tems et les conditions
 ordinaires.
    Ces fails nouveaux et singuliers semblent en opposition manifeste
 avec les lois connues de la chaleur ; d'autres experiences qui sont
 comme les corollaires des precedentes peuvent servir a montrer
 toute la portee de ces observations. Ainsi les lois qui rggissent les
 corps passes
 plosion        a 1'etat spheroidal
           des chaudieres  a vapeur.peuvent
                                         Si 1'onexpliquer
                                                  verse deux  grammes
                                                           certains     d'ex-
                                                                    cas d'eau
 distillee dans une petite chaudiere spherique dont le fond est chauffe
 par un eolipyle et qu'on la bouche fortement ; tant que 1'eau sera
 maintenue a 1'etat spheroidal dans son inte>ieur, il n'y aura pas
 d'explosion : mais si 1'on retire 1'eolipyle, un leger bruissement ne tarde
 pas a annoncer le passage de 1'eau £ 1'etat liquide, puis a IVtat de va
 peur et le bouchon sera lance violemment dans 1'air avec explosion.
 De me'me si 1'on met de 1'eau dans une chaudiere d'essai et si on la
soumet a une haute temperature, 1'eau ne tardera pas a bouillir et a
 donner des torrents de vapeur. Si 1'alimentation est negligee par
 une cause quelconque et que la chaudiere vienne a rougir, 1'eau
qu'on y introduira alors acquerra des proprietes nouvelles : ellc ne
 mouillera plus les parois de la chaudiere, elle ne s'echauffera pns
 au dela de 98 degres et ne donnera que tres peu de vapeurs. Mais
 si 1'on diminue 1'intensite des feux, ou bien si 1'on introduit une grande
 masse d'eau froide dans la chaudiere, cette eau s'etendra sur les
parois, se reduisa brusquement en vapeurs, dont la tension con
siderable entrainera infailliblement la rupture et 1'explosion de la
chaudiere.
    L'abaissement de la temperature dans les corps passes a 1'etat
spheroidal est une loi generate que 1'on peut constater en plongeant la
boule d'un thermometre dans des spheroides d'alcool absolu, d' oxide
et de chlorure d'ethyle, d'acide sulfureux et d'un grand nombre d'autres
corps. Ce phenomene a donne lieu a un resultat tout-a-fait imprevu
et des plus remarquables. On sait que 1'acide sulfureux anhydre ;
liquefie, entre en ebullition all0 au-dessous de zero ; 1'auteur ayant
verse quelques grammes de cet acide dans une capsule de platine
rongie au feu, (1'air environnant 6tant legerement humide,) 1'acide
sulfureux prit aussitot une apparence opaline, perdit sa transparence,
se solidifia et 1'operateur vit avec etonnement que ce solide n'etait
autre chose qu'un morceau de glace. Pour varier 1'experience, il
versa dans le mSme acide a 1'etat spheroidal quelques gouttes d'eau
distillee qui se congelerent rapidement, enfin un tres petit matras
contenant un gramme d'eau distillee ayant ete plonge dans le me'me

182                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [3/iurcA 3 1 ,
spheroide et retire au bout d'une demi minute contenait (5galement
un petit morceau de glace. Pour montrer que lee liquides passes
a 1'etat spheroidal n'adberent plus a la surface du corps echauffant,
on fait tomber sur une capsule d'argent ou de cuivre, rougie, de
1'acide azotique tres concentre ; celui-ci roule sur la capsule sans
1'attaquer ; mais si on laisse refroidir la capsule, il arrive un moment
ou 1'acide attaque le metal avec violence. Autre exemple : un
cylindre d'argent chauffe a blanc, e'tant plonge dans un verre d'eau, on
peut voir tres distinctement qu'il n'y a pas de contact et que 1'eau est
maintenue
ment s'etablit
libre            une
                  entrecertaine
       se faita entendre    metal
                         le et 1'eau
                                 distance
                                   etentre.
                                      1'eau,dulecylindre,
                                                 contact
                                            vivement    enaaebullition.
                                                             lieu,
                                                              mesure  que 1'equi-
                                                                   un leger siffle-
    Mais ce n'est point a des resultats pbysiques que se bornent ces
curieux phenomenes. II est evident que ce nouveau mode d'action
 doit donner lieu a des reactions, a de nouveaux moyens d'analyse et
de synthfese chimiques. Certains corps qui ne se decomposent pas k
la temperature de 1'ebullition, se decomposent des qu ils sont amenes
a 1'etat spheroidal ; d'autres mis en contact sous 1'influencc de ce
nouvel etat moleculaire, se pretent a de nouvelles combinaisons.
 Le vin, 1'alcool, 1'esprit de bois, soumis a 1'etat spheroidal, associent
 leurs elements dans un nouvel ordre ; Tether se decompose en
 degageant de 1'aldehyde ; le cblorure d'ethyle decompose 1'azotiite
 d'argent ; 1'ammoniaque dans le meme etat dissout 1'iode ; les huiles
 essentielles, la naphtaliue, 1'acide benzoique, 1'acide citrique et une
 foule d'autres substances se transforment et donnent naissance a
 d'autres produits. Ces exemples sufHsent pour montrer tout le
 mentation
 parti  que les    tout ce qu'il
               et chimistes    peuvent
                                  promettirer
                                            dans    ce nouveau
                                                de 1'avenir        mode d'experi-
                                                             de resultats  curieux
 et inattendus.
    Cette forme que prennent les corps soumis a une tres haute
 temperature et a laquelle se rattachent de nouvelles lois physiques,
 serait, selon 1'auteur de ces recherches, une quatrieme modification de
 la matiere, qui ferait suite aux etats solide, liquide, gazeux et il lui
 imposa provisoirement le nom d'ttat spheroidal. II croit en trouver
 1'origine et la cause dans les vibrations que le calorique communi
  que a la matiere. Le passage d'un etat a 1'autre s'expliquerait par
  la comcidence ou la non-comcidence du mouvement ondulatoire
  qui a lieu dans le liquide et dans le corps echauffant. L'analogie
  des vibrations permettrait le contact et 1'adherence, tandis que leur
  oppposition les detruirait. L'adherence une fois detruite, le liquide
  se replierait sur lui-meme, comme 1'eau sur une surface graissee,
  comme le mercure
  procheraient             sur un deplan
                  naturellement            de marbre,
                                       la molecule        ses molecules se rup-
                                                      centrale.
     Parmi les proprietes des corps amcnes a I'etat spheroidal, il en
  est deux auxquelles 1'auteur attache une importance specialc.
  L'une est le pouvoir qu'ils acquierent de reflechir le calorique, en
  se constituant dans un etat d'equilibre stable ; 1'autre est cette
  faculte de se replier, eu vertu d'une attraction particuliere vers leur

    1852.]                         OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                             183
   molecule centrale, comme s'ils etaient reduits a nn point materiel
   isole dans 1'espace, tout en restant soumis & 1'attraction terrestre,
   en sorte que leur forme naturellement spherique se comprime dans
   le sens du rayon de la terre. L'auteur tire de ces observations des
   consequences fort etendues, applicables a la g<kilogie, & la mecanique
   terrestre, etc. etc. II pense que de grandes v&ites decouleront
   d'une etude plus approfondie de ces ph&iomenes. II pense que la
   philosophic des sciences fera un pas de geant quand les geometres
   analyseront ce phenomene qui a du se produire a la surface du globe
   sur une grande echelle &. 1'epoque de son incandescence. Peut-
   etre se produit-il encore & la surface du noyau incandescent de la
  terre.
       Les recherches relatives a 1'etat spheroidal peuvent conduire a
  tres.
  pouvoir
  1'explication
   Chapour
  offrit    Un
           de pour
               seordonna
                  des
                   soumettre
                    d'un
                      persuader
                             autre
                                auxdans
                         Pontifes     et
                                       ordre
                                       du
                                        Mages
                                            culte
                                             ce de
                                           ramener
                                                 but
                                                   de
                                                    phenonienes.
                                                    dominant,
                                                      afaire
                                                      lescedissidents
                                                              qu'il
                                                                 tout
                                                                   Abdurabad
                                                                        ce
                                                                         En
                                                                      appela
                                                                          a laqui
                                                                              1'an
                                                                                1'epreuve
                                                                                 foi serait
                                                                                      Mabrasphand,
                                                                                      24
                                                                                       de 1leursdu
                                                                                                enance-
                                                                                            Sapor,    leur
                                                                                                         ou
                                                                                                      feu.
 rayonnant
 dans
 remarque
 le
 ebullition.
 rougie
  montrent
  pieds
  convertis.
  moyen
  dit
  s'il
  cuivre
  II plomb
       monde
       proposa
        n'elait
        que
          un
           nus
            fondu
            au
             age,
              1'epreuve
               fondu
                encore
                apoint
                 feu.
                 sur
                  que
                  et
               metal
                   Ainsi,
                   que
                    vu
                    Les
                    etsortant
                         la
                        que
                         sur
                          en
                          ou
                           1'on
                           ou
                           1'eau,
                           blesse,
                            Ce
                            sur
                            recits
                             fonte
                              se
                               les
                               lorsqu'on
                                fusion,
                                entendu
                                 qui
                                 sa
                                  les
                                  fait
                                   repandit
                                   de
                                   fithommes
                                      atemperature
                                       merveilleux
                                       places
                                       appliquent
                                        incandescente,
                                        laavec
                                       les 1'etat
                                          n'aura
                                            rb.umidite
                                            fournaise
                                            incredules
                                              parler
                                                plonge
                                                 un
                                                 sur
                                                 publiques
                                                  incombustibles
                                                     spheroidal,
                                                      plein
                                                       son
                                                       sur
                                                    plus sur
                                                         et
                                                        den'atteint
                                                           la
                                                           se
                                                           qui
                                                            rien
                                                             ces
                                                             leur
                                                              corps
                                                              tout
                                                               qui
                                                               succes
                                                                se
                                                                les
                                                                main,
                                                                  laretrouvent
                                                                    hommes
                                                                rendraient
                                                                     d'extraordinaire,
                                                                     langue
                                                                     epreuves
                                                                     plongent
                                                                      ardent,
                                                                       recouvre
                                                                        nud
                                                                        reflechit
                                                                         jamais
                                                                          dont
                                                                          legerement
                                                                          et dix-huit
                                                                               qu'ils
                                                                                aune
                                                                                  aqui
                                                                                   quelques-uns
                                                                                    ce
                                                                                     partout.
                                                                                      passe
                                                                                      la
                                                                                     par
                                                                                      condition
                                                                                      celle
                                                                                        le
                                                                                        prodige.
                                                                                         lame
                                                                                         courent
                                                                                           main
                                                                                          furent
                                                                                           lecalorique
                                                                                             livres
                                                                                              humide,
                                                                                               ade
                                                                                                feu,
                                                                                                 side
                                                                                                    I'etat
                                                                                                     Tout
                                                                                                     dans
                                                                                                      tous
                                                                                                      1'on
                                                                                                      son
                                                                                                       que
                                                                                                       On
                                                                                                       fer
                                                                                                        les
                                                                                                        au
                                                                                                         de
                                                                                                         se
 spheroidal, reflechit le calorique rayonnant et ne s'echauffe pas
 meme jusqu'a la temperature de 1'eau bouillante. L'etnde du
 dans
 en
 meme
pour   apparence
         I'operateur.
          les
           phenomene
                amphitheatres donue et
                       si extraordinaires, done
                                              les 1'explication
                                                    cours
                                                    qui  peuvent
                                                               publicsaujourdhui
                                                                        naturelle
                                                                           sans aucun         repeter
                                                                                        dese ces     faits
                                                                                                danger
     On a vu plus haut que 1'eau a 1'etat spheroidal jouait un
role important dans 1'une des causes des explosions fulminantes
des chaudieres a vapeur. L'auteur poursuivant ses eludes dans
cette direction est parvenu a creer un nouveau systeme de
generateur a vapeur, Le principe general de ce nouveau mode de
generation de la vapeur reside dans la division extreme de 1'eau au
moyen de diaphragmes perces de petits trous et superposes dans
1'interieur de la chaudierc. On sait que la matiere ne s'evapore
quo par ses surfaces.

184                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [March 3 1 ,
    Une chaudière de ce système ayant seulement un demi mètre
carré de surface de chauffe évapore de 38 à 40 litres d'eau par
heure sous la pression de 10 atmosphères.             Dans l'ancien système
la même chaudière ne saurait évaporer plus de 10 litres d'eau dans
le même temps et sous la même pression.                       Le rapport est
donc : : 1 : 4.
     Selon l'auteur, ce nouveau générateur serait absolument inexplosible
et destiné à jouer un rôle important dans notre civilisation actuelle
en créant une force domestique, souvent gratuite. En effet, le foyer
 qui imprimerait le mouvement aux outils de l'atelier donnerait en
même temps la chaleur nécessaire, dans tous les climats, à l'existence
 de l'ouvrier et de sa famille.       Ce serait donc à la fois un source de
calories et de dynamies avec un seul et même foyer.*
                                                                      [P.-H. B.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, April 30.
 "William Richard Hamilton, Esq., F.R.S., F.S.A., Vice President,
                                  in the Chair.
           Thomas H. Huxley, F.R.S., Assistant-Surgeon, R.N.
                           Upon Animal Individuality.
  The Lecturer first briefly described the structure of the Diphydae
  and Physophoridae — pointing out the general conformity of these
  animals with the common Hydra.
      They differ, however, in this important respect; that the body
  in which the eggs are developed is in Hydra, a simple process ;
  while in the Diphydae and Physophoridse the corresponding body
  presents every degree of complication from this form, to that of a
  free-swimming, independent " Medusa."
      Still more striking phenomena were shewn to be exhibited by the
  Salpae. In this genus each species has two forms. In the example
  chosen these forms were the S. democratica, and the S. mucronata ;
  the former is solitary and never produces ova, but developes a pecu
  liar process the " gemmiferous tube ;" upon which, and from which
   the associated Salpae mucronatae are formed by budding.
      * On trouvera des détails plus étendus sur ce sujet dans la 3' édit. d'un
   opuscule que l'auteur espère pouvoir publier prochainement et qui a pour titre :
    Nouvelle Blanche de Physique vu Etudes sur les corps à l'Etat spheroidal.

   1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    185
      Each of these carries a single ovum, from which the first form is
  again developed.
      The Salpa mucronata, which is thus produced from the Salpa de-
  mocratica, is just as highly organized as the latter. It has aa com
  plete a circulatory, nervous, and digestive apparatus, and moves
  about and feeds as actively ; no one unacquainted with its history
  would dream of its being other than a distinct individual animal, and
  for such it has hitherto passed.
      But the Salpa mucronata has exactly the same relation to the S.
  democratica that the free-medusiform egg-producing body of Physalia
  or Velella has to the Physalia or Velella ; and this free-medusiform
  body is homologous with the fixed medusiform body of Diphyes ;
  which again is homologous with the semi-medusiform, fixed body of
  a Tubularia and with the egg-producing process of the Hydra.
      Now as all these bodies are homologous with one another, one of
  two conclusions is possible ; either, considering the Salpa mucronata
  to be an individual, we are logically led to look upon the egg-
 producing process of Hydra as an individual also, which seems
 absurd.
     Or starting with the assumption that the egg-producing process
 of Hydra is a mere organ, we arrive at the conclusion that the Salpa
 mucronata is a mere organ also : which appears equally startling.
     The whole question appears to turn upon the meaning of the word
 "individual."
     This word the Lecturer endeavoured to shew always means, merely,
 " a single thing of a given kind."
     There are, however, several kinds of Individuality.
     Firstly, there is what may be called arbitrary individuality, which
 depends wholly upon our way of regarding a thing, and is therefore,
 merely temporary : such is the individuality of a landscape, or of a
 period of time ; a century for instance.
    Secondly, there is an individuality which depends upon something
 else than our will or caprice ; this something is a fact or law of co
 existence which cannot be materially altered without destroying the
 individuality in question.
    Thus a Crystal is an individual thing in virtue of its form, hard
ness, transparency, and other co-existent qualities ; pound it into
powder, destroy the co-existence of these qualities, and it loses its
individuality.
     Thirdly, there is a kind of individuality which is constituted and
defined by a fact or law of succession. Phenomena which occur
in a definite cycle are considered as one in consequence of the law
which connects them.
    As a simple instance we may take the individuality of the beat of
a pendulum. An individual beat is the sum of the successive places
of the bob of the pendulum as it passes, from a state of rest to a
state of rest again.
    Such is the individuality of living, organized beings. Every or-

186                    NOTICES OF I I1I' MEETINGS              [A;iril 30,
ganized being has been formless and will again be formless ; the indi
vidual animal or plant is the sum of the incessant changes, which
succeed one another between these two periods of rest.
    The individual animal is one beat of the pendulum of life, birth
and death are the two points of rest, and the vital force is like the
velocity of the pendulum, a constantly varying quantity between
these two zero points. The different forms which an animal may
assume correspond with the successive places of the pendulum.
    In man himself, the individual, zoologically speaking, is not a
state of man at any particular moment as infant, child, youth or
man ; but the sum of all these, with the implied fact of their definite
succession.
    In this case, and in most of the higher animals, the forms or
states of the individual are not naturally separated from one another :
they pass into one another, undistinguishubly.
    Among other animals, however, nature druws lines of demarcation
between the different forms ; thus, among insects the individual takes
three forms, the caterpillar, the chrysalis, and the butterfly. These
do not pass into one another insensibly, but are separated by appa
rently sudden changes ; each change being accompanied by a sepa
ration of the individual into two parts. One part is left behind and
dies, it receives the name of a skin or cast ; the other part con
tinues the existence of the individual under a new form.
    The whole process is called Ecdysis : it is a case of what might
be termed concentric fission.
    The peculiarity of this mode of fission is ; that of the two portions
into which the individual becomes divided at each moult, one is
unable to maintain an independent existence and therefore ceases to
be of any importance ; while the other, continues to carry on all
the functions of animal life and to represent in itself the whole
individuality of the animal. From this circumstance there is not
objection to any independent form being taken for, and spoken of
as the whole individual, among the higher animals.
    But among the lower animals the mode of representation of the
individual is different and any independent form ceases, in many
cases, to represent the whole individual ; these two modes, how
ever, pass into one another insensibly.
    The best illustration of this fact may be taken from the develop
ment of the Echinodenus, as it has been made known by the brilliant
discoveries of Professor Miiller.
    The Echinus lividus stands in the same relation to its Platens, as
a butterfly to its caterpillar ; in the course of development only a
slight ecdysis takes place, the skin of the Pluteus becoming for the
most part converted into the skin of the Echinus.
    But in Asterias, the Bipinnaria which corresponds with the Plu
 teus, gives up only a portion of its integument to the developed
 Asterias ; the remaining and far larger portion lives for a time after
 its separation us an independent form.

1852.]                OF THK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       187
   The Bipinnaria and the Starfish, are as much forms of the same
individual OB are the Pluteus and Echinus or the caterpillar and but
terfly ; but here the development of one form is not necessarily
followed by the destruction of the other, and the individual is, for a
time at any rate, represented by two co-existing forms.
   This temporary co-existence of two forms of the individual might
become permanent if the Asterias, instead of carrying off the intes
tinal canal of the Hipinnaria, developed one of its own ; and this is
exactly what takes place in the Gyrodactylus, whose singular de
velopment has been described by Von Siebold.
   But the case of the Gyrodactylus affords us an easy transition to
that of the Trematoda, the Aphides, and the Salpa:, in which the
mutual independence of the forms of the individual is carried to its
greatest extent ; so that even on anatomical grounds it is demon
strable that the difference between the so called " skin " of the
caterpillar, the free Bipinnaria, and the Salpa democratica is not in
kind, but merely in degree.
   Each represents a form of the individual ; the amount of inde
pendent
logy       existence of which a forui is capable, cannot affect its homo-
       as such.
   The Lecturer then proceeded to point out that the doctrine of the
" Alternation of Generations" and all theories connected with it, rest
upon the tacit or avowed assumption " that whatever animal form
has an independent existence is an individual animal," a doctrine
which, he endeavoured to shew, must if carried out, inevitably lead
 to absurdities and contradictions, as indeed Dr. Carpenter has already
pointed out.
    There is no such thing as a true case of the " Alternation of Ge
nerations " in the animal kingdom ; there is only an alternation of
 true generation with the totally distinct process of Gemmation or
Fission.
    It is indeed maintained that the latter processes are equivalent to
 the former ; that the result of Gemmation as much constitutes an
 individual, as the result of true Generation ; but in that case the
 tentacles of a Hydra, the gemmiferous tube of a Salpa, nay, the legs
 of a Centipede or Lobster must be called individuals.
    And if it be said that the bud must have in addition the power
 of existing independently, to constitute an individual ; there is the
 case of the male Argonaut, which has been just shewn by H. Miiller
 to have the power of detaching one of its arms (a result of gemma
 tion) which then leads a separate existence as the Hectocotylus.
    Without a misuse of words, however, no one would call this a
 separate individual.
    In conclusion the Lecturer stated his own views thus :
    The individual animal is the sum of the phenomena presented by a

  188                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [April 30,
 single life : in other words, it is, all those animal forms which pro
 ceed from a single egg, taken together.
    The individual is represented in very various modes in the Animal
 Kingdom : these modes pass insensibly one into the other, in nature ;
 but for purposes of clear comprehension they may be thus distin
 guished and tabulated.
                      Representation of the Individual.
 I. By Successive Inseparable Forms.
    Ascaris. A. Forms little different = Growth.
     Triton. B. Forms markedly different = Metamorphosis.
 II. By Successive Separable Forms.
                  1. Earlier Forms not Independent.
    Cockroach. A. Forms little different = Growth with Ecdysis.
    Beetle.       B. Forms markedly different = Growth with Meta
                                                        morphosis.
                  2. Earlier Forms partially Independent.
    Starfish.
III. By Successive and Co-existent Separable Forms.
                         1                           s
         a. External Gemmation.             b. Internal Gemmation.
       A. Forms little different.         All the forms produce eggs.
   Nais.                             "|
                                                  Gyrodactylus.
   Hydra.                           J
       B. Forms markedly different. Last forms only produce eggs.
                        *#* Last Forms produced.
   Medusa.                            \
                                Generally   :     Fluke.
   Salpa.                            \
                                 Locally  :       Aphis.
   These various modes of Representation of the Individual are ulti
mate facts. One is neither more nor less wonderful or explicable
than another ; any theory which pretends to account for the Suc
cessive and Co-existent forms of the Aphis-individual, must also
account for the Successive forms of the Beetle-individual or of
the Horse-individual — since they are phenomena of essentially the
same nature.

185'2.]               OF THE ROVAL INSTITUTION.                  189
   When the forms of the Individual are independent it becomes
desirable to have some special name by which we may denote them
so as to avoid the incessant ambiguity of the two senses of the word
individual. For these forms the Lecturer some time ago proposed
the name " Zooid." Thus the Salpa-individual is represented by
two Zooids ; the Fluke by three ; the Aphis by nine or eleven, &c.
  The use of this term is of course a mere matter of convenience
and has nothing to do with the question of Individuality itself.
                                                         [T. H. H.]
  In the Library were exhibited : —
Leadbeater's Cockatoo ; and Australian Birds.         [Exhibited by
  Messrs. Leadbeaters.]
Specimens    of the Flora of South Africa, recently brought over by
  Mr. P. Wicks.
Idol in Granite — Clay heads and Figures, from the Pyramids at
   Mexico — Mediaeval Copper Vase and Spoon — Chinese Compass,
   and Cup, &c.— Specimen of Ancient Papyrus — Handle of Knife,
  in carved wood (from Strawberry- hill) — " Eve," in Roman
   Bronze — Head of a Faun, from Carthage. [Exhibited by Dr.
   W. V. Pettigrew, M. R. I.]
View of a Mountain Stream, sketched in the Tropics, by P. W.
  Justyne, Esq.
Greyhounds in Bronze — Inlaid Marble Table from Derbyshire —
  Two Septaria Slabs from the Oxford Clay — Two Marble Vases
   copied from the Etruscan— Beautiful Specimen of Gold in Quartz,
   from South Australia (value £70) — Stereoscope with two slides
   of Minerals, by Mr. Tennant.
Minerals and other Objects, from the Royal Institution Museum.
Mr. C. Varley exhibited by the Microscope, Embryo Snails, shewing
   the action of the heart, &c., the circulation of the Sap in the
   Nitella, and the Trumpet-shaped animalcules.

   190                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [May 1,
                            ANNUAL MEETING.
                              Saturday, May 1.
    William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
     The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors on the State of
  the Institution was read and adopted.
     Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary,
  to the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor
  Faraday, for their services to the Institution during the past year.
     The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers for
  the ensuing year : —
          President — The Duke of Northumberland, F.R.S.
          Treasurer — William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
          Secretary — Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                 Managers.
 William Wilberforce Bird, Esq.             F.R.S. Robert Grove, Esq. M.A.
                                          William
 William Tliomas Brande, Esq. F.R.S.
B. Bond Cabbell, Esq. M.P. F.R.S          Lord Londesborongh, K.C.H. F.R.S.
 Capt. Henry John Codrington, R.N.       George Moore, Esq. F.R.S. F.S.A.
J. Griffith Cole, Esq. M.A.              Frederick Pollock, Esq. M.A.
 George Dodd, Esq. M.P. F.S.A.           Lewis Powell, M.D.
 Sir Charles Fellows.                    John Webster, M.D. F.R.S.
 Aaron Asher Goldsmid, Esq.               Professor C. Wheatstone, F.R.S.
                                  Visitors.
J. G. Appold, Esq.                       Sir John Hall, Bart. F.R.S.
J. C. Burgoyne, Esq.                     John Hennen, M.D.
William Carpmael, Esq.                   Edward Kater, Esq. F.R.S.
Thomas Davidson, Esq.                    Thomas Little, Esq.
Walter Ewer, Esq. F.R S.                 Lord Lovaine.
Augustus Bozzi Granville, M.D. F.R.S.    Edward Meryon, M.D.
   F.L.S.                                William Noble Rule, Esq.
Col. J. G. Griffith.                     Alfred S. Taylor, M.D. F.R.S.

1852.]                       OF THK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          191
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                  Monday, May 3.
                     Lewis Powell, M. D. in the Chair.
    John George Appold, Esq.                       Francis Llovd, Esq.
    John George Dodson. Esq.                       Rev. Cyril Page.
    William Wyndham Horner, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
    Wentworth William Buller, Esq.                 Augustus Oliver Shakspeare
    Edw. R. Drury, Esq.                               Massey, Esq.
    Richard Jennings, Esq.                         Rev. Frederick D. Maurice,
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    William Thomas Brands, Esq., F.R.S.L. & E. was unanimously
elected Honorary Professor of the Royal Institution.
    The Secretary reported, that the Managers had acceded to a
proposal from Dr. John Conolly to deliver a Course of Twelve
Lectures " on Insanity," on Mondays and Wednesdays at 4 o'clock,
 P.M. commencing on Wednesday, May 5th.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
    Fromand the thanks of the Members returned for the same.
Table
Actuaries of Great Britain, Institute of. — Constitution and Laws of the Institute.
     8vo.Assurance
    The     1851. Magazine, Nos. 5, 6, 7. 8vo. 1852.
Architects, Royal Institute of British — Proceeding for April, 1852. 4to.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 224. 8vo. 1852
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XII. No. 4. 8vo. 1852.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. (the Editor)— The Pharmaceutical Journal for April, 1852. 8vo.
 Cambridge Philosophical Society —Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 2. 4to. 1852.
 Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 1 7. 8vo. 1852.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of, — Proceedings for April, 1852. 8vo.
Editor — The Athenaeum for March, 1852. 4to.
 Editor — The Medical Circular for April, 1852. 8vo.
 Ellis, Messrs. (Exeter) — Map shewing the Time, kept by Public Clocks in Various
     Towns in Great Britain. (April, 1, 1852 )
Faraday, Professor — Text-book of Mechanical Philosophy, by the Rev. R.
     Walker, M.Akademie,
    Kaiserliche                 Part :I.— Denkschriften,
                  A., F. R. S.,Wien                      Math.-Nat.
                                          Mechanics. 16mo.      1851. Classe, Dritter
     Band, Erste Liefer
    Sitzungsberichte,     ung. 4to.Classe,
                       Math.-Nat.        1851.VII Band ; 3, 4, 5 Heft.  8vo.  1851-2.
    Phil.-Hist. Classe, VII Band; 3, 4, 5 Heft. 8vo.        1851-2.

192                       notices of the meetings.                 [May 3, 1852.
  Archiv
    8vo. fiir
Faraday,   1S51.
               Kunde—Osterreichischer
           Professor    continued :     Geschichtsquellen, VII Band ; 1 und 2 Heft.
  Notizenblatt, Nos. 19—24, 1851 ; — Nos. 1, 2, 1852. 8vo.
    8vo. Vindobonae,
  Monumenta               Paleoslovenicae e Codice Suprasliensi, edidit F. Miklosich .
                 Linguae 1851.
  Versuch einer Geschichte der Pflanzenwelt, von Dr. F. Unger. Wien, 1852.
  Systema Helminthum auctore Carolo Mauritio Diesing. Vol. II. Vindobonae,
    1851.
Her Majesty's Government (by Sir H. De la Beche) — Records of the School of
    Mines and of Science applied to the Arts, Vol. I. 8vo. 1 852.
   (By Cot. Edw. Sabine) — Magnetical and Meteorological Observations at
    Hobarton, Vol. II. 4to. 1852.
Holdsworth, A. H. Esq. — Holdsworth's Water-Bulkheads, for reducing the
    Temperature and Arresting Fire in Ships or Vessels. 8vo. 1852.
Hon. East India Company — Bombay Meteorological Observations for 1847.
    4to. 1851.
Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. VII. Part II. 8vo. 1852.
    8vo.
Lovell.E.B.    Esq., M.R.I, (the Editor) —The Monthly Digest for April, 1852.
North, John, Esq., F.RS., M.R.I. — The Anatomy of the Human Gravid Uterus
    exhibited in figures ; by William Hunter. (Published by the Sydenham
    Society) fol. 1851.
Olireira, B. Esq., F.R.S., M.R.I. — Human Life, the Phenomena of the Divine
    Nature and Capacity for Perfection ; by ol Wo 'AdiXipoi Xupovpyoi. Part I.
    The Material Life. 16mo. 1852.
Fhillipps, Sir Thomas, Bart., F.R.S., M.RI.— The Cambridgeshire Visitation, by
    Henry St. George, 1619, from MSS. Phillipps No. 63. Edited by Sir T. P.
    Bart. fol. 1840.
  The Visitation of Middlesex begun in the year 1 663, by William Ryley, Esq.
    Lancaster, and Henry Dethick, Rouge Croix, Marshals and Deputies to Sir
    Edward Bysshe, Knt. Clariencieux King of Arms. fol. 1820.
  Oxfordshire Monumental Inscriptions (from the MSS. of Anthony a Wood,
    Dr. Hutton, and Mr. Hinton.) fol. 1825.
Royal Society of London — Transactions for 1851, Part II. 4to. 1852.
   Proceedings, No. 76. and Vol VI. No. 1 1. 8vo. 1851-2.
    1852. John,
Scoffern,    4to. M.B., F.S.A. (the Editor) — The Chemical Record for April,
Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XV. Part I.      8vo.   1852.

                    [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
          tforal 3!nstitutton of dfteat Britain,
                                   1852.
                  WEEKLYFriday,EVENING May 7.MEETING,
    W. R. GROVE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Vice President, in the Chair.
                  PROFESSOR EDWARD FORBES, F.R.S.
    On the supposed Analogy between the Life of an Individual and the
                           Duration of a Species.
 IN Natural History and Geology a clear understanding of the rela
 tions of Individual, Species, and Genus to Geological Time and
 Geographical Space is of essential importance. Much, however, of
 what is generally received concerning these relations will scarcely
 hear close investigation. Among questionahle, though popular no
 tions upon this subject the Lecturer would place the belief that' the
 term of duration of a species is comparable and of the same kind
 with that of the life of an individual.
    The successive phases in the complete existence of an individual
 are Birth, Youth, Maturity, Decline, and Decay terminating in Death.
 Whether we regard an individual as a single self-existing organism
 however produced, or extend it to the series of organisms, combined
 or independent, all being products of a single ovum, its term of
 duration can be abbreviated but not prolonged indefinitely, nor can
 the several phases of its existence be repeated. Conditions may
 arrest or hasten maturity, or prematurely destroy, but cannot, how
 ever favourable, reproduce a second maturity after decline has com
 menced.
    Now, it is believed by many that a species (using the term in the
sense of an assemblage of individuals presenting certain constant
characters in common, and derived from one original protoplast or
stock) passes through a series of phases comparable with those
which succeed each other in definite order during the life of a single
individual, — that it has its epochs of origin, of maturity, of decline
and of extinction, dependent upon the laws of an inherent vitality.
   If this notion be true the theory of Geology will be proportion
ately affected ; since in this case the duration of species must be
regarded as only influenced, not determined, by the physical condi
tions among which they are placed; — and, thus, species should
characterise epochs or sections of time, independent of all physical
changes and modifying influences short of those which are absolutely
   No. 13.                                            P

194                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    l^fln/ 7,
destructive. Now, geological epochs, as at present understood,
are defined by peculiar assemblages of species, and the amount of
change in the organic contents of proximate formations or strata is
usually accepted as a measure of the extent of the disturbances that
affect them. Yet this latter inference, involving as it does the sup
position that the spread and continuity of species in time is depen
dent upon physical influences, is adverse to the notion of a Life of a
Species as stated above.
   If we seek for the origin of this notion we shall find that it has
two sources, the one direct ; the other, indirect. It is not an
induction, nor pretended to be, but an hypothesis assumed through
apparent analogies. Its first and principal source may be discovered
in the comparison suggested by certain necessary phases in the
duration of the species with others in the life of an individual, such as
each has its commencement, and each has its cessation. Geological
research has made known to us that prior to certain points in time
certain species did not exist, and that after certain points in time
certain species ceased to be. The commencement of a species has
been compared with Birth, the extinction with Death. Again, many
species can be shown to have had an epoch of maximum develop
ment in time. This has been compared with the maturity of the
individual.
   Between the birth of an individual and the commencement of a
species in the first appearance of its protoplast, the analogy is more
apparent than real. We know how the former phenomenon takes
place, but we have no knowledge of the latter.
   Between the maturity of the individual and the maximum de
velopment of a species there is no true analogy, since the latter
can easily be proved to be entirely dependent on the combination of
favouring conditions, and during the period of duration of a species
there may be two or more epochs of great or even equal develop
ment, and two or more epochs of decline alternating with epochs
of prosperity. The epoch of maximum of a species may also occur
during any period in its history short of the first stage. Geological
and geographical research equally show that the flourishing of a
species is invariably coincident with the presence of favouring and
its decline with that of unfavourable conditions. Hence there is no
analogy between the single and definite phase of maturity of the
individual and the variable and sometimes often repeated epochs of
luxuriant development in the duration of a species.
   Between the death of the individual and the extinction of a
species there is an analogy only when the former event occurs
prematurely through the influence of destroying cond tious. But
in their absence, an individual after its period of vitality has been
completed must necessarily die ; whereas we have no right to
assume that such would be the fate of a species so circumstanced,
since in every case where we can either geologically or geogra
phically trace a species to its local or general extinction, we can

 1852.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                   195
connect the fact of its disappearance with the evidences of physical
changes.
    [The Lecturer illustrated these points by diagrams and special
demonstrations, selecting for explanation two local cases, the one
marine and the other fresh-water; the former taken from the
geological phenomena of Culver cliff and the neighbouring bays in
the Isle of Wight, of which a beautiful and original model had been
communicated by Captain Ibbetson for the purpose, and the latter
from his own recent researches (unpublished) on the succession of
organic remains in the Purbeck strata of Dorsetshire, conducted as
part of the labours of the Geological Survey of Great Britain.]
    The second and mere indirect source of the notion of the life of a
species may be traced in apparent analogies, half-perceived, between
the centralization of generic groups in time and space, and the
limited duration of both species and individual. But in this case
ideas are compared which are altogether and essentially distinct.
    The nature of this distinction is expressed among the following
propositions, in which an attempt is made to contrast the respective
relations of individual, species, and genus to Geological time and
 Geographical space.
    A. The individual, whether we restrict the word to the single
 organism, however produced — or extend it to the series of
 organisms, combined or independent, all being products of a
 single ovum — has but a limited and unique existence in time,
 which short as it must be, can be shortened by the influence of
 unfavourable conditions, but which no combination of favouring
 circumstances can prolong beyond the term of life allotted to it
 according to its kind.
    B. The species, whether we restrict the term to assemblages of
 individuals resembling each other in certain constant characters,
 or hold, in addition, the hypothesis (warranted, as might be shown
from experience and experiment), that between all the members of
 such an assemblage there is the relationship of family, the
 descendants of
'relationship      one first and
               of descent,    stock
                                 consequently
                                    or protoplast
                                               that (how   are all
                                                     they that     the
                                                                proto
 plast appeared is not part of the question) — is like the individual
 in so much as its relation to time are unique: once destroyed, it
 never, reappears.
    But, (and this is the point of the view now advocated) unlike
the individual, it is continued indefinitely so long as conditions
favourable to its diffusion and prosperity — that is to say, so long
as conditions favourable to the production and sustenance of the
individual representatives or elements are continued coincidently with
its existence.
     [No amount of favouring conditions can recal a species once
 destroyed — on this conclusion, founded upon all facts hitherto
 observed in palaeontology, the value of the application of Natural
 History to Geological science mainly depends.]

196                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [May 7,
   C. The genus, in whatever degree of extension we use the
term, so long as we apply it to an assemblage of species inti
mately related to each other in common and important features
of organization, appears distinctly to exhibit the phenomenon of
centralization in both time and space, though- with a difference,
since it would seem that each genus has a unique centre or area of
development in time, but in geographical space may present more
centres than one.
   a. An individual is a positive reality.
   b. A species is a relative reality.
   c. A genus is an abstraction — an idea — but an idea im
pressed on nature and not arbitrarily dependent on man's con
ceptions.
   a. An individual is one.
   /3. A species consists of many resulting from one.
   y. A genus consists of more or fewer of these monies resulting
from one linked together not by a relationship of descent but by
an affinity dependent on a divine idea.
       And, lastly,
    a. An individual cannot manifest itself in two places at once ;
it has no extension in space ; its relations are entirely with time,
but the possible duration of its existence is regulated by the law
of its inherent vitality.
    b. A species has correspondent and exactly analogous relations
 with time and space,— the duration of its' existence as well as its
 geographical extension is entirely regulated by physical conditions.
    c. A genus has dissimilar or only partially comparable relations
 with time and space, and occupies areas in both having only
 partial relations to physical conditions.
    The investigation of these distinctions and relations form the
 subject of a great chapter in the Philosophy of Natural History.
 That Philosophy contemplates the laws that regulate the manifesta
 tion of life exhibited in organized nature and their dependence upon
 and connection with the inorganic world and its phenomena. None
 teaches more emphatically the difficulties with which man's mind
 must contend when attempting to comprehend the wisdom em
 bodied in the universe, and none holds out a more cheering
 prospect of future discovery in fresh and unexpected fields of
 delightful research.
                                                          [E. P.]
     In the. Library were exhibited : —
 Several Cases of Moths, Butterflies, and Beetles, — and various Rep
    tiles, from the Zoological Society.
 Specimens of Electro- Plate, in Silver, Bronze, &c. [Exhibited by
    Messrs. Elkingtons.]

   1852.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          197
  Ino and Bacchus — Little Nell — Psyche, in Cheverton's Machine
      Sculpture. [Exhibited by W. T. Copeland, Esq.]
  Partridge and Woodeock, worked in Leather, in imitation of Wood-
     Carving, by Mr. W. Sanders.
  Portraits of John Dalrymple, Esq., F.R.S. and of Dr. Holland, F.R.S.,
     by J. Z. Bell. Esq.
  Mr. C. Varley exhibited several interesting objects by the Micro
     scope.
                   WEEKLYFriday, EVENINGMay 14. MEETING,
          SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                         THB REV. EDWIN SIDNEY,
                    On the Rise of the Sap in the Spring.
 AFTER a few prefatory observations, the speaker divided the subject
 into four parts which he proposed to consider in order. 1. A
 short description of certain physical phenomena to be regarded as
 preparatory. 2. Their application to the known organism of vege
 table structures. 3. The circumstances under which these organisms
 will be called into that activity which may be regarded as the
 proximate cause of the rise of the sap in the spring. 4. The
 diffusion of the sap through the plant. The inquiry was limited
 of course to plants of our own climate.
    1. In directing attention to the first part of the subject, it was
 observed that vitality must not be disregarded. The most chemical
and physical forces fail to explain all. Vital force is mysterious, it is
true, but so
peradded      are all
            above     forces.
                   dead  physical
                              If there
                                  forces,
                                       were   the avarieties
                                          all not            of organized
                                                     living formative       su-
                                                                      forcesub
stances could not originate as they do from a simple vesicle. The phe
nomena now to be considered were those of capillarity and endosmosis.
The former is greatly affected by temperature, and the imbibition due
to it differs much in different liquids and solutions. Endosmosis is
known as the phenomenon of the mixture of two liquids of unequal
density through a membrane, accompanied by a change of volume.
It is called endosmosis when the volume increases, exosmosis when
it diminishes. It is generally, but not always, found that when the
heavier liquid is above the lighter, mixture is accelerated by the
interposition of the membrane. Other things equal, the force of
the current varies as the excess of the density of the interior
liquid proportional to water. A current with a pressure of several

198                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [May 14,
atmospheres is producible by albumen. — There are those who
regard capillarity and endosmosis as modifications of the same
attractive force existing beween solids and liquids. But different
conditions are required. Capillarity is a statical effect, and so
differs from the double current of endosmosis and exosmosis.
    2. In applying these phenomena to the vegetable organism, it
was noticed that plants have no particular vessels carrying nutrient
fluids, but their open tubular structure is a condition favorable to ca
pillarity. Plants have ducts, and so called vessels ; but the latter,
except at certain times, contain air, and are not in connection with
the stomata. The fulness of the ducts is due to capillarity. The
structure of plants is favourable to endosmosis : the life of a
 cell involves an act of it. It is promoted by the thickening of
 the cell contents due to evaporation and other causes, and new
 materials are furnished by the lighter fluids surrounding the cells.
 The fine extremities of the roots are in the condition of the
 interposed membrane, and thus we have conditions of endosmosis —
 a vessel with organic sides, an exterior liquid capable of being
 imbibed by this tissue, and an internal liquid also capable of being
 imbibed by this tissue, of mixing with the exterior liquid, and per
 meating the tissues. The force detected at the root appears
 throughout the system ; and it is obvious that the contiguity of
 the cells to each other is promotive of an interchange of contents
 by endosmosis. Juices may be collected from plants by boring ;
 and while the sap movements are active, the higher the bore the
 thicker the juice : and albumen, the fluid most forcible in endos
 mosis, is closely connected with proteine compounds found in
 developing cells. The more active the development, the denser
 the fluid ; insoluble starch is found in the cells when store is re
  quired, and when nutrition is active it is changed into gum,
  dextrine, and sugar. The nature of the cells, vessels, &c. spoken
  of was illustrated by diagrams.
     3. In proceeding to the third point it was observed that the
 movements under present consideration were not rotations or mere
 movements of cell contents, nor could they be regarded as having
 any analogy with the circulation of animal fluids through arteries
 and veins. They are the movements by which nutrient fluids are
 conveyed to the organs of development. To aid in this conveyance
 two agencies appear, endosmosis and capillarity. If at any one
 time all the cells of a tissue contain a fluid of equal density, endos
 mosis takes place in those which come into immediate proximity to
 water, which dilutes their fluids and sets up the conditions of endos
 mosis between them and the next cells. Where evaporation is most
 active, there is the greatest concentration of sap; therefore the stream
 is towards the green parts and buds. The rise of the sap, generally,
 may be regarded as effected by the increased density of the fluids as
 they approach the seat of the evaporating process. Curious experi
  ments by Mr. Lawes, which were detailed by the aid of drawings,

 1852.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        199
taught that for every grain of solid matter fixed in the plants tried
when healthy, two hundred grains of water passed through by evapo
ration. Capillarity due to the ducts must also he taken into account
in the rise of the sap. As regarded its rise in the spring, when the
vigorous movement so well known takes place, a distinct explanation
could he given. Here several experiments of Hales were mentioned as
examples of ingenious method, but the true inferences could not be
made at that time for want of knowledge. The quiescence in winter is
due to the way in which evaporating surfaces are closed, and even
sealed up, so that capillarity, which does not take place in sealed tubes,
cannot act. The cells of buds are then filled with thin fluids. As
spring advances, the thickening takes place under the influences of
heat and moisture. Now we have the conditions of strong endos-
mosis. Development takes place, next comes evaporation, and
capillarity acts. These two forces are therefore brought into full
play, and the whole cellular chain is put into action from root to bud.
In monocotyledons the upward course is through the most newly
formed tissues, which are in the interior of the stem. In dicotyle
dons it passes along the last formed tissues of the wood, forming a
pabulum for the cambium. All young tissues are permeable to the
absorbed fluid, and whatever is formed of a soluble nature in one
part of the plant, is conveyable to another. Thus a compound
formed in the leaf may find its way to the stem and even the roots,
which latter is most likely to take place in the autumn, and indeed
goes to explain what is called root- action at that season.
   4. The last point was the diffusion of the sap. This subject is at
present by no means in a settled condition by reason of differences
of opinion, and the influence which the long received views of a
regular descent of sap, after elaboration in the leaves, still has upon
many persons. There is, however, no proof whatever of the forma
tion of ligneous tissues in the leaves, and the old theories of Du-
hamel and others are not to be maintained. Still it is not to be for
gotten that it has already been shewn that compounds formed in the
leaves may pass downwards, therefore the possibility of a descending
sap remains, while there is no general demonstration of the fact.
Ascent and diffusion may be regarded as sufficient to account for all
the phenomena of growth. The old arguments in favour of a
descending liber current in exogens, such as ringing the bark and
grafting, are capable of other interpretations than those which they
have received. A remarkable specimen of stock and graft was
shewn , to prove that their growths were perfectly distinct, though
nourished by a common food. If there were a descending bark sap,
could this be so ? The fact is, the new annual rings are formed
out of a cell development of the cambium. To shew that the proper
expression for the distribution of the sap is diffusion, an account was
given, and drawings shewn, of some very remarkable experiments on
a horse-chesnut, at Glassnevin near Dublin. They tended to prove
that when the sap-flow from cell to cell was interrupted by the al

200                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [May   14,
burnum and cambium being cut across, it at once diverged laterally.
There was nothing to indicate a vertical descent, but, on the contrary
the current by eudosmose took the directions indicated by circum
stances. When also we consider the phenomena exhibited by cut
tings of plants turned upside downwards, they indicate diffusion,
according to the physical laws which have been considered, rather
than such movements as have been so long attributed to currents of
sap. If these facts be coupled with the proofs that may be given
that the upward and downward channels so often taken for granted
by vegetable physiologists have no ostensible existence, it must be
allowed that the old theories, however fascinating, must give way,
and the movements of the nutrient fluids be interpreted on sound
principles. We shall be safe in speaking of the diffusion of these
fluids as taking place according to the laws which have been demon
strated, and which must be considered as prevailing, not only as we
know they do, in amorphous cellular masses, but in regularly or
ganized structures.
   The speaker concluded by apologizing for bringing this subject
forward before such an audience, but his design was to excite
to inquiry into the phenomena alluded to as amongst the most
interesting that could occupy the attention. In the course of the
evening there were also cited some experiments by the speaker on
parts of plants in active growth with ozonomctric tests, which mani
fested such actions as would consist with the idea that either
ozone, or oxygen tending to act like ozone, was in some manner
present at the places tested. If so, these phenomena might tend to
throw new and important light on the chemistry of vegetable life.
                                                               [E. S.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Casts of the Venus de Medicis, Venus of Melos, Apollo Belvedere,
   Laocoon, Dying Gladiator, Head ofJupiter, (reduced by Machinery).
     Theseus and
The[Exhibited      Ilyssus,
               "by R.       — Machine
                      Westmacott,  Esq.]Sculpture, by Mr. Cheverton.
Bourdon's Metallic Barometer and Steam- Gauge, with enlarged
   models. [Exhibited by Mr. Dewrance.]
Model of Appold's Self-regulating Friction-break,— Labour-Machine
   for Prisons. [Exhibited by J. G. Appold, Esq., M.R.I.]
A New Instrument for Drawing Ellipses, by Dr. Roxburgh, M.R.I.
Crystals of Sulphate of Quinidin ; and Specimens of Cast Iron,
   Ancient and Modern. [Exhibited by T, N. R. Morson, Esq.
   M.R.I.]
   Faraday.] Portrait of Biot by M. Regnault. [Exhibited by Mr.
Photograph

 1852.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                 201
 Portraits of Sir B. C. Brodie and the Rev. T. Eagles, and Sketch of
    a Poor Irish Girl, by J. Z. Bell, Esq.
 15 Ammonites from the Secondary Formations, Exhibited by Mr.
    Tennant ; and an Engraving of the " Ammonites Heterophyllus,"
    presented by him to the Royal Institution Library.
Mr. Varley showed by the Microscope the beating of the heart in
    the Monoculi and Wheel-animalcules.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                              Friday, May 21.
          W. R. GROVE, ESQ., M.A., F.R.S., Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                            B. C. BRODIE, ESQ.
             On the Allotropic Changes of Certain Elements.
THE earliest conception of the nature of a chemical substance was
limited to the knowledge of the ultimate or elemental particles into
which it could be broken up. To this after a time was added that
of the proportion in which these elements were combined. But this
too proved inadequate to explain the chemical differences of bodies,
especially their dynamic differences, that is, the different modes of
change of which they are susceptible — why for example, from
certain bodies containing many atoms of hydrogen, one of these
atoms can readily be removed and replaced by a metal, while no
skill has yet effected a similar exchange with a second. The progress
of discovery, moreover, established beyond a doubt the existence of a
class of bodies consisting of the same elements, combined in the
very same proportions, which yet differed in their chemical and
physical properties. To meet these and other difficulties, gradually
arose an idea new to chemical science, the idea of structure or
chemical form, in the elaboration of which, chemists of late years
have been principally engaged. The way in which this conception
has been applied to explain the relation of isomeric bodies may be
seen by the following illustration. Representing water as „ O, alcohol
                      P H
is represented as 9j,5O=C,H6 O, and methylic ether as
?5[J,O.
alcohol
U,
            = C, H6 O.           This last substance is identical with
     M, in its elemental constitution, but. differs from it in its

202                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [May 21,
chemical reactions. This difference is expressed by assuming that
the hydro-carbon is differently distributed in the two substances.
Looking at the above formulae, it will be perceived that the con
version of the one substance into the other would be effected by the
transference of hydro-carbon from one to the other part of the
system. The change in this case has not yet been effected ; but in
certain other instances we are enabled to effect very analogous
transformations, and to recombine the particles in the interior, as it
were, of the body itself.
   One or two instances were shown of this isomeric metamorphosis,
which were so selected as to illustrate the modes by which it could
be effected. For example — styrol, (an oil procured by the dis
tillation with water of the liquid storax), by the application of heat,
is converted without either the addition or the loss of any chemical
substance into a transparent solid, in its ultimate constitution
identical with the oil. The formula of the oil is C8 H8, that of the
solid according to Blyth and Hofmann, who first made it a subject
of investigation, C, H,.
    In certain cases these changes may be brought about by a chemical
action very analogous to that of fermentation, by which sugar is
converted without alteration of weight into carbonic acid and
alcohol. There is a body called aldehyde, C, H4 O, a very volatile
substance boiling almost with the warmth of the hand, and the
vapour of which is about 1-y times as heavy as air. By the addition
of one drop of sulphuric acid it is converted into a body which boils
at a higher temperature than water, and the vapour of which is 4-J-
times as heavy as air. Our knowledge is too imperfect to state the
precise mode in which the elements are re-arranged, but from the
 density of the vapour we infer that the molecule of the transformed
aldehyde contains three times the number of atoms of the original
body and is C6 H, , Os. Oil of turpentine is in a most remarkable
degree susceptible of these metamorphoses. By the action of sul
 phuric acid it is converted into oils, isomeric with it, but each
 differing from it in some one or more properties. Great heat is
 evolved during the change, due doubtless to the chemical combi
 nation which is taking place. In certain cases, as, for example,
the formation of paracyanogen by the decomposition of cyanide of
silver, this heat is so great as to cause the vivid ignition of the
substance.
    Acquaintance with these facts is necessary to view in their
 scientific connexion certain phenomena of the elemental bodies
which go under the name of allotropy, and which are to them,
precisely what isomeric phenomena are to compound substances.
This allotropy has been observed in the case of many elements,
 carbon, boron, silicon, selenium, sulphur, phosphorus, arsenic,
and possibly oxygen — from these sulphur and phosphorus were
 selected as presenting points of peculiar interest.
    At a few degrees above the boiling point of water, Sulphur

1852.]                 OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         203
melts to a transparent yellow fluid ; at about 160" C. it changes in
appearance, becoming red, and between 220° and 250° C. it becomes
deep red and viscid. Heated beyond this point it again becomes
liquid, and just before it boils appears as a deep black fluid. These
changes in the sulphur have been connected with certain thermic
phaenomena, which leave no doubt but that they are truly transitions
from one allotropic form to another. During cooling, sulphur
passes through the same changes, but in an inverse order ; and it
has been observed that the sulphur does not cool by regular
gradation, but that at certain points its temperature is stationary, or
falls much slower than at other points; this can only be explained
by assuming a developement of heat from the sulphur itself, which
compensates for that which it loses ; and this developement of heat
takes place just about the points of transition from one state to
another. By cooling suddenly the viscid sulphur, it may be re
tained for a long time in the form of a transparent elastic substance,
which ultimately solidifies to a sulphur differing in many respects
from the ordinary modification of the body, especially in being in
great measure insoluble in bisulphide of carbon.— An experiment
was shewn of the reconversion of this peculiar sulphur into the
viscid form ; this can be effected without melting the body by a
proper regulation of the temperature.
   It had been long known that Phosphorus exposed to sun-light
assumed a red colour. Berzelius suspected this to be an allotropic
modification of the element ; and the experiments of Schrotter, who
produced the same body by the action of heat, have established this
view and enable us to procure this phosphorus in large quantities.
In its chemical properties, as well as in appearance, this red phos
phorus is entirely different from the ordinary modification.
   The change thus produced by heat can also be effected by chemical
agency. By the action of iodine ordinary phosphorus can be con
verted in large quantities into the allotropic modification. This
can be done by projecting iodine into phosphorus melted under
strong hydrochloric acid, or into phosphorus simply melted in a
tube, and subsequently heating the substance. The iodine is em
ployed in very small quantities. It first dissolves in the liquid phos
phorus ; at a certain point as the temperature is raised a violent
evolution of heat takes place, which causes a kind of explosion in
the substance, and the mass of the phosphorus passes at this moment
into the other condition. A small quantity of iodine will in this
manner convert (if sufficient time be allowed) an absolutely unlimited
quantity of phosphorus.*
   On a former occasion certain experiments were shown as evidence
that the formation of oxygen, and indeed of other elements, waa a
  * The theory of this action and the detailed experiments are given in a
Paper on the action of Iodine upon Phosphorus, read by the Author before the
Chemical Society on the 21st of June.

204                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     {May 21 ,
chemical combination of particles of the same nature as the formation
of a compound substance, and that the two classes of bodies had a
similar molecular constitution.* By the phaenomena of allotropy,
other analogies are brought out between them, which lead to a
similar belief. The similarity is so great between the facts in the
two cases, — they are produced by the same means, by the alteration
of temperature and by chemical action, — they are attended with the
same evolution of heat, — that it is reasonable to refer them to the
same cause. In the case of the compound substance we have the
most direct evidence that the allotropic conversion is the re
combination of the particles of the substance' and the transition
from one chemical type to another. The inference is that the
change in the case of the elements is of the same nature, and that
phosphorus and sulphur are molecular groups capable of this re
arrangement and re- distribution.
                                                              [B. C. B.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Sulphur in its Native, Crude, Refined, Commercial, and Pharmaceu
   tical Forms. [Exhibited by Mr. S. Highley, jun.J
Cardinal Wiseman, from the Bust by Mr. C. Moore, in Machine
   Sculpture, by Mr. Cheverton.
Various Groups in Parian. [Exhibited by Mr. Addey.]
Ancient Egyptian Ear ornaments ; — Etruscan ear-rings, and sarco
  phagus ; — Roman bulla, fibula, spoons, ear-rings ; — Saxon clasps,
  fibula, and boss of shield ; — Celtic gold armilla, and fibula ; bronze
   armilla ; silver armilla ; Saxon portions of the Mancus, Cuer-
   dale ; — Ancient carvings in bone. [Exhibited by W. Chaffers,
   Esq., F.S.A.]
Testimonial (in Silver) to the 60th Rifles, by Major Moore. [Ex
Portrait
   hibitedofand
Minerals,    Lady
            by  Sulphur
               Messrs.
                   Bryant,
                        Hunt
                          Casts J.from
                            byand    Roskell.]
                                    Z. R. I. Esq.
                                       Bell,  Museum.
  * See on this subject the Author's Paper in the Philosophical Transactions,
1850, " on the Condition of certain Elements at the moment of Chemical
Change."

1S52.]                     OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          205
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                 Friday, May 28.
WILLIAM POLE, ~E.su., M.A.,inF.R.S.,          Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                      the Chair.
                          JOHN PERCY, M.D., F.R.S.,
      LECTUUER ON METALLURGY AT THE GOVERNMENT SCHOOL OF MINES, &C.
               On the Modes of Extracting Gold from its Ores.
 DR. PERCY began by stating that it was not his intention to touch
 upon any of those very interesting and important questions,— the dis
tribution of Gold upon the earth's surface ; the geological features
 of the regions which are believed to be indicative, not to say charac
 teristic, of its presence ; or the probable economical effect which
 the present unexampled supply may be expected to produce. To
 treat these subjects satisfactorily would require very much more
 time than that allotted to him on the present occasion. He should,
 therefore, direct special attention to certain points which he had
 reason to believe to be at the present time the most interesting.
     After a brief review of the physical and chemical properties of
 gold, of special importance in the consideration of the subject, the
  Lecture was treated as follows : —
     Modes of occurrence of Gold in nature. — Gold almost always
  occurs in nature in the metallic state ; not pure, but alloyed with
  silver in various proportions and with the occasional addition of
  small quantities of iron and copper. A table* was presented, shewing
  the composition of native gold from various parts of the world. The
  presence of silver is constant with one or two rare exceptions ; and
  its proportion varies not only in native gold from different auri
  ferous districts, but even in specimens from the same locality. In
  Hungary gold is met with in combination with Tellurium. Native
  gold occurs crystallized and amorphous in small grains of greater
  or less size, in lamina, and sometimes in masses of the weight of
  many pounds.
      Matters associated with native Gold.— These are various, such as
  quartz, either massive, or in a state of fine division as siliceous
  sand,—clay,— frequently certain kinds of iron pyrites,— rarely galena,
   &c. It seems doubtful whether in every instance the gold occurring
  in association with iron pyrites is wholly in the metallic state.— Spe-
      [* The Members are referred, for many of the tables and diagrams illustrating
   this discourse, to Dr. Percy's Lecture, forming one of " The Lectures on Gold,
   delivered at the Museum of Practical Geology," published by Bogue, price 2s, 6rf.]

206                    NOTICES OF THE MiJETiNcs                [May 28,
cimens of gold were exhibited which had been extracted from pyrites
from Wicklow in Ireland, Alston in Cumberland, and California.
From historical records it would appear that gold has occasionally
been found in different parts of the United Kingdom, but never in
quantities to justify the slightest comparison with the recently dis
covered gold fields. In 1796, great excitement was caused by the
discovery of gold in Wicklow, and about £10,000 worth of metal is
said to have been obtained, but at a cost which did not cover the ex-
pences of extraction, notwithstanding that one lump was obtained
weighing 22 ounces ! It is very important, that at the present
time, when so much excitement prevails respecting the newly ex
plored gold regions, the public should not be misled by the notion
that the extraction of gold will in every instance be profitable.
   The extraction of Gold from auriferous sand or alluvium.— The
method of washing by the bowl was described, and some different
forms of bowl shewn. The principle of separating gold by washing
depends upon its very high specific gravity as compared with that
of the associated matter. The process carried on in the Ural was
described in detail, and illustrated by diagrams. The average pro
portions of gold separated is little more than half an ounce to five
tons. From 1819 in Siberia, and in the Altai from 1830 to the
beginning of 1850, 774,9201bs. (avoirdupois) of gold were obtained,
of the value of about £46,495,200 sterling (Zerrener). The
weight of matter removed by washing in the extraction of that
amount of gold was (taking the average of half an ounce to five
tons) 297,569,280,006 pounds, or 128,379,142 tons.
   Stamping, washing, and amalgamation. — When gold is diffused
through masses of quartz, as in the auriferous quartz veins of Cali
fornia, the mass must be reduced by stamps to a fine state of di
vision. The product is washed in various ways ; and the fine portions
of gold, which might otherwise be carried away, are retained by
mercury in an apparatus called the amalgamation mill. The method
in practice at Schemnitz for this purpose was minutely described,
and illustrated by diagrams, without which it would be difficult to
render the processes intelligible.
   Smeltiny of Gold ores, or the extraction of the metal in the furnace.
The quartz must be reduced to a state of fine division and mixed
with a substance which at a high temperature will combine with it
 and convert it into a fusible glass or slag. Such a substance is
lime in certain proportions, or oxide of iron, or still better a mixture
of the two. But as the gold exists only in very small proportion
as compared with its matrix of quartz, it is necessary to introduce
into the furnace lead, which may serve the purpose of dissolving
and collecting the gold. By thus forming an alloy of gold and
lead, and greatly increasing the bulk of the metal, which will subside
to the bed of the furnace below the slag, the loss of gold will
 comparatively be prevented. In the event of employing oxide
 of iron as an agent to effect the fusion of the quartz, it would

1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       207
obviously be desirable, when practicable, to obtain it by roasting with
access of air on auriferous iron pyrites, such as the Californian.—
The result of several experiments on the smelting of auriferous
quartz were placed before the audience. The gold is separated
from the lead by well known and ancient processes of cupellation.
In the smelting of what is termed " Sweep," or the dust obtained
by the sweeping of the shops of silversmiths and jewellers, the
same principle is adopted. Lead is added, either in the metallic
state, or in a state of combination, from which it may be evolved in
the metallic state in the furnace, as in the case with certain lead slags.
The part which mercury plays at the ordinary temperature in the
amalgamation mills is performed by lead at a high temperature in
the furnace. Anossow, a Russian engineer, is reported to have
made successful experiments in the smelting of the gold-sand of
the Ural by substituting cast iron for lead, and subsequently dis
solving out the iron from the gold by sulphuric acid. He asserts
that by this means he procured a very much larger quantity of
gold than could have been separated by the most careful washing.
His results, however, have not been received as correct. The
results of experiments on the use of cast iron as a vehicle to collect
the gold, were placed before the audience. By simply melting
the cast iron in contact with lead, the greater part, if not the
whole of the gold, appeared to be extracted from the iron with
which it had been alloyed.
    Although no positive opinion was expressed respecting the
 desirableness, or otherwise, of smelting the auriferous quartz of
California, yet it was suggested, that in the event of the smelting
process being adopted, it would, probably, for various reasons be
found advantageous to smelt the quartz in conjunction with
some of the South American silver ores, many of which contain
gold.
    The smelting of auriferous pyrites was next described. The pyrites
is first roasted, by which process oxide of iron is formed. The
roasted ore is smelted in a blast furnace with unroasted ore. A
slag is obtained, and below sulphide of iron (or, as it is termed, a
 " matte,") containing the gold from the two portions of ore. This
 "matte" may be roasted, and again smelted with another portion
 of unroasted ore. A slag and "matte" are again obtained, and
 the latter will contain the gold from the three portions of ore.
 The gold may thus be concentrated, and ultimately extracted from
 the " iiinl/f " by smelting with lead. Many details were neces
 sarily given which do not appear in this general notice of the
lecture.
    The treatment of certain auriferous ores by Chlorine.— Chlorine dis
solved in water has been employed in extracting gold from a poor
auriferous arsenical pyrites at Riechenstein. The ore is roasted, and
the products treated with chlorine water. The gold is dissolved as
chloride, and precipitated from its solution by sulphuretted hydrogen.

208                     NOTICB8 OF THE MEETINGS                [May 28,
The sulphide of gold is converted into metal by the agency of heat
alone.— A Council Medal was awarded for this process at the Great
Exhibition of last year. In the first number of the Philosophical
Magazine for 1848 will be found a series of experiments on this
subject made by the Lecturer in 1847.
   Melting of the Gold dust.—The gold obtained in grains (pepites)
 by washing, is melted in black lead crucibles with borax. The
slag containing the foreign matter is skimmed off, A little
corrosive sublimate is then, in particular cases, dropped in, after
which the metal is cast into ingots. The use of corrosive sublimate
is of ancient date. Some metallurgists believe its addition to be
useless ; but it is still occasionally employed by gold-melters of
great experience.
   Parting or separation of the Silver.— This is effected either by
nitric or sulphuric acid. Gold must be alloyed with from 2~ to 3
times its weight of silver to allow of the removal of the latter by the
agency of either of those acids. The method of parting by nitric acid
is well known. The process was briefly described. The silver dis
solved out from the gold is now generally precipitated from its solution
in nitric acid as chloride, by the addition of common salt. The chlo
ride is washed and reduced to the metallic state by zinc.— Dr. Percy
had intended to have given the results of careful experiments on the
large scale, made by himself on the use of cast iron vessels in parting
by sulphuric acid. The use of cast iron, for this purpose, was long
ago proposed by a Frenchman at Marseilles. In the experiments
just referred to, several thousands of ounces of silver were ope
rated on. No description has yet been published, so far as he is
aware, giving all the practical details necessary to the successful
application of iron vessels for parting. The shortness of the time
prevented the fulfilment of the intention abovementioned.
    "In conclusion," said Dr. Percy, "permit me to offer a few
observations in connection with the subject which I have ventured to
submit to the Members of the Royal Institution. That subject is
essentially what is termed practical. Yet in every process which we
have examined, the principles of science are involved. The metal-
lurgic arts present a varied and beautiful field for investigation, and
merit greater attention from chemists than they have yet received,
at least in this country. The reactions which take place in many
metallurgical operations require for their elucidation the highest
science, and have only to be known to be duly appreciated. This
evening I may speak freely of the attractions of metallurgy to the
chemist, who is intent upon the investigation of the glorious truths of
science for their own sake ; but if I had to address Manufacturers
upon the advantage of the applications of science to metallurgy I
should be under the necessity of employing the only argument which
 will avail with them,— that of direct and positive advantage.
    " We have seen, that although Gold may be present only in very

 1852.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        209
small quantity, it may yet by skilful manipulation be extracted with
advantage ; and in these days of gold-mining adventure, it is to be
feared, that many may be led by this consideration to believe that
wherever gold is found, there is a favourable field for mining enterprize.
But it must not be forgotten, that it is not merely a. question of the
occurrence of gold in any given district, but whether it is present in
sufficient quantity to admit of profitable extraction. If it were
necessary,— as I am credibly informed it would be in one locality,—
to expend a sovereign in order to extract sixteen shillings' worth of
gold, dividends would be expected in vain.
    " The consumption of gold in the Arts is an interesting subject of
inquiry. A very large amount of that which is thus applied is
irrecoverably lost,— as, for instance, the gold employed for gilding
with gold leaf, and that used in ornamenting china. Some idea of
the extent of this loss may be formed, from the fact that one gold •
beater will consume many thousand pounds' worth of gold annually,
and there is one manufacturer of china who consumes annually not
less than £2000 worth of gold. There is also a large consumption
of gold in what is called the gilt- toy manufacture. It seems probable
that if the metal should become much more abundant, its applications
in the Arts would be proportionately extended.
    " Gold after all does not constitute the true riches of a nation.
On account of its hitherto comparatively rare occurrence and gradual
supply, it has been well selected as the conventional representative of
wealth. It is a very beautiful metal and is well adapted to the
various purposes of ornament to which it is applied ; but in respect
to intrinsic excellence it will not compare with iron. A golden
needle would be a poor substitute for one of polished steel, and no
ordinary skill would be required to operate upon a tender joint with
a golden knife. Iron-stone and coal, with conditions favourable to
their being worked, are more to be desired than the treasures of an
£1 Dorado ; and probably the most important, though distant result
of the discovery of gold in California and Australia, will be that of
developing the natural resources of those great countries, by attracting
the tide of emigration to their shores."
                                                                P.P.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Four Specimens of Gold in Quartz from Ballard Diggins, near Port
   Philip, Australia. [Exhibited by R. Brooks, Esq.]
Baillie's Patent Volute Springs, with Model of Railway Carriage.
   [Exhibited by Mr. Howard.]
Specimens of Silicious Conglomerate from Hertfordshire, and of
   Krokidolite. [Exhibited by Mr. Tennant.]
Manufactures in Imitation-Ivory and Protean Stone, by Mr. Che-
   verton.
                                                         Q

210                     NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS               [June 4,
A Collection of Shells arranged for the Study of Conchology ; and
   Specimens of Cinnamic Acid and Tantalite. [Exhibited by T. N.
   R. Morson, Esq., M.R.I.]
Illustrations of Endosmosis, from Royal Institution Laboratory.
Design for the Chemical Society's Seal, by J. Bonomi, Esq. and Im
   pressions from the Seal, engraved by Mr. G. Barclay.
Map of Gold Country, Bathurst, Australia. [Exhibited by Mr.
   Lloyd.]
Portraitofof" the
Model              Martyrs'
              a Lady,    painted
                            Memorial,"
                                 in Pastel on Vellum,
                                        Oxford,         by Alexander
                                                by Mr. Flack.
   Blaikley, Esq.
Portraits of Sir James Duke, Dr. Chambers, and Mrs. Blake, by
   J. Z. Bell, Esq.
Three Caps made of Needlework, worn by the Mopilas, or Muham-
   medans of the Malabar Coast ; Chinese Painting on Glass ; Speci
   men of Tea prepared for the use of the Emperor of China ; the Joo-
   ee or Talisman of good Omen placed by the Chinese in their chief
   apartments ; Chinese Lady's Shoe and Metallic Mirror. Various
   Articles of Burmese Costume. Maliva and Kandeish Opium and
   the Opium Pipe of the Chinese. [Exhibited by the Royal Asiatic
   Society.]
                               EVENING
                  WEEKLY Friday,           MEETING,
                                     June 4.
        SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                  JOHN SCOTT RUSSELL, ESQ., F.R.S.
   On English Ships and American Clippers.        (Second Notice.)
MR. SCOTT RUSSELL commenced his discourse with the following
remarks :
   " When I had the pleasure a month or two ago of stating a few
facts, and hazarding some opinions, regarding the present state of
knowledge, and the actual progress of practice in the construction of
ships, I confined my remarks, which were necessarily few and im
perfect, to American Ships and Yachts, comparing them especially
with our own. I selected the Americans, because I believed them to
be more advanced in the Arts of Navigation and Naval Construction
than any other nation ; and because it may be regretted that they are
so, inasmuch as we were not long ago in the place they now occupy :
and secondly, because I believed it to be entirely owing to our own
adherence to prejudices, and to an antiquated system established by
bad legislative enactments, that we have been left behind, with larger

   1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      211
  capital, longer experience, more extensive colonial trade, and larger
  commercial relations with every nation of the world.
      " It is impossible to escape from the conclusion, that, if we are
  behind the Americans the fault is entirely ours, and the superiority
  must be attributed either to the greater knowledge, intelligence,
  adroitness, or ability of the Americana, or to ignorance, prejudice, or
 aupineness on our own part.
     " If I then succeeded in satisfying you, that it would not be wise
  any longer to assert our hereditary superiority by words merely ; if I
  led you to do more justice than we have hitherto done to our younger
  brother over the water; if I led you to believe it was just possible
  that our younger brother, with some faults, was less prejudiced and
  more active than we have hitherto been willing to give him credit
  for, and that it is just possible that Old Britannia, rich, indolent, and
  shutting her eyes, might have inadvertently let the sceptre of the
  waves drop from her fingers ; then I accomplished all I hoped for.
 To be well assured that we are not first is, I hope, enough with En
 glishmen to secure that we shall be.
     " To-night I shall endeavour to go more fully into the question,
 How? How shall we now, rapidly and surely, make progress in
 navigation and naval construction ?
     " If I may venture to state any single source to which I should
 look for the advancement of naval construction in this country, I
 should say it was from the general increase of knowledge of the true
 principles and theory of ship-building among all the classes of
 society who are connected with the naval and shipping interest of
 this countr^.
     " This may appear to be a common-place remark ; and it may
 sound like a truism, to say that we should all do better if we knew
 better. But the diffusion of knowledge of the kind I mean, among
 the classes I refer to, is really more practically valuable than does
 superficially appear. In this country there is a vast number of
 persons, and a great variety of interests, concerned in the construc
 tion of every ship.— First, there is the Legislature who make Acts of
 Parliament for ship-building ; —Then there is " Lloyd's" who make
 rules and regulations for ship-building, and who give the certain
rank and classification according to their own notions of what a ship
 should be ; — Then there are the Insurance Brokers who insure a ship
 at a larger or a smaller premium, according to their rules for the
security of a ship and the property she contains ; — Then there come
the Proprietors of Harbours and Docks who charge tonnage-dues
according to certain registers and laws ; and Boards who regulate
pilotage and make other nautical laws according to their own notions
and principles; — Next comes the Ship-Owner or Merchant, who
orders the ship from the ship-builder and holds the purse-strings ;
and he too, who never sailed a ship in his life, he too has his notions
right or wrong, not only of what his ship ought to be, but of how
he ought to have her constructed : he virtually dictates to the

212                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [Jtme 4,
Builder the radical points of construction, which compel him to make
a bad ship, or at least deprive him of the elements of a good one : —
Then comes a more important man, even than the ship-builder or
the owner,— the Captain who is to sail the new ship, who has sailed
the preceding ship, who may have no notion how the ship is formed,
and yet may have prejudices as strong, and notions as obstinate, as
if his will were a law of nature, and his notions truths in hydraulics ;
Then there is the Lumper who stows your ship by contract, and your
Mast-maker who puts in his spars, and the Sail-cutter who cuts your
sails, and the Rigger who places ropes and blocks ; all done by each
contractor, and by every one under him according to the rules of
his trade. Among all these gentlemen, let me ask you, if they are
ignorant and prejudiced, what is to be expected from the poor ship
builder ? — and the poor ship? —To improve British navigation we
must improve the state of knowledge of all these classes, and by
that means alone can extensive improvement take place in the Naval
constructions of England."
   The Lecturer then explained, and illustrated by diagrams, the
various points in the construction of a ship which give her peculiar
qualities, dividing the examination of a ship into three categories :
    1st, The Geometry of Naval Construction, viz. : —
       The Midship Section.
       The Body Plan.
       The Sheer Plan.
       The Water Lines.
       The Ribband Lines.
       The Buttock Lines.
   2nd, The Mechanical Qualities of Ships :
       Weight.
       Displacement.
       Stability — Statical and Dynamical.
       Easiness in Rolling and Pitching.
       Dryness.
       Weatherliness.
       Handiness in Working.
   3rd, Equipment and Stowage of Ships, as affecting their qualities :
       Trim.
       Centre of Weight.
       Stowage.
       Centre of Oscillation.
       Sails.
       Masts.
       Number of Men.
       Economy of Working.
    In regard to these three classes of elements, it was shewn that all
 must be combined with a perfect understanding of the effect of each

1852.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         213
on the others, to make a good performance ; otherwise, by bad equip
ment, bad stowage, or ignorant handling, a good plan might result
in a bad ship ; or a good ship, stowed and equipped without know
ledge of her form and qualities, might be rendered in practice a sorry
performer. The elevation of all classes connected with shipping,
in general intelligence on all the points that approach a ship's per
formance, is the only sure means of advancing our naval position
among other nations.
                                                               [J. S. R.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Dr. Junod's
Casts  of Eggs    of ./Epyornis
               Exhausting    Apparatus.
                                  Maximus,[Exhibited
                                             Madagascar       Birds
                                                        by ; Dr.    mounted
                                                                 Junod.]
   by Mr.and
Starling        Blackbird,
            A. D.   Bartlett.— Imitation (in Leather) of Wood Carving,
   by Mr. Sanders.
Flexible Chain cast in one Piece by Messrs. Midworth, Newark.
   [Exhibited
Chinese,         by Mr.and
            Burmese,          Malay Swords, — Chinese Tea-pot — Old
                         Duer.]
  Butch carving, " Adam and Eve expelled from Paradise." [Ex
  hibited
Vases       by Dr.China,
       in Parian               Marble Cross
                     W. V.—Pettigrew,         inlaid, — Stag and Buffalo in
                                         M.R.I.]
   Cast-iron,— Ortheroceratite and Section — Cast of Helmet from
   one in Silver inPortrait
A Daguerrotype                of Sir
                      the Paris  Museum.
                                     John Herschell.
                                             [Exhibited  by Mr. Tennant.]
                                                       [Exhibited   by Major
  Jervis, M.R.I.]
Roman Bronze Antiquities.             [Exhibited by W. Chaffers, Esq.,
   F.S.A.]
Ibbetson's Geometric Chuck for producing Bi-cycloid Curves. [Ex
   hibitedofbyErasmus
Portrait                Wilson, Esq., by Miss Jane C. Bell.
                Mr. Perigal.]
Mr. C. Varley exhibited various Animalcules, by the Microscope.

214                            notices of the MEETiNes                           [June 7,
                      GENERALMonday,    MONTHLY   June 7. MEETING,
 William Pole, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                         in the Chair.
    Wentworth William Buller, Esq.                    A. S. Oliver Massey, Esq.
    Richard Jennings, Esq.
 were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
    Charles Blakely Brown, M.D.                       Robert M'Calmont, Esq.
    John Peter Fearon, Esq.                           Miss Harriet Moore.
    Edward M. Foxhall, Esq.                           David Oldfield, Esq.
 were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    A Letter was read from W. T. Brande, Esq. expressing his deep
 sense of the distinction conferred on him by his election as Honorary
 Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.
    The following Presents were announced ; and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same : —
    From
     Treatment
 Anderson,             the Diseases
               W. J.ofEsq.,  F. R. C. of
                                      S.,Pregnancy.
                                           M. R. I. (the   Author)—The
                                                        12mo.   1852.      Symptoms and
     Sette. 1850.
 Alessandro,              da Torino (the Author) — Una Visita all' Abendberg, 10
                 Sella, 8vo.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 225. 8vo. 1852.
      1852.
 Astronomical       Society (Royal) — Monthly Notices, Vol. XII. No. 5.               8vo.
 Bell, Jacob, Esq. (the Editor) — The PharmaceuticalJournal for May, 1852. 8vo.
 British Architects (Royal Institute of) — Proceedings, May, 1852. 4to.
 Civil Engineers (Institution of) — Proceedings, May, 1852. 8vo.
 D. C.L. (the Author) — Letters on Church Matters. Vol. III. 8vo. 1852.
 East India Company, The Hon.—Meteoi ological Observations made at the Mag-
     netical Observatory, Singapore, by Capt. C. M. Elliott, in 1841-45. 4to.
      1850.
  Editor — The Athenaeum for April, 1852. 4to.
    The Medical Circular for May, 1852. 4to.
 Esdaile, James, M.D. (the Author) —The Introduction of Mesmerism as an
      Anaesthetic and Curative Agent into the Hospitals of India. 8vo. 1852.
      Seyffer,Professor
  Faraday,      Ph. D. —8vo.       1848.
                             Geschichtliche   Darstellung des Galvanismus von O.E.J.
      teucci
    Traite
      Electrique
             des
               suiviPhenomenes
                    de d"Etudes
                        la Torpille;Electro
                                  Anatomiques
                                      par Paul
                                             Physiologiques
                                                Savi.
                                                 sur le 8vo.
                                                         Systeme
                                                              Paris,
                                                             des  Animaux,
                                                                     1844. etpar
                                                                 Nerveux          C. Mat-
                                                                              sur l'Organe

 1852.]                     OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      215
      1837. der Lehre vom Galvano-Voltaismus. Von C. H. Pfaff.
   Revision                                                        8vo. Altona.
   Essai Historique sur les Phdnomenes et les Doctrines d'Electro-Chimie,
     par E. F. Wartmann. 8vo. Geneve, 1838.
   Theorie Physique et Mathématique des Phenomenes Electro-dynamiques et
     du Magngtisme, par A. Masson. 8vo. Paris, 1 838.
   Das Verhalten des Eisens zum Sauerstoff, von L. F. Schonbein. 8vo. Basel,
     1837.
   Verhandeling over de Gutta Percha en Caoutchouc. Door A. Adriani.
     8vo. Utrecht, 1850.
   Recherches sur l'emploi de divers Amendements dans la Culture des Forels,
     par M. E. Chevandier. 8vo. Paris, 1852.
     W. Dillwyn,
   Materials           R. S. and
               for aF.Fauna          1848.
                              8vo.Flora of Swansea and the Neighbourhood, by L.
   Meditationes Analytical, by W. Spottiswoode. Part 1-5. 4to. 1837.
   Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, Marz, 1852. 8vo.
Franklin Institute, Philadelphia — Journal, Vol. XIII. No. 2, 3, 4. 8vo. 1852.
 Geological Society,— Journal, No. 30. 8vo. 1852.
     Anniversary Address, by W. Hopkins, Esq. 8vo. 1852.
Kerr, (Mrs. Alexander) M.R.I. — Code of Bugis Maritime Laws, with a Trans
     lation, Vocabulary, &c. 12mo. Singapore. 1832.
Loseby, Mr. (the Author) — Improvements in Timekeepers. 12mo. 1852.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. (the Editor) — The Monthly Digest for May, 1852. 8vo.
Mantell. O. A. Esq., LL.D., F.R.S. (the Author) — On the Fossil Remains
    of Reptiles, &c., from the Devonian Strata of Morayshire, &c. 8vo. 1852.
Royal Society of London — Transactions for 1851, Part II. 4to. 1852.
   Proceedings, No. 76. 8vo. 1852.
     16mo. Charles,
Rowcroft,      1852. Esq. (the Author) — Confessions of an Etonian. 3 vols.
Scoffern, John, M. B. {the Editor) — The Chemical Record for May, 1852. 4to.
Sharp, Granville, Esq. (the Author) — The Prize Essay on the Application of
    Recent Inventions collected at the Great Exhibition of 1851, to the
    purposes of Banking. 8vo. 1852.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Jan.
    und Feb. 1852. 4to.
Wilkinson, Sir J. Gardner, F.R.S. (the Author) — The Fragments of the
    Hieratic Papyrus at Turin: containing the Names of the Egyplian Kings
    with the Hieratic Inscription at the back. Folio and 8vo. 1851.
Weale, John, Esq. — Rudimentary Treatises : 12mo. 1852.
   The Marine Engine, &c. by R. Murray, C. E.
   Astronomy, by the Rev. R. Main.
   Integral Calculus, by H. Cox, B. A.
   Differential Calculus, by W. S. B. Woolhouse, Esq.
   Agricultural Engineering; Vol. I. Buildings; by G. H. Andrew.
   Magnetism, Part III. by Sir W. Snow Harris, F.R.S.
   Statics and Dynamics, by T. Baker, C. E.
   Embanking, by John Wiggins, F. G. S.
Zoological Society of London — Transactions, Vol. IV. Part 2. 4to. 1852.
Catherwood, Frederick, Esq. — A Large Specimen of Auriferous Quartz from
    Gold Hill, Grass Valley, Nevada County, California.

216                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [June 1 1 ,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, June 11.
         SIB CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                          PROFESSOR FARADAY,
                 On the Physical Lines of Magnetic Force.
 ON a former occasion, (Jan. 23, 1852, see p. 105) certain lines
 about a bar magnet were described and defined (being those which
 are depicted to the eye by the use of iron filings sprinkled in the
 neighbourhood of the magnet), and were recommended as expressing
 accurately the nature, condition, direction, and amount of the force
 in any given region either within or outside of the bar. At that
 time the lines were considered in the abstract. Without departing
 from or unsettling any thing then said, the enquiry is now entered
 upon of the possible and probable physical existence of such lines.
 Those who wish to reconsider the different points belonging to these
 parts of magnetic science may refer to two papers in the first part of
 the Phil. Trans, for 1852 for data concerning the representative lines
 of force, and to a paper in the Phil. Mag. 4th Series, 1852, vol. iii.
 p. 401, for the argument respecting the physical lines of force.
     Many powers act manifestly at a distance ; their physical nature
 is incomprehensible to us : still we may learn much that is real and
 positive about them, and amongst other things something of the
  condition of the space between the body acting and that acted upon,
  or between the two mutually acting bodies. Such forces are pre
  sented to us by the phenomena of gravity, light, electricity, mag
  netism, &c. These when examined will be found to present
  remarkable differences in relation to their respective lines of forces ;
  and at the same time that they establish the existence of real physical
  lines in some cases, will facilitate the consideration of the question as
  applied especially to magnetism.
     When two bodies, a, b, gravitate towards each other, the line in
  which they act is a straight line, for such is the line which either
  would follow if free to move. The attractive force is not altered,
  either in direction or amount, if a third body is made to act by gravi
  tation or otherwise upon either or both of the two first. A balanced
  cylinder of brass gravitates to the earth with a weight exactly the
  same, whether it is left like a pendulum freely to hang towards it, or
  whether it is drawn aside by other attractions or by tension, what
  ever the amount of the latter may be. A new gravitating force may
  be exerted upon a, but that docs not in the least uffcct the amount of
  power which it exerts towards b. We have no evidence that time

1852.]                 OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      217
enters in any way into the exercise of this power, whatever the
distance between the acting bodies, as that from the sun to the
earth, or from star to star. We can hardly conceive of this force in
one particle by itself; it is when two or more are present that we
comprehend it : yet in gaining this idea we perceive no difference in
the character of the power in the different particles ; all of the same
kind are equal, mutual, and alike. In the case of gravitation, no
effect which sustains the idea of an independent or physical line of
force is presented to us ; and as far as we at present know, the line
of gravitation is merely an ideal line representing the direction in
which the power is exerted.
    Take the Sun in relation to another force which it exerts upon the
earth, namely, its illuminating or warming power. In this case
rays (which are lines of force) pass across the intermediate space ;
but then we may affect these lines by different media applied to
them in their course. We may alter their direction either by re
flection or refraction ; we may make them pursue curved or angular
courses. We may cut them off at their origin and then search for
 and find them before they have attained their object. They have a
relation to time, and occupy 8 minutes in coming from the sun to the
 earth : so that they may exist independently either of their source or
 their final home, and have in fact a clear distinct physical existence.
 They are in extreme contrast with the lines of gravitating power in
 this respect ; as they are also in respect of their condition at their
 terminations. The two bodies terminating a line of gravitating
 force are alike in their actions in every respect, and so the line
 joining them has like relations in both directions.            The two
 bodies at the terminals of a ray are utterly unlike in action ; one is
 a source, the other a destroyer of the line ; and the line itself has the
 relation of a stream flowing in one direction. In these two cases
 of gravity and radiation, the difference between an abstract and a
 physical line of force is immediately manifest.
    Turning to the case of Static Electricity we find here attractions
  (and other actions) at a distance as in the former cases ; but when
  we come to compare the attraction with that of gravity, very striking
 distinctions are presented which immediately affect the question of a
 physical line of force. In the first place, when we examine the
 bodies bounding or terminating the lines of attraction, we find them
 as before, mutually and equally concerned in the action ; but they
  are not alike : on the contrary, though each is endued with a force
 which speaking generally is of the like nature, still they are in such
  contrast that their actions on a third body in a state like either of
 them are precisely the reverse of each other, — what the one af.racts
 the other repels ; and the force makes itself evident as one of those
 manifestations of power endued with a dual and antithetical condi
 tion. Now with all such dual powers, attraction cannot occur unless
 the two conditions of force are present and in face of each other
 through the lines of force. Another essential limitation is that

 218                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    [.A/.-.- 11,
 these two conditions must be exactly equal in amount, not merely to
 produce the effects of attraction, but in every other case ; for it is im
 possible so to arrange things that there shall be present or be evolved
 more electric power of the one kind than of the other. Another
limitation is that they must be in physical relation to each other ;
and that when a positive and a negative electrified surface are thus
associated, we cannot cut off this relation except by transferring the
forces of these surfaces to equal amounts of the contrary forces
provided elsewhere. Another limitation is that the power is defi
nite in amount. If a ball a be charged with 10 of positive electricity
it may be made to act with that amount of power on another ball 6
charged with 10 of negative electricity ; but if 5 of its power be
taken up by a third ball c charged with negative electricity, then it
can only act with 5 of power on ball a, and that ball must find or
evolve 5 of positive power elsewhere : this is quite unlike what
occurs with gravity, a power that presents us with nothing dual in
its character. Finally the electric force acts in curved lines. If a
ball be electrified positively and insulated in the air, and a round metal
lic plate be placed about 12 or 15 inches off, facing it and uninsulated,
the latter will be found, by the necessity mentioned above, in a
negative condition ; but it is not negative only on the side facing
the ball but on the other or outer face also, as may be shewn by a carrier
applied there, or by a strip of gold or silver leaf hung against that
outer face. Now the power affecting this face does not pass
through the uninsulated plate, for the thinnest gold leaf is able to
stop the inductive action, but round the edges of the face and
therefore acts in curved lines. All these points indicate the ex.
istence of physical lines of electric force : — the absolutely essential
relation of positive and negative surfaces to each other, and their
dependence on each other contrasted with the known mobility
of the forces, admit of no other conclusion. The action also in curved
lines must depend upon a physical line of force. And there is a
third important character of the force leading to the same result,
namely, its affection by media having different specific inductive
capacities.
   When we pass to Dynamic Electricity the evidence of physical
lines of force is far more patent. A voltaic battery, having its ex
tremities connected by a conducting medium, has what has been
expressively called a current of force running round the circuit, but
this current is an axis of power having equal and contrary forces in
opposite directions. It consists of lines of force which arc com
pressed or expanded according to the transverse action of the con
ductor, which changes in direction with the form of the conductor,
which are found in every part of the conductor, and can be taken
out from any place by channels properly appointed for the purpose ;
and nobody doubts that they are physical lines of force.
   Finally as regards a Magnet, which is the object of the present
discourse. A magnet presents a system of forces perfect in itself,

1852.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      219
and able, therefore, to exist by its own mutual relations. It has the
dual and antithetic character belonging to both static and dynamic
electricity; and this is made manifest by what are called its polarities,
i. e. by the opposite powers of like kind found at and towards its
extremities. These powers are found to be absolutely equal to each
other ; one cannot be changed in any degree as to amount without
an equal change of the other ; and this is true when the opposite
polarities of a magnet are not related to each other, but to the
polarities of other magnets. The polarities, or the northness and
southness, of a magnet are not only related to each other, through
or within the magnet itself, but they are also related externally to
opposite polarities, (in the manner of static electric induction)
or they cannot exist ; and this external relation involves and necessi
tates an exactly equal amount of the new opposite polarities to
which those of the magnet are related. So that if the force of a
magnet a is related to that of another magnet b, it cannot act on a
third magnet c without being taken off from b, to an amount pro
portional to its action on c. The lines of magnetic force are shewn
by the moving wire to exist both within and outside of the magnet ;
also they are shewn to be closed curves passing in one part of their
course through the magnet ; and the amount of those within the
magnet at its equator is exactly equal in force to the amount in any
section including the whole of those on the outside. The lines of
force outside a magnet can be affected in their direction by the use
of various media placed in their course. A magnet can in no way
be procured having only one magnetism, or even the smallest excess
of northness or southness one over the other. When the pola
rities of a magnet are not related externally to the forces of other
magnets, then they are related to each other : i. e. the northness
and southness of an isolated magnet are externally dependent on
and sustained by each other.
   Now all these facts, and many more, point to the existence of
physical lines of force external to the magnets as well as within.
They exist in curved as well as in straight lines ; for if we conceive of
an isolated straight bar magnet, or more especially of a round disc
of steel magnetised regularly, so that its magnetic axis shall be in
one diameter, it is evident that the polarities must be related to each
other externally by curved lines of force ; for no straight line can at
the same time touch two points having northness and southness.
Curved lines of force can, as I think, only consist with physical lines
of force.
   The phenomena exhibited by the moving wire confirm the same
conclusion. As the wire moves across the lines of force, a current
of electricity passes or tends to pass through it, there being no such
current before the wire is moved. The wire when quiescent has no
such current, and when it moves it need not pass into places where the
magnetic force is greater or less. It may travel in such a course that
if a magnetic needle were carried through the same course it would

220                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [June 11,
be entirely unaffected magnetically, «'. e. it would be a matter of
absolute indifference to the needle whether it were moving or still.
Matters may be so arranged that the wire when still shall have the
same diamagnetic force as the medium surrounding the magnet, and
so in no way cause disturbance of the lines of force passing through
both ; and yet when the wire moves, a current of electricity shall be
 generated in it. The mere fact of motion cannot have produced
this current : there must have been a state or condition around the
magnet and sustained by it, within the range of which the wire was
placed ; and this state shews the physical constitution of the lines of
 magnetic force.
   What this state is or upon what it depends cannot as yet be
declared. It may depend upon the ether, as a ray of light does,
and an association has already been shewn between light and
magnetism. It may depend upon a state of tension, or a state of
vibration, or perhaps some other state analogous to the electric
current, to which the magnetic forces are so intimately related.
Whether it of necessity requires matter for its sustentation will
depend upon what is understood by the term matter. If that is
to be confined to ponderable or gravitating substances, then
matter is not essential to the physical lines of magnetic force any
more than to a ray of light or heat ; but if in the assumption of
an ether we admit it to be a species of matter, then the lines of
force may depend upon some function of it. Experimentally mere
space is magnetic ; but then the idea of such mere space must
include that of the ether, when one is talking on that belief; or
if hereafter any other conception of the state or condition of
space rise up, it must be admitted into the view of that, which
just now in relation to experiment is called mere space. On the
other hand it is, I think, an ascertained fact that ponderable matter is
not essential to the existence of physical lines of magnetic force.
                                                             [M. F.]
   In the Library were exhibited : —
Specimen of Auriferous Quartz, Nevada County, California, pre
   sented by F. Catherwood, Esq.
Portrait of Mr. Faraday, by G. Richmond, Esq. ; and of Dr. Rox
   burgh, by J. Z. Bell, Esq.
Axe (Marked Stanislaus, 1661), and Ancient Mace. [Exhibited
   by H. W. Pickersgill, Esq., R.A.]
" Solitude," designed by J. Lawlor, Esq. and executed by the Messrs.
   Minton, for the Art-Union of London. [Exhibited by T. S.
   Watson, Esq.. M.R.I.]
Specimens of Iron Ore from Northants and of Malachite, from
   Siberia ;— Black Marble Vases. [Exhibited by Mr. Tcunant.]

1852.]                    OP THR ROYAL INSTITUTION.                            221
Specimens ofand
Stereoscope          Talbotypes,by
                  Bookbinding,           Mr. Newman.
                                     byMessrs.   J. and J. Leightons.
Psendoscope and Objects. [Exhibited by Messrs. Watkins and
    Hill.]
Gazine Lamp, burning Spirit from Peat, by Mr. Reece.
Minerals and Fossils. [Exhibited by Mr. Highley, jun.]
Specimens of Beet-Sugar from Paris. [Exhibited by Mr. Duer.]
Painting, &c. on China. [Exhibited by \V. Copeland, Esq.]
Specimens of Lead and Copper Ores, from Wales. [Exhibited by
    F. Lloyd, Esq., M.R.I.]
Flamingo, White Woodeock and Marmozets, mounted by Messrs.
    Leadbeaters.
Fish,
    andElectrotyped
          Roskell.]
Testimonial     to Dr. Jeremie
                         from Nature,
                                    (in silver).
                                          by Mr. J.    How. by Messrs. Hunt
                                                   [Exhibited
Talbotypes — Views in Edinburgh and Paris, Landscapes, &c. [Ex
 Mr.
 Specimens
 Model
    hibited
    J.
    at Ammerdown
        Jopling,
           in by
        Varley white
               ofexhibited
                 Mr.
                  Work
                  Aloine.
                   Esq.,
                       Henneman.]
                        Park,
                          the
                          in [Exhibited
                      marble  by
                              Silver
                               Architect.]
                                of
                                 Somerset,
                                   the
                                    theand
                                         Microscope
                                         Memorial
                                           Electrotype
                                           by T. N.
                                              by      Pillar
                                                  Col.R.Snails'
                                                        Jolliffe.
                                                         Morson,
                                                          by Messrs.
                                                              about
                                                                  eggs,
                                                                    [Exhibited
                                                                     toElkingtons.
                                                                        bethe
                                                                    Esq.,   erected
                                                                              heart
                                                                                 by
                                                                           M.R.I.]
    beating — Wheel Animalcules — Circulation of blood and peri
     staltic motion in small worms, and the circulation of sap in the
    Nitella.
 Model     of Richardson's Tubular Life-boat. [Exhibited by W. Varlo
     Hellyer, Esq., M.R.I.]
     The Inventor, H. T. Richardson, Esq., in a paper accompanying
 the Model, stated that " the Tubular Life-boat cannot upset, sink
 or be water-logged, can beach through a heavy surf on any sandy
 or shingle shore, and pull off again without the aid of anchors ;
 steers, rows, and sails well. Its extra buoyancy is six tons, ex
 clusive of its own weight, which is within two; — it rows sixteen
 oars, and carries two lug sails, a jib and top sails— and can row
 and sail at the same time. In construction it is totally different
 from all other boats, being formed of two metal tubes forty feet in
 length, by two and a half diameter, tapering at either end in a
 manner so as to give the appearance of sheer. An iron frame
 work securely rivetted unites the whole into one complete mass, the
 tubes having longitudinal bars of iron and hoops within, and iron
 keels running from end to end. They are divided into water-tight
  compartments, have air-proof bags in the four corners, and the two
 middle are filled with cork ; a cork fender also surrounds the whole
  fabric. The rowers and passengers are placed on a platform above
 the frame-work, which is surmounted by a light gunwale the height
  of the row-locks; a rope passes along under the keelson for the
  purpose of towing."

 222                         NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [July 5,
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                   Monday, July 5,
            Sir Charles Fellows, Vice President, in the Chair.
    David
    CharlesOldfield,
                Blakely Esq.
                          Brown, M.D.       Edwin Lankester, M.D. F.R.S.
                                               F.L.S. &c.
 were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
    Sir George Pollock, G.C.B. Lieut. -Gen. in Hon. East India Com
        pany's Service
was duly elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
    The Presents received since the last Meeting were laid on the
   Fromand the thanks of the Members returned for the same.
Table
Her Majesty's Government — Catalogue of Stars near the Ecliptic observed at
   Markree in 1848-50. Vol.1. 8vo. 1851.
Astronomical Society, the Royal — Monthly Notices. Vol. XII. No. 6. 8vo.
       Jacob, 8vo.
Bell,1 852.    Esq. (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for June and July,
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings for June, 1852. 4to.
Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 18. 8vo. 1852.
     1851. Polytechnic Society, the Royal — The Nineteenth Annual Report. 8vo.
Cornwall
Council of Education, Calcutta — General Report on Public Instruction in the
     Lower Provinces of the Bengal Presidency, 1 850- 1 . 8vo. 1852.
   Annual Report of the Medical College of Bengal for 1851-2. 1852.
    4to. 1852.
Edinburgh    Royal Observatory — Astronomical Observations for 1844-7. Vol.X.
Editors — The Medical Circular for June, 1852. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for May and June 1852. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal, Vol. I. -IV. and continuation. 1848-52.
   Illustrated Index to Vol. I. -IV. 8vo. 1852.
Faraday, M. Esq. — Memoires de l'Academie Royale des Sciences Morales et
    Politiques de l'lnstitut de France, tomeV. VI. and VII. 4to. Paris. 1847-50.
  Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie der Wissenchaften, Berlin.
    April,
   On       1852. 8vo.
        the Physical  Character of the Lines of Magnetic Force. 8vo. 1852.
Grove, W. R. Esq. F.R.S. (the Author) — On the Electro-Chemical Polarity of
    the Gases. 4to. 1852.
Linnean Society of London — Transactions, Vol. XX. Part 1. 4to. 1852.
   Proceedings, No. 45, 46, 47. 8vo. 1851.
   List of Members. 1851. 4to.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. {the Editor) —The Monthly Digest for June, 1852. 8vo.
Newnham, Henry, Esq. M.R.I. — History of the Twelve Great Livery Companies
      of London, by William Herbert. 2 vol. 8vo. 1837.
Richers, Dr. Johannes (the Author) — Natur und Geist. Erste Theil ; Magnetis-
    mus, Galvanismus, und Elecktricitiit. 8vo. Leipzig, 1850.

1852.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           223
Royal Society of London — Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 12. 8vo. 1852.
Scoffern, Dr. J. (the Editor) — The Chemical Record for June, 1852. 4to.
Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XV. Part 2. 8vo. 1852.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Oewerhfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen,
    Marz und April. 4to. Berlin, 1852.
Weale, John, Esq. — Rudimentary Treatise on Civil Engineering; by H. Law,
    C. E. and on Hydraulic Engineering ; by G. R. Burnell, C. E. Vol. III. Part 1.
    12mo. 1852.


                              [for the use of members.]
           iSoyal Institution of d&reat "Britain.
                                             1852.
                     GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                  Monday, November 1.
  William Pole, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                         in the Chair.
                                  Robert Pulsford, Esq.,
 was duly elected a Member of the Royal Institution.
     The following Presents were announced ; and the thanks of the
    From
 Members       returned for the same : —
 Actuaries, Institute of— The Assurance Magazine, No. 8 & 9. 8vo. 1852.
    Catalogue of Library. 8vo. 1852.
      1852.
 Agricultural    Society of England (Royal) — Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 1. 8vo
 American Academy of Arts and Sciences — Memoirs, New Series, Vol. IV.
      Part 2. 4to. 1850.
 American Philosophical Society — Proceedings, No. 47. 8vo. 1852.
    Proceedings,
     to Antiquity.
 Antiquaries,      Vol.Vol.
                Society  I.of,and
                               XXXIII.
                               London
                                  No. —  and
                                          Archseologia,
                                        18-32.   8vo. 1843-52.
                                              XXXIV.     4to.Miscellaneous
                                                        or       1849-52. Tracts relating
 Asiatic Society, Royal — Twenty-ninth Annual Report. 8vo. 1852.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 226, 227. 8vo. 1852.
Author — An Excursion from Jericho to the Ruins of the Ancient Cities of
    Geraza and Amman in the country east of the River Jordan. 8vo. 1852.
      1852,
      1852.
        Robert,
Ball,Progressbythe
                ofEsq.
                   the
                    Right
                        Queen's
                         LL.    D. University
                              Hon.  (theBrady,
                                   M.     Secretary)
                                               Vice-Chancellor
                                                in Ireland,
                                                     — Reportfor the
                                                                   onthe
                                                                  of   the
                                                                      year
                                                                         University.
                                                                           ending
                                                                            ConditionFolio.
                                                                                  June  19,
                                                                                       and
Bell, Jacob, Esq. (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for August, Sep
     tember, and October, 1852. 8vo.
     the Lungs
Billing,          and F.R.S.
           A., M.D.,   Heart. (the        1852.— Practical Observations on Diseases of
                                  8vo.Author)
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings, July, 1852. 4to.
British Association for the Advancement of Science — Report of the Twenty- first
     Meeting held at Ipswich in July, 1851. 8vo. 1852.
Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 19. 8vo. 1852.
     8vo. 1851.of Patents, United States — Report, Part II. j Agriculture.
Commissioner
   United States' Patent Laws. 8vo. 1851.
   Information to Persons having Business to transact at the Patent Office. 8vo,
     1851.
East India Company — Third Report of the Students' Literary and Scientific
    Society, Bombay. 8vo. 1852.
The Editors — The Athenaeum, for July — October, 1852. 4to.
   The Medical Circular for July — October, 1852. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for July — October, 1852. 4to.
   The Chemical Record for July and August, 1 852. 4to.
       No. 14.                                                         R

226                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                         [Nov. 1,
Faraday, Professor — Atti dell' Accademia"Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei ; Tomo I.
    Anno I. ed Anno IV. Sessione 7, 8, 9. 4to. 1852.
     Berlin.
   Monatsbericht      der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, Mai — Aug., 1852.            8vo.
   Sitzungsberichte de Kaiserlichen Akademie, zu Wien :—
    Math. Nat. Classe. Band VIII. Hefte 1, 2, 3. 8vo. 1852.
    Phil. Hist. Classe. Band VIII. Hefte 1, 2. 8vo. 1852.
    3,4. filr
   Archiv           1852.(Esterreichischer Geschichts-quellen. Band VII.
            8vo.Kunde                                                          Hefte
   Notizenblatt, No. 3 — 10. 8vo. 1852.
    1852.
   Alnianach   der Kaiserlichen Akademie zu Wien. 2ter Jahrgang, 1852.        16mo.
   Tafeln zur Reduction der Barometerstande ; und Tafeln zur Vergleichung und
    Reduction der Barometerst&nde. Von J. J. Pohl und J. Schabus. 8vo. 1852.
    Wien.
   Experimental Researches in Electricity, 29th Series, by M. Faraday, Esq.
    D.C.L. 4to. 1852.
   Kalender der Flora des Horizontes von Prag. Von Karl Fritsch. 8vo. 1852.
   Abhandlungen der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, 1850. 4to. Berlin, 1852.
   Jaarboekje van Wetenschapen en Kunsten, Vifde Jaargang. Door S. Bleek-
    rode. 12mo. Gorinchem, 1851-2.
    and Vol.
Franklin       XXIV.
           Institute     Pennsylvania—
                     ofNo.                 Journal, Vol. XXI.; Vol. XXIII. Nos. 5, 6,
                              I. 8vo. 1851-2.
Geological Society,— Quarterly Journal, No. 31. 8vo. 1852.
Granville, A. B., M.D., F.R.S., (the Author) — Two Letters on the Great Arte
    sian Salt Spring at Kissingen. 4to. 1852.
Hamilton, Edward, M.D., F.L.S., M.R.I, (the Author) —The Flora Homceo-
    pathica ; or, Illustrations and Descriptions of Medicinal Plants used as Ho
    moeopathic Remedies. Vol. I. 8vo. 1852.
Highley and Son, Messrs. — Brief Astronomical Tables for the Expeditious Cal
    culation of Eclipses. By W. D. Snooke. 8vo. 1852.
Hookham, Mr. (the Publisher) — The New Quarterly Review, No. III. 8vo. 1852.
Horticultural Society of London —Journal, Vol. VII. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1852.
Jones, H. Bence, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Editor) — On Animal Electricity;
    being an Abstract of the Discoveries of Emil Dubois-Reymond. 16mo. 1852.
   Manual of Elementary Chemistry, by George Fownes, F.R.S. 4th Edition.
    Edited by H. Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S., and A. W. Hofmann, F.R.S. ,
    Ph.D. 16mo. 1852.
    of the
Jones,      Veins of the
        T. Wharton,    Esq.,Bat's
                              F.R.S.,
                                  Wing.    4to. 1852.
                                      (the Author) — On the Rhythmical Contractility
Lankester, E., M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I., — Microscopical Examination of the Thames
    and other Waters, by E. Lankester, M.D., F.R.S. and Peter Redfern, M.D.,
    F.R.C.S.L. 8vo. 1852.
    1852.
Lovell,        Esq., M.R.I, (the Editor)—The Monthly Digest for July — October,
        E. B.8vo.
Murchison, Sir R. 1., G.C. St. S., F.R.S., Pres. R.G.S., M.R.I, (the Author) —
    May 24, at1852.
   Address              8vo. 1852. Meeting of the Royal Geographical Society,
                  the Anniversary
   Catalogue of the Library of the Royal Geographical Society corrected to May,
    1851. 8vo. 1852.
Neale.E. Vansittart, Esq., M.R.I. — Transactions of the Co-operative League,
    Parts I. and II. 8vo. 1852.
Petermann, Augustus, F.R.G.S. (the Author) — The Search for Franklin. A
    Suggestion submitted to the British Public. 8vo. 1852.
Physicians, Royal College of, London — Catalogue of Fellows, &c. 8vo. 1852.
Radcliffe Trustees, Oxford — Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe
    Observatory, Oxford, in 1850. 8vo. 1852.
Royal Society of London — Proceedings, Vol. VI. No. 88, 89, 90. 8vo. 1852.
Royal Society of Edinburgh — Transactions, Vol. XX. Part 2. 4to. 1852.
   Proceedings, No. 42. 8vo. 1852.

   1852.]                    OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         227
  Smithsonian Institution, Washington, U. S. — Smithsonian Contributions to
       Knowledge, Vols. III. and IV. 4to. 1852.
     Fifth Annual Report of the Board of Regents. 8vo. 1851.
     Smithsonian Report on Recent Improvements in the Chemical Arts, by Pro
       fessor J. C. Booth, and Campbell Morfit. 8vo. 1851.
     Directions for Collecting Specimens of Natural History. 8vo. 1852.
     Registry of Periodical Phenomena, fol.
     Abstract of the Seventh Census, United States. 4to. 1851.
       1852.
     American     Zoological, Botanical, and Geological Bibliography for 1851. 8vo.
     Tables used with Custom-House Hydrometers. 8vo. 1851.
 Societe de Physique et d'Histoire Naturelle de Geneve—Memoires, Tome XIII.
       IrePartie. 4to. Geneve, 1852.
  Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XV. Part 3. 8vo. 1852.
 Surgeons of England, Royal College of— List of Fellows and Members. 8vo. 1852.
 Vereins zur BefSrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Mai
      und Juni, 1852. 4to. Berlin.
  Warren, John C, M.D. (the Author) —Description of a Skeleton of the Masto
      don Giganteus of North America. 4to. Boston, U. S. 1852.
  Weale, John, Esq. — The Electric Telegraph, its History and Progress : by Ed
      ward Highton, C. E. 12mo. 1852.
     Lexicon of the Greek Language : By H. R. Hamilton. Part I. 12mo. 1852.
     Grammar of the Spanish Language : By A. Elwes. 12mo. 1852.
     Grammar of the Italian Language : By A. Elwes. 12mo. 1852.
 Vyvyan, Sir R. R. Bt. M.P., F.R.S., M.R.I.— Two Grove's Cells, with plates
      and acids.
                     GENERAL
            Sir Charles           Monday,
                                     MONTHLY
                              Fellows,       Dec. 6.MEETING,
                                          Vice-President,   in the Chair.
     John Elijah Blunt, Esq., Master Henry M. Noad, Esq., Ph.D.
        in Chancery.                              Professor of Chemistry, St.
     Rev. John Harris, D.D., Prin-                George's Hospital.
        cipal of New College, St. John Rutherford, Esq.
        John's Wood.                          Rev. Thomas Fraser Stooks,
    Rev. George Heathcote, M.A.,                 M.A.
        Rector of Conington, Hants.           Emilius Watson-Taylor, Esq.
    Henry Ludlam, Esq.                        William Watt, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution,
    The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had been
made for the Lectures before Easter, 1853 :
    Six Lectures on Chemistry (adapted to a Juvenile Auditory,)-—
by Michael Faraday, Esq., F.R.S., &c., Fullerian Professor of
Chemistry, R. I.
    Twelve Lectures on Animal Physiology — by T. Wharton Jones,
Esq. F.R.S., Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R. I.
    Nine Lectures on the General Principles of Geology — by John
Phillips, Esq., F.R.S., F.G.S.

  228                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.                       J)ec. 6, 1852
      Nine Lectures on the Philosophy of Chemistry — hy Alexander
  W. Williamson, Ph. D., Professor of Practical Chemistry in Uni
  versity College, London.
      {Laboratory Lectures.) Twenty Lectures on Organic Chemistry
  — hy Dr. A. W. Hofmann, F.R.S., Professor in the College of
   Chemistry, London.
      The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
  Members returned for the same ; —
     From
  Asiatic
  Astronomical
  Bell,  Jacob,
       Dec.  Society,
              1852.
            Society
                 Esq.
                   Society,
                     ofM.R.I,
                       8vo.
                       Royal
                         Bengal
                              —(the
                                 —
                             RoyalJournal,
                                     Editor)
                                     —
                                     Journal,
                                            Vol.
                                             —No.
                                        Monthly   XIII.
                                                   Notices,
                                                 The220,
                                                     Pharmaceutical
                                                         Part
                                                          228.
                                                             No. 7.8vo.8vo.
                                                              2. 8vo.    1851-2.
                                                                           1852.
                                                                              1852.
                                                                        Journal  for Nov. and
  British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings for Nov. 1852. 4to.
  Civil Engineers, Institution of — Proceedings for Nov. 1852. 8vo.
  Editors — The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Nov. 1852. 4to.
     The Medical Circular for Nov. 1852. 4to.
  Geological Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 32. 8vo. 1852.
  Glasgow Philosophical Society — Proceedings, Vol. IV. No. 4, 8vo. 1852.
  Hamel, Dr. J., (the Author) — Der Dodo, die Einsiedler und die Erdichtete
      Nazarvogel.
  London                 SpringSt.Water
            (Watford) 8vo.                Company,
                                    Petersburg,      Directors of the — Report. 8vo. 1852.
                                                  1848.
  Lovell,
     Microscopical
  Medical  E. and
               B. Esq.,
                     Chirurgical
                       Examinations,
                          M.R.I, (the   Editor)
                                    Society,
                                        &c. ofRoyal—
                                                the
                                                 —The    Medico-Chirurgical
                                                         Monthly
                                                    Thames         Digest,
                                                              and other   Waters.
                                                                            Nov.Transactions,
                                                                                    8vo. 1852.
                                                                                  1852.   8vo.
      Vol. XXXIV. and XXXV. 8vo. 1851-2.
  Pollock, W. F. Esq., M.R I.— An Essay on the Action of Medicines on the System.
       (Fothergill Prize Essay.) By F. W. Headland, B.A., M.R.C.S. 8vo. 1852.
  Scoffern, John, M.B.— Tacitus. Ed. Elzevir. 32mo. Amstelodami, 1665.
  Society of Arts — Journal, No. 1. 8vo. 1852.
  Taylor, Alfred S., M.D., F.R.S., M R.I. (the Author) —Medical Jurispru
      dence. Fourth Edition. 16mo. 1852.
   Taylor, Rev. W., F.R.S., M.R.I., (the Editor)— The Diagrams of Euclid's Ele
      ments of Geometry, in an Embossed or Tangible Form for the Use of Blind
      Persons, Part I. 8vo. 1828.
     Selection of Psalm-Tunes and Chants in Raised or Embossed Characters
      ¦for the Use of the Blind, folio. 1836.
       und zur
   Vereins        Beforderung
            August,    1852. 4to.      Berlin, 1852. in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Juli
                                  des Gewerbfleisses
   Weale, John, Esq. — Grammar of the German Language by G. L. Strauss, Ph. D.
       12mo. 1852.
     German Reader, Edited by G. L. Strauss, Ph. D. 12mo. 1852.
       12mo. 1852.
     Grammar       of the English Tongue, Spoken and Written. By Hyde Clarke.
     Outlines of the History of England, by W.D.Hamilton, Vol. I. 12mo. 1852.
     First Mnemonical Lessons in Geometry, Algebra, and Trigonometry, by the
       Rev. T. P. Kirkman. 12mo. 1852.
     Elements of Mechanism, by T. Baker, C.E. 12mo. 1852.
4      Motive Powers.
     Rudimentary      Treatise
                             12mo.
                                on Agricultural
                                       1852.       Engineering, by G. H. Andrews, Vol. II.
     Rudimentary Treatise on Civil Engineering, Vol. III. Pt. 2. 12mo. 1852.
   Whewell, Rev. W., D.D., Master Trin. Coll. Camb. (the Author) — Letter to the
       Author of " Prolegomena Logica." 8vo. 1852.

                                    1853.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, January 21.
WILLIAM POLE, ESQ., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                 in the Chair.
                            PROFESSOR FARADAY,
                    Observations on the Magnetic Force.
INASMUCH as the general considerations to be brought forward had
respect to those great forces of the globe, exerted by it, both as a
mass and through its particles, namely, Magnetism and Gravitation,
the attention was first recalled briefly to certain relations and diffe
rences of the two which had been insisted upon on former occasions.
Both can act at a distance, and doubtless at any distance : but whilst
gravitation may be considered as simple and unpolar in its rela
tions, magnetism is dual and polar. Hence one gravitating particle
or system cannot be conceived to act by gravitation, as a particle or
system, on itself; whereas a magnetic particle or system, because
of the dual nature of its force, can have such a self relation. Again,
either polarity of the magnetic force can act either by attraction or
repulsion ; and not merely so, but the joint or dual action of a
magnet can act also either by attraction or repulsion, as in the
case of paramagnetic and diamagnetic bodies : the action of gravity
is always that of attraction. As a further consequence of the diffe
rence in character of the powers, little or no doubt was entertained
regarding the existence of physical lines of force* in the cases
of dual powers, as electricity and magnetism ; but in respect of
gravitation the conclusion did not seem so sure. As some further
relations of the sun and the earth would have finally to be sub
mitted, the audience were reminded, by the use of Arago's idea,
of the relative magnitude of the two ; for, supposing that the centres
of the two globes were made to coincide, the sun's body would
not only extend as far as the moon, but nearly as far again, its
bulk being about seven times that of a globe which should be
girdled by the moon's orbit.
    For the more careful study of the magnetic power a torsion
balance had been constructed, which was now shown and its mode
of operation explained. The torsion wire was of hard drawn pla
tinum, 24 inches in length, and of such diameter that 28.5 inches
   • Proceedings of the Royal Institution, June 11, 18i2, p. 216, also Philosoph.
Mag. 4th Series, 1852, III. p. 401.

  230                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [/M. 21,
  weighed one grain. It was attached as usual to a torsion head
  and index. The horizontal beam was a small glass tube terminated
  at the object end by a glass hook. The objects to be submitted
  to the magnetic force were either cylinders of glass with a fila
  ment drawn out from each, so as to make a long stiff hook for
  suspension from the beam ; or cylindrical bulbs of glass, of like
  shape, but larger size, formed out of glass tube ; or other matters.
  .The fine tubular extremities of the bulbs being opened the way
  through was free from end to end ; the bulbs could then be filled with
  any fluid or gas, and be re-submitted many times in succession
. to the magnetic force. The source of power employed was at first
  a large electro-magnet ; but afterwards, in order to be certain
  of a constant power, and for the advantage of allowing any
  length of time for the observations, the great magnet, con
  structed by M. Logeman upon the principles developed by Dr. Elias,
  (and which, weighing above 100 Ibs. could support 430 Ibs. ac
  cording to the report of the Great Exhibition Jury), was purchased
  by the Royal Institution and used in the enquiries. The magnet was
  so arranged that the axis of power was five inches below the
   level of the glass beam, the interval being traversed by the sus
   pension filament or hook, spoken of above. The form and posi
   tion of the terminations of soft iron are shewn in plan by the
   diagram upon a scale of J^, and also the place of the object. All
   this part is enclosed in the box which belongs to and carries the
   torsion balance, which box is governed by six screws fixed upon
   the magnet table ; and as both the box and the table have lines
   and scales marked upon them, it is easy to adjust the former on
   the latter so that the beam shall be over and parallel to the line
   a, e with the point of suspension over c ; or, by moving the whole
   box parallel to itself towards m, to give the point of suspension
   any other distance from the angle c. As already said, the objects
   were constructed with a suspension filament of such length as to
   make them coincide in height with the angle in the magnetic field.
   When suspended on the beam they were counterpoised by a ring
   or rings of lead on the further arm of the beam. These when
   required were moved along the beam until the latter was horizontal ;
    and that state was ascertained by a double arm support, which
   sustained the beam when out of use, brought it into a steady state
   when moving, and delivered it into a condition of freedom when
   required. The motion of the box to the right or left, so as to place
   the object in the middle of the magnetic angle, was given by two

1853.]                 OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     231
of the screws before spoken of; the motion to the given distance
from c, by the other four.
    Supposing the distance from c towards m to be adjusted to
0.6 of an inch, when the beam was loaded above, and no object
before the magnet (the beam having been of course previously
adjusted to its normal position and the torsion index placed at
zero), it then remained to determine the return of the beam to its
place when the object had been suspended on it and repelled :
this was done in the following manner. A small plane reflector
is fixed on the beam, near its middle part, under the point of suspen
sion : a small telescope associated with a divided scale is placed
about 6 feet from the reflector, and in such a position that when
the beam, is in its right place, a given degree in the scale coin
cides with the fine wire in the telescope. Of course the scale ap
pears to pass by the wire as the beam itself moves, and with a
double angular velocity, because of the reflexion. As it is easy to
read to the fiftieth and even to the hundredth of an inch in this way,
and as each degree occupies apparently 2.4 inches with the radius
of G feet, so an angular motion, or difference of -j^T of a degree
 could be observed ; and as the radius of the arm of the beam
carrying the object was 6 inches, such a quantity there would be
 less than .^ioo of an inch : i.e. the return of the beam to its first
or normal position by the torsion force put on to counteract the
repulsion, could be ascertained to within that amount. When an
 object was put on the adjusted beam, if diamagnetic it was re
pelled ; and then, as the observer sat at the telescope, he, by means
of a long handle, a wheel, and pinion, put on torsion until the
place of the beam was restored ; and afterwards the amount of torsion
 read off on the graduated scale became the measure in degrees of
 the. repulsive force exerted. At the time of real observations, the
 magnet, balance, and telescope were all fixed in a basement room,
 upon a stone floor. But it is unnecessary to describe here the nu
 merous precautions required in relation to the time of an obser
 vation, the set of the suspension wire by a high torsion, the
 possible electricity of the object or beam by touch, the effect of
 feeble currents of air within the box, the shape of the object, the
 precaution against capillary action when fluids were employed as
 media, and other circumstances ; or the use of certain stops, and
 the mode of procedure in the cases of paramagnetic action ; — the
 object being at present to present only an intelligible view of the
principles of action.
    When a body is submitted to the power of a magnet, it is affected,
as to the result, not merely by the magnet, but also by the medium
surrounding it ; and even if that medium be changed for a vacuum,
the vacuum and the body still are in like relation to each other. In fact
the result is always differential ; any change in the medium changes
the action on the object, and there are abundance of substances
which when surrounded by air are repelled, and when by water, are
attracted, upon the approach of a magnet. When a certain small

232                  NOTICES OF TlIK MEETINGS                [/fln. 21,
glass cylinder weighing only 66 grains surrounded by air was sub
mitted on the torsion balance to the Logeman magnet at the distance
of 0.5 of an inch from the axial line, it required 15° of torsion to
overcome the repulsive force and restore the object to its place.
When a vessel of water was put into the magnetic field, and the
experiment repented, the cylinder being now in the water was
attracted, and 54°.5 of torsion were required to overcome this attrac
tion at the given distance of 0.5. If the vessel had contained a
fluid exactly equal in diamagnetic power to the cylinder of glass,
neither attraction nor repulsion would have been exerted on the
latter, and therefore the torsion would have been 0°. Hence the
three bodies, air, glass (the especial specimen), and water, have their
relative force measured in relation to each other by the three ex
perimental numbers 15°, 0°, and 54°5. If other fluids are taken,
as oil, ether, &c. and employed as the media surrounding the same
glass cylinder, then the degrees of torsion obtained with each of
them respectively, shews its place in the magnetic series. It is the
principle of the hydrometer or of Archimedes in respect of gravity
applied in the case of the magnetic forces. If a different cylinder be
employed of another size or substance, or at a diflerent distance,
the torsion numbers will be different, and the zero (given by the
cylinder) also different ; but the media (with an exception to be
made hereafter) will have the same relation to each other as in
*he former case. Therefore to bring all the experimental results
into one common relation, a centigrade scale has been adopted
bounded by air and water at common temperatures or 60° F.
For this purpose every separate series of results made under exactly
the same circumstances included air and water ; and then all the
results of one series were multiplied by such a number as would
convert the difference between air and water into 100° : in this way
the three result? given above, become 21°. 6; 0°; and 78°.4. By
 such a process the magnetic intervals between the bodies are ob
 tained on the centigrade scale, but the true zero is not as yet de
termined. Either water, or air, or the glass, may be assumed as the
 zero, the intervals not being in any way dependent upon that point,
but the results will then vary in expression thus :—
          Air     .     0°         .     21°.6     .     100°
          Glass . 21°.6            .       0°       .     78°.4
          Water . 100°              .     78°.4    .       0°
all above the zero being paramagnetic, and all below diamagnetic,
in relation to it. I have adopted a vacuum as the zero in the table
of results to be given hereafter.
   In this manner it is evident that upon principle, any solid, what
ever its size, shape, or quality, may be included in the list, by its
subjection to a magnet in air and in water or in fluids already
related to these : also that any fluids may be included by the use
of the same immersed solid body for them, air and water ; and also
 that by using the same vessel, as for instance the same glass bulb.

1853.]                    OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     233
and filling it successively with various gases and fluids, including
always air and water in each series, these included bodies may then
have their results reduced and be entered upon the list. The
following is a table of some substances estimated on the centigrade
scale, and though there are many points both of theory and practice
yet to be wrought out, as regards the use of the torsion balance
described, so that the results can only be recorded as approxima
tions, yet even now the average of three or four careful experiments,
gives an expression for any particular substance under the same
conditions of distance, power, &c. near upon and often within a
degree of the place assigned to it. The powers are expressed for a
distance of 0.6 of an inch from the magnetic axis of the magnet as
arranged and described, and, of course, for equal volumes of the
bodies mentioned. The extreme decimal places must not be taken
as indicating accuracy, except as regards the record of the experi
ments : they are the results of calculation. Hydrogen, nitrogen, and
perhaps some other of the bodies near zero, may ultimately turn out
to be as a vacuum ; it is evident that a very little oxygen would
produce a difference, such as that which appears in nitrogen gas.
The first solution of copper mentioned was colourless, and the second
the same solution oxidized by simple agitation in a bottle with
air, the copper, ammonia, and water being in both the same.
  Prot-ammo. of copper 134^23             Camphor .           .   . 82°59
  Per-ammo. of copper           1 1 9.83  Camphine         .    .    82.96
  Oxygen        .      .      .17.5       Linseed oil       .   .    85.56
  Air     .    .       .      .3.4        Olive oil .       ,   .    85.6
  Olefiant gas         .       . 0.6      Wax        .      .   . 86.73
  Nitrogen .           .      .0.3        Nitric acid       .   . 87.96
  Vacuum        .      .      . 0.0       Water      .      .   .    96.6
  Carbonic acid gas           . 0.0       Solution of Ammonia .      98.5
  Hydrogen .           .      .0.1        Bisulphide of carbon       99.64
  Ammonia gas          .      . 0.5       Sat. sol. Nitre .      . 100.08
  Cyanogen .           .      . 0.9       Sulphuric acid .      . 104.47
  A Glass       .       .      .18.2      Sulphur .         .   .118.
  Pure Zinc .          .       . 74.6     Chloride of Arsenic .'121.73
  Ether .... 75.3                         Fused Borate lead . 136.6
  Alcohol absolute .           . 78.7     Phosphorus
  Oil of Lemons         .      .80.       Bismuth .         ,    . 1967.6
   Pliicker in his very valuable paper* has dealt with bodies which
 are amongst the highly paramagnetic substances, and his estimate of
 power is made for equal weights.
    One great object in the construction of an instrument delicate
 as that described, was the investigation of certain points in the
 philosophy of magnetism ; and amongst them especially that of the
 right application of the law of the inverse square of the distance
 as the universal law of magnetic .action. Ordinary magnetic
                  * Taylor's Scientific Memoirs, V. 713, 730.

234                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                       [Jan. 21,
action may be divided into two kinds, that between magnets
permanently magnetized and unchangeable in their condition,
and that between bodies of which one is a permanent un
changeable magnet, and the other, having no magnetic state
of its own, receives and retains its state only whilst in subjection to
the first. The former kind of action appears in the most rigid and
pure cases, to be subject to that law ; but it would be premature
to assume beforehand, and without abundant sufficient evidence, that
the same law applies in the second set of cases also ; for a hasty
assumption might be in opposition to the truth of nature, and
therefore injurious to the progress of science, by the creation of a
preconceived conclusion. We know not whether such bodies as
oxygen, copper, water, bismuth, &c., owe their respective para
magnetic and diamagnetic relation to a greater or less facility of
conduction in regard to the lines of magnetic force, or to something
like a polarity of their particles or masses, or to some as yet
unsuspected state ; and there is little hope of our developing the
true condition, and therefore the cause of magnetic action, if we
assume beforehand the unproved law of action and reject the
experiments that already bear upon it : — for Plticker has distinctly
stated as the fact, that diamagnetic force increases more rapidly
than magnetic force, when the power of the dominant magnet is
increased ; and such a fact is contrary to the law above enunciated.
The following are further results in relation to this point.
   When a body is submitted to the great unchanging Logeman
magnet in air and in water, and the results are reduced to the
centigrade scale, the relation of the three substances remain the
same for the same distance, but not for different distances. Thus
when a given cylinder of flint glass was submitted to the magnet
surrounded by air and by water, at the distance of 0.3 of an inch as
already described, it proved to be diamagnetic in relation to both ;
and when the results were corrected to the centigrade scale, and
water made zero, it was 9°.l below, or on the diamagnetic side of
 water. At the distance 0.4 of an inch it was 10°. 6 below water:
at the distance of 0.7 it was 12°.l below water. When a more
diamagnetic body, as heavy glass, was employed, the same result
in a higher degree was obtained ; for at the distance of 0.3 it was
 37°.8 below water, and at that of 0.8 it was 48°.6 beneath it.
 Bismuth presented a still more striking case, though, as the volume
 of the substance was necessarily small, equal confidence cannot be
 placed in the exactitude of the numbers. The results- are given
 below for the three substances, air being always 100° and water 0° ;
 the first column of figures for each substance contain the distance *
   * A given change of distance necessarily implies change in degree of force,
 and change in the forms of the lines of force ; but it does not imply always
 the same amount of change. The forces are not the same at the same dis
 tance of 0.4 of an inch in opposite directions from the axial line towards m and
 « in the figure, page 230, nor at any other equal moderate distance ; and though
 by increase and diminution of distance the change is in the same direction, it

1853.]                    OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        235
in tenths of an inch from the axial line of the magnetic field,
and the second, the place in centigrade magnetic degrees below water.
       Flint Glass.                Heavy Glass.               Bismuth.
      0.3 — 9°1                    0.3 — 37°8               0.6 — 1871°
      0.4 — 10.6                   0.4 — 38.6               1.0 — 2734.
      0.5 — 11.1                   0.6 — 40.0               1.5 — 3626.
      0.6 — 11.2                   0.8 — 48.6
      0.7 — 12.1                   1.0 — 51.5
                                   1.2 — 65.6
    Thebodies
netic              herethe
          result from    is that
                            magnet,
                                 the greater
                                      the morethe distance ofis the
                                                diamagnetic            relation
                                                                it in diamag
to water, taking the interval between water and air as the standard :
and it would further appear, if an opinion may be formed from so few
experiments, that the more diamagnetic the body compared to air
and water, the greater does this difference become. At first it was
thought possible that the results might be due to some previous
 state induced upon the body, by its having been nearer to or further
from the magnet : but it was found that whether the progress of
the experiments jpas from small to large distances, or the reverse ;
or whether, at any given distance, the object was previous to the
 measurement held close up to the magnet or brought from a
 distance, the results were the same ; — no evidence of a temporary
 induced state could in any of these ways be found.
    It does not follow from the experiments, if they should be
 sustained by future researches, that it is the glass or the bismuth
  only that changes in relation to the other two bodies. It may be
 the oxygen of the air that alters, or the water, or more probably
 all these bodies : for if the result be a true and natural result in
 these cases, it is probably common to all substances. The great
 point is that the three bodies concerned, air, water, and the subject
 of the experiment, alter in the degree of their magnetic relations
 to each nther ; at different given distances from the magnet the
 ratio of their magnetic power does not, according to the experi
 ments, remain the same ; and if that result be confirmed, then
 it cannot be included by a law of action which is inversely as the
 square of the distance. A hydrometer floating in a fluid and
  subject to the gravity of the earth alone, would (other things being
  the same) stand at the same point, whether at the surface of the
  earth, or removed many diameters of the earth from it, because the
  action of gravity is inversely as the square of the distance : but if
  we suppose the substance of the hydrometer and the fluid to differ
  magnetically, as water and bismuth does, and the earth to act as a
  magnet instead of by gravity, then the hydrometer would,
  according to the experiments, stand at a different point for different
  distances, and if so could not be subject to the former law.
 is not in the same proportion. By fitly arranged terminations, it may be made
 to alter with extreme rapidity in one direction, and with extreme slowness or
  not at all in another.

236                    NOTICES OF TUB MEETINGS                   [/aff. 21,
   The cause of this variation in the ratio of the substances one to
another, if it be fmally proved, has still to be searched out. It
may depend in some manner upon the forms of the lines of mag
netic force, which are different at different distances ; or not upon
the forms of the lines but the amount of power at the different
distances ; or not upon the mere amount, but on the circumstance
that in every case the body submitted to experiment has lines of
different degrees of force passing through different parts of it,
(for however different the magnetic or diamagnetic conditions of a
body and the fluid surrounding it, they would not move at all in
relation to each other in a field of equal force) : but whatever be the
cause, it will be a concomitant of magnetic actions ; and therefore
ought to be included in the results of any law by which it is supposed
that these actions are governed.
    It has not yet been noticed that these general results appear to be
in direct opposition to those of Pliicker, who finds that diamagnetic
power increases more rapidly than magnetic power with increase of
force. But such a circumstance, if both conclusions be accordant
with facts, only shews that we have yet a great deal to learn about
the physical nature of magnetic force ; and we mutt not shut our eyes
to the first feeble glimpses of these effects, because they are incon
sistent on both sides with our assumed laws of action ; but rather seize
them, as hoping that they will give us the key to the truth of
nature. Bodies, when subject to the power of the magnet appear
 to acquire a new physical state, which varies with the distance or the
power of the magnet. Each body may have ita own rate of increase
 and decrease ; and that may be such as to connect the extreme effect
 of Pliicker, amongst paramagnetic bodies on the one hand, and the
 extreme effects amongst diamagnetic bodies now described, on the
 other ; and when we understand all this rightly, we may see the
 apparent contradiction become harmony, though it may not conform
to the law of the inverse square of the distance as we now try to
apply it.
    Pliicker has already said, because of his observations regarding
 paramagnetic and diamagnetic force, that no correct list of magnetic
 substances can be given. The same consequence follows, though in
 a different direction from what has now been stated, and hence the
reservation before made (p. 232). Still the former table is given as an
 approximation, and it may be useful for a time. Before leaving his
 first account of recent experimental researches, it may be as well to
 state that they are felt to be imperfect and may perhaps even be
 overturned ; but, that as such a result is not greatly anticipated, it
 was thought well to present them to the Members of the Royal
 Institution and the scientific world, if peradventure they might excite
 criticism and experimental examination, and so aid in advancing the
 cause of physical science.
    On a former occasion * the existence of physical lines of force in
                 * Proceedings of the Royal Institution, p. 216.

1853.]                    OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          237
relation to magnetism and electricity was inferred from the dual
nature of these powers, and the necessity in all cases and at all times
of a relation and dependence between the polarities of the magnet,
or the positive and negative electrical surfaces. With respect to
gravity a more hesitating opinion was expressed, because of the
difficulty of observing facts having any relation to time, and because
two gravitating particles or masses did not seem to have any neces
sary dependence on each other for the existence or excitement of
their mutual power*. On the present occasion a passage was
quoted from Newton which had since been discovered in his works,
and which, shewing that he was an unhesitating believer in physical
lines of gravitating force, must from its nature, rank him amongst
those who sustain the physical nature of the lines of magnetic and
electrical force : it is as follows, in words written to Bentley : f
" That gravity should be innate, inherent and essential to matter,
so that one body may act upon another at a distance through a
vacuum, without the mediation of anything else, by and thrtmgh
which their action and force may be conveyed from one to another,
ia to me so great an absurdity, that I believe no man who has in
philosophical matters a competent faculty of thinking, can ever fall
into it. Gravity must be caused by an agent acting constantly
according to certain laws ; but whether this agent be material or im
material, I have left to the consideration of my readers."
    Finally, reference was made to Sabine's remarkable observation,
 sustained as it has been by Wolf, Gautier, and others, of certain coin
 cidences existing between the appearance of solar spots and the
 diurnal variation of the magnetism of the earth. SCHWABB has
 been engaged in carefully observing the spots on the Sun since the
year 1826. He has found them gradually to increase in number and
 size from year to year, and then decrease ; then again increase, again
 to decrease, and so on in a regular period of about ten years. The
following is a part of his table J giving the years of the maxima and
minima of spots :
          1848
          1851
          1843       . .Groups
                         . . . 330
                                 34.
                                  in the..         0 no.
                                             Days of     .        Days of
                               year.            spots.           observation.
          1826
          1828         . . 225 . .                 0 . .       . . 282
          1833       ... 33 ... ... 139. .. . . .267
          1837         . . 333 . .'                0 . .       . . 168
                                           ... 149 ... . . .312
                                                               . . 278
    « Philosophical Magazine, 4th Series, 1852, III. 403. (3246.)
    t Newton's Works, Horsley's edition, 4to. 1783, Vol. IV. p. 438, or the Third
 Letter to Bentley.
    t Humboldt'a Cosmos, III. 291, 292. Bibliotheque Universelle, 1852, XX. 184.

 238                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [Jan. 21,
    LAMONT (Dec. 1851) * was induced by recent researches in
 atmospheric magnetism, to examine the daily magnetic variation in
 declination, and found that, as a whole, it increased and diminished,
 and then increased again, having a regular variation of about ten
 years : the year 1844 was given as having a minimum variation of
 6'.61 and the year 1848 as presenting a maximum variation of
 ll'.lS.
    SABiNEf (March, 1 852) in searching for periodical laws amongstthe
 mean effects of the larger magnetic disturbances, found a simultaneous
 period of increase and decrease both at Hobarton and Toronto, on
 opposite sides of the globe ; the minimum effect was in 1843, and the
 maximum effect in 1848, according therefore almost exactly with
 Lamont's observations at Munich. But, besides that, he pointed
 out the extraordinary circumstance that this similar variation of the
 daily magnetic declination is the same in length of period as that
 discovered by M. Schwabe for the solar spots ; and still more, that
 the maxima and minima of these two most different phenomena
 coincide; for 1843 presents the least diurnal variation and the
 smallest number of solar spots, and 1848 the largest magnetic
 variation and the greatest number of solar obscurations. He has
 also observed that the same period of increase and decrease exists
 with the same epochs in the diurnal variation of the magnetic
 inclination of the earth's magnetic force in both hemispheres. The
 phenomenon is general both as regards all the magnetic ele
 ments, and in parts of the globe most distant from each other.
    GAUTIER appears to have been struck with the same coincidence ;
 but did not publish his idea until July 18524 WOLF of Berne, who
 has sought far into the history of the sun spots, had the same
thought, publishing it first at the end of July or beginning of
 August, 1852. § He endeavours to trace the general condition of
the spots from the year 1600, and concludes that the true length of
the period is 11.11 years. As it is impossible to conceive such a
coincidence in the length of the period and the time of the maxima
and minima of these two greatly differing phenomena, without
believing in some relation of them to a common cause; so, the
observation of such a coincidence at this moment ought to urge us
more than ever into an earnest and vigorous investigation of the
true and intimate nature of magnetism ; by means of which we now
have hopes of touching in a new direction, not merely this remark
able force of the earth, but even the like powers of the sun itself.
                                                              [M. F.]
           •  Poggendorff, Annalen, LXXXIV. p. 572.
           t  Philosophical Transactions, 1852, page 103.
           t  Bibliotheque Univcrselle, 1852, XX. 189.
           $ Proceedings of Natural Society of Beme, Nos. 245—247.

1853.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                   239
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, Jan. 28.
         W. R. GROVE, ESQ., M.A., F.R.S., Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
                       PROFESSOR WILLIAMSON,
         On Gerhard?s discovery of Anhydrous Organic Acids.
THE discovery by M. Gerhardtof a number of anhydrous organic
acids has thrown so much light on one of the most important
questions of chemical philosophy, that it constitutes one of the
most remarkable illustrations of the manner in which the rich
materials of organic chemistry may be brought to bear on the
explanation of the phenomena of chemical action and the laws
of chemical combination.
   It is not unworthy of remark, that the bodies prepared by
Gerhardt had for some years past been supposed to exist ready
formed in combination with water and other bases, and that the
chief objection to that supposition was founded on the circum
stance of their never having been separated from such combi
nation, and presented in an isolated form. In fact Gerhardt has
supplied the very link in the chain, which was expected to constitute
evidence for a familiar theory of the constitution of salts. But
the process by which the result was attained is even more im
portant than the result itself, and has led to our drawing from that
result a conclusion different from that which was generally ex
pected. Chemistry aims at discovering the nature of that action
 by which substances of opposite properties undergo those re
 markable changes which we call chemical combination; and it
 naturally follows from this view of its objects, that chemical
 science is more advanced by the discovery of a new process than
 by the discovery of a new substance ; and its theories are more
 immediately affected by the nature of a process of change
 than by any physical fact, such as the existence of a peculiar body
 or class of bodies. Thus it is that the method of isolating the
 anhydrous organic acids, has afforded evidence of a new view of
 the constitution of acids and salts.
    A few words may serve to give an idea of the previous state
 of the question.
    Compounds of oxygen-acids were supposed to consist of the
 anhydrous acid united with an oxide. Thus hydrated sulphuric
 acid was represented as containing the anhydrous group S < i .
 plus an atom of water H,O , and in the saturation of this hydrated

240                    NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS             [Jtln. 28,
acid by a base such as potash, it was conceived that this oxide
replaced the water. The existence of anhydrous sulphuric acid
in an isolated state, and the fact that it so readily combines
with water, was urged as an argument in favour of this theory ;
and the same holds good with phosphoric, carbonic, sulphurous,
lactic, nitrous, and even (according to the recent discovery of
Dessaignes) nitric acid.
   However simple this view might appear and however satis
factory it might be in explaining those cases of combination for
which it was specially intended, chemists soon became acquainted
with bodies perfectly analogous in their general properties to the
oxygen-acids, and producing by their action upon bases similar
effects, but which, from the fact of their containing no oxygen,
could not possibly be conceived as made up of water and an
anhydrous-acid. For instance, hydrochloric acid was proved,
both analytically and synthetically, to be composed of nothing
but chlorine and hydrogen ; and when it combines with potash,
the hydrogen is found to leave the chlorine, whilst potassium
takes its place.
   Being desirous of simplifying as far as possible their views
of these phenomena, and of extending the same explanation to
all like cases, certain chemists were led to imagine a new mode
of representing the constitution and reactions of oxygen-acids,
which had the advantage of connecting the two classes of ana
logous reactions by the same theory. This consisted in con
ceiving, that in the formation of a hydrated acid, a compound
radical is produced in combination with hydrogen ; so that hydrated
sulphuric acid is the hydrogen-compound of S O4, in the same
way as hydrochloric acid is the hydrogen- compound of chlorine.
There were many arguments in favour of this view, amongst
which the most prominent was derived from the fact, that when
a salt of the one class, as chloride of potassium, decomposes a salt
of the other, as sulphate of silver, the result is exactly in con
formity with what must occur on the supposition of the compound
radical ; and in like manner, the electrolytic decomposition of a
sulphate moves the group S O4 to the positive pole, where it
either combines with a metal or undergoes decomposition.
   One of the strongest arguments against the view that the
oxygen-acids contain water, is afforded by the results of recent
researches (especially of MM. Laurent and Gerhardt) on the atomic
weight of acids. Those chemists have rendered more definite and
exact than they had been before, our ideas on the distinctions
between monobasic, bibasic, and tribasic acids, and have clearly
established that the correct expression of the atom of nitric acid
must be such as contains half as much hydrogen as is contained in
one atom of water (inasmuch as water is bibasic, and nitric acid
monobasic). Uf course this proportion may be as well established

  1853.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                  241
 by doubling the atomic weight of water as by halving that of
 hydrated nitric acid ; but either way it is clear that hydratecl
 nitric acid cannot contain water.
     Such was the position of the question, when an English chemist
 proved that the formation of ether from alcohol (which was con
 sidered chemically as the hydrute of ether,) does not consist in a
 separation of two already formed compounds, but in a substitution
 of hydrogen by the organic radical ethyl. A similar fact M. Gerhardt
 has proved respecting a great number of organic acids, by pre
 paring bodies which stand to them in the same relation as ether
 does to alcohol.
     The researches of M. Cahours had led to the discovery of a
 series of bodies necessary for Gerhardt's process. These were
 obtained by the action of pentachloride of phosphorus on
 various hydrated organic acids, and consisted of chlorine combined
 with the oxygenized radical of the acid. Thus from benzoic
 acid was prepared the chloride of benzoil, C, H5 O Cl, and the
 corresponding bodies, from cuminic, cinnamic, and various other
 acids. Gerhardt has since made by the same process the body
 Ct Hs O Cl, which is the chloride of the radical of acetic acid,
 called (iilnjl. Now, on bringing any one of these chlorides in
 contact with the potassium-salt of the corresponding acid, the
 chemical force of combination between chlorine and potassium
induced the decomposition.
     These results can be most simply stated in the form adopted
 by M. Gerhardt the discoverer, which consists in comparing the
 composition of these bodies with that of water, from which they are
formed by the substitution of one or both atoms of hydrogen by
organic radicals.
     Thus water being represented by the formula „ O, acetic acid is
                                                    »T
formed fromC it Hby Othe action of chloride of othyl Ca Hs O Cl,
which forms *iis          O-J-HCli. e. hydrated acetic acid and
hydrochloric acid. If a second atom of chloride of othyl is made
to act
C         O this acetic acid, or better upon the acetate of potash
      H upon
   ' -IT a O, we get, besides chloride of potassium, a compound
C
p* H  Hs O,. O which when compared to the original type, may be con-
t-'l ", as
sidered   U water having both its atoms of hydrogen replaced by
the radical othyl, C, H, O. This compound is the anhydrous
acetic acid which might be called the acetate of othyl, inasmuch
as that radical has, in the formation of the compound, taken the
place of the basic potassium in the acetate of potash.
                                                    u5 O
    In like manner, the anhydrous benzoic acid C,,* H  f, O was made
                                               C, Hj U
                                   s

242                   NOTICES OF THE MEF.TINGS               [Jan. 28,
by the action of the chloride of benzoil C, H5 O Cl on the benzoate
of potash. It is a crystalline body, perfectly neutral to test paper,
scarcely soluble in water, readily soluble in alcohol and ether.
On continued boiling with water, it is converted into hydratetl
benzole acid, one atom of the anhydride with one atom of water
forming two atoms of the hydnited acid by an interchange' of
hydrogen nnd benzoil. Besides several of these anhydrous acids,
Grrhardt has prepared some intermediate acids, analogous to the
intermediate ethers, by combining two different rwlicnls in the
C Hgroup.
same         O Thus chloride of benzoil with cuminate of potash
Ci ° H K i * O ^ formed cuminate of benzoil or benzocuminic acid
„* ° ,, i * f^O ; and in like manner, several other intermediate acids
V- m   ll i  \J
were prepared.
     In conclusion, to this very brief exposition of this important
series of discoveries, the Lecturer alluded to a feature of the
development of the human mind in scientific research, which is
strikingly illustrated by the substance and form of these results,
nnd of which instances nre probably to be found in the history of
 many others. The explanation of the above reactions consists in
 a combination of two modes of reasoning, which were developed
by different schools, and for many years were used independently
 of one another. Gerhardt, to whose researches and writings some
 important steps in the doctrine of types nre owing, formerly
believed the truths which he saw from that point of view to be
 incompatible with the idea of radicals, but he now joins those
 chemists who find in ench of these notions a necessary and most
 natural complement to the other.
     May we not hope that such may be the result in other cases of
difference of opinion on scientific questions, whtch the progress of
knowledge will shew to have been owing to the incompleteness
and one-sidedness of each view, rather than to anything absolutely
erroneous in either }
                                                        [A. W. W.]

  18,53.]               OV THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      243
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 4.
            W. R. GROVE, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
               G. B. AIRY, Esq. F.R.S. Astronomer Royal.
                        Eclipses
 On the results of recent        connectedonwith
                             calculations      theit.Eclipse of Tholes and
THB Lecturer commenced by remarking that he should not have
 thought the calculations connected with any other eclipse a subject
 worthy of his audience. The eclipse commonly called that of
Thales is however one of extraordinary interest. It refers to a
point of time which connects in a remarkable way the history of
Asia Minor and the Greek colonies settled there with the history
of the great Eastern empires. Its precise date has been for a long
time a subject of discussion among the ablest astronomical computers
and chronologers. It shews in a remarkable degree the power of
astronomy ; for it is no small thing that we are able to go back so
many centuries and confidently to describe a phenomenon which
then occurred, almost to its minutest features. But it shews also
the weakness of astronomy. It requires the combination of theory
and observation, with a full sense of the possible inaccuracies of
both, and with an endeavour by the use of each to correct the
failings of the other. It requires general criticism, history, tradition,
and a careful examination of geographical and military circum
stances. But when all these aids are properly brought to bear
upon it, a conclusion is obtained upon which there appears to be no
room for further doubt.
    In the last century, the computations, or rather the assumptions,
of distant eclipses, were extremely vague. The theory of the
moon's motion, as applicable to distant eclipses, was imperfect ; and
it would almost seem that computers, under a sense of this imper
fection, felt themselves free to interpret the calculations as loosely as
they might find convenient. Eclipses were adopted by them, as
corresponding to historical accounts, which did not represent the
physical phenomena when visible : some were even taken which
occurred before sunrise or after sunset at the places of observation.
   The great step made in theory, in reference to these inquiries, was
the discovery made by Laplace near the end of the last century, of the
secular change in the moon's mean motion in longitude (accompanied
by similar changes in the motion of the perigee and the node). In
explanation of this, the Lecturer pointed out that the force which acts

244                   NOTICES OF 'I 111'. M8ET1NG8               [AW.. 4,
upon the moon tending to draw it towards the earth is not simply the
attraction of the earth, but consists of that attraction diminished by
a disturbing force which is produced by the sun's attraction. The
sun sometimes attracts the moon towards the earth or the earth to
wards the moon, sometimes it produces the opposite effect ; but on
the whole it tends to pull the moon away from the earth. And this
diminution of the earth's attraction is greater as the sun is nearer ;
and therefore, in an elliptic orbit such as the earth describes about
the sun (or such as the sun appears to describe about the earth),
the diminution of the earth's attraction is greater when the earth
is nearest to the sun than when the earth is farthest from the
snn. It might be supposed that one of these effects exceeds that
which would happen when the earth is at its mean distance from
the sun, as much as the other falls short of it ; but in reality
the excess is greater than the deficiency, and therefore the more
excentric the earth's orbit is, the greater is this disturbing force.
So long as these circumstances remain the same, the magnitude of
the moon's orbit will not be sensibly altered. But the fact is,
that, in consequence of the perturbations produced by the planets,
though the earth's mean distance from the sun remains unaltered
from age to age, yet the excentricity of its orbit is diminishing-
from age to age ; the sun's disturbing force is therefore diminishing
from age to age : and the real force which acts upon the moon as
tending to draw it towards the earth is therefore increasing from
age to age ; and, from age to age, the moon approaches a little
nearer to the earth and performs her revolutions a little quicker. This
effect is extremely small. Between one lunation and the next
(taken one with another) the moon's distance from the earth is
diminished by about -Jj of an inch ; it would seem at first that
this could produce no discoverable effect in the moon's motion : but
one of the most wonderful things in the application of the laws of
mechanics generally, and the law of gravitation in particular (where
the magnitude of the force varies with the variation of distance), is,
that the effect of a variation of a small fraction of an inch is as
certain, in proportion to its magnitude, as that of a thousand miles.
Still the effect produced in the moon's apparent motion is very
small : in a century it amounts to only ten seconds ; an angle which,
when expressed in the usual way by the breadth of a known object
as seen at a known distance, is less than the angle subtended by the
human hand as seen at the distance of a mile. Yet in the course of
twenty-four centuries the effect of this becomes so important as, in
the case of eclipses, completely to change the face of the heavens ;
an eclipse might happen in Asia or Africa which, but for this consi
deration, we might expect to occur at that time in America.
   Shortly after the discovery of this secular change, the French lunar
tables (Burg's) were constructed, the first which introduced this ele
ment. The late Mr. Francis Baily soon made use of these in an in
vestigation of the date of the eclipse of Thales, which deserves to be

1853.]                OF THE ROVAL INSTITUTION.                      245
ranked among the most valuable that has been directed to that subject.
The historical account of the eclipse is, that the Medes attacked
the Lydians, and that a war continued several years, until at length,
when the two armies were preparing for battle, the day suddenly
became night (an event which Thales is said to have predicted), and
both parties were so much alarmed that they made peace at once.
Mr. Baily in the first place pointed out, from a collation of the
best accounts of total and annular and other partial eclipses, that
nothing but a total eclipse could produce such a striking effect
and that a total eclipse could do it. Mr. Baily afterwards saw
the total eclipse of 1842, but he saw it from the window of a
house: the Lecturer, who had seen the total eclipses of 1842 and
1851, in each case from the top of a hill and in command of the
open country, wished much that Mr. Baily could so have seen it,
when he could not have failed to be reminded of his former asser
tions with regard to the eclipse of Thales : the phenomenon in fact
is one of the most terrible that man can witness, and no degree of
partial eclipses gives any idea of its horror. Mr. Baily then, using
Burg's tables, computed all the eclipses which could by possibility be
visible in Asia Minor through a period of time exceeding that to
which the eclipse of Thales is limited by chronological considerations,
and found that only the eclipse of B. C. 610, September 30, could
be total ; and that the track of its shadow would pass across the
mouth of the river Halys. He accordingly fixed upon that as the
true date. But he then made a calculation which threw great doubt
upon the result. Upon using the same tables to compute the eclipse
of Agathocles (to be described shortly) he found that the track of
the shadow would be nearly 200 miles in error; and, with a degree
of good faith which was characteristic of him, he at once avowed
his belief that if the elements of the tables were so altered as to make
the eclipse of Agathocles possible, the eclipse of B. C. 610 could no
longer be shewn to be total in or near Asia Minor. He expressed his
confidence however that no other eclipse could, under any possible
change of the tables, have been total in Asia Minor. Mr. Baily's
conduct in this avowal was favorably contrasted with that of a German
astronomer, Oltmanns ; who, in one paper, using the same tables as
Baily, fixed upon the same date as Baily for the eclipse of Thales ;
and in another paper, after alteration of the elements, shewed that
the eclipse of Agathocles was possible ; but, although he then alluded
to his own calculations of the eclipse of Thales, had not the courage
to announce that his former conclusions must now be considered to
be unfounded.
   The Lecturer then proceeded to explain how it happens that there
exists such a connexion between two eclipses nearly 300 years apart,
that the errors of calculation of one can have any influence upon the
other. He explained that the moon's orbit is inclined to the sun's
apparent orbit round the earth, but not always in the same direction,
the line of nodes (or the intersection of the planes of the two orbits)

246                     NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                    [Fed. 4,
revolving so as to complete a revolution in about 19 J years ; and that
an eclipse of the sun can happen only when the line of nodes is
turned nearly towards the sun (as, in other cases, the shadow falls
above or below the earth). If for a given day of the year, (when
the sun is in one certain position), the moon is in that part of its
orbit most nearly in the direction of the sun, the shadow of the moon
will fall upon a certain point of the earth ; but now if the place of
the node be changed, the eflect will be that of driving a wedge under
the moon, and she will be thrown further north or south, and the
shadow upon the earth will be thrown further north or south. Thus
the place of the node will define the part of the earth on which the
shadow will be thrown ; and conversely, a knowledge of the part of
the earth on which the shadow is thrown will give information on
the place of the node. Thus the alteration of the lunar elements,
which is necessary to throw the shadow further north in the eclipse
of Agathocles, consists in an alteration of the place of the node
(other elements being supposed moderately correct) ; and this re
quires an alteration in the annual motion of the node, reckoning
backwards from the present time when the position of the node is
well known ; and applying the same annual correction by the rule
of three backwards to the place of the node at an assumed time of
 the eclipse of Thales, the corrected place of the node at that time
 is found, and then the corrected track of the moon's shadow can be
 found.
    Subsequently to the time of the calculations of Baily and Oltmanns,
the improvements in astronomy have been very great. Many
advances have been made in theory, and one of the secular changes
 (that of motion of perigee) has been greatly modified. The Green
wich Lunar Observations from 1 750 to 1 830 (which are the founda
tion of Lunar Astronomy) have been completely reduced, on one
uniform plan. Improvements have been made in the details of con
 struction, but still greater improvements in the principles, of astro
 nomical instruments. Our knowledge, also, of the geography of the
 countries to which the eclipses before us have relation, is much more
accurate and extensive than it was.
    Still there remain causes of uncertainty in the results of any calcu
 lations made for such distant periods.
    First, in the theory. No person who has not fairly entered into
 the details of the Lunar Theory can conceive the complexity of the
 algebraical expressions and the operations which occur in it. Besides
 the usual chances of error from mistake of figures and mistake of
 signs, there is the risk of mistake in the selection of some terms to
 the exclusion of others, and the possibility of positive error in the
 metaphysical reasoning which guides some of the operations. And
 we are driven at last to admit that what is sometimes called mathe
 happened
 matical     that theisconclusions
           evidence      after all but
                                    of different
                                        moral evidence.
                                                 theorists on some
                                                            And       it im
                                                                thusvery has t
 portant points are by no means accordant.

1853.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       247
 f
    Secondly, in the observations from which are determined the
elements that are to be combined with theory. Upon the same
principle by which it was shewn that the track of shadow in one
eclipse depends upon the track of shadow in another eclipse, it will
be easily seen that the track of shadow in a distant eclipse will
depend upon the observed elevation of the moon in the beginning of
the modern period of comparatively accurate astronomy ; (for that
elevation determines the place of the node ; and an error in the
elevation produces an error in the computed place of the node for
that time ; and this exhibits an error in the annual motion of
the node ; and that error carried through the long period to &
distant eclipse produces a very great error in the place of the
node there, and consequently in the track of the shadow). If a
ladder of centuries he constructed, each stave corresponding to a
century, the extent of tolerably accurate and well-reduced ob
servations of the moon (1750 to 1830) is represented by only
£ of an interval of staves. Thus it appears that an error of two
seconds in Bradley's observations (the angle which a finger-ring
subtends at the distance of a mile, and which is smaller than can be
perceived by the unassisted eye) would destroy our conclusions with
regard to the distant eclipses in question. The fault in the principle
 of the Greenwich instrument used for observing the elevation of
 the moon (namely a quadrant, the use of which was for many
 years the bane of astronomy), and the slovenly way of using it
 in Bradley's time (no attention being given to the taking the
 elevation of the moon at the precise instant of her passing the
 meridian, though her elevation then changes rapidly) might well
 allow of this error. The Lecturer stated that both in the careful
 examination of the principles on which instruments are constructed,
 and in the rigorous attention to the proper rules for their use, it
 might be hoped that great improvement would be found in modern
times.
     In consequence of these causes of uncertainty, it becomes very
 desirable, in the investigation of the eclipse of Thales, to correct
 the elements of the moon's motions by some other well deter
 mined eclipse. Omitting the eclipses since the year T200 A.D., and
 two in the second century B.C. which are somewhat discordant,
 there are two eclipses of peculiar value. One is the eclipse at the
 battle of Stiklastad at which Olaf king of Norway was killed, A.D
  1030, August 31 ; in which the precise spot is known, and the pre
  cise position of the moon is known (the breadth of the shadow being
  very small, inasmuch as, when the eclipse commenced on the earth,
  it was annular). The only objection is, that if there is any uncer
  tainty in the secular change of mean motions, the adjustment of the
  mean motions to represent the eclipse of Stiklastad will still leave a
  large uncertainty on an eclipse about 1600 years before it. Using
  the illustration of the ladder of centuries, it is like fixing the ladder
  at the bottom and at a point at one third of its height, which fasten

 248                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [Feb. 4,
 ing, if the ladder is bent in some uncertain degree, still leaves great
 uncertainty in the place of its top. The other eclipse is that of
 Agathocles, B.C. 310, August 15, which will leave little uncertainty
 of that kind, if we can but determine its exact place upon the
 earth.
    Agathocles, the Lecturer stated, being blockaded by the Cartha
 ginians in Syracuse, placed men on board a fleet, ready to escape on
 the first opportunity ; the approach of a provision-fleet drew off the
 Carthaginian ships, and Agathocles burst out of the harbour, and
 was pursued by the Carthaginians, but escaped. The next morning
 there was an eclipse of the sun which was evidently total. After
 six days he landed in the Carthaginian territories at a place called
 the Quarries, and, traversing their provinces, reduced the citizens of
  Carthage to the utmost difficulty, (in their terror they sacrificed 500
 children to their god Kronos). The Lecturer acknowledged his
 obligations to Capt. W. H. Smyth, R.N. who had called his atten
 tion to the enormous quarries at Alhowareah (Aquilaria) under Cape
 Bon, from which Utica and Carthage were built ; which place ap
 pears to have been used by the Romans as a landing-place from
 Sicily ; and which the Lecturer adopted without doubt as the landing-
 place of Agathocles. He then stated that from J. \V. Bosanquet
 Esq., he had received the suggestion that Agathocles might have
 passed the Strait of Messina ; and that gentleman had pointed out
 the passages in the historical accounts which indicated the belief of
 the sailors that they were going either to Italy or to Sardinia. The
 Lecturer stated that, on minute examination, he had found that only
 the city of Gela remained in alliance with Syracuse, and the
 provision-fleet must have come from Gela, and must have ap
 proached Syracuse from the south, and from this it followed that
 Agathocles must have escaped to the north. This brings the
 probable position of Agathocles at the time of the eclipse near to
 Messina ; if it were still supposed (as had been formerly supposed)
 that he sailed to the south, his position would probably have been
 near to Cape Passaro. The Lecturer explained the small corrections
 which must be made in the Greenwich determination of the place of
the moon's node to satisfy these two conditions : and these were
then taken as bases for the investigations connected with the eclipse
of Thales.
    The armies which were confronted at the time of the eclipse
of Thales were evidently large armies (from the circumstances
that they were commanded by the kings in person, who were
ready to make a treaty on the spot, and that their principal allies,
Syennesis and Labynetus, were present). And the principal ques
tion to be answered is, where such armies were likely to march.
The Lecturer called attention to the general form of Mount Taurus
and Anti-taurus (as one part is sometimes called), ranging from
the mountains in the south of Asia Minor, in a general north
eastern direction, till they joined the. mountains about Trebizond

1853.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    249
and Erzerum ; and stated that, according to the best information
that he could obtain, (in which he had been materially assisted
by W. J. Hamilton, Esq. and M. Pierre Tchihacheff) the following
were the principal roads through them. On the north coast there
is one, of which the difficulties were well known from the retreat
of the ten thousand Greeks. From Erzerum there are two roads
towards Siwah (Sebaste) and Kaisarieh (the Cappadocian Caesarea),
rugged, and passing through barren countries. There is one road
from Kaisarieh falling on a branch of the Euphrates, which flows
by Malatieh (Melitene) ; a rugged road parallel to it from Guroun ;
and finally, the road which is the best of all, descending from the
southern mountains into the plain of Tarsus and Adana, then skirting
the sea by Issus to Antioch. The Lecturer stated that on examining
history he found no instance of an easterly or westerly march through
the northern mountains : he had found one march of an army (under
the Byzantine emperor Heraclius) from Trebizond to the south, which
army however returned by Issus : one march by Melitene, where
the last great battle of Chosroes Nushirvan with the Byzantine
armies was fought : but, from the time of the younger Cyrus and
Alexander, the marches by Issus are very numerous. Some of
these lines of march are evidently very much curved out of their
straight direction in order to take advantage of the pass of Issus :
thus Alexander marched thither from Angora (Ancyra) : Valerian
entered by Issus to attack Sapor : Sapor, when in Armenia, and
on his way to attack Caesarea, marched by Issus : Julian in return
invaded Persia by the same road. From these circumstances it
appeared most probable that the Medes entered by Issus to attack
the Lydians, and that the battle-field would probably be included
in the polygon whose angles are Issus, Melitene, Ancyra, Sardes,
and Iconium.
   The Lecturer then shewed what would be the track of the shadow
in the eclipse of B. C. 585, May 28, either on the supposition
that the place of the Moon's node was that given by the Green
wich observations, or on the supposition that the motion of the
node was so corrected as to make the shadow in the eclipse of
Agathocles pass centrally over the assumed southern position of
Agathocles, or over the assumed northern position of Agathocles.
The uncorrectcd Greenwich track, and the track over Asia Minor
corresponding to a central eclipse on the southern position of Aga
thocles, though not inadmissible, are too far south to be accepted
as probable; but the track over Asia Minor, corresponding to
the elements which give a central or nearly central eclipse for the
northern position of Agathocles (near the strait of Messina), would
certainly pass over any probable position of the battle-field.
   The conclusion as to the general fitness of the eclipse of B. C.
585 for representing the circumstances of the eclipse of Thales,
by inference from modern elements of calculation, was first published
by Mr. Hind in the Athenaeum.

250                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [Feb. 7,
   The Lecturer then stated that he had examined in greater or less
detail every eclipse from B. C. 630 to B. C. 580, and that no other
eclipse could pass over Asia Minor. That selected by Messrs.
Baily and Oltmanns, it was now shewn, passed to the north of
the sea of Azof.
   In concluding this astronomical discussion, the Lecturer expressed
his opinion that the date B. C. 585 was now established for the
eclipse of Thales beyond the possibility of a doubt.
   The Lecturer then alluded to the tradition preserved by Sir
John Malcolm from the poetical History of Persia, that Kai Kaoos
(whom Sir John Malcolm considers to be the same as Cyaxares
or Astyages, or possibly to represent both), having marched on a
military expedition into Mazenderam, himself and his army were
struck with sudden blindness ; and that this had been foretold by
a magician. Sir John Malcolm considered, and it appears most
probable, that this is the record of a total eclipse of the sun ; but
no total eclipse near this time passed over Mazenderam. The Lec
turer conceived therefore that it might refer to the eclipse of Thales.
though with a strange perversion of the name of the province.
Such perversions however occur in the Persian poetical history with
regard to other names, which there is reason to believe are cor
rectly given by the Greeks. The name Xerxes, for instance, has
been found by Colonel Rawlinson in the Behistun inscriptions under
the form Khshayarsha, of which the Greek Xerxes was probably
 a fair oral representation ; whereas the name preserved in the poetical
 history is Isfundear. These confusions however are incidental to
 poetical history : thus if the Henria.de of Voltaire should remain
 as the only history of the times to which it relates, the name of
 the king who preceded Henri IV. would go down as Valois, instead
 of Henri III.                                            [G. B. A,]
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                           Monday, February 7.
  WILLIAM POLE, Esq., M.A, F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
    Thomas W. Allies, Esq.              John Henderson, Esq.
    J. Bell Brooking, Esq.              Thomson Hankey, Esq.
    John Forster, Esq., F.L.S.
  were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.

1853.]                      OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                               251
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same ; —
   From
Actuaries, Institute of — The Assurance Magazine, No. 10. 8vo. 1853.
Allies, Jabez, Esq., F.S.A., (the Author) — The Ancient British, Roman, and
    Saxon Antiquities and Folk -Lore of Worcestershire. 8vo. 1852.
Art-Union of London — Sixteenth Annual Report. 8vo. 1852.
   Art-Union Almanack for 1853.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 229. 8vo. 1852.
Astronomical Society (Royal) — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIII. No. 1.                   8vo.
     1852.
Athenaeum Club — List of Members. 8vo. 1852.
       Jacob, 8vo.
Bell,1853.    Esq. (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for Jan. and Feb.
Bevan, C. W., Esq. —The Literary and Scientific Register and Almanack for
     1853. 18mo. 1853.
Bombay Geographical Society—Transactions, Vol. X. 8vo. 1852.
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings, Dec. 1852, and Jan.
     1853. 4to.
Carpenter, W. B., M.D., F.R.S. (the Author) — Principles of Human Physio
    logy. 4th Edition. 8vo. 1853.
Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 20. 8vo. 1853.
Civil Engineers, Institution of — Proceedings, Dec. 1852, and Jan. 1853. 8vo.
    Second
Cocks,        Series,
         Messrs.  and Vol.
                       Co. —     Nos. 1-12.
                            I. Cocks's        4to.Miscellany,
                                         Musical      1852-3. First Series. 4to. 1850-1.
 College of Chemistry (Royal) — Table for the Comparison of the Centigrade,
    Reaumur, and Fahrenheit Thermometers, French and English Measures, &c.
    8vo. 1853.
Commissioners for the Exhibition of 1851 — Second Report.                   8vo. 1852.
    Report of the Juries. 8vo. 1853.
Dennet, Charles F., Esq. — Reply to the Strictures of Lord Mahon and others
     on the Mode of Editing the Writings of Washington, by Jared Sparks ; with
     a Review
   Letter       of Lord
            to Lord       Mahon's
                       Mahon     (in History,
                                      answer to        Letter)
                                              &c. his8vo.      ; by Jared Sparks. 8vo.
                                                            1852.
     1852. to the Senate of the United States on Colt's Repeating Pistols. 8vo.
   Report
     1851.
   Pilot, and Wind and Current Charts of the North and South Atlantic Oceans,
     in 19 sheets ; also Sailing Directions derived from the above Charts by Lieut.
     M. F. Maury, U. S. N. 4to. Washington, 1850.
   Astronomical Observations during 1846, made at the National Observatory,
    Washington, under the direction of Lieut. M. F. Maury. Vol. II. 4to.
     1851.
East India Company, Hon.—Report of the Commissioners for Post Office
     Enquiry, with Appendixes. Calcutta. 1851.
 Editors.— The Athenaeum for Nov. and Dec. 1852, and Jan. 1853. 1852. 4to.
   The Medical Circular for Dec. 1852, and Jan. and Feb. 1853. 8vo.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Dec. 1852, Jan. and Feb. 1853. 4to.
Faraday Professor, F.R.S. , Sfc. — Koninklijk-Nederlandsche Instituut van
     Wetenschappen :—
     1852.
   Verhandelingen      der Eerste Klasse. Derde Reeks, Ve. Deel. 4to. Amsterdam.
   Tijdschrift der Eerste Klasse, Ve. Deel. 8vo. Amsterdam. 1852.
   Jaarboek van Wetenschappen, Letterkunde en Schoone Kunsten voor 1851,
     8vo. Amsterdam, 1852.
   Atti dell' Accademia Pontificia de' Nuovi Lincei, Anno V. Sessioue I*. 4to.
     Roma. 1852.

¦252                           NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                                   [Feb. 7,
   Bulletin de la Classe Physico- Mathematique de l'Academie des Sciences de
    St. Petersbourg. Tome X. 4to. 1852.
  Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, Sept., Oct. und Nov. 1852.
    8vo. Berlin.
    Minor,
Feltows,         Charles,
           Sirmore   particularly
                            M.R.I,in (the
                                        the Province
                                             Author) —        Lycia. and
                                                          of Travels    12mo.     1852. in Asia
                                                                             Researches
Franklin Institute, Philadelphia — Journal, Vol. XXIV. No. 3, 4, 5. 8vo. 1852.
Geographical Society (Royal) — Journal, Vol. XXII. 8vo. 1852.
    to
    16mo.
Godwin,    George,
        a Lady    embodying
               1853.  Esq. F.R.S.a Popular
                                     (the Author)
                                             Sketch      of the History
                                                     —History                    Series of Letters
                                                                   in Ruinsof: aArchitecture,    &c.
Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 1. 8vo. 1853.
    Transactions,
Leeds   Philosophical  Vol.
                         andI. Literary
                                Part I. Society
                                           8vo. —  1837.Laws and Regulations. 8vo. 1841 .
    8vo. 1825-52.
   Annual    Reports, 5th, 6th, 7th, 11th, 12th, 14th to 19th, and 21st to 32nd.
  Account of an Egyptian Mummy (presented by J. Blayds, Esq.) by W.
    Osburn, F.R.S. L. 8vo. 1828.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. M.R.I. (the Editor)— The Monthly Digest for Dec. 1852
    and Jan. 1853. 8vo.
Lubbock, John, Esq., M.R.I, (the Author) — Description of a new.Genus of Cala-
    nidae. 8vo. 1852.
    III. to X.Literary
Manchester          8vo. and      Philosophical Society — Memoirs, Second Series, Vol.
                             1819—52.
Moxon, Edward, Esq. M.R.I. — Poems, by Thomas Hood. 16mo. 1852.
M. M. — Dirge for Wellington. 8vo. 1852.
Novello, Messrs.— Musical Times for Jan. and Feb. 1853. 4to.
    8vo.
    Western
    provide
    directP.M.,
Parsons,    1853.
             Communication
               them
                Suburbs
                     Esq.,    and
                                a General
                        with;C.E.   between
                                     to unite
                                    (the  Author)
                                               Central
                                                the
                                                 all — City
                                                      the  Station.
                                                            Metropolitan
                                                               and Westminster
                                                         Proposed     London
                                                                         Illustrated
                                                                              Railways
                                                                                Railway
                                                                                     and
                                                                                      with  and
                                                                                              Plans.
                                                                                              afford
                                                                                        ; toall   to
                                                                                                 the
    Museum
    Continent
Playfair,       of (being
             Lyon,     C.B., the
                    Practical FGeology).
                                 R.S.
                                  Introductory
                                         (the 8vo.   Lecture
                                               Author)     — Industrial
                                                         1852.               Instruction
                                                                of the Session     1852-3 on at the
Price, Rev. Bartholomew, M.A., FR.S. (the Author) — Treatise on the Diffe
    rential Calculus, and its Applications to Algebra and Geometry. 8vo. 1 852.
Pritchard, Andrew, Esq., M.R.I, (the Author) — History of Infusorial Animal
    cules, Living and Fossil. New Edition. 8vo. 1852.
    Sowerby,
Prosser,           Esq.— An
           John,F.L.S.           Engraving of Meteorolites in the Museum of James
                             1812.
       Academia Tom.
RealNaturales.              I. Partede2. Madrid
                      de Ciencias            4to. —       Memorias
                                                      Madrid,     1851.: Tercera Serie, Ciencias
   Resumen de las Actas, 1850 a 1851. 8vo. Madrid, 1851.
Royal Society of London — Transactions for 1852, Part I. 4to. 1852.
    derInstitute
Royal    Eerste Klasse,
                   of Sciences
                            DerdeofReeks,
                                      the Netherlands,
                                             Deel I. II. III.      4to. 1848—50.
                                                             at Amsterdam.—Verhandelingen
    8vo. 1848—50.
  Tijdschrift    voor de Wis-en Natuurkundige Wetenschappen, Deel I. II. III.
  Jaarboek van Wetenschappen, Letterkunde en Schoone Kunsten voor 1847,
     1848,1849,1850. 4 vol. 8vo. 1847—50.
  Verslagen over het Patent verleend aan Dr. Scoffern voor een door hem
    nitgewonden Proce'de' van Suikerbereidung door Middel van Loodsuiker.
    8vo. Amsterdam, 1852.
Royal Society of Van Diemen's Land—Papers and Proceedings. Vol. II.
    Part 1. 8vo. 1852.
Royal Irish Academy — Transactions. Vol XXII. Parts 3, 4. 4to. 1852-3.
    Proceedings. Vol. V. Part 2. 8vo 1852.
Smith, Mr. T. (the Author) — Some Account of the Ancient Corps of the Yeo

1853. J                    OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                              253
    man of the Guard, instituted in 1485, and the Wardens of the Tower. 12mo.
     1852.
     1853.
Smith,   Mr. J. Russell (the Publisher) — The Retrospective Review, No. 2. 8vo.
Society of Arts — Journal, Nos. 2—1 1 . 8vo. 1852.
   Transactions for 1846-7-8. 4to. 1852.
Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XV. Part 4. 8vo. 1852.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S., M.R.I.— Geschichte des siebenjährigen Krieges in
     Deutschland von 1756 bis 1763, durch J. W. von Archenholtz. 16mo.
      Berlin.
   Blumenlese aus den Schriften von B. Naubert. 2 vol. 16mo. 1829.
   Weinrausch, Sammlung von Scherzen, u. s. w. 1837.
   Gustav's Reise-Abentheuer mit einer alten Muse, von C. J. Oldendorp.
      16mo. Leipzig, 1828.
   Die Nacht in der Hölle. Ein Roman von F. Laun. 16mo. Berlin, 1825.
   Humoristisch-satyrischer Volks-Kalender des Kladderadatsch fur 1853.
      Herausgegeben von D. Kasisch. Vierter Jahrgang. Berlin, 1853.
   Commercial Hints and Companion to the Counting-house, &c., By Thomas
      Smith; — also Treatise on Book-keeping ; by the same. 12mo. 1837.
    P. Virgilii Maronis Opus eximium per Paulum Malleolum Andelacensem
     iterata diligentia plane recognitum. 4to. Parrhisiis, 1498.
    Hans Sachs ernstliche Trauerspiele, liebliche Schauspiele, u. s. w. bearbeitet und
      herausgegeben von Dr. J. G. Büsching. 3 vol. 8vo. Nürnberg, 1316-24.
    Ancient and Modern York, by R. R. Pearce. 12mo.» 1841.
    J. G. Prändels Geometrie und Trigonometrie u. s. w. München. 8vo. 1793-4.
 Twining, Henry, Esq., M.R.I, (the Author) — The Elements of Picturesque
      Scenery ; or Studies of Nature made in Travel with a View to Improvement
      in Landscape-Painting. 8vo. 1853.
 University of London — London University Calendar, 1853. l6mo. 1853.
 Vereins zur Beförderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Sept.
      und Okt. 4to. 1852.
 Vincent, B., Keeper of the Library, R.L — Hölty's Gedichte. 16mo. Gotha,
      1826.
    Hebel's Allemannische Gedichte, 16mo. Aarau, 1827.
    Borroni, Gramatica della Lingua Tedesca ad uso degli Italiani.              12mo.
        A. Flori1814.
    L.Milana,     Rerum Romanarum Epitome. Ad usum Delph. 8vo. 1744.
    C. V. Paterculi Historia Romana. (Ed. Barbou.) 12mo. Parisiis, 1714.
    Roullier's Primitives of the Greek Tongue, in Five Languages. 8vo. 1806.
    Vergani, Grammaire Italienne. 12mo. Paris, 1819.
    Essay on Laughter (translated from the French). 16mo. 1769.
 Webster, John, M.D., F.R.S.— Bethlem Hospital. The Observations of the
      Governors upon the Report of the Commissioners in Lunacy, 1852. 8vo.
      1852.
 Wilkinson, Henry, Esq., M.R.A.S., Sfc. (the Author) — Observations on Muskets,
      Rifles, and Projectiles. 2nd Edition. 12mo. 1852.

 254                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [Fei. 1 1 ,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, February 1 1 .
      THE DUKB OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                                 in the Chair.
                  JOHN TrNDALL, ESQ., Ph. D., F.R.S.
   On the influence of Material Aggregation upon the manifestations
                                   of Force.
 Turin are no two words with which we are more familiar than
 matter and force. The system of the universe embraces two things,—
 an object acted upon, and an agent by which it is acted upon ;— the
 object we call matter, and the agent we call force. Matter, in cer
 tain aspects, may be regarded as the vehicle of force ; thus the
 luminiferous ether is the vehicle or medium by which the pulsations
 of the sun are transmitted to our organs of vision. Or to take a
 plainer case ; if we set a number of billiard balls in a row and impart
 a shock to one end of the series, in the direction of its length, we
 know what takes place ; the last ball will fly away, the intervening
 balls having served for the transmission of the shock from one end
 of the series to the other. Or we might refer to the conduction of
 heat. If, for example, it be required to transmit heat from the fire
 to a point at some distance from the fire, this may be effected by
 means of a conducting body — by the poker for instance : thrusting
 one end of the poker into the fire it becomes heated, the heat makes
 its way through the mass, and finally manifests itself at the other
 end. Let us endeavour to get a distinct idea of what we here call
 heat ; let us first picture it to ourselves as an agent apart from the
 mass of the conductor, making its way among the particles of the
latter, jumping from atom to atom, and thus converting them into a
kind of stepping-stones to assist its progress. It is a probable con
clusion, even had we not a single experiment to support it, that the
mode of transmission must, in some measure, depend upon the man
ner in which those little molecular stepping-stones are arranged.
But we need not confine ourselves to the material theory of heat.
Assuming the hypothesis which is now gaining ground, that heat,
instead of being an agent apart from ordinary matter, consists in a
motion of the material particles ; the conclusion is equally probable
that the transmission of the motion must be influenced by the man
ner in which the particles are arranged. Does experimental science
furnish us with any corroboration of this inference ? It does. More
than twenty years ago MM. De la Rive and De Candolle proved that
heat is transmitted through wood with a velocity almost twice as
great along the fibre as across it. This result has been recently
expanded, and it has been proved that this substance possesses three

1853.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       255
axes of calorific conduction ; the first anS greatest axis being parallel
to the fibre ; the second axis perpendicular to the fibre and to the
ligneous layers ; while the third axis, which marks the direction in
which the greatest resistance is offered to the passage of the heat, is
perpendicular to the fibre and parallel to the layers.
    But it is the modification of the magnetic force by the peculiari
ties of aggregation, which forms the subject of the evening's
lecture. What has been stated regarding heat applies with equal
force to magnetism. The observed magnetic phenomena are of a
composite character. The action of a magnetic mass is the re
sultant action of its molecules, and will be influenced by the manner
in which they are aggregated. The fundamental phenomena of mag
netism are too well known to render it necessary to dwell upon
them for an instant. A small bar of iron was suspended in the
magnetic field ; it set its length parallel to the line joining the poles.
Should we be justified from this experiment in concluding that a mag
netic mass will always set its longest dimension axial ? No. A
second magnetic bar, equal in size to the former, was suspended
between the poles ; it set its length at right angles to the line
joining the poles. Whence this deportment ? We find the reason
of it in the mechanical structure of the bar : it is composed of mag
netic plates, transverse to its length : these plates *t from pole to
pole and hence the length of the bar equatorial. But let us proceed
from this coarse experiment to one more delicate, where nature
 herself has imposed the conditions of aggregation. A plate taken
 from a mass of shale, picked up a few weeks ago in the coal district
 of Blackburn, was suspended between the poles ; although strongly
 magnetic it set its longest dimension at right angles to the line
joining the poles. This deportment was at once explained by re
 ference to the structure of the mass : it also, though apparently
 compact, was composed of layers transverse to its length ; these
 layers set from pole to pole and hence the length equatorial. Let
 us ascend to a case still more refined. A crystal of sulphate of
 nickel was suspended between the poles, and on exciting the magnet
 a certain determinate position was taken up by the crystal. The
 substance was magnetic, still its shortest dimension set from pole to
 pole. The crystal was removed from the magnetic field and the edge
 of a penknife placed along the line which set axial ; a slight pressure
 split the crystal and disclosed two beautiful surfaces of cleavage.
 The crystal could in this way be cloven into an indefinite number of
 magnetic layers ; these layers set from pole to pole and hence the
 longest dimension, which was perpendicular to the layers, equatorial.
 Comparing all these experiments,— ascending from the gross case
 where the laminae were plates of iron stuck together by wax, to
 that in which they were crystalline, the inference appears unavoidable
 that the unanimity of deportment exhibited is the product of a com
 mon cause ; and that the results are due to the peculiarities of material
 aggregation.                                       •

256                  NOTICB8 OF THE MEETINGS                   [Feb. 11,
  The beautiful researches of Pliicker in this domain of science are
well known. Pliicker's first experiment was made with a plate of
tourmaline. Suspended in the magnetic field with the axis of the
crystal vertical, it set its length from pole to pole, like an ordinary
magnetic body. Suspended with the axis of the horizontal, on
exciting the magnet, Pliicker found to his astonishment that the
largest dimension set equatorial. Let us see whether we cannot
obtain this deportment otherwise. Suspending the piece of shale
already made use of, so that its laminae were horizontal, on exciting
the magnet the longest horizontal dimension of the plate set axial :
moving the point of suspension 90° so that the laminae were vertical,
on exciting the magnet the length of the plate set equatorial. In
the magnetic field the deportment of the crystal was perfectly
undistinguishable from that of the shale. But it may be retorted
that tourmaline possesses no such laminae as those possessed by the
shale : true — nor is it necessary that it should do so. A number
of plates, bars, and disks, formed artificially from magnetic dust,
exhibited a deportment precisely similar to the tournaline, — sus
pended from one point they set their lengths axial, suspended from
another point the lengths set equatorial. Let us now turn to
what may be called the complementary actions exhibited by dia-
magnetic bodie% A homogeneous diamagnetic bar sets its length
equatorial. But bars were exhibited composed of transverse dia
magnetic laminae which set their lengths axial. This experiment is
complementary to that of the shale, &c. ; the magnetic laminae set
axial, the diamagnetic equatorial; and by attention to this the
magnetic body is made to behave like a homogeneous diamagnetic
body, and the diamagnetic body like a homogeneous magnetic
body. Diamagnetic bars and disks were also examined, and a
deportment precisely complementary to that of the magnetic bars
and disks was exhibited. A magnetic disk set its thickness from
pole to pole and consequently its horizontal diameter equatorial ; a
diamagnetic disk set its thickness equatorial and its horizontal
diameter from pole to pole. Two bodies of the same exterior form
and of the same colour, were suspended simultaneously in the fields
of two electro-magnets, and both the latter were excited by the
same current ; the eye could detect no difference of deportment.
Both bodies possessed the shape of calcareous spar, and both set
the crystallographic axis equatorial. One body however was com
posed of wax, while the other was a true crystal. In the same
way a crystal of carbonate of iron exhibited a deportment precisely
the same as that of a model formed of magnetic dust. The
explanation of these phenomena may be given in a few words.
In the construction of the models, the magnetic or diamagnetic
dust was formed into a kind of dough and pressed between two
glass plates ; the same process was applied to the wax ; and it is
a universal law, that in diamagnetic bodies the line along which the
density of the mass has been increased by compression, sets equatorial,

 1853.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       257
and in magnetic bodies axial. A reference to this principle will
instantly render plain all the experiments we have described. In
those cases where the same artificial bar set at one time axial and
at another time equatorial, the deportment depended on the circum
stance whether the line of compression was vertical or horizontal.,
When vertical its directive power was annulled, and the action
was determined by the exterior form of the body ; but when
horizontal its directive action came into play and determined the
position of the mass. The magnetic bar, for example, suspended '
with its line of pressure vertical, set axial, but with its line of
pressure horizontal, it set equatorial ; for the pressure was exerted
at right angles to its length. This action is so general that it is
difficult to find a body so perfectly homogeneous as not to exhibit it
in some degree. Ipecacuanha lozenges and Carlisle biscuits were
suspended in the magnetic field and exhibited a most striking
directive action. The materials in both cases were diamagnetic ;
but owing to the pressure exerted in their formation their largest
horizontal dimensions set from pole to pole, the line of compression
being equatorial.
    Let us endeavour to arrive at the precise logical import of these
 experiments. Let us suppose that before ever a crystal had been
 suspended in the magnetic field, we were acquainted with the fact
 that a slight change of density in any direction is accompanied by
 such modifications of the magnetic force as those above described :
 — that we knew that flour, bran, soap, shale, magnetic dust, diamag
 netic dust, &c., all exhibited this directive action,— that it is in fact
 a universal law of matter ; and then let us imagine some fortunate
 experimenter hanging a crystal between the poles and observing a
deportment in every respect similar. Would not the analogy of
the case at once flash upon him ? Would he not regard this de
portment as a beautiful, but still special example of that all-pervading
law with which he was previously acquainted. Would he not con
gratulate himself on the possibility thus opened to him of searching
 out the mysteries of crystalline structure, and rendering apparent to
his mental eye the manner in which the molecules are aggregated
together. He would never have assumed the existence of forces al
together new to account for the observed actions ; much less would
he have affirmed that they were wholly independent of magnetism or
diamagnetism ; for he would know beforehand that the modification
of these forces by the peculiarities of aggregation was the exact
thing calculated to produce the phenomena. But magne-crystallic
action was discovered when its universality was unknown ; and
hence its discoverer was led to regard it as something unique. A
great temptation lay in, his way : years before, a magnet, now
present, had twisted a ray of light, and thus suggested a connexion
between light and magnetism. What wonder then if this unifying
instinct, this yearning to find the mystic bond which unites these
forces, this prediction of the human mind that all the forces of
                                                       T

   258                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [Fe4. 1 I ,
   nature are but branches of a common root, — what wonder, I say, if
   it jumped its bounds and cried " I have it ! " too soon. For a
   long time the optic axis, and it alone, was chargeable with these
   phenomena, — phenomena which it was now hoped, there would be
.. little difficulty in referring to their proper cause, and regarding as
   examples of the modification of force by the peculiarities of aggre
   gation.
      The Lecturer then pointed out the bearing of the described results
   upon the problem of the diurnal range of the magnetic needle. Pro
   fessor Faraday had referred the matter to the modification of atmos
   pheric magnetism by the sun's rays. That an effect was produced
   here could not for a moment be doubted, but the precise extent of
   this effect was still an open question. The discovery of a decimal
   period by Lamont threw a great difficulty in the way of any theory
   which would refer the diurnal range to thermic action ; and the
   difficulty was greatly increased by the observation of Col. Sabine,
   who connected Lament's discovery with that of Schwabe regarding
   the solar spots. But whatever the result of future enquiries as to
   the direct magnetism of the sun may be, no theory which proposes
   to exhaust the subject can afford to omit the mediate operation of
   the sun by his heat ; not however confining it to the atmosphere, but
   extending it also to the earth's solid crust. Let us look once more to
   our experiments. ' The line of greatest density is that of strongest
   magnetic power. The body operated upon by the magnet is itself a
   magnet, and it is an experimental fact, that it is a stronger magnet
    along the line of greater density than along any other line. If in
    stead of increasing the density in one direction we increase it in all
    directions, we thereby augment the general magnetic power of the
    body. Anything therefore which tends to increase density increases
    magnetic power; and whatever diminishes density diminishesmagnetic
    power also. Knowing this, the conclusion is inevitable, that the
    local action of the sun upon the earth's crust must influence, in some
    degreet the resultant effect. The action here meant is wholly diffe
    rent from that hitherto speculated on, and which had reference to the
    generation of thermo-electric currents which affect the needle. The
    simple mechanical change of density is what is meant. It is a true
    cause, and no complete theory can omit taking it into account.
       The Lecturer then proceeded to remark on the influence of geo
    logic changes upon the earth as a magnet, and concluded as follows :
       " This evening's discourse is, in some measure, connected with
    this locality ; and thinking thus, I am led to enquire wherein the
    true value of a scientific discovery consists ? Not in its immediate
    results alone, but in the prospect which it opens to intellectual
    activity, in the hopes which it excites, in the vigour which it
    awakens. The discovery which led to the results brought before
    you to-night was of this character. That magnet was the physical
    birth-place of these results ; and if they possess any value they are
    to be regarded as the returning crumbs of that bread which in 1 846

 1853.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     259
was cast so liberally upon the waters. I rejoice, Ladies and Gentle
men, in the opportunity here afforded me of offering my tribute to
the greatest worker of the age, and of laying some of the blossoms
 of that prolific tree which he planted, at the fe.et of the great dis
coverer of diamagnetism."
                                                               [J. T.]
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 18.
     THE DUKB OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
    G. G. STOKES, M.A., F.R.S., Lucasian Professor, Cambridge.
 On the Change of Refrangibility of Light, and the exhibition thereby
                          of the Chemical Rays.
 BEFORE proceeding to the more immediate subject of the Lecture,
 it was necessary to refer to certain discoveries of Sir John Herschel
and Sir David Brewster, more especially as it was the discovery by
 the former of these philosophers of the epipolic dispersion of light,
and of the peculiar analysis of light which accompanies the pheno
 menon, that led to the researches respecting the change of re-
frangibility.
    When a weak acid solution of quinine is prepared, by dissolving,
suppose, one part of the commercial disulphate in 200 parts of water
acidulated with sulphuric acid, a fluid is obtained which appears
colourless and transparent when viewed by transmitted light, but
which exhibits nevertheless in certain aspects a peculiar sky-blue
colour. This colour of course had frequently been noticed ; but it
is to Sir John Herschel that we owe the first analysis of the pheno
menon.* . He found that the blue light emanates in all directions
from a very thin stratum of fluid adjacent to the surface, (whether it
be the free surface or the surface of contact of the fluid with the con
taining glass vessel,) by which the incident rays enter the fluid.
His experiments clearly shew that what here takes place is not a
mere subdivision of light into a portion which is dispersed and a
portion which passes on, but an actual analysis. For after the rays
have once passed through the stratum from which the blue dis
persed light comes, they are deprived of the power of producing the
              • Philosophical Transactions for 1845, p. 143.

260                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [Ft6. 18,
same effect ; that is, they do not exhibit any blue stratum when they
are incident a second time on a solution of quinine. To express the
modification which the transmitted light had undergone, the further
nature of which did not at the time appear, Sir John Herschel made
use of the term " epipolized."
   Sir David Brewster had several years before discovered a re
markable phenomenon in an alcoholic solution of the green colouring
matter of leaves, or, as it is called by chemists, chlorophyll. This
fluid when of moderate strength and viewed across a moderate thick
ness is of a fine emerald green colour ; but Sir David Brewster
found that when a bright pencil of rays, formed by condensing the
sun's light by a lens, was admitted into the fluid, the path of the rays
was marked by a bright beam of a blood red colour.* This singular
phenomenon he has designated internal dispersion. He supposed it
to be due to suspended particles which reflected a red light, and
conceived that it might be imitated by a fluid holding in suspension
an excessively fine coloured precipitate. A similar phenomenon was
observed by him in a great many other solutions, and in some solids ;
and in a paper read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh in 1846
he has entered fully into the subject. f In consequence of Sir John
 Hersche1's papers, which had just appeared, he was led to examine
a solution of sulphate of quinine ; and he concluded from his ob
 servations that the " epipolic" dispersion of light exhibited by this
 fluid was only a particular instance of internal dispersion, distin
 guished by the extraordinary rapidity with which the rays capable
 of dispersion were dispersed.
    The Lecturer stated, that, having had his attention called some
time ago to Sir John Hersche1's papers, he had no sooner repeated
 some of the experiments than he felt an extreme interest in the phe
 nomenon. The reality of the epipolic analysis of light was at once
 evident from the experiments ; and he felt confident that certain
 theoretical views respecting the nature of light had only to be fol
lowed fearlessly into their legitimate consequences, in order to explain
 the real nature of epipolized light.
    The exhibition of a richly coloured beam of light in a perfectly
 clear fluid, when the observation is conducted in the manner of Sir
 David Brewster, seemed to point to the dispersions exhibited by the
 solutions of quinine and chlorophyll as one and the same phe
 nomenon. The latter fluid, as has been already stated, disperses
 light of a blood red colour. When the transmitted light is subjected
 to prismatic analysis, there is found a remarkably intense band of
 absorption in the red, besides certain other absorption bands, of less
 intensity, in other parts of the spectrum. Nothing at first seemed
 more likely than that, in consequence of some action of the ultimate
 molecules of• the  medium,
                 Edinburgh         incident
                              theTrans.
                           Phil.             raysp.belonging
                                        Vol. XII.   542.      to the absorp-
               t Vol. XVI. Part 2, and Phil. Mag. June, 1848.

 1853.]                   OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                              261
tion band in the red. withdrawn, as they certainly were, from the
incident beam, were given out in all directions, instead of being
absorbed in the manner usual in coloured media. It might be sup
posed that the incident vibrations of the luminifer^.us ether
generated synchronous vibrations in the ultimate molecules, and
were thereby exhausted, and that the molecules in turn became
centres of disturbance to the ether. The general analogy between
the phenomena exhibited by the solutions of chlorophyll and of
quinine would lead to the expectation of absorption bands in the
light transmitted by the latter. If these bands were but narrow,
the light belonging to them might not be missed in the transmitted
beam, unless it were specially looked for ; and the beam might be
thus " epipolizcd," without, to ordinary inspection, being changed
in its properties in any other respect. But on subjecting the light
to prismatic analysis, first with the naked eye, and then with
a magnifying power, no absorption bands were perceived.
    A little further reflection shewed that even the supposition of the
existence of these bands would not alone account for the phenomenon.
For the rays producing the dispersed light, (if we confine our
attention to the thin stratum in which the main part of the dis
persion takes place,) are exhausted by the time the incident light
has traversed a stratum the fiftieth of an inch thick, or there
abouts, whereas the dispersed rays traverse the fluid with perfect
freedom. This indicates a difference of nature between the blue-
producing rays and the blue rays produced. Now, as the Lecturer
stated, he felt very great confidence in the principle that the nature
of light is completely defined by specifying its refrangibility and its
state as to polarization. The difference of nature, then, indicated
by the phenomenon, must be referred to'a difference in one or other
of these two respects. At first he took for granted that there could
be no change of refrangibility. The refrangibility of light had
hitherto been regarded as an attribute absolutely invariable.* To
suppose that it had changed would, on the undulatory theory, be
 equivalent to supposing that periodic vibrations of one period could
 give rise to periodic vibrations of a different period, a supposition
presenting no small mechanical difficulty. But the hypotheses
 which he was obliged to form on adopting the other alternative,
 namely, that the difference of nature had to do with the state of
polarization, were so artificial as to constitute a theory which ap
peared utterly extravagant. He was thus led to contemplate the
possibility of a change of refrangibility. No sooner had he dwelt
   * It is true that the phenomenon of phosphorescence is in a certain sense
an exception ; but the effect is in this case a work of time, which seems at once
to remove it from all the ordinary phenomena of light, which, as far as sense can
judge, take place instantaneously. It is true that there now appears a close analogy
in many respects between true internal dispersion and phosphorescence. But
while the nature of epipolized light remained yet unexplained, there was nothing
in the former phenomenon to point to the latter.

262                    NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                 [Feb. 18,
in his mind on this supposition, than the mystery respecting the
nature of epipolized light vanished ; .all the parts of the phenomenon,
fell naturally into their places. So simple did the whole explanation
become, when once the fundamental hypothesis was admitted, that
he could not help feeling strongly impressed that it would turn
out to be true. Its truth or fallacy was a question easily to be
decided by experiment ; the experiments were performed, and resulted
in its complete establishment.
    The Lecturer then described what may be regarded as the funda
 mental experiment. A beam of sunlight was reflected horizontally
 through a vertical slit into a darkened room, and a pure spectrum
 was formed in the usual manner, namely, by transmitting the light
 through a prism at the distance of several feet from the slit, and
 then through a lens close to the prism. In the actual experiment,
 two or three prisms were used, to produce a greater angular separa
 tion of the colours. Instead of a screen, there was placed at the
 focus of the lens a vessel containing a solution of sulphate of quinine.
 It was found that the red, orange, &c., in fact, nearly the whole of
 the visible rays, passed through the fluid as if it had been mere
 water. But on arriving about the middle of the violet, the path
 of the rays within the fluid was marked by a sky-blue light, which
 emanated in all directions from the fluid, as if the medium had been
 self-luminous. This blue light continued throughout the region
  of the violet, and far beyond, in the region of the invisible rays.
 The posterior surface of the luminous portion of the fluid marked
 the distance to which the incident rays were able to penetrate into
  the medium before they were exhausted. This distance, which at
  first exceeded the diameter of the vessel, decreased with great
  rapidity, so that in the greater part of the invisible region it
  amounted to only a very small fraction of an inch. The fixed lines
  of the extreme violet, and of the more refrangible invisible rays,
  were exhibited by dark planes interrupting the dispersed light.
  When a small portion of the incident spectrum was isolated, by
  stopping the rest by a screen, and the corresponding beam of blue
  dispersed light was refracted sideways by a prism held to the eye,
  it was found to consist of light having various degrees of refrangi-
  bility, with colour corresponding, the more refrangible rays being
  more abundant than the less refrangible. The nature of epipolized
  light is now evident ; it is nothing but light from which the highly
  refrangible invisible rays have been withdrawn by transmitting
  it through a solution of quinine, and does not differ from light
  from which those rays have been withdrawn by any other means.
     The fundamental experiment, excepting that part of it which
  relates to the analysis of the dispersed light, was then exhibited by
  means of the powerful voltaic battery belonging to the Institution,
  which was applied to the combustion of metals. The rays emana
  ting from the voltaic arc were applied to form a pure spectrum,
  which was received on a slab of glass coloured by peroxide of ura

1853.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      263
nium, a medium which possesses properties similar to those of a
solution of sulphate of quinine in a still more eminent degree.
    The difference of nature of the illumination produced by a change
of refrangibility, or " true internal dispersion," from that due to the
mere scattering of light, may be shown in a very instructive form
by placing paper washed with sulphate of quinine, or a screen of
similar properties, so as to receive a long narrow horizontal spec
trum, and refracting this upwards by a prism held to the eye.
Were the luminous band formed on the paper due merely to the
scattering of the incident rays, it ought of course to be thrown
obliquely upwards ; whereas it is actually decomposed by the prism
into two bands, one ascending obliquely, and consisting of the
usual colours of the spectrum in their natural order, the other
running horizontally, and extending far beyond the more refran
gible end of the former. Whatever be the screen, the horizontal
band is always situated below the oblique, since there appears to be
no exception to the law, that when the refrangibility of light is
changed in this manner it is always lowered.
    The general appearance of some highly " sensitive " media in the
invisible rays was then exhibited by means of the flame of sulphur
burning in oxygen, a source of these rays which Dr. Faraday, to
whose valuable assistance the Lecturer was much indebted, had in
some preliminary trials found very efficacious. The chief media
used were article:) made of glass coloured by uranium, and solutions
of quinine, of horse-chestnut bark, and of the seeds of the datura
stramonium. A tall cylindrical jar filled with water showed
nothing remarkable ; but when a solution of horse-chestnut bark
was poured in, the descending fluid was strongly luminous. The
experiment was varied by means of white paper on which words
had been written with a pretty strong solution of sulphate of
quinine, an alcoholic solution of the seeds of the datura stramonium,
and a purified aqueous solution of horse-chestnut bark. By gas
light the letters were invisible ; but by the sulphur light, especially
when it had been transmitted through a blue glass, which transmits
a much larger proportion of the invisible than of the visible rays,
the letters appeared luminous, on a comparatively dark ground. A
glass vessel containing a thin sheet of a very weak solution of
chromate of potash allowed the letters to be seen as well, or very
nearly as well as before, when it was interposed between the eye
and the paper ; but when it was interposed between the flame and
the paper the letters wholly disappeared,— the medium being opaque
with respect to the rays which caused the letters to be luminous,
but transparent with respect to the rays which they emitted.
    It was then remarked what facilities are thus afforded for the
study of the invisible rays. When a pure spectrum is once formed,
it is as easy to determine the mode of absorption of an absorbing me
dium with respect to the invisible, as with respect to the visible rays.
It is sufficient to interpose the medium in the path of the incident

264                    NOTICES OF THE MBETINGS                [/-'rf. 18,
rays, and to notice the effect. Again, the effect of various flames
and other sources of light on solutions of quinine, and on similar
media, indicates the richness or poverty of those sources with respect
to the highly refrangible invisible rays. Thus, the flames of alcohol,
of hydrogen, &c., of which the illuminating power is so feeble, were
found to be very rich in invisible rays. This was still more the
case with a small electric spark, while the spark from a Leyden jar
was found to abound in rays of excessively high refrangibility.
These highly refrangible rays were stopped by glass, but passed freely
through quartz. These results, and others leading to the same
conclusion, had induced the Lecturer to order a complete train of
quartz. A considerable portion of this was finished before the
 end of last August, and was applied to the examination of the
 solar spectrum. A spectrum was then obtained extending beyond
the visible spectrum, that is, beyond the extreme violet, to a distance
 at least double that of the formerly known chemical spectrum.
 This new region was filled with fixed lines like the regions pre
viously known.
    But a spectrum far surpassing this was obtained with the powerful
electrical apparatus belonging to the Institution. The voltaic arc
from metallic points furnished a spectrum no less than six or eight
times as long as the visible spectrum. This was in fact the spectrum
 which had already been exhibited in connexion with the funda
 mental experiment. The prisms and lens which the Lecturer had
 been employing in forming the spectrum were actually made of
 quartz. The spectrum thus obtained was filled from end to end
 with bright bands. When a piece of glass was interposed in the
path of the incident rays, the length of the spectrum was reduced
to a small fraction of what it had been, all the more refracted part
 being cut away. A strong discharge of a Leyden jar had been
 i'numj to give a spectrum at least as long as the former, but not,
like it, consisting of nothing but isolated bright bands.
    The Lecturer then explained the grounds on which he concluded
 that the end of the solar spectrum on the more refrangible side had
 actually been reached, no obstacle existing to the exhibition of rays
 still more refrangible if such were present. He stated also that
 during the winter, even when the sun shone clearly, it was. not
 possible to see so far as before. As spring advanced he found the light
 continually improving, but still he was not able to see so far as he
 had seen at the end of August. It was plain that the earth's
 atmosphere was by no means transparent with respect to the most
 refrangible of the rays belonging to the solar spectrum.
    In conclusion, there was exhibited the effect of the invisible
 rays coming from a succession of sparks from the prime conductor
 of a large electrifying machine, in illuminating a slab of glass
 coloured by uranium.
                                                          [G. G. S.]

1853.]                 01? THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    265
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, Feb. 25.
   THIS PUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                               in the Chair.
                 JOHN WILSON, ESQ., F. R, S. E. &c.
            On Ploughs and Ploughing, Ancient and Modern.
WITHOUT attempting to discuss the general question of scientific
fanning, on one point, at all events, all will agree, that the applica
tion of science to the improvement of machines and implements has
been productive of great benefit to agriculture. Just now two
circumstances in particular combine to affect the farmer's calling,—
the competition of foreign produce in our markets and the diminishing
supply of labour, due to emigration. To meet these successfully,
production must be increased, and labour economised. These ends
must be obtained either by the perfection of present processes or the
substitution of others, for which the application of improved machines
and implements offers the readiest means.
   The plough was selected as the subject of the Lecture, firstly,
because it is commonly recognized as the symbol of agriculture,—
and secondly, because during the long period of its history it has,
until quite recently, undergone fewer changes than most other
implements of such universal use.
   The object of agriculture is the conversion of mineral into organized
matter, through the agency of the plants which she cultivates. The
soil is the factory in which these changes principally take place ;—
and one of the conditions necessary is contact with the atmosphere.
To effect this, mechanical means are needed to open up and divide
the soil ; and the plough was soon found to be a more efficient tool
than either the pick or the spade, which were limited to manual
labour.
   Ploughs are mentioned in the early pages of our sacred history ;
indeed we have there described the skeleton upon which all ploughs,
past and present, have been framed. The ancient Greeks and
Romans paid great attention to farming, and especially to implements
and their application. The plough, then as now, occupied a pro
minent place, and much practical information in respect to its uses
has been handed down to us. Of the Greeks, the principal writers
dn agricultural matters, are Hesiod, Xenophon, Homer, Theocritus,
and Theophrastus. The Roman authors are more numerous and
their works better known ; amongst them we may cite Cato, Virgil,
Columella, Varro, Palladius, and Pliny. Many of their precepts are

  266                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [Feb. 25,
  valuable, and would compare very successfully with the practice of
  the present day. They held it to be bad farming to plough when
 the ground was wet, " Lutosam terrain ne tangito." Another maxim
 was never to plough with an unequal furrow, "Stilco vario ne ares,"—
 and a third was never to plough with a crooked furrow,— he who
  did so was said to prevaricate, " Orator nisi incurvus pnevaricatur."
 This expression was afterwards used in the forum, and the same
 meaning attached to it as in the present day. Let these maxims be
 posted in our market places, and no farmers who read would gainsay
 them ; and yet how often do we see them disregarded in our fields.
    Oxen were generally used, and always harnessed two abreast, and
 the quantity of work done in a yoking was from 1 jugerum (= .618
 of an acre) to 1^ jugerum. Pliny mentions having seen in Egypt
 ploughs drawn by cows, their calves skipping by their sides, and in
 more than one instance a team composed of an ass and an old
 woman harnessed together. The Roman plough was minutely de
 scribed by Virgil, and closely resembles the ploughs used in Valencia
 and some parts of France at the present day. In the Vetusta
 Monumenta (Vol. VI. see Bayeux Tiipestry, A.D. 1032) drawings
 may be seen of wheel ploughs worked by two horses abreast. Much
 information on the condition of the plough in the mediaeval period
 may be obtained from the works of Sir Anthony Fitzherbert (1532),
 " Chief Justice of the Common Pleas, and a farmer of forty years,
 standing," of Heresbach (1570),—of Walter Blith, whose' " Im
 prover Improved" appeared in 1652 — of Hartlib (1652), and of
 Gervase Markham (1631), from which we learn, that turn-rest
 ploughs were commonly used in Kent, that the sub-soil plough was
 then known, and that on many of the light lands in Norfolk and
 Suffolk it was the practice, by using light ploughs with one horse, to
 get over two and three acres in the course of the day.
    The great improvements in the plough took place in the latter
 half of the eighteenth century, and are due to Small, Wilkie, Fin-
laison, and others — who introduced iron mould-boards of a different
shape, and generally improved the mechanics of the implement.
    Ploughs now are made either with one or with two wheels, and
these are known as " wheel-ploughs " or they are made without
any wheels at all, in which case they are termed " swing- ploughs."
The former are generally used in the southern and the latter in the
northern districts. In the use of the one, " more judgment than
skill " is required, in the other " more skill than judgment ;" with
the wheel-plough, more depends upon the implement and less upon
the man ;— with the swing-plough, more depends upon the man and
less upon the implement. With either, the work is necessarily less
perfectly done than with the spade, and the great desideratum of
the day is to contrive a machine that shall have the efficiency of the
spade and the capability of the plough. Many attempts have been
   Amongst
made,         the most
        but, until recently,
                          prominent
                             without of
                                     anythem      thesuccessful
                                         thingislike            machine
                                                       digging results.

1853.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      267
exhibited in Hyde Park by Thompson — where also was shewn a
working model of another digging machine by Parsons, which
exhibited much ingenuity and combined many desirable points.
This has since undergone improvements in various details, and is
intended to be rendered locomotive. A machine for effecting the
same purpose, patented by Roberts, has been tried and is likely
through the assistance of steam to be brought to bear successfully
as a cultivator.
    Steam traction ploughs are by no means new. Some eighteen
years ago one was exhibited at the Highland Society's Meeting at
Dumfries, and Lord Willoughby D'Eresby has constantly employed
one, arranged by himself, on his Lincolnshire estates.
    The Marquis of Tweeddale, whose name is so well and so honour
ably known in connexion with agricultural improvements, has
recently adapted a plough, or rather frame of ploughs, for carrying
 out his system of deep ploughing. In this case two engines are
 employed, one at either end of the field, the plough-frame travelling
 by means of traction chains between them, and doing the work,
 some twelve to fifteen inches deep, in a most efficient manner.
 There appears to be a question as to whether, all things considered,
 there is much gained by the application of steam thus limited to the
 traction merely of the implement. In most cases where steam has
 successfully supplanted labor, it has demanded that the old pro
 cesses be laid aside, and new ones, suited to the advanced require
 ments, be adopted. The plough, itself universally acknowledged to
 be a defective implement, has no claims to exception to this rule,
 and certainly the small amount of success attending the steam
 traction ploughs would be evidence in favour of it.
     An attempt has been made by Usher of Edinburgh, to construct
 a machine that shall by one operation satisfy all the requirements
 of cultivation. This has been tried in the field with favourable
  results, and it certainly possesses more of the elements of success
 than any other that has hitherto been brought out. The old plough
 is thrown aside and only the share and mould-board made use of ;
  some three to six rows of them are arranged round a large cylinder
  which is attached to a locomotive engine. When at work in the
 field the power is applied to this cylinder, which, by'' its revolution,
  drives the ploughs (or other instruments as the case may be) into the
  soil, and thus acts as the propelling agent to the whole machine.
  The soil is left in a broken condition, as by the fork or spade, and
  arrangements exist by which the three operations of moving the
  soil, sowing, and covering in the seed are done at the same time.
  It travels at the rate of three miles an hour = to nine acres a day,
  or, allowing for turning, stoppages, &c. say seven acres, which it has
  done in its various trials, for an expenditure of seventeen and
  sixpence, or two and sixpence per acre It travels well on common
  roads, ascending acclivities of one in ten, and turning round in a
  circle of sixteen feet diameter, and is adapted for any other purpose
  to which steam power is applied.

                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [3/flTcA 4,
    Let us see what would be the result of the substitution of the
 steam plough for our present systems of ploughing. In England,
 taking Caird's estimate, there are 14,000,000 acres in tillage ; these
 are ploughed certainly once every year. The cost of the operation
 averages at least ten shillings per acre — thus giving a total of
 £7,000,000, per annum. This first machine of Usher does the
 work better than by the plough, for two and sixpence per acre,
 or at seventy-five per cent, less cost. The saving would consequently
 be about £5,250,000 per annum. The labour of 50,000 men and
 100,000 horses required for this one operation would be replaced,
 and a saving in the consumption of corn effected, to at least
 1,500,000 quarters, which would be thus rendered available for the
 more direct wants of the communitv.
                                                             [I. W.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, March 4.
     THE DUKK OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
                 EDWARD A. FREEMAN, ESQ., M.A.
On the Constructive Principles of the Principal Styles of Architecture.
THE Lecturer stated his object to be to trace out the essential
character of the principal styles of architecture as directly derived
from their constructive principles, with as little reference as pos
sible either to mere ornamental detail, or to the outlines and
ground-plans of buildings. The latter are closely connected with
the question of actual style ; they modify it and they are modified
by it ; but they are directly derived from considerations of habit,
convenience, or religion, rather than from the real constructive
origin and principle of the style itself.
   The constructive origin of each primitive and unborrowed style is
generally to be looked for in the sort of primitive habitation which
each nation seems to have imitated in its first architectural works,
that namely with which each had been most familiar in its pri
mitive and uncivilized state. This subject has been worked out
in the well-known Essay of Mr. Hope, and more recently treated
of by the Lecturer himself in his History of Architecture. The
Egyptian architecture reproduced the primitive excavation, the
Grecian the primitive hut, the Chinese the primitive tent; each
presenting a stone imitation of the curlier and ruder fabric.

1853.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    269
   The constructive principle of a style depends upon the manner
in which it connects distant masses, as when two walls are con
nected by a roof, or two jambs united into a doorway. This con
nexion must be effected in one of two ways, either by the Entabla
ture or the Arch. In the Entablature system the two upright
masses are connected by a third laid on the top of them, and kept
together simply by cohesion; in the Arch system, the connexion
is effected by a series of masses (technically called voussoirs)
which, when arranged in a certain manner, are kept together
without direct support from below, according to a certain law of
the mechanical powers. The entablature can only have one direc
tion, one essentially horizontal ; hut of the arch there are two
principal forms, the round and the pointed, whose aesthetical effect
is widely different. Hence we have three principal forms, the
Entablature, the Round Arch, the Pointed Arch ; each having its
own leading idea, those respectively of horizontal extension, of
simple rest, and of vertical extension, which are found carried to
perfection in the three great styles of architecture, the Grecian,
the Romanesque, and the Gothic.
   The simple unadorned construction of the entablature may be
traced in many primitive monuments, such as the disinterred
cromlechs of north-western Europe, the so called Druidical circles
of the same region, and some of the rudest among the Pelasgian
gateways of Greece and Italy. In a decorative form it produced
several important styles of architecture, the native Indian, Persian,
and Egyptian styles (all of which must be carefully distinguished
from the later works of the Mahometan conquerors in the same
countries), and its perfection, the pure and unsurpassable architec
ture of Greece.
   These four agree in their constructive principle ; they differ in
their constructive origin. The Indian and Egyptian are derived
from the imitation of excavations in the rock, the Persian and
Grecian from the imitation of erections of timber. Passing by the
two inferior and less important styles of India and Persia, the
Lecturer proceeded to contract at length the two great forms of
entablature architecture, the Egyptian and the Grecian.
   On this head he warmly combated the idea that Grecian archi
tecture was in any way borrowed from Egyptian. He would not
at all depreciate the high position belonging to the Egyptian
nation, as having attained a great degree of civilization at a very
early period, or the greiit merit of the Egyptian architecture as
the first distinct style developed, and one in a high degree stately
and solemn, and admirably adapted to the nature of the country
and to the genius and the religion of its inhabitants. But he could
never admit that a stationary, undeveloping people could ever have
had any important influence on a nation whose every product bears
the stamp of originality, and which has been the permanent teacher

 270                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [March 4,
 of the human race alike in arts, and arms, and literature, and
politics. Our poetry, our philosophy, onr institutions, our archi
tecture, are either lineally (however remotely) descended from
 those of Greece, or have been subject to most important Grecian
 influence ; no such influence can ever be shown on the part of
Egypt. The Lecturer argued that both external and internal
evidence was against any derivation of Greek architecture from
Egypt.
   First, chronology shows us that Greek architecture had begun
to exhibit its distinctive features, though by no means in their
full perfection, before any intercourse had arisen between Greece
and Egypt. That intercourse began in the reign of Psammetichus.
Those who assert the derivation of Greek architecture from Egypt
never assign it to so late a date, but revert to the fables of Inachus,
Danaus, or Cecrops, which the light of modern historical criticism
in the hands of Mr. Grote and others has taught us to reject as
mere recent inventions. None of these stories derive the least
authority from the Homeric poems ; it is clear that the only bar
barian nation of whom Homer had any clear notion were the
Phoenicians; of Egypt he knew just as much as he might have
picked up from them. If there be any Egyptian element in
Greece, it must have come indirectly through the Phoenicians ; but
even of this no proof has been offered.
   Secondly, the whole character of the two architectures is against
the supposition ; the Egyptian, as was before said, being derived
from excavations, the Grecian from timber structures. The Lec
turer pointed out that all the peculiarities of Egyptian architecture
were due to its excavation, referring to his History of Architecture
    a more
for1st.      general view
         Thedetailed        of the subject.
                      massiveness              lie instanced
                                    of the style.
   2nd. The general tendency to sloping walls, of which the pyra
mids are the full development.
   3rd. The character of the intercolumniations, as little more than
perforations in the wall.
   4th. The stilt or <ir on the capital.
   5th. The presence of a base and absence of diminution in the
   7th.
   6th.— The
shaft        manner
          sometimes
              absencethe
                      in
                       of which
                          actual
                          a pediment.
                                 painting and
                                 presence        counter diminution.
                                            of a sculpture are applied.
   In all these points he endeavoured to trace out vestiges of the
excavatory origin of the style, and in the opposite characteristics
of Grecian architecture, no less clear marks of its timber de
rivation.
   The true Grecian architecture is the Doric, the direct emanation
of the Grecian period, the pure representation of the timber con
struction. In the great Doric temples of Athens, the idea of hori
zontal extension, the soul of the entablature construction, is per

1853.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    271
fectly realised. The Ionic order is probably of foreign origin, and
is decidedly a dereliction from the purity of Grecian architecture.
Dr. Layard has found some capitals at Nineveh strongly resembling
it ; and as the Ionic order arose among the Asiatic Greeks, who
were not so pure as their brethren in Hellas, one may reasonably
suppose that it was really an innovation derived from a barbaric
source.
    Turning to the arched construction, there can be little doubt
that the arch was independently invented in several widely distant
ages and countries. Such at least seems to have been the case in
China, in Egypt, and in Italy. And unsuccessful attempts at its
formation are found still more extensively, not only in the two latter
countries, and in Greece and Asia Minor, but also in the mysterious
ruined cities of Central America,and in some of the primitive remains
in Scotland described by Dr. Daniel Wilson in his " Archaeology
and Prehistoric Annals." The arched form must be accurately
distinguished from the arched construction, as the apparent arch
often occurs, which has the form, round or pointed, but which is
 merely composed of overlapping stones cut into that shape, not of
voussoirs mutually supporting one another. Numerous varieties,
 both of the apparent arch, and of attempts at constructing the real
 one, will be found in Dodwel1's Views, and in the more recent
 works of Sir Charles Fellows. And it is worth noticing that the
 pointed form seems to have been attempted quite as early, if not
earlier, than the round. Indeed, if the first attempt, as seems not
unlikely, took the form of overlapping stones inclining to a point,
it would clearly be more easy to cut them away into a pointed
than into a round shape. The complete form of the pointed arch
is found in a gateway at Thoricos, and a very near approach to
 its construction in one at Tiryns. It would seem however that
 the attempt never quite succeeded, and that the greater apparent
 strength of the round arch drove the designs back upon that form,
 which was at last brought to perfection both in Italy and Egypt.
 Whether such was the case in Greece appears extremely doubtful.
    At all events neither in Greece nor in Egypt did the invention
 ever give, birth to a truly arched architecture. The arch was
 freely used in Egypt when constructive necessities required, but it
 never entered into the system of decorative architecture, which
 was always constructed on the principle of the entablature. The
 honour of producing a system of architecture of which the arch
 should be the leading feature was reserved for Italy. Those Roman
 buildings in which decoration was not aimed at, present, in their
 square piers and round arches, all the elements of a good and con
 sistent style of architecture. 13ut, as n general rule, the Homan
 architects in their ornamental structures endeavoured to effect an
  union of their own system of piers and arches with the Greek
 system of columns and entablatures, producing an inharmonious

272                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [March 4,
and inconsistent result. Numerous instances of the wiys in which
this union was attempted have been commented on in Mr. Hope's
work, while, on the other hand, Mr. Petit has well traced out the
way in which, in less enriched structures, the Grecian system of
decoration was gradually cast away, becoming altogether secondary
in the amphitheatres, and vanishing entirely from the aqueducts.
The latter, such as the Pont du Card in Languedoc, exhibit the
system of piers and round arches in ils perfect purity. On the
other hand, in the palace of Diocletian at Spalato, and in the
early Basilicas, the architects boldly allowed the arch to spring
directly from the capital of the column, without the intervention
of the entablature in any shape. Buildings like these, so far from
being examples of a corrupt style, are, in the eye of a philosophical
inquirer, the first steps towards restoring Roman architecture to
a real purity and consistency which in its palmy days it had uever
possessed. The true round arched system was now worked out,
and the arch provided with an appropriate support of two kinds,
the square and the columnar pier.
   The various forms of Romanesque architecture, the Byzantine,
the Lombard of Italy, the Provencal, the German of the Rhine,
the Norman of England and Northern France, all adhere to this
same construction, and gradually work out for it an appropriate
system of decoration. The Byzantine architecture, as far as
the present view is concerned, must be considered as merely
one among several varieties of Romanesque ; in other respects,
the peculiar outlines of its ecclesiastical buildings, and its
especial use of the cupola, the noblest offspring of the round
arch, might fairly cause it to be looked upon as a distinct
class. The German and Norman architecture has gone very
fur to realize the ideal of the round-arched style, the architecture
of mere rest and solidity, without any predominant extension,
horizontal and vertical. The Lecturer argued warmly in favour
of the claim of this style to be considered a pure and perfect one,
 worthy of being classed alongside of Grecian and Gothic. Ro
manesque architecture, he contended, had been depreciated,
because both classical and Gothic exclusiveness had looked on
it with an unfavourable eye ; but it was quite possible that a
style might be neither Grecian or Gothic, and yet be worthy
of being put on an equality with them. If, like them, Ro
 manesque exhibited the full carrying out of the leading aesthetical
 idea suggested by its own constructive principle, such equality
 it might fairly claim. At the s-mie time an absolute equality
 he would not assert ; the Gothic ideal was the highest, while
 the Grecian buildings h:id attained a higher perfection in their
 own kind; for the Romanesque ideal itself he would be content
 with claiming the rank of vllima inter pares, while he was inclined
tii believe that no Romanesque building hud approached so

 1853.]              OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       273
near to the perfect realization of that ideal, has had been done
in the two other styles by the Parthenon and by St. Ouens.
   While the Romanesque styles were growing up among Christian
nations, a very important form of arched architecture waa
developed among the Mahometan nations. The Saracenic style,
in its various forms, may be considered as essentially an offshoot
from that of Byzantium, though much modified by the intro
duction of several original elements. Among these the most
important was no other than the systematic use of the pointed
arch. This shape is prevalent in most of the forms which
this species of architecture assumes in the east, but, what is
important to observe, such is not the case in that splendid variety
•which was developed among the Mahometans of Spain. But
though the Saracens not only possessed the pointed arch,
but systematically employed it on a grand scale, they never de
veloped for it an appropriate system of decoration. The other
most characteristic feature is the employment of the sli.lt as
a distinct member of the architecture. Architecture is always
purest when what Professor Willis calls the decorative con
struction coincides with the mechanical construction. According
to this law, the point at which the arch springs from the pier,
technically called the impost, should be marked by a capital
or moulding. It is however often convenient in some particular
positions to place the decorative impost lower down than the
constructive impost, so as to treat as a portion of the arch
•what is in reality a portion of the pier. This constitutes what is
called a stilted arch. In the Saracenic style, this stilt is often made
into a distinct member intervening between the arch and the capital
of the column. Now as this style first arose in Egypt in the
Mosque erected by Amru, one is strongly tempted to recognize
in this singular feature a reproduction of the exactly analogous
peculiarity of the elder Egyptian architecture, the ele interposed
between the capital and the entablature.
   The distinctive feature of the Gothic architecture is there
fore neither the mere form of the pointed arch, nor even its
systematic use as the principal constructive member. What
really distinguishes that glorious style is the working out for it
of an appropriate and harmonious system of decoration, and the
realizing of the great aesthetical idea which it suggests. The
mere form, we have seen, is probably more ancient than the
round, and may have been all along occasionally employed as
caprice or convenience dictated. And that its systematic use as
the principal constructive feature was introduced into Western
Christendom from the east, we can hardly doubt, when we
consider that its appearance in the twelfth century is exactly
simultaneous with the increased intercourse between the two
regions consequent upon the Crusades. We may thus «ee the
                                                  U

274                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [March 4,
futility of the various theories propounded by Milner and others,
who reduced the question as to the origin of Gothic archi
tecture into a mere question as to the origin of the pointed arch,
and sought for the latter in the intersection of round arches and
similar sources.
   From the Orientals then the western architects learned sys
tematically to employ the pointed arch in the main arcades of
their churches and other great buildings,* of which the Abbey
of Mahnesbury is not improbably the earliest example in England.
Eut much more remained to be done before Gothic architecture
was fully developed ; in other words, before the architectural
expression of the idea of vertical extension was thoroughly
worked out. Those who laid its foundations did but place the
pointed arch of the Saracen upon the massive pier of the Norman,
and channel its surface with the same ornaments which had
adorned its semicircular predecessor. Slowly and gradually was
a harmonious system worked out, the progress of this transition
forming one of the most interesting pages in the history of the
art. The pointed form was extended from the great constructive
arches to the smaller arches of doorways, windows, and merely
decorative arcades, and the Gothic or vertical principle was carried
out in
   2nd.
   4th.
   3rd.
    1st. The
         The
          The use
               round
               clustered,
               confirmed
                   of mouldings
                       or octagonal
                            use
                            or its  vaulting.f
                                     affecting
                                 of substitute
                                        insteadthe
                                                the
                                                of the
                                                    section.
                                                     octagonal, pier.
                                                        square abacus.
    Into the subdivisions of the Gothic style, which he had fully
treated of in other works, the Lecturer refrained from entering.
 He would simply mention its two great farms, the Early, in which
 the principle of subordinating the parts to the whole, so charac
teristic of Gothic architecture, is applied only to the subordination
of the secondary to the primary parts, and the Continuous, which
 while effecting this more completely, extends the same principle
 to the further subordination of the primary parts to the whole.
The former includes the Lancet and Geometrical Decorated ; the
 latter the Flowing Decorated, the Perpendicular of England, and
 the contemporary Flamboyant of the continent.
                                                                [E. A. P.]
 Mr.Mr.  FARADAY relative
       Stevenson,    read thetofollowing
                                 the coincidence
                                           letter which  he had received
                                                   of a secular             the .
                                                                 period infrom
    • See History of Architecture, pp. 311-3.
    t See them examined more at length, History of Architecture, pp. 303-8.

1853.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        275
recurrence of the aurora borealis with that observed in relation to the
sun's spots and the. daily magnetic variation (Vide p. 237).
Dear Sir,  ,                       Dunse (N. Britain), 1 March, 1853.
         In the report in the Athenaeum of your lecture at the Royal
Institution on the 21st January, I observe that you refer to the
highly interesting observations of Schwabe, Sabine, Wolf, Gautier,
&c., from which it would appear that a connexion exists between the
solar spots and the variation of the terrestrial magnetic forces.
Since a connexion has been demonstrated to exist between the
latter and auroral phenomena, I was induced to look over my notes
relating to the aurorae observed at this place, with a view to ascertain
whether these also exhibited maxima and minima ; and if so, whether
 the periods of such agreed with those of the solar spots and of the
 magnetic variations. The subjoined table shews the distribution of
 the aurorae seen here in the years 1838 to 1847 inclusive.
          Jan. Feb. Mar. Apr. May June July Ang. Sep. Oct. Nov. Dec. Sum.
    1838     5   3    4    3 — — —            2    4    1    2    3    27
    1839     9   1    2    4    1 — — — 11              7    2    1    38
    1840     5   5    2    4 —      —   —     3    7    6    6    5    43
    1841     6   3    4    4    2   —   —     3    3    3    7    7    42
    1842     2   2 — — —                  1 —      3 —       1 —        9
    1843     2   1    1     1  —    —   —     2   —     3   —    —     10
    1844     1  —     2                            1    3    4    2    13
    1845     1   2 —        1 — — —            1   2    1    1    1    10
    1846   — 1 — — — — 1 2 7 4 1 — . 16
    1847     2   2    3     1  —    —   —      1   5    6    6    4    30
           33   20   18   18    3   —     2  14   43   34   30   23   238
     These figures speak for themselves. I may remark that the returns
 for 1842 are incomplete, as I was absent from home during March
 and April of that year. In 1848 I was also absent for some months ;
 but from the number of aurorae which I have noted during that
  year, I am satisfied that a maximum then occurred botli as regards
 the number and the intensity of auroral displays. This present
 winter has been very barren in auroral phenomena. Of crimson
  aurorae, I find I have noted two in 1837, one in 1839, one in 1846,
  three in 1847, and no less than six in 1848.
     A discussion of the aurorae seen in N. America and the North of
  Europe during a series of years would be interesting in reference to
  the points in question.
                                I am, my dear Sir,
                                        Your's faithfully, &c.,
                                                     Wm. Stevenson.

276                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [March 7,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, March 7.
         Sir Charles Fellows, Vice President, in the Chair.
   Alexander
   John
   Peter
   Effingham
   William
   De
   James
   Charles
   George
      Esq.
       Burgh
          Halkett,
           Bruce,
             T.
          Line,
             Scale
              Ernst
                Birch,
                Mitchell,
                Duncan,
                Brooking,
                 Esq.
                  Calvert
                    Esq.
                    Hayne,
                     Esq.,
                     Browning,
                          Esq.
                           Esq.
                        M.D.Lawrence,
                             Esq.
                              Esq.Esq.
                            R.N.          Basil
                                           Alexander
                                           James
                                           John
                                           William
                                           Charles
                                           Miss
                                           George
                                           Mrs.
                                             M.A.
                                                Woodd
                                                Ellen
                                                Harriet
                                                 Newman
                                                  Vallance,
                                                    Fell.
                                                    William
                                                    Ridley,
                                                    Turner
                                                     Foster
                                                       Williamson.
                                                        Matilda
                                                          Trin.
                                                          Pole.
                                                           Smith,
                                                            Tweedy,
                                                             White,
                                                             Esq.
                                                              Simpson,
                                                              Esq.
                                                               Stokes,
                                                                  Pickersgill.
                                                                   Esq.
                                                                 Coll. Esq.
                                                                       Camb.
                                                                        Esq.
                                                                         Esq.,
                                                                      Esq.
   Theduly
were        elected
        Count        Members of the Royal Institution.
                 de Montizon.
   W. Bell Brooking, Esq.                  John Forster, Esq.
   John Henderson, Esq.                    James Vallance, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had been
made for the Lectures after Easter, 1853 :
   Six Lectures on Static Electricity — by Michael Faradat,
AssociateF.R.S.,
D.C.L.,              Fullerian
            of Academy          ProfessorParis.
                           of Sciences,     of Chemistry, R. I. ; Foreign
   Ten Lectures on Technological Chemistry — by E. Frankland,
Ph.D., F.C.S., Professor of Chemistry at Owen's College, Man
chester.
   Four Lectures on Air and Water — by John Tyndall, Ph. D.,
F.R.S.
   Six Lectures on the Electric Telegraph — by William Carpmael,
Esq., C.E.
   The following Presents were announced and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
  From
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices. Vol. XIII. No. 2. 8vo. 1853.

 1853.]                        OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                            277
     sikalischen
Bayerische         Classe. der
              Akademie       Sechste
                                Wissenscliaften
                                       Band, 2te—   Abhandlungen
                                                  und               der Mathemat.-Phy-
                                                      3te Abtheilungen.   4to. Miinchen,
      1851-2.
    Bulletin, 1851; und 1852, No. 1—24. 4to. Miinchen.
    Dr. A. Vogel, über den Chemismus der Vegetation. 4to. München, 1852.
       Jacob,8vo.
 Bell,1853.     Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for March,
 British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings, Feb. 1853. 4to.
 Civil Engineers, Institute of— Proceedings, Feb. 1853. 8vo.
 Cocks and Co., Messrs.— Cock's Musical Miscellany, March, 1853. 4to.
     Provinces
 Council          of the Bengal
           of Education,    Calcutta
                                  Presidency
                                      — Reports    1843—1848.
                                               for on            5 vols. 8vo.
                                                       Public Instruction     the Lower
                                                                           in 1844-48.
 Editors — The Practical Mechanic's Journal for March, 1853. 4to.
    The Athenaeum for Feb. 1853. 4to.
    The Medical Circular for March, 1853. 4to.
 Geological Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 33. 8vo. 1853.
 Knight, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Farmer's Manual of Agricultural Che
      mistry, by A. Normandy, 12mo. 1853.
Lovell, E. B., Esq., M.R.I, (the Editor) —The Monthly Digest, Feb. 1853. 8vo.
Morris, J. Esq. — De Luc, Physica ; De Elementis, (MS.)
Novella, Messrs.— The Musical Times for March, 1853. 4to.
      kept C.
Prince,         Leeson, Esq.,
            at Uckfield,        (theinAuthor)
                          Sussex,       1852. — Results of a Meteorological Journal
     from Liverpool
Richardson,     H. T. Esq.—
                        to London
                               The in    1852.of 12mo.
                                     Cruise               1853. Life-Boat, and Voyage
                                                 the Challenger
    Transactions
Royal    Society —forProceedings,
                         1852, PartVol.
                                      2. 4to.
                                           VI. No.   91— 94.
                                                 1852.         8vo. 1853.
   Address of Earl Rosse, the President, Nov. 30. 1852. 8vo. 1853.
Smith, Mr. J. Russell (the Publisher) — Bibliotheca Americana — A Catalogue
     of a valuable Collection of Books and Pamphlets relating to North and South
     America and the West Indies. 8vo. 1853.
Society of Arts — Journal, No. 12— 15. 8vo. 1853.
Statistical Society — Journal, Vol. XVI. Part1. 8vo. 1853.
Taylor, Rev. W., F.R.S., M.R.I.— Die Zeitgeist, von A. von Schaden. 16mo.
     Gera, 1828.
     und zur
Vereins          1852. 4to.desBerlin,
          Dec.Beforderung                  1852. in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Nov.
                                   Oewerbfleisses

278                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS           \Mwch\\,
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                         Friday, March 1 1 .
     Tin: DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                            in the Chair.
                  JOHN PHILLIFS, F.R.S., G.S., &c.
               Geological Sketches round Ingleborough.
THE Lecturer prefaced his observations on this the most con
spicuous of the Yorkshire Mountains, by a brief allusion to cir
cumstances which, at an early period of life, had fixed his earnest
attention on the scenery and natural history of the country which
surrounds it.
   Viewed in any direction, Ingleborough appears a grand and
solitary mass, chiefly composed of shales and sandstones, super
posed on a broad floor of limestone which rests on a basis of
upturned Lower 1'aloeozoic Rocks. The great limestone floor
and the lower rocks are broken off and thrown down to the south
and west of the mountain, by the enormous, often double, dislo
cation called the ' Craven Fault,' and the ground falls in these
directions nearly 2000 feet below the summit. Hence the con
spicuous character of the mountain, which rises to the height of
2380 feet above the sea.
   The streams which gather on the slopes of Ingleborough and
Penyghent run in small channels downward over the shales and
sandstones, but, on reaching the limestone, they are swallowed up
in deep gulphs of that rock, and after passing through caves,
many of which are remarkable for beauty, issue to the surface in
picturesque channels, and sometimes make pleasing cascades,
such as Thornton Force. The most famous of these caverns,
which was discovered by the present proprietors of Ingleborough,
 and traced by them for a length of 7O2 yards, has, no doubt, been
formed by the long continued erosion of a stream which, after
gathering on the slopes of Ingleborough, plunges into a deep
chasm of the limestone called ' Gaping Gill ' ; its erosive power
being augmented by the sand and pebbles which it hurls down.
The interior of this cave is wonderfully varied in form, and
enriched by every variety of sparry accumulation — slender pipes,
spiral columns, swelling bosses, broad expansions, and, most
beautiful of all, white sheets of carbonate of lime which spread
like leaves on small basin? of the clearest water. From researches

1853.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    279
in the cave it appears that, from a certain point of the fissured
roof, drops have been falling on a single line for above 120 years.
   Turning from the scenery, the author entered on a general
history of the mountain. 1 . He shewed that the earliest of the
strata were, as described by Professor Sedgwick, of the Lower
Palaeozoic ages, and contained marine exuviae, but no fishes.
2. These were upheaved so as to form many arched elevations —
parts of a great system of movements which affected also the lake
district to the west. 3. These great inequalities of surface were
worn down by long continued oceanic agitations, so as to present
a nearly uniform plane 5 an effect perfectly wonderful, whatever
amount of marine disturbance we suppose to have been exerted, and
whatever length of time we allow for its operation. 4. The whole
area then sank without violence, and continued to sink for a long
period — first receiving a thick deposit of mountain limestone
(marble), then a mixed deposit of shales, limestones, and sand
stones, then a mass of millstone grit, and finally a great accumu
lation of coal measures. The total depression beneath the sea
from the preceding condition (3) was estimated at one mile.
5. It was then shewn that a violent convulsive movement, accom
panied by enormous fractures, had displaced the sea-bed, and
produced a great elevation of the country, so that, as compared
with the lower portions of the strata on the south, west, and
north, there was in some places a difference of level of the same
 strata, amounting to 400O feet.
    6. As a consequence of this great convulsion, and the watery
agencies consequent upon it, the coal-measures and great part
of the other strata which covered the limestone floor of Ingle-
 borough were swept away,— an enormous waste,— leaving the
 mountains of 'Whernside, Ingleborouglr, and Penyghent, standing
 above the sea, but far lower than the height which the land had
 reached during or immediately after the disturbance. 7. The
 extent of land connected with these hills at the termination of this
 period of convulsion was then shewn, and it was stated that the
 higher parts of this land had perhaps never again been covered by
 oceanic water — so that, in the immense period while the New
 Red, Lias, Oolite, and Chalk were deposited, these hills, not indeed
 in their present form, may have stood perpetually above the
 ancient ocean. Enaliosaurians may have been swimming within
 sight of Ingleborough,— Megiilosaurians and Pterodactyls may
 have wandered overits slopes,— many systems of life corresponding
 to many successive ages arose and passed away, on the land and
 in the sea, but of all these there is no record here. At length, in
 the latest tertiary aeras, the Glacial crisis arrived, and left positive
 traces of its effects.
    8. The depression of land was then described which occasioned
 the ' Glacial Sea ' in the northern zones, and certain phenomena
 were explained which proved the singular fact, that iibundance of

280                 NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.        [March 11, 1853.
' erratic blocks' of Silurian Strata, had been drifted to higher levels
on the limestone which covers those Silurians. The author does
not suppose that this glacial ocean reached more than ISOOfeet
above the present level, and consequently believes that a large
part of the north west of Yorkshire was not covered by its waters.
The Botany of Ingleborough offers several peculiarities ; — and
joining its history to that of the higher mountains in the north,
which have traces of a ' Scandinavian Flora,' the author expressed
his concurrence in the views of Professor E. Forbes, as to the
former existence of land connecting Scotland and Scandinavia,
and his belief that on the formation of the glacial sea, the summits
of the highest Yorkshire mountains remained above the water,
and were the retreat of peculiar plants now found in this part of
Yorkshire, in the Grampians, and in Scandinavia.
   9. The author finally described a British Walled Camp, and
the foundations of nineteen circular huts which had been dis
covered on the summit of Ingleborough, and concluded by
remarking on the analogy and almost necessary connexion
between certain brunches of archaeology and modern views of
the geological history of the globe.
                                                             [J. P.]

                    [FOR THE -USE OF MEMBERS.]
                   gjnstitutton of dsreat Brttatm
                                  1853.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday. March 18.
                                 the Chair.
WILLIAM POLS, ESQ., M.A.,in F.R.S.,      Treasurer, and Vice-President,
                  SIR C. LYBLL, F.R.S., V.P.G.S., &c.
 On the discovery of some fossil reptilian remains, and a laud-shell in
    the interior of an erect fossil-tree in the Coal measures of Nova
    Scotia, with remarks on the origin of Coal-fields, and the time re
    quiredfor theirformation.
THE entire thickness of the carboniferous strata, exhibited in one
uninterrupted section on the shores of the Bay of Fundy, in Nova
Scotia, at a place called the South Joggins and its neighbourhood,
was ascertained by Mr. Logan, to be 14,570 feet. The middle part
of this vast series of strata having a thickness of 1400 feet, abounds
in fossil forests of erect trees together with root-beds, and thin
seams of coal. These coal-bearing strata were examined in detail
by Mr. J. W. Dawson of Pictou, and Sir C. Lyell in September
 last (1852), and among other results of their investigations they
obtained satisfactory proof that several Sigillariae standing in an
upright position, or at right angles to the planes of stratification,
were provided with Stigmariae as roots. Such a relation between
Sigillaria and Stigmaria had, it is true, been already established by
Mr. Binney of Manchester, and had been suspected some years before
on botanical grounds by M. Adolphe Brongniart; but as the fact
was still doubted by some geologists both in Europe and America, it
was thought desirable to dig out of the cliffs, and expose to view,
several large trunks with their roots attached. These were observed
to bifurcate several times, and to send out rootlets in all directions
into the clays or ancient soils in which they had grown. Such soils
or underclays with Stigmaria afford more conclusive evidence of
ancient terrestrial surfaces than even erect trees, as the latter might
be conceived to have been drifted and fixed like snags in a river's
bed. In the strata 1400 feet thick above mentioned root-bearing
soils were observed at sixty-eight different levels ; and like the seams
of coal which usually cover them, they are at present the most
destructible masses in the whole cliff, the sandstones and laminated
shales being harder and more capable of resisting the action of the
   No. 15.                                             X

282                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [March 18,
waves and the weather. Originally the reverse was doubtless true,
for in the existing delta of the Mississippi the clays in which innu
merable roots of swamp trees, such as the deciduous cypress, ramify
in all directions, are seen to withstand far more effectually the ex
cavating power of the river or of the sea at the base of the delta,
than do beds of loose sand or layers of mud not supporting trees.
   This fact may explain why seams of coal have so often escaped
denudation, and have remained continuous over wide areas, since
the roots, now turned to coal, which once traversed them would
 enable them to resist a current of water, whilst other members of
the coal formation, when in their original and unconsolidated state
consisting of sand and mud, would be readily removed.
    The upright trees usually inclose in their interior pillars of sand
 stone, or shale, or both these substances alternating, and these do
not correspond in the thickness of their layers, or in their organic
remains, with the external strata, or those enveloping the trunks.
It is clear therefore that the trees were reduced while yet standing
to hollow cylinders of mere bark, (now changed to coal,) into which
the leaves of ferns and other plants with fragments of stems and
 roots were drifted together with mud and sand during river inunda
 tions. The stony contents of one of these trees, nine feet high and
 twenty-two inches in diameter, on being examined by Messrs.
 Dawson and Lyell yielded, besides numerous fossil plants, some
 bones and teeth which they believed were referable to a reptile ; but
 not being competent to decide that osteological question they sub
 mitted the specimens to Dr. Jeffries Wyman of Harvard University
 in the United States. That eminent anatomist declared them to be
 allied in structure to certain perennibranchiate batrachians of the
 genera Menobranchus and Menopoma, species of which now inhabit
 the lakes and rivers of North America. This determination was
 soon afterwards confirmed by Professor Owen of London, who
 pointed out the resemblance of some of the associated flat and sculp
 tured bones, with the cranial plates, seen in the skull of the Archego-
 saurus and Labyrinthodon.* In the same dark-coloured rock. Dr.
 Wyman detected a series of nine vertebrae, which from their form and
 transverse processes he regards as dorsal, and believes them to have
 belonged to an adult individual of a much smaller species, about six
 inches long, whereas the jaws and bones before mentioned are those of
 a creature probably two and a half feet in length. The microscopic
 structure of these small vertebrae was found by Professor Quekett
 to exhibit the same marked reptilian characters as that of the larger
 bones.
     The fossil remains in question were scattered about the interior
 of the trunk near its base among fragments of wood, now converted
 into charcoal, which may have fallen in while the tree was rotting
    • Professors Wyman and Owen have named the reptile Dendrerpeton Aca-
 dianum, Acadia being the ancient Indian name for Nova Scotia.

1853.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     283
away, having been afterwards cemented together by mud and sand
stained black by carbonaceous matter. Whether the reptile crept
into the hollow tree while its top was still open to the air, or whether
it was washed in with mud during a flood, or in whatever other man
ner it entered, must be matter of conjecture. Foot-prints of two
reptiles of different sizes have been observed by Dr. Harding and
Dr. Gesner on ripple-marked flags of the lower coal measures in
Nova Scotia, evidently made by quadrupeds walking on the beach,
or out of the water, just as the recent Menopoma is sometimes ob
served to do. Other reptilian foot-prints of much larger size had
been previously noticed (as early as 1844) in the coal of Pennsyl
 vania by Dr. King ; and in Europe three or four instances of skeletons
of the same class of animals have been obtained, but the present is
the first example of any of their bones having been met with in
 America in rocks of higher antiquity than the Trias. It is hoped how
 ever that other instances will soon come to light, when the contents
 of upright trees, so abundant in Nova Scotia, have been systematically
explored ; for in such situations the probability of discovering ancient
air-breathing creatures seems greater than in ordinary subaqueous
 deposits. Nevertheless we must not indulge too sanguine expec
tations on this head, when we recollect that no fossil vertebrata of a
 higher grade than fishes, nor any land-shells, have as yet been met
with in the Oolitic coal-field of the James River, near Richmond,
Virginia, a coal-field which has been worked extensively for three-
 quarters of a century. The coal alluded to is bituminous, and as a
fuel resembles the best of the ancient coal of Nova Scotia and Great
 Britain. The associated strata of sand-stone and shale contain
 prostrate zamites and ferns, and erect catamites and equiseta, which
 last evidently remain in the position where they grew in mud and
 eand. Whether the age of these beds be Oolitic as Messrs. W. B.
 Rogers and Lyell have concluded, or Upper Triassic as some other
geologists suspect; they still belong clearly to an epoch when saurians
and other reptiles flourished abundantly in Europe ; and they there
fore prove that the preservation of ancient terrestrial surfaces even
in secondary rocks does not imply, as we might have anticipated,
conditions the most favourable to our finding therein creatures of
a higher organization than fishes.
    In breaking up the rock in which the reptilian bones were en
tombed, a small fossil body resembling a land shell of the genus
Pupa, was detected. As such it was recognized by Dr. Gould of
Boston, and afterwards by M. Deshayes of Paris, both of whom
carefully examined its form and striation. When parts of the
surface were subsequently magnified 250 diameters, by Professor
Quekett of the College of Surgeons, they were seen to exhibit ridges
and grooves {mdistinguishable from those belonging to the striation
of living species of land-shells. The internal tissue also of the shell
displayed, under the microscope, the same prismatic and tubular
arrangements which characterize the shells of living mollusca.

284                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [3/(ZrcA 18,
Sections also of the same showed what may be part of the colamella
and spiral whorls, somewhat broken and distorted by pressure and
crystallized. The genus cannot be made out, as the mouth is wanting.
If referable to a pupa or any allied genus it is the first example of a
pulmoniferous mollusk hitherto detected in a primary or palaeozoic
rock.
    Sir Charles next proceeded to explain his views as to the origin of
coal-fields in general, observing that the force of the evidence in favour
of their identity in character with the deposits of modern deltas, has
increased, in proportion as they have been more closely studied. They
usually display a vast thickness of stratified mud and fine sand without
pebbles, and in them are seen countless stems, leaves, and roots of
terrestrial plants, free for the most part from all intermixture of
marine remains, circumstances which imply the persistency in the
same region of a vast body of fresh water. This water was also
charged like that of a great river with an inexhaustible supply of sedi
ment, which had usually been transported over alluvial plains to a con
siderable distance from the higher grounds, so that all coarser par
ticles and gravel were left behind. On the whole the phenomena
imply the drainage and denudation of a continent or large island,
having within it one or more ranges of mountains. The partial in
tercalation of braclfish water-beds at certain points is equally con
sistent with the theory of a delta, the lower parts of which are always
exposed to be overflowed by the sea even where no oscillations of
level are experienced.
    The purity of the coal itself, or the absence in it of earthy par
ticles and sand throughout areas of very great extent, is a fact which
has naturally appeared very difficult to explain if we attribute each
coal-seam to a vegetation growing in swamps, and not to the drifting
of plants. It may be asked how during river inundations capable of
 sweeping away the leaves of ferns, and the stems and roots of Sigil-
lariae and other trees, could the waters fail to transport some fine
mud into the swamps ? One generation after another of tall trees
grew with their roots in mud, and after they had fallen prostrate
 and had been turned into coal were covered with layers of mud
 (now turned to shale), and yet the coal itself has remained unsoiled
throughout these various changes. The Lecturer thinks this enigma
may be solved, by attending to what is now taking place in deltas.
The dense growth of reeds and herbage which encompasses the
 margins of forest-covered swamps in the valley and delta of the Mis
 sissippi, is such that the fluviatile waters in passing through them, are
filtered and made to clear themselves entirely before they reach the
areas in which vegetable matter may accumulate for centuries, forming
coal if the climate be favourable. There is no possibility of the least
 intermixture of earthy matter in such cases. Thus in the large sub
 merged tract call the " Sunk Country," near New Madrid, forming
 part of the Western side of the valley of the Mississippi, erect trees
 have been standing ever since the year 1811-12, killed by the great

 1853.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTIOfJ.                  285
earthquake of that date ; Lacustrine and swamp plants have been
growing there in the shallows, and several rivers have annually
inundated the whole space, and yet have been unable to carry in any
 sediment within the outer boundaries of the morass.
    In the ancient coal of the South Joggins in Nova Scotia, many
of the underclays show a network of stigmaria roots, of which some
penetrate into or quite through older roots which belonged to the
 trees of a preceding generation. Where trunks are seen in an erect
 position buried in sandstone and shale, rooted Sigillariae or Calamites
 are often observed at different heights in the enveloping strata,
 attesting the growth of plants at several successive levels, while
 the process of envelopment was going on. In other cases there are
 proofs of the submergence of a forest under marine or brackish
 water, the base of the trunks of the submerged trees being covered
 with serpulae or a species of spirorbis. Not unfrequently seams of
 coal are succeeded by beds of impure bituminous limestone, composed
 chiefly of compressed modiokv with scales and teeth of fish, these
 being evidently deposits of brackish or salt water origin.
    The Lecturer exhibited a joint of the stem of a fresh water reed
 (.\i-ii,nliiiariii macrosperma) covered with barnacles, which he
 gathered at the extremity of the delta of the Mississippi or the
Balize. He saw a cane-brake (as it is called in the country) of
 these tall reeds killed by salt water, and extending over several
 acres, the sea having advanced over a space where the discharge
 of fresh water had slackened for a season in one of the river's
 mouths. If such reeds when dead could still remain standing in the
mud with barnacles attached to them, (these Crustacea having been
in their turn destroyed by a return of the river to the same spot,)
still more easily may we conceive large and firmly rooted Sigillariae
to have continued erect for many years in the Carboniferous Period,
when the sea happened to gain on any tract of submerged land.
    Submergence under salt water may have been caused either by a
local diminution in the discharge of a river in one of its many
mouths, or more probably by subsidence, as in the case of the erect
columns of the Temple of Serapis, near Naples, to which serpulae
and other marine bodies are still found adhering.
    Sir Charles next entered into some speculations respecting the
probable volume of solid matter contained in the carboniferous
formation of Nova Scotia. The data he said for such an estimate
are as yet imperfect, but some advantage would be gained could we
but make some slight approximation to the truth. The strata at the
South Joggins are nearly three miles thick, and they are known
to he also of enormous thickness in the district of the Albion Mines
near Pictou, more than one hundred miles to the eastward. There
appears therefore little danger of erring on the side of excess, if
we take half that amount or 7500 feet as the average thickness of
the whole of the coal measures. The area of the coal-field, in
cluding part of New Brunswick to the West, and Prince Edward's

286                    NOTICES OF THE NEETINGS                 [March 18,
 Tsland and the Magdalen Isles to the North, as well as the Cape
 Breton beds together with the connecting strata which must have
 been denuded or must still be concealed beneath the waters of
the Gulf of St. Lawrence, may comprise about 36,000 square miles,
 which with the thickness of 7500 feet before assumed will give
 7,527,168,000,000,000 cubic feet, (or 51,136.4 cubic miles) of
 solid matter as the volume of the rocks. Such an array of figures
conveys no distinct idea to the mind ; but is interesting when we
reflect that the Mississippi would take more than two million of
years (2,033,000 years) to convey to the Gulf of Mexico, an equal
quantity of solid matter in the shape of sediment, assuming the
average discharge of water, in the great river, to be as calculated
by Mr. Forshey, 450,000 cubic feet per second, throughout the
year, and the total quantity of mud to be as estimated by Mr. Riddel},
3,702,758,400 cubic feet in the year.*
    We may, however, if we desire to reduce to a minimum the
possible time required for such an operation, (assuming it be one
of fluviatile denudation and deposition,) select as our agent, a river
flowing from a tropical country, such as the Ganges, in the basin
of which the fall of rain is much heavier, and where nearly all comes
down in a third part of the year, so that the river is more turbid than
if it flowed in temperate latitudes. In reference to the Ganges, also,
it may be well to mention, that its delta presents in one respect a
striking parallel to the Nova Scotia Coal-field, since at Calcutta at
the depth of eight or ten feet from the surface buried trees and roots
have been found in digging tanks, indicating an ancient soil now
underground ; and in boring on the same site for an Artesian well
to the depth of 481 feet, other signs of ancient forest-covered lands
and peaty soils have been observed at several depths, even as far
down as 300 feet and upwards below the level of the sea. As the
strata pierced through contained fresh-water remains of recent
species of plants and animals, they imply a subsidence, which has
been going on contemporaneously with the accumulation of fluvia
tile mud.
    Captain Strachey of the Bengal Engineers has estimated that
the Ganges must discharge 4-^ times as much water into the Bay
of Bengal, as the same river carries past Ghazipore, a place 500
miles above its mouth, where experiments were made on the
volume of water and proportion of mud by the Rev. Mr. Everest.
It is not till after it has passed Ghazipore, that the great river Is
joined by most of its larger tributaries. Taking the quantity of
sediment at one-third less than that assigned by Mr. Everest for the
Ghazipore average, the volume of solid matter conveyed to the Bay
of Bengal would still amount to 20,000 millions of cubic feet
annually. The Ganges therefore might accomplish in 375,000
years the task which it would take the Mississippi, according
                  * See Principles of Geology, 8th Ed. p. 219.

1853.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     287
to the data before laid down, upwards of two million years to
achieve.
   One inducement to call attention to such calculations is the hope of
interesting engineers in making accurate measurement of the
quantity of water and mud discharged hy such rivers as the
Ganges, Brahmapootra, Indus, and Mississippi, and to lead geologists
to ascertain the number of cubic feet of solid matter, which ancient
fluviatile formations, such as the coal-measures, with their associated
marine strata, may contain. Sir Charles anticipates that the chro
nological results, derived from such sources, will be in harmony
with the conclusions to which botanical and zoological considerations
alone might lead us, and that the lapse of years will be found to be
so vast as to have an important bearing on our reasonings in every
department of geological science.
   A question may be raised, how far the co-operation 'of the sea
in the deposition of the Carboniferous Series might accelerate the
process above considered. The Lecturer conceives that the inter
vention of the sea would not afford such favourable conditions for
the speedy accumulation of a large body of sediment within a
limited area, as would be obtained by the hypothesis before stated,
namely, that of a great river entering a bay in which the waves,
currents, and tides of the ocean should exert only a moderate degree
of denuding and dispersing power.
   An eminent writer, when criticizing, in 1 830, Sir Charles Lyel1's
work on the adequacy of existing causes, was at pains to assure
his readers, that while he questioned the soundness of the doctrine he
by no means grudged any one the appropriation of as much as he
pleased of that " least valuable of all things, past time." But Sir
Charles believes, notwithstanding the admission so often made in the
abstract of the indefinite extent of past time, that there is practically
speaking a rooted and perhaps unconscious reluctance on the part
of most geologists to follow out to their legitimate consequences the
proofs daily increasing in number of this immensity of time. It
would therefore be of no small moment could we obtain even an
approach to some positive measure of the number of centuries
which any great operation of nature such as the accumulation of a
delta or fluviatile deposit of great magnitude may require, inasmuch
as our conceptions of the energy of aqueous or igneous causes or
of the powers of vitality in any given geological period must depend
on the quantity of time assigned for their development.
   Thus, for example, geologists will not deny that a vertical sub
sidence of three miles took place gradually at the South Joggins,
during the carboniferous epoch, the lowest beds of the Coal of Nova
Scotia like the middle and uppermost consisting of shallow-water
beds. If then this depression was brought about in the course of
375,000 years it did not exceed the rate of four feet in a century,
resembling that now experienced in certain countries where whether
the movement be upward or downward it is quite insensible to

288                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [April 4,
the inhabitants, and only known by scientific inquiry. If, on the
other hand, it was brought about in two millions of years according
to the other standard before alluded to, the rate would be only six
inches in a century. But the same movement taking place in an
upward direction would be sufficient to uplift a portion of the earth's
crust to the height of Mont Blanc or to a vertical elevation of three
miles above the level of the sea. In like manner, if a large shoal be
rising, or attempting to rise, in mid-ocean at the rate of six
inches or even four feet in a hundred years, the waves may grind
down to mud and sand and readily sweep away the rocks so
upraised as fast as they come within the denuding action of the
waves. A mass having a vertical thickness of three miles might
thus be stripped off in the course of ages, and inferior rocks laid
bare. So in regard to volcanic agency a certain quantity of lava is
poured out annually upon the surface, or is injected into the earth's
crust below the surface, and great metamorphic changes resulting
from subterranean heat accompany the injection. Whether each of
these effects be multiplied by 50,000, or by half a million or by two
million of years, may entirely decide the question whether we shall
or shall not be compelled to abandon the doctrine of paroxysmal
violence in ancient as contrasted with modern times. Were we
hastily to take for granted the paroxysmal intensity of the forces
above alluded to, organic and inorganic, while the ordinary course of
nature may of itself afford the requisite amount of aqueous, igneous,
and vital force, (if multiplied by a sufficient number of centuries,)
we might find ourselves embarrassed by the possession of twice a3
 much mechanical force and vital energy as we require for the pur
 poses of geological interpretation.                         TP T T
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, April 4.
  William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
    William Bigg, Esq.             Sir Jas. Matheson, Bt. M.P. F.R.S.
    Peter Carthew, Esq.            William Pinney, Esq. M.P.
    Stephen
 were        MartinMembers
       duly elected Leake, Esq.
                              of the
                                   John  White,
                                     Royal       Esq.
                                            Institution.
    De Burgh Birch, M.D.           C. W. Stokes, Esq.
    W. Ernst Browning, Esq. John N. Tweedy, Esq.
    Alexander Duncan, Esq.         Alexander Williamson, Esq.
    John Line, Esq.
 were duly admitted Members of the Royal Institution.

 1853.]                     OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                    289
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
    From
 Members      ordered to be returned for the same ; —
     on the happy
 Anderdon,           practice
             J. L. Esq.   (the of
                                Author)
                                  Angling.— The    River 1847.
                                                16mo.     Dove, with some quiet thoughts
     Affections
 Anderson,       of Esq.,
             W. J.  Women. F.R.C.S   , M.R.I,
                                  12mo.          (the Author) — Hysterical and Nervous
                                             1853.
     Pistols. —8vo.
Anonymous        Reports    to the Senate of the United States on Colt's Repeating
                        1851.
     for remuneration
   Report                 for the
            to the Congress     of the
                                   discovery
                                        UnitedofStates
                                                    the anaesthetic   or pain-subduing
                                                         on Dr. Morton's                 pro
                                                                             Memorial asking
     perties of Sulphuric Ether. 8vo. 1852.
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIII. No. 3. 8vo.
     1853.
Author — Observations on India, by a Resident there many years. 8vo. 1853.
     Parts
British     6-12. Trustees
         Museum,     12mo. of     the — List of the Specimens of the British Animals,
                               1851-2.
   Catalogue of Mammalia, Part 3. 12mo. 1852.
   List of Homopterous Insects, Parts 2, 3, 4. 12mo. 1851-2.
   List of Hemipterous Insects, Parts 1, 2. l2mo. 1851-2.
   Nomenclature of Coleopterous Insects. Part 6. 12mo. 1852.
   List of Coleopterous Insects. Part1. 12mo. 1851.
   List of Fish, Part 1 . 1 2mo. 1851.
   Catalogue of Phaneropneumona, or Terrestrial Operculated Mollusca. 12mo.
     1852.
 ' Catalogue of Mollusca. Part 4. 12mo. 1853.
   Catalogue of Neuropterous Insects. Part1. l2mo. 1852.
   Catalogue of Marine Polyzoa, Part 1 . 12mo. 1852.
   Catalogue of Lepidopterous Insects, Part 1 . 4to. 1852.
   Fragments of the Iliad of Homer from a Syriac Palimpsest. Edited by W.
     Cureton, M.A. 4to. 1851.
   Catalogue of the Greek and Etruscan Vases in the British Museum, Vol. I.
     8vo. 1851.
     asservantur.
   Catalogus          Pars II.
                 Codicum     Manuscriptorum
                                  Codices Arabices     amplectens.
                                                   Orientalium         in Museo
                                                                  qui fol.    1852.Britannico
     Library Miss
Bromfield,            brother,
              of herEliza    (through
                                 the lateJ.Dr.
                                             Ivatt  Briscoe, Esq.,
                                                Bromfield,           M.R.I.) — Part of the
                                                              viz. : —
   Antonio de Herrera, Description de las Indias Occidentales ; — y Historia
     General de los Hechos de los Castellanos en las Islas y Terra-Firme de el
     Mar Oceano. 4 vols. fol. Madrid, 1730.
   Antonio de Solis, Historia de Conquista de Mexico. &c. fol. Barcelona,
     1711.
   Shaw's Abridgement of Boyle's Works. 3 vols. 4to. 1725.
     Decades
   Petri       III.; ab
          Martyris       Angleria
                      ejusdem    Legationis
                                      Mediolanensis
                                               Babylonicae  Librilll.
                                                        de Rebus         fol. Basileae,
                                                                    Oceanicis           Novo
                                                                                et Orbe 1533.
   The Sceptical Chemist. 8vo. 1680.
   Johann Kunckels Laboratorium Chymicum. 8vo. Hamburg, 1722.
   C. Linmei Species Plantariim. 2 vols. 8vo. Holmiae, 1762-3.
   C.Milan,
       Delen,1826-8.
   DictionnaireEnglish
                   Francais-Italien
                         and Swedishet Lexicon.
                                           Italien-Francjais, par F. D'Alberti.
                                                      4to. Stockholm,       1806. 2 vol. 4to.
   G. N. Landre et P. Agron, Dictionnaire Francais-Hollandais, et Hollandais-
     Frangais.
   System         2 vols. 12
             of Chemistry     ofmo.
                                 Inorganic    Bodies, 1828.
                                       Amsterdam,      by T. Thomson. 2 vol. 8vo. 1831.
   Elementary Introduction to Mineralogy, by W. Phillips, F.L.S. 8vo. 1823.
   Reise in Chile, Peru, und auf dem Amazonstrome, wahrcnd der Jahre 1827-32,
    von E. Poeppig. 3 vols. 4to. Leipzig, 1835-6.

 290                       NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                         {April 8,
    Versuch einer Beschreibung von St. Petersburg, von J. G. Georgi. 8vo. St.
      Petersburg, 1790.
 East India Company, Hon.— A Dictionary, English and Sanskrit, by Monier
     Williams, M.A. 4 to. 1851.
    A Dictionary, Persian, Arabic, and English, by Francis Johnson. 4to. 1852.
    The Gulistan (Rose-Garden) of Shekh Sadi of Shiraz. A new edition care
     fully collated with original MSS., by E. B. Eastwick, M.R.A.S. 8vo. 1850.
    Anvar-i Suhell, or the Lights of Canopus, being the Persian version of the
     Fables of Bldpal, by Husain Vaiz Kashifi. Edited by Lieut.-Col. J. W. J.
     Ouseley. 4to. 1851.
    The Prem Sagar, or the Ocean of Love ; being a History of Krishn ; translated
      into the Hindi by LaM Lai. A new edition, with a Vocabulary, by E. B.
      Eastwick,
 Faraday,        M.R.A.S.
            M. Esq.,           Sec.—
                      F.R.S.,8vo.      Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie,
                                    1851.
     Jan. 1853. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXIV. No. 2. 8vo. 1852.
 Londesborough, The Lord, K.C.H., M.R.I.— Catalogue of a Collection of Ancient
     and Mediaeval Rings and Personal Ornaments formed for Lady Londes
     borough. [By T. Crofton Croker, Esq.] (Privately Printed.) 4to. 1853.
 hovell, E. B. Esq., M.B.I. (the Editor)— The Monthly Digest for March,
      1853. 8vo.
Manning, Frederick, Esq., M.R.I.— Map of the Soke of Grantham.
Moon, Robert, Esq., M.A. (the Author) — Light explained on the Hypothesis of
Noad,     Ethereal
     theHenry,     Medium
                Ph.D.,  M.R.I.
                            being
                                (thea Author)
                                      Viscous—   Chemical
                                               Fluid.        I. 8vo. 1853.
                                                       PartManipulation and Analysis,
     Qualitative and Quantitative; with an Introduction.         Mew Edition.    8vo.
     1852.
 Photographic Society— Journal, No. 1. 8vo. 1853.
Manning, Frederick, Esq., M.R.I. — Cast of Cypher of Charles Cotton and Izaak
     Walton, over the door of the Fishing-house of Charles Cotton, near Beresford-
     Hall, Staffordshire.
                     WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                                   Friday, April 8.
           Sir Charles Fellows, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                           Rev. W. Taylor, F.R.S.*
           Observations on different Modes of Educating the Blind.
The Lecturer feeling that he was working in the cause of the blind,
hoped that the importance of the subject would atone, in some
degree at least, for the imperfect manner in which he should bring
it before his audience ; and that his want of skill as a lecturer would
    [* Editor of "Diagrams of Euclid, Book I." and "Select Psalm-tunes,"
both embossed for the use of the Blind ; and author of " Report to the Royal
Scottish Society of Arts on the various Alphabets proposed for the use of the
Blind," and of a Report on Printing for the Blind, published by the British
Association in their Seventh Report.]

1853.]                  OF THK BOYAL INSTITUTION.                      291
not injure the great cause, which he had for more than thirty years
laboured to promote.
   France had the great merit of having established the first school
for the blind, which was founded by Valentine Haiiy, at Paris, in the
year 1784. This example, some seven or eight years after, was
followed by Liverpool, Bristol, London, &c. ; but it is supposed that
there are more schools, Sec. for the blind in the different German
states than in all the known world besides.
   That the blind, like others, as rational beings, have a claim to be
educated, is beyond a doubt. But the amount of education they are
capable of, must depend upon many things. Till within about
sixty or seventy years, the blind were thought incapable of learning
anything ; now however experience has shewn that there is scarcely
any branch of education beyond their reach. All blind persons,
except idiots, may be taught enough to lessen their affliction, if not
to make them useful and happy.                                      *
   It was also thought that this portion of instruction could be
acquired only in institutions for the blind, where helps and tools
adapted to their case, are provided ; but, now they are better under
stood, they may be, partially if not wholly, educated in their own
family circle ; and through the help of various ingenious con
trivances used in teaching the blind, the difference between them
and those who see, is reduced almost to a minimum.
   The Blind may be divided into various classes, viz : — Such as are
born blind ; those who have become blind in after life ; those who
are totally blind ; and those who have a glimmer of sight. These may
again be subdivided into males and females ; young and old ; rich
and poor ; and lastly, such as are deaf and dumb as well as blind.
   Those who are born blind are very few indeed. Most who are
thought to be so have lost their sight soon after birth, generally
from inflammation brought on either from careless or injudicious
exposure to the light or cold ; but now, from the improved manner
of treating this disease, it docs not so often terminate in blindness as
it formerly did. Moreover the facility of procuring medical aid, by
the poor, in such cases, is much greater than it was some years ago,
 and they are more inclined to seek it. These, together with the intro
 duction of vaccination, have greatly lessened the proportion of those
who are blind to those who see, not only in this country, but also in
 many others — so that, from some statistical enquiries made
in Austria, Prussia, the canton of Zurich, &c., the blind in those
localities may be about one in 1500 or 1600, and in England perhaps
less. In Egypt it is said to be very much greater—even one in 200.*
   Those who possess a glimmer of sight, sufficient to enable them
to avoid posts and other obstacles, are useful in an institution, as
guides to others, but their small portion of vision is seldom of any
use to them in learning a trade, &c.
   * " Volney says of every hundred you meet in the streets of Cairo twenty
will be blind and thirty more with defective sight."

  292                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [April 8,
     On the Continent, and in some English schools, the proportion of
  males to females is nearly as two to one. This arises perhaps from
  boys being more exposed to accidents than girls, in their occupations,
  &c. There are many more ways of gaining a livelihood open to the
  males than to the females ; they are, therefore, more easily provided
  for, when they leave an institution. They may learn basket-making,
  weaving, rope-making, and many other trades ; the females however
  learn to knit, sew, spin, net, crochet, plait hair, straw, &c., make
  sash-cord, fringe, paper boxes for jewellers, hatters, druggists, &c. ;
  and should be taught household work. All may learn to read em
  bossed characters and to write.
      For the blind, who are incapable of working, from age or otherwise,
  especially the females, an additional number of asylums is much
  needed. There is also much wanted a college or school for the blind
  of the wealthier classes, where they could be educated amongst those
  of their own rank in life. If such an institution were once established
  and properly officered, there is no doubt of its being well supported,
  as there are many parents who would not object to pay liberally for
  the advantage of having their blind children regularly educated in an
  establishment of that kind, where they would have the opportunity of
  being instructed in the higher branches of knowledge. That these
  are within their reach, has been proved by Blacklock, Baczko, Knie,
  Saunderson, Weissenburg, Huber, Gough, Paradies, Milton, Moves,
  Pfeffel, Kiiferle, and many others.— Modelling in clay, wax, &c.,
  and sculpture, carving in wood, and even engraving, have all been
  accomplished by the blind. Amusements such as chess and other
« games are also most desirable for them, as they feel a delight in not
  being dependent upon the seeing either for their employments or
  their pleasures. The poorer blind should have some mental cultiva
  tion as well as mechanical; for a certain quantity of the former
  makes the acquirement of the latter more easy. All blind persons
  would derive great advantage from being well drilled 'in Arithmetic.
  It is an admirable exercise for the mind — enables them to arrange
  their ideas, furnishes them with amusement, and renders them more
  apt at acquiring other kinds of information.
     There is another class of our fellow creatures who have a large
  claim upon our sympathy and benevolence— those who, in addition
  to their blindness, are deaf and dumb. One of the most remarkable
  of these is Laura Bridgeman, of Boston in America, who has been
  some years under the care of the famous Dr. Howe, and whose case
  is related by Dr. Kitto in his book " On the Lost Senses, ~ ia
  which he states that she had acquired some knowledge not only of
  things around her, but also of God and Religion. She writes a good
  hand and expresses her ideas in language which would not dis
  grace one in possession of his five senses.* There is a blind, deaf
     • In the Second Volume of the Smithsonian Contributions to Knowledge
  is a Paper by F. Licber on the Vocal Sounds of Laura Bridgeman, with a
  fac- simile letter.

1853.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    293
and dumb person, in the workhouse at Rotherhithe, one at Bath,
two at Lausanne, &c.
   There is a similar case at Bruges under the care of that great
friend to the blind, the Abb6 Carton. When seen by the Lecturer,
she was about twenty-two years of age, had been in the school not
a year, and yet had learned to knit even fancy work although
she had only three senses remaining. He gave her the letter
O, embossed on a bit of card ; she shewed that she knew it by
making her mouth circular and drawing her finger round it.
Other letters were variously designated. When she wanted coffee
she imitated the grinding of it by turning her hand as if she had
the mill. The Lecturer wished to see her knit. She objected to
that as it was a saint's day, which she denoted by shewing that
she had her best clothes on, but intimated that if he would come
on the morrow, (which she signified by laying her head on her
hand, as if on a pillow) she would knit for him, &c. &c.
   In the school at St. John's Wood there is a blind and deaf man
who as yet retains his speech. He knows when the master comes
into the room either by feeling the jar of his step or by his sense of
smell. Communications are made to him by writing with the
finger on his hand or back, and he very readily comprehends them.
Here is a proof of the advantage of employing the common alphabet ;
for had he learned an arbitrary character very few could hold
intercourse with him.
   " Instructors of the blind should be strictly moral and heartily
inclined, irrespective of trouble or reward, to promote the welfare of
their pupils : they should have a fondness for children and for
teaching — they should possess mildness, patience, kindness, sym
pathy, tranquillity, and perseverance, with a spirit of order and
regularity. These are the moral principles or qualities to be desired
in those who undertake the education of the blind. On the other
hand they should have moderate learning, talent to impart it, and a
certain acquaintance with the various branches of knowledge ; for
as their pupils cannot refer to books, the teacher must be everything
to them.—It is easy to imagine that an educated blind person would be
the best teacher of the blind, in such things as require a peculiar
mode of treatment, especially in mechanical operations.'* (Klein.)
   The Lecturer then explained some of the many ingenious contri
vances used in teaching the blind. The first was a board of cork
with a few pins and a string, which he considers very useful. The
pins are stuck into the cork at the angles of any straight-
lined diagram and the string passed round them, forming a figure
which the blind can readily feel. If circles are wanted they may be
made of wire or cut in pasteboard, &c.
   The next was a mariner's compass without the glass, in order
that the blind may feel the needle. After it has stood long enough to
take its proper direction, it is fixed in that position by a small lever

294                    NOTICES or THE MEETINGS                  L- '/"~'•' S,
that lifts it up against the rim, which is in diameter a little less than
the length of the needle. This is very useful to the blind in going
about by themselves in the country.
   The Lecturer then explained a small chess-board with crooked
pins for the men, by which the blind can play at chess with a person
having the common board.— Each can be considering his game
without interrupting the other, as the blind has no occasion to
touch his adversary's board ; of course each must name his move
which the other copies.
   Printing in embossed letters was next explained, and a blind girl
of about 18, from the school at St. George's, readily deciphered a
sentence printed by the Lecturer with a pen and thick ink. This tends
to prove that the letters need not be in very high relief, and forms
an easy means of communicating with them. She also read from
a book embossed in the common Roman alphabet : and afterwards,
a young man, from the school in St. John's Wood read from Lucas's
stenographic characters and also the Roman capitals and small letters.
The Lecturer said that much difference of opinion existed as to the
best alphabet for the blind, some advocating an arbitrary character,
some the Roman letters, and some a modification of one of them ;
but that he himself preferred the common Roman alphabet, capitals
and small letters, and that he was supported in his opinion by Klein
of Vienna, Dr. Zeune of Berlin, Knie of Breslau (himself blind and
director of the school in that town), Jiiger of Gmiind, Baczko (blind),
&c. &c., all of whom had had from thirty to fifty years' experience.
In this country also the Roman letters were preferred in the schools
at Manchester, York, Bristol, and several others — also by Mr.
Littledale of York, who having lost his sight when six years old,
must be allowed to be a good judge.— The blind should be asso
ciated with the seeing as much as possible in all their habits and
acquirements, but an arbitrary character tends to separate them, and
make them as it were a colony of strangers in their own land.
Besides if they have a book in an arbitrary character, and they
come to a word they do not understand, who in a village could
render them assistance ? Who could read for them from their book,
when they were tired ? Who could communicate with them should
they become deaf as well as blind ? Almost every alphabet may possess
some single advantage over others, but the one to be chosen for the
blind should be that which possesses the greatest number of advan
tages — or is best as a whole. Unfortunately, in comparing alpha
bets, care is not taken to have them printed the same size and
same distance apart, and then the comparison is worthless.
   It is the opinion of the Lecturer that children should be educated
by means of the common alphabet, and if they like afterwards to
learn any other on account of some supposed or real advantage it
may possess, they might do so. Many blind persons derive much
amusement by going into churchyards and reading the grave-stones,
but of conrse only those who have learned the common letters. It

1853.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        295
should be something very superior, indeed, to induce us to depart
from the ordinary alphabet, and nothing of that kind has yet come
to the notice of the Lecturer, although he has examined many sys
tems and heard many able advocates of them, but without altering
his own opinion, which every day's experience tends to strengthen.
One great mistake in considering which is the best system for the
blind is, that the liflinl themselves are not sufficiently consulted, for
they are the best judges after all; and in the end, when they have
had a fair chance, will decide the question better than the seeing can
for them.                          ,
    The Arithmetic boards were also exhibited and explained. They
consisted of holes into which little pegs were put to represent the
different figures. One had pentagonal holes, and pegs with a single
projection at one end to represent the five odd numbers, and two
projections at the other end to denote the five even numbers. The
 other board had saw-cuts across it so as to divide it into squares of
 about j of an inch each, in the centre of which was a hole of i of an
 inch square into which square pegs were put ; but as these would
 represent only eight numerals, other pegs were added with differently
 formed ends which served for the other two numerals, and for
 algebra ; into the saw-cuts bits of tin were placed to divide fractions,
 serve as vincula, denote roots, powers, &c.
    When at the Blind School in Berlin, the Lecturer put the fol
lowing question in arithmetic to the pupils, which was very soon
 solved mentally. If 10 men can dig a trench 70 yds. long, 3 wide,
 and 2 deep in 36 days of 9 hours each ; how many men will it
require to dig one 60 yds. long, 4 wide, and 5 deep, in 40 days of 10
 hours each ? The Lecturer also worked out the sum with his pencil :
 but the answers did not agree, one being 23^- and the other 23^.
 One boy contended that he was right, and on going over the work
again he proved to be correct. Many similar questions were often
put to the York pupils at their public examinations, and were
readily answered by means of the board and pegs, even by boys of
eleven or twelve years old.
    A young man who had learned basketmaking in the York school,
 was also employed by the Mechanics' Institute to attend there certain
nights in the week to instruct a class in algebra and geometry, a know
ledge of which he had acquired partly in the school, and partly after
manleft.
he          In hishe trade
       to whom        paid from
                           he employed
                                 eleven toa fourteen shillings as
                                            blind companion       a journey,
                                                                a week.
    The Lecturer then explained a simple but ingenious portable
printing machine by which the blind can communicate with one
 another or with the seeing. He said it was the cleverest, most
 easily learnt, least liable to get out of order, quickest in operation,
 and cheapest he had ever seen. It was invented by Mr. Littledale
 of York. One of its great advantages is that it embosses upwards, so
that what has been done may be readily examined by the finger
without moving the paper, and any alphabet may be used in it.

 296                   NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                  [4pril 8,
    The Music board came next. It is about three feet long and
 about ten inches wide, having raised lines upon it running from one
end to the other. Ten of them are flat on the top and represent the
five lines of the treble and of the bass : one line between the bass and
treble, two below the bass, and three above the treble, are round
on the top and represent the leger lines. Both the lines and spaces
are pierced with small holes 1 of an inch apart, into which pins
variously crooked to represent the different notes, are placed — these
pins the blind can make for themselves — a pin with the head on
represents a note,— one crooked in the same way but having the
head taken off stands for the rest of that note, &c. Between the
holes are saw-cuts all across the board into which bits of tin or
pasteboard are placed to serve as bars. So that any piece of music
may be written upon it. It is very advantageous in teaching
thorough bass, as every note in the chord may be set down ; and if
the master leave a certain bass on the board as a lesson, the pupil
may, in his absence, study and harmonize it, and the master can
afterwards correct it. Oral instruction ends when the master
leaves his pupil — therefore much time is gained by the board.
It is much used and with great advantage in the York school. It
was invented in Paris, but improved by Mr. Littledale.
   One of the numbers of the " Magazine for the Blind " was shewn.
This publication in embossed Roman letters was edited and printed
by Mr. Lambert, a gentleman then living in York, who had been
blind from infancy. It continued two years, but was given up on
account of the expense. It is a great pity that it was not better
supported, as the blind took intense interest in it. The price was
sixpence, but now could be printed for much less.
   A little box was produced, which had been turned, in presence of
the Lecturer, by one of the blind boys in the York school, and
which would have been no mean piece of work for a beginner
who had sight. The boy had had only three or four lessons.
   A specimen of Berlin work, executed by Mr. Littledale as an
amusement, was also shewn, and several other things.
   A simple writing frame was next explained, which consisted of
a piece of mill-board about ten inches square, to which was
attached, by hinges, a brass frame having a number of holes in two
of its opposite sides; through these a string of catgut was put
which formed lines in pairs across the frame. The pairs of lines
were about -j an inch apart and the lines in each pair -J-. To
use it, place a sheet of paper on the board, and upon this a sheet
of tracing paper, black on the side next to the writing paper ; shut
the frame, and with a stile or blunt point write between the narrow
lines which will give way for the tops and tails of the letters. This
was invented at Paris.                       •
   The Lecturer stated that his thanks were due to the Viscount
Cranborne, to the Society of Arts, to the Committee, of the Blind
Schools at St. George's Southwark, and at York, and to W. D.

 1863.]           .     OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     297
 Littledale, Esq. for the loan of various books, maps, and apparatus
 for teaching the blind, and for specimens of their work.
    The Lecturer recommended the following General Rules for the
 management or treatment of the Blind, derived from his own
 experience and the works of Klein, Zeune, Knie, Baczko, Orell,
 Jiiger, Struve, and others.
 1 . It is of the greatest importance that blind children be religiously
    brought up, for as they are deprived of many pleasures and
    advantages which the seeing enjoy, they have the greater need of
    the promises and consolations of Religion. But it must be
    remembered that Religion, like powerful medicine, should be
    administered with the greatest judgement.
 2. They should be treated as much like the seeing as possible, so as
     to render social intercourse with them agreeable and beneficial,
     and conducive to the strengthening of their four remaining senses.
 3. Amongst the various contrivances for facilitating the education
     of the blind, choose the simplest, and such as are in use with the
i seeing, when they are sufficient for your purpose.
 4. Never assist them further than is necessary, in order to teach
     them to help themselves. Encourage them to examine every
     thing that comes in their way, and to ask questions.
 5. From their earliest years accustom them to activity, even if it be
     only for amusement — it will prevent their brooding over their
     misfortune, which not only injures their health, but renders them
     unfit for mental or bodily exertion.
  6. Avoid, in their presence, giving utterance to feelings of pity or
     commiseration for their misfortune, as it only serves to remind
     them of their situation and gives them pain.
  7. In conversing with the blind you need not avoid such subjects as
     relate to vision, &c. for from frequently hearing those things
     described, they will form very good notions concerning them,
     and their lively imaginations will supply their minds with useful
     representations of them.
  8. You need not be much troubled about any little hurt they may
     receive from running against chairs, tables. Sec. or in using certain
     tools, as such trifling accidents teach them caution and prevent
     greater.
  9. In moving about a room, &c. should they take a wrong
     direction, it is well to set them right privately and avoid as much
     as possible doing or saying anything to make them feel their de
     pendence upon those who have their sight.
  10. Be ever careful not to deceive the blind — even though you
     should think it for their good, for you will never regain their
     confidence, asd it will tend to make them suspect others. Besides
      it ia nut so easy to deceive them as may be imagined, for having
      to depend upon four senses to do the duty of five, their discern-
                                                         Y

298                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                       [April 15,
   ment acquires a degree of acuteness beyond that of the seeing,
    which is very advantageous to them in their education.
1 1 . When you meet blind persons whom you intend to address,
    always make yourself known to them by mentioning year name,
    till your voice becomes familiar to them — it spares them the un
    pleasantness of doubt and confusion.
 12. Be careful how you watch the blind, unobserved as you may
    think, lest by their smelling or hearing, they detect you, and in
    that case you will forfeit their good opinion.
 13. When you ask a blind person a question and he gives you an
    answer, always signify your agreement or disagreement with it, for
    if you go away in silence he is sometimes in doubt whether or not
    you are displeased. A touch of the finger on the shoulder or
    hand is to them what a smile is to the seeing.
 14. You should ask a blind person if he has seen this or that thing ?
    or if he has read this or that book instead of saying "felt," &c.,
    which would remind him of his misfortune.*
                                                                    [W. T.]
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                               Friday, April 15.
          SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     THOMAS H. HUXLEY, Esq. F.R.S.
            On the Identity of Structure of Plants and Animals.
 THE Lecturer commenced by referring to his endeavours last year to
 shew that the distinction between living creatures and those which
 do not live, consists in the fact, that while the latter tend to remain
 as they are, unless the operation of some external cause effect a
 change in their condition, the former have no such inertia, but pass
 spontaneously through a definite succession of states — different in
 kind and order of succession, for different species, but always iden
 tical in the members of the same species.
     There is however another character of living bodies — Organization ;
 which is usually supposed to be their most striking peculiarity, as
    • Some excellent matter on this subject may be found in an English trans
 lation of Dr. Guillic's Book on the Blind, and also in the article " BLIND " in
 the last Edition of the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and in the Penny Cyclopaedia.

1853.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      299
contrasted with beings which do not live ; and it was to the essen
tial nature of organization that the Lecturer on the present occasion
desired to direct attention.
   An organized body does not necessarily possess organs in the
physiological sense—parts that is, which discharge some function
necessary to the maintenance of the whole. Neither the germ nor
the lowest animals and plants possess organs in this sense, and yet
they are organized.
    It is not mere external form, again, which constitutes organization.
On the table there was a lead-tree (as it is called) which, a mere
product of crystallization, possessed the complicated and graceful
form of a delicate Fern. If a section were made of ona of the
leaflets of this tree, it would be found to possess a structure optically
and chemically homogeneous throughout.
    Make a section of any young portion of a true plant, and the result
will be very different. It will be found to be neither chemically
 nor optically homogeneous, but to be composed of small definite
masses containing a large quantity of nitrogen, imbedded in a homo
 geneous matrix having a very different chemical composition ; con
    The nitrogenous
 taining   in fact abundance
                        bodies ofmay
                                  a peculiar
                                     be moresubstance — Cellulose.
                                              or less solid or vesicular —
and they may or may not be distinguished into a central mass (nucleus
of Authors) and a peripheral portion (Contents, Primordial utricle
 of Authors) — on account of the confusion in the existing nomen
clature, the Lecturer proposed the term Endoplasts for them.
    The cellulose matrix, though at first unquestionably a homoge
 neous continuous substance, readily breaks up into definite portions
 surrounding each Endoplast ; — and these portions have therefore
 conveniently, though, as the Lecturer considered, erroneously, been
 considered to be independent entities under the name of Cells : —
 these, by their union, and by the excretion of a hypothetical inter
 cellular substance, being supposed to build up the matrix. On
 the other hand, the Lecturer endeavoured to shew that the exist
 ence of separate cells is purely imaginary, and that the possibility
 of breaking up the tissue of a plant into such bodies, depends simply
 upon the mode in which certain chemical and physical differences have
 arisen in the primarily homogeneous matrix, to which, in contra
 distinction
plast          to the Endoplast,
        or periplastic substance. he proposed to give the name of peri-
    In all young animal tissues the structure is essentially the same,
 consisting of a homogeneous periplastic substance with imbedded
 Endoplasts (nuclei of Authors) ; as the Lecturer illustrated by reference
 to diagrams of young Cartilage, Connective tissue, Muscle, Epithe
 lium, &c. &c. ; and he therefore drew the conclusion that the
 common structural character of living bodies, as opposed to those
 which do not live, is the existence in the former of a local physico-
 chemical differentiation ; while the latter are physically and chemi
 cally homogeneous throughout.
    These facts, in their general outlines, have been well known

300                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS              [April 15,
since the promulgation, in 1838, of the celebrated Cell-theory of
Schwann. Admitting to the fullest extent the service which this
theory had done in Anatomy and Physiology, the Lecturer endea
voured to shew that it was nevertheless infected by a fundamental
error, which had introduced confusion into all later attempts to
compare the vegetable with the animal tissues. This error arose
from the circumstance that when Schwann wrote, the primordial
utricle in the vegetable-cell was unknown. Schwann, therefore,
who started in his comparison of Animal with Vegetable Tissues
from the structure of Cartilage, supposed that the corpuscle of the
cartilage cavity was homologous with the " nucleus " of the vege
table cell, and that therefore all bodies in animal tissues, homo
logous with the cartilage corpuscles, were " nuclei. " The latter
conclusion is a necessary result of the premises, and therefore the
Lecturer stated that he had carefully re-examined the structure of
 Cartilage, in order to determine which of its elements corresponded
with the primordial utricle of the plant, — the important missing
structure of which Schwann had given no account : — working
subsequently from Cartilage to the different tissues with which it
may be traced into direct or indirect continuity, and thus ascer
taining the same point for them.
    The general result of these investigations may be thus expressed :
—In all the animal tissues the so called nucleus (Endoplast) is the
homologue of the primordial utricle (with nucleus and contents) (Endo
plast) of the Plant, the other histological elements being invariably
modifications of the periplastic substance.
    Upon this view we find that all the discrepancies which had
appeared to exist between the Animal and Vegetable Structures
disappear, and it becomes easy to trace the absolute identity of
plan in the two, — the differences between them being produced
merely by the nature and form of the deposits in, or modifications
 of, the periplastic substance.
    Thus in the Plant, the Endoplast of the young tissue becomes
 a " primordial utricle," in which a central mass, the " nucleus, "
 may or may not arise ; persisting for a longer or for a shorter
 time, it may grow, divide and subdivide, but it never (?) becomes
 metamorphosed into any kind of tissue.
    The periplastic substance follows to some extent the changes of
 the endoplast, inasmuch as it generally, though not always, grows
 in when the latter has divided, so as to separate the two newly
 formed portions from one another ; but it must be carefully borne
 in mind, though it is a point which has been greatly overlooked,
 that it undergoes its own peculiar metamorphoses quite indepen
 dently of the endoplast. —This the Lecturer illustrated by the
 striking case of the Sphagnum leaf, in which the peculiarly thick
 ened cells can be shewn to acquire their thickening fibre after the
 total disappearance of the primordial utricle, — and he further quoted
 M. von Moh1's observations as to the early disappearance of the pri

 1853.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       301
 mordial utricle in woody cells in general, — in confirmation of the
 same views.
    Now, these metamorphoses of the periplastic substance are two
 fold : 1. Chemical, 2. Morphological.
    The Chemical changes may consist in the conversion of the
 cellulose into xylogen, &c. &c. or in the deposit of salts, silica,
 &c. in the periplastic substance. Again, the periplastic substance
 around each endoplast may remain of one chemical composition,
 or it may be different in the outer part (so-called intercellular
 substance) from what it is in the inner (so-called cell- wall).
    As to Morphological changes in the periplastic substance, they
 consist either in the development of cavities in its substance —
 vacuolalion (development of so-called intercellular passages) or in
fibrillation (spiral fibres, &c.).
    It is precisely the same in the Animal.
    The Endoplast may here become differentiated into a nucleus
 and a primordial utricle (as sometimes in Cartilage) or more usually
 it does not, — one or two small solid particles merely arising or
 existing from the first, as the so-called " nucleoli ; "— it persists for
 a longer or shorter time; it divides and subdivides, but it never
 (except perhaps in the case of the spermatozoa and the thread-cells
 of Medusae, &c.) becomes metamorphosed into any tissue.
    The periplastic substance, on the other hand, undergoes quite
 independent modifications. By chemical change or deposit it ac
 quires Horn, Collagen, Chondrin, Syntonin, Fats, Calcareous Salts,
 according as it becomes Epithelium, Connective Tissue, Cartilage,
 Muscle, Nerve or Bone, and in some cases the chemical change
 in the immediate neighbourhood of the endoplast is different from
 that which has taken place exteriorly, — so that the one portion
 becomes separable from the other by chemical or mechanical means ;
 — whence, for instance, has arisen the assumption of distinct walls
 for the bone-lacunae and cartilage-cavities ; of cell-contents and of
 intercellular substance as distinct histological elements.
    The Morphological changes in the periplastic substance of the
 tion andagain,
 animal,           are of(by
            Fibrillation   the which
                                same nature
                                     latter term          plant : — Vacuola-
                                             as in istheunderstood, not only
 the actual breaking up of a tissue in definite lines, but the tendency
 to do so) — Vacuolation of the periplastic substance is seen to
 its greatest extent in the " Areolar " connective tissue ;— Fibril
 lation in tendons, fibro-cartilages and muscles.
     In both Plants and Animals, then, there is one histological ele
 ment, the Endoplast, which does nothing but grow and vegetatively
 repeat itself ; the other element, the periplastic substance, being the
  subject of all the chemical and morphological metamorphoses, in
 consequence of which specific Tissues arise. The differences be
 tween the two kingdoms are, mainly, 1 . That in the Plant the
 Endoplast grows, and, as the primordial utricle, attains a large com
 parative size ; — while in the Animal the Endoplast remains small,

302                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [April 15,
the principal bulk of its tissues being formed by the periplastic
substance ; and, 2 ; in the nature of the chemical changes which
take place in the periplastic substance in each case. This distinction
however does not always hold good, the Ascidians furnishing
examples of animals whose periplastic substance contains cellulose.
    " The Plant, then, is an Animal confined in a wooden case, and
Nature, like Sycorax, holds thousands of ' delicate Ariels ' imprisoned
within every Oak. She is jealous of letting us know this, and,
among the higher and more conspicuous forms of Plants, reveals
it only by such obscure manifestations as the shrinking of the Sen
sitive Plant, the sudden clasp of the Dionoea, or, still more slightly,
by the phenomena of the Cyclosis. But among the immense variety
of creatures which belong to the invisible world, she allows more
liberty to her Dryads ; and the Protococci, the Volvos, and indeed
all the Algae, are, during one period of their existence, as active
as animals of a like grade in the scale. True, they are doomed
eventually to shut themselves up within their wooden cages and
remain quiescent, but in this respect they are no worse off than
the Polype, or the Oyster even."
    In conclusion, the Lecturer stated his opinion that the Cell-
theory of Schwann consists of two portions of very unequal value,
the one anatomical, the other physiological. So far as it was
based upon an ultimate analysis of living beings and was an ex
haustive expression of their anatomy, so far will it take its place
among the great advances in Science. But its value is purely
anatomical, and the attempts which have been made by its author,
 and by others, to base upon it some explanation of the Physiolo
gical phenomena of living beings by the assumption of Cell-force,
 Metabolic-force, &c.. &c. cannot be said to be much more philo
 sophical than the old notions of " the actions of the vessels," of
 which physiologists have lately taken so much pains to rid them
 selves.
    "The living body has often, and justly, been called, ' the House
 we live in ; '— suppose that one, ignorant of the mode in which a
 house is built, were to pull it to pieces, and find it to be composed
 of bricks and mortar, — would it be very philosophical on his part
 to suppose that the house was built by brick-force ? But this is
 just what has been done with the human body. — We have broken
 it up into ' cells,' and now we account for its genesis by cell-force."
                                                          [T. H. H.]

1853.]                 OF THE ROY A I. INSTITUTION.               303
                                                           •
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 22.
        SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice- President, in the Chair.
                         JOHN CONOLLY, M. D.
On the Past and Present Condition of the Insane, and the Characters of
                                 Insanity.
[DR. CONOLLY has been unavoidably prevented from supplying an
   abstract of his discourse.] '
                 WEEKLY       EVENING
                           Friday,          MEETING,
                                    April 29th.
        SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                     W. BROCKBDON, Esq., F.R.S.
On the treatment of Foreign Wines and the extensive injuries recently
                    caused by a Fungus on the Grape.
MR. BROCKBDON stated that his original intention had been to
mention only such facts as had formerly come under his observation
in certain wine districts in France, as to the treatment of wines,
more especially those of Champagne, but that the fatal malady
which was now desolating the vineyards of France and which had
last year been observed by him, would form a painful part of his
communication.
   In the year 1842, he had been induced to visit Champagne and
Bordeaux, and again in 1843 the former district, to recommend to
the wine-merchants a trial of his patented mode of securing wine in
bottles by means not liable to injury by insects or climate.
   A stay of some weeks, at different seasons, in his visit to Cham
pagne, enabled him to observe the treatment of the valuable product
of the district, and to visit the principal vineyards and establish
ments at Epernay, Rheims, and Chalons-sur-Marne, during the
vintage and the spring following.
   Mr. Brockedon exposed the common error that the wine of
Champagne was made of unripe fruit, an idea which must have

304                   -NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [April 29,
been suggested by our miserable attempt to imitate it with green
gooseberries. The fact is that a more delicious fruit than the Cham
pagne grape can scarcely be found, or more highly saccharine.
     The finest wines are made by the most skilful merchants, who
combine the growth of vineyards which differ in aspect, soil, and
variety of the vines. The most famous of the vineyards, those of
Ay, would yield for such mixture, one of the most valuable sorts
 to give quality to wine, but which alone would be far inferior to that
 which can be obtained by a judicious use of it in combination, by
 which flavour and strength are obtained, suited to the different mar
 kets ; strong and full flavoured for England, sweet and highly effer
 vescent for Russia, &c. Wine is impure when it is coloured,
 drugged, and flavoured artificially : admixtures of gooseberrry and
 rhubarb juices are unknown in Champagne.
     The wine when pressed is not vatted in large quantities, but
 placed in casks which have been sulphured, to check fermentation
 and preserve its sweetness as far as possible. During the winter
 following the vintage, it is racked two or three times, and in the
 following spring, about March, the bottling commences.
      In order to obtain the wine with perfect brightness, into each
 bottle is put a wine-glass full of liqueur, which is prepared by
  dissolving fine candied sugar in wine till it becomes a rich syrnp.
  If the wine is to be made pink, a red wine is used ; if pale, white
  wine. This liquor produces a fresh fermentation in the bottle, by
  converting the sugar into alcohol and carbonic acid gas. Every
  bottle on being filled and corked is laid on its side on a frame having
  holes made through it, into which the neck of the bottle is inserted.
  As the fermentation advances, every bottle in succession is dexte
  rously shaken gently on its axis every day, to prevent any adhesive
  deposit on the side of the bottle ; and each day it is lifted more and
  more upright in the frame until the foul portion rests only in the
  downward neck of the bottle. It is then ready for dfgorgement, a
  process by which the foul deposit is removed. The bottle is carefully
  held in such a position, that when the string which holds the cork is
  cut, the deposit is blown out by the force of the gas within. The foul
  matter only is allowed to escape by the skilful use of the fore-finger
  of the operator, which stops the flow until the effervescence subsides
  under its pressure. He then quickly and dexterously fills up the bottle
  from the contents of another already purified. It is then passed
   with great rapidity under a machine, by which a large cork is
   forced into the bottle, and is then as rapidly tied. Tt is afterwards
   wired and stacked away in vast and cool caves, some of which, thou
   sands of yards in extent, have been excavated in the solid chalk
   of the hill side. These stacks of bottled Champagne are so in
   geniously made, that though- they may each contain from 1000 to
    10,000 bottles, any one of them can be withdrawn for examination.
   In a warm spring, the extent of bursting in these bottles is a cause
   of great loss. In April, 1843, Madame Cliquot of Rheims lost

1853.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    305
400,000 out of her stock for that season of 1,600.000 bottles.
Further destruction was checked by obtaining from Paris ten or
twelve waggon-loads of ice, which, strewn in the caves, lowered
their temperature.
   When the wine- is thus stacked, the merchants visit the caves to
buy, and it is scarcely recommended to their notice, unless the
breakage can be shewn to be not less than ten per cent. It is
this loss, and the cost of labour in preparing, that enhances so much
the value of the wine of Champagne.
   The condition of the wine in the bottle can be easily ascertained
by a simple means. A fine hollow needle can be thrust through
the cork, and a taste obtained from the pressure within, through the
tube. On withdrawing the circular needle, the elasticity of the
cork closes the puncture.
   Of the quantity of champagne made, it is difficult to obtain
accurate information ; 50,000,000 bottles would be a low estimate
for the genuine product of Champagne : but the demand for wines
that effervesce is so great, that it is now supplied from the vine
yards of St. Perey, Hermitage, Rhine, Moselle, Burgundy, Bordeaux,
in fact from every wine district in which they choose to make it
by sweetening and treating it as in Champagne.
   But this is not the only mode of making champagne even with
genuine French wine. Very large quantities are made in Paris and
elsewhere ; in that city' there are numerous establishments for such
manufacture ; one house alone sending out 1,000,000 bottles a
year. They sweeten the light common white wines of France*
and then impregnate them with carbonic acid gas by means of
a pneumatic apparatus, and bottle them, as in Champagne, while
effervescent.
   Mr. Brockedon gave little information upon the wines of Bor
deaux, except to shew that the same skill in a judicious combination
of the wines of neighbouring growths, gave the greatest celebrity
to the most eminent of the wine establishments on the Garonne.
   In the spring of 1845, a fungus on the grape was first observed
in the hothouses of Mr. Slater of Margate, by his very intelligent
and observant gardener, Mr. Edward Tucker, whose name has been
given to it by the Rev. M. J. Berkeley, the eminent naturalist, viz.
 Oidium Tuckeri. It is an egg-shaped fungus, one of an immense
family of this class of destroyers, but one not before known or re
cognized ; and though it bears a close resemblance to those which are
found upon the potato, peach, chrysanthemum, cucumber, groundsel,
&c., yet it is distinguished from all others by a microscopic observer,
and has never yet been found upon any other plant, and when found
upon the grape has always been destructive. Its first appearance
is like a wlritish mildew, shewing itself principally upon the young
grape when about the size of a pea.
   When the spore of this fungus has settled on the young berry.

 306                    NOTlCgS OF THB MEETINGS               [April 29,
  it enlarges and radiates irregularly in fine filaments, which often
  cover the whole surface, extending with great rapidity. These fix
  themselves by imperceptible attachments, which do not appear to
 penetrate the cuticle ; numerous branches from the mycelium are
  unfruitful ; others are jointed and rise vertically like the pile of
 velvet; the upper joint enlarges, rounds itself into an elliptical
  form, ripens, separates, and is carried off with the slightest motion
  of the air, to find another grape upon which it can be developed.
 Warmth and moisture favour its rapid fructification ; a succession
  of spores rise from the same branch ; and often two, three, or four,
 ripen and disperse almost at the same time. Its effect upon the
 grape is to exhaust the juices of the cuticle, which ceases to expand
 with the pulp of the fruit ; it then bursts, dries up, and is utterly
 destroyed.
     This fatal disease has returned with increased virulence in each
 succeeding year. In 1847, the spores of this Oidium reached France,
 and was found in the forcing-houses of Versailles and other places
 near Paris ; but the disease soon reached the trellised vines, and
 destroyed the grapes out of doors in the neighbourhood, and con
 tinued to extend from place to place ; but until 1850 it was chiefly
 observed in vineries, which lost from this cause, season after season,
 the whole of their crops.
     Unhappily in 1 851, it was found to have extended to the south
 and south-east of France and Italy, and the grapes were so affected
 that they either decayed, or the wine made from them was de
 testable.
    In 1852, the Oidium Tuckeri reappeared in France with increased
 and fatal energy ; it crossed the Mediterranean to Algeria, shewed
itself in Syria and Asia Minor, attacked the Muscat grapes at
Malaga, injured the vines in the Balearic Islands, utterly destroyed
the vintage in Madeira, greatly injured it in the Greek Islands, and
destroyed the currants in Zante and Cephalonia, rendering them
almost unfit for use, and so diminished the supply, that 500 gatherers
did the ordinary work of 8000 !
    But it is in France that its frightful ravages are chiefly to be
regarded as a national calamity, where the produce of the soil in
wine is said to exceed 500 millions of hectolitres ; two-fifths of the
usual quantity of wine made there has been destroyed, and what has
been made is bad. It has not touched with equal severity all the
departments. Traces of its influence have been seen in the Loiret,
Loire-et-Cher, and Maine-et-Loire. The vineyards of the Medoc
in 1851 were untouched, and the cultivators laughed at the existence
of the Oidium ; but last year the disease shewed itself everywhere
in the Gironde, even to the borders of the celebrated Medoc, and
between the vineyards of the Medoc and the river at Pauillac and
at Macau, with serious injury. In the Lower Pyrenees«the wines of
Juran9on were affected. The Haute Garonne was generally attacked ;
and at Toulouse one proprietor who usually sent to Paris 10,000

1853.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     307
francs' worth of grapes for the table, lost all or nearly all hy the
Oidium. The Eastern Pyrenees, 1'Aude, 1'Herault, and a great part
of Card were all deplorably affected, and at Frontignan and Lunel the
vineyards were abandoned in despair. Thousands of labourers were
thrown out of employ, and the distress was awful. Wine in France
is .the common drink of the peasant ; upon this, his bread, and
 some legumes, he labours ; but the wine, bad as it is, has risen to
 double, and in the countries most injured even treble its ordinary
 price. In Lower Provence and on the Isere, the vines which escaped
 in 1851 were seriously injured in 1852. la the Burgundy district,
 the vines on the C6te d'Or were little affected in the vineyards, but
 the trellised vines were seriously so.
    Many works have been published upon this most important
 subject. All the local papers, as the Messager du Midi, teem with
 letters and reports, and schemes (all failures) to stay the plague.
 In the " Atti del1' Accademia Poutificia," Professor P. Sanguinetti
 has published an essay, interesting only for the subject, but offering
 no remedy that has been found of any service to stay the evil.
     Professor Mohl, in the Botanische Zeitung, has written an able
 paper translated by the Rev. Mr. Berkeley, and published in the
 Journal of the Horticultural Society for April, 1853. He gives a
 history of the development and diffusion of the disease, and reports
 to us its extension from France to the whole length of Italy by the
  coast of Liguria to Naples, then taking a retrograde course through
 the Tyrol to Botzen, overrunning Switzerland to Wintherthur,
 and touching certain spots in Baden, and in Wirtemburg and
  Hungary. M. Mohl has most carefully examined whether the
  Oidium of the grape lives on other plants besides the vine, but he is
  decidedly of opinion that it does not.
     Some persons, as M. Robineau, have supposed that it was
  caused by insects, because occasionally they had been found on
  diseased vines : but the* idea is now utterly rejected ; for not the
  slightest appearance of disease precedes the fungus, which creeps
  over the epidermis but does not enter its tissues. It envelopes the
  grape, absorbs the juices of the superficial cells, and stops the
  growth of the cuticle. The pulp expands within the fruit, bursts
  longitudinally, its juices are lost, and it dries up. In an early stage
  of the disease the fungus may be wiped off, and the fruit will come
  to maturity. The Oidium never matures on decayed vegetable
  substances ; it lives and fructifies only on living tissues.
      The poor peasant of the Bouches du Rhone believes that the
  cause is bad air ; but at Genoa, Grenoble, Lyons, Dijon, and Stras
  bourg, the people attribute it to gas-lights ! and the vapour of
   locomotives ! ! and think that such inventions are infernal ; and
  many works are published with such absurd imputations, and
  recommending preventives and remedies just as wise.
      By far the ablest work upon this important subject is by M. Louis
  Lcclcrc, who, eminent as a man of science, was chosen by the

308                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [April 29,
Minister of the Interior, M. Persigny, to go into the districts
affected and to report upon the facts he could collect. This he has
done in an admirable manner, and to his work, a brochure published
in Paris, by Hatchette et Ci°. Mr. Brockedon recommended his
hearers, as containing all that can yet be said upon the subject. He
reports the history of the scourge, exhibits its character, and relates
what remedies have been tried, and what found successful.
    The interest which the subject has excited in England has led to
such extensive correspondence in the Gardener's Chronicle, that it
contains not less than forty communications, and there are to be
found the earliest notices of experiments made with lime-water,
tobacco, lye of wood-ashes, &c. : — all these have failed. Mr. Kyle
of Leighton discovered sulphur to be a sure remedy, and it is the only
one yet known ; but this, which can be applied in hot and green
houses cannot be used in large vineyards. House-grown grapes,
if sulphur be puffed over the berries and vines, or if it be laid upon
the pipes made damp in the hothouses, will vaporize and destroy
the Oidivm without injuring the fruit ; but the sulphur must not
be fired, or it will destroy the vines.
    By many it is asked,— is the Oidium the cause or consequence of
the disease of the vine ?— The vine, one party says, is over-cultivated
 and liable to affections which the wild healthy plant resists, and it
 should be treated as in a state of plethora; tap it, lessen its sap, and
 it will invigorate so as to resist the poison of the Oidium. This has
been tried, and failed. If this were the cause it could not have so
 suddenly and widely extended itself.
    We can only hope that that Power which has created the Oidtum
 may withdraw what to us appears to be so fearful a scourge.
                                                              [W. B.]

1853.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           309
                           ANNUAL MEETING.
                               Monday, May 2.
    The Dukb of Northumberland, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                                  in the Chair.
    The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors was read, and
adopted.
    Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor Faraday,
for their services to the Institution during the past year.
    The thanks of the Members were also voted to Dr. A. B. Granville
for his past services as Honorary Secretary of the Board of Visi
tors for twenty- one years.
    The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
for the ensuing year : —
       President — The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
       Treasurer — William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
       Secretary — Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.
                                  Managers.
 William Wilberforce Bird, Esq.           Henry Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S.
 Sir John P. Boileau, Bart., F.R.S.       George Macilwain, Esq.
 John Bate Cardale, Esq.                  George Moore, Esq., F.R.S., F.S.A.
 Capt. Henry John Codrington, R.N.        Right Hon. Baron Parke.
 George Dodd, Esq., F.S.A.                Frederick Pollock, Esq., M.A.
 Sir Charles Fellows.                     Joseph William Thrupp, Esq.
 J. P. Gassiot, Esq., F.R.S.              Colonel Philip J. Yorke, F.R.S., Pres.
 Aaron Asher Goldsmid, Esq.                 Chem. Soc.
                                    Visitors.
 J. G. Appold, Esq., F.R S.               John Hennen, M.D.
 J. J. Bigsby, M.D., F.G.S.               Edward Meryon, M.D.
 J. C. Burgoyne, Esq.                     John Carrirk Moore, Esq., M.A.
 William Carpmael, Esq.                   William Roxburgh, M.D.
 Alexander Crichton, Esq.                 Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.
 Thomas Davidson, Esq.                    Henry Twining, Esq.
 Edward M. Foxhall, Esq.                  Sir Richard R. Vyvyan, Bart., M. P.,
  Sir John Hall, Bart., F.R.S.               F.R.S , G.S.

310                     NOTICES OP THE MEETINGS                        [May 9,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                Monday, May 9.
              George Dodd, Esq., F.S.A., Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
   John Burnett, Esq.                     Charles Otter, Esq.
   Edward Enfield, Esq.                    Geo. Taddy Tomlin, Esq., F S.A.
   W. Chas. Henry, M.D. F.R.S. Edwin Truman, Esq.
   Edward Holland, Esq.                   Frederic Weber, M.D.
   David Macloughlin, M.D., M.R.I.A., &c.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   Peter A. Halkett, Esq. R. N.                     William Watt, Esq.
   Sir Jas. Matheson, Bt. M.P. F.R.S.
were duly admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   Thomas William Brande, Esq. F.R.S. L. & E. was unanimously
re-elected Honorary Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same ; —
   From
Actuaries, Institute of — The Assurance Magazine, and Journal of the Institute
    of Actuaries, No. 1 1 . 8vo. 1853.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 230. 8vo. 1852.
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIII. No. 4, 5. 8vo.
    1853.
Babbage, Charles, Esq. (the Author)--—Thoughts on the Principles of Taxation.
    3rd Edition. 8vo. 1852.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for April
    and May, 1853. 8vo.
Board of Admiralty — Contributions to Astronomy and Geodesy. By T. Maclear,
    Esq., F.R.A.S. Second Series. 4to. 1853.
Bombay, Medical Board — Deaths in Bombay during 1851. 8vo. 1852.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Proceedings for April, 1853. 4to.
Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 21. 8vo. 1853.
Civil Engineers, Institution of — Proceedings for April, 1853. 8vo.
Cocks, Messrs. (the Publishers) — Cocks' Musical Miscellany for April and
    and May, 1853. 4to.
 Council of Education, Calcutta — General Report on Public Instruction in the
    Lower Provinces of the Bengal Presidency, 1851-2. 8vo. Calcutta, 1853.
Cranborne, The Viscount (the Author) — History of France, for Children. 16mo.
    1853.
       India in
EastBombay       1848. By
              Company,    Hon.
                             Commander
                               — Magnetical  and Meteorological
                                         Montriou.   4to. 1852. Observations at

 1853.]                      OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                  311
Editors. — The Medical Circular for April, 1853. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for March and April, 1853. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for April and May, 1853. 4to.
Faraday Professor, F.R.S., 8cc. — An Attempt to Establish the First Principles
    of Chemistry by Experiment. By Thqmas Thomson. 2 vols. 8vo. 1825.
   Memorie di Matematica e di Fisica della Societa Italiana residente in Modena.
    Tomo
   Die      XXV.
        Lehre          der Reibungselektricitat.
                von Parte   1. 4to. Modena, 1852.     Von P. T. Reiss, Dr. Phil. 2 vols.
    8vo. Berlin, 1853.
   Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, Feb. 1853. 8vo.
   Oversigt over det Kgl. Danske Videnskabernes Selskabs Forhandlinger og
    dets Medlemmers Arbeider, i Aaret, 1852. 8vo. Kjobenhavn, 1852.
   L'Acade'mie des Sciences de Belgique • —
     Bulletins des Seances de la Classe des Sciences. Annies 1850-2. 8vo.
       Bruxelles,1851-3.
     Annuaire,       1851-3. 3 vols. 16mo. Bruxelles, 1851-3.                              *
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXV. Nos. 2, 3, 8vo. 1853.
Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. VIII. Part 2. 8vo. 1853.
Johnson, Edmund C. Esq. {the Author) — Tangible Typography; or How the
    Blind Read. 8vo. 1853.
 KSnigliche Bayerische Akademie der Wusenschaften — Abhandlungen der Mathe-
    mat.-Physikalischen Classe. 6te Band, 1 ste Abtheilung. 4to. Munchen, 1851.
   Annalen der Koniglichen Sternwarte bei Munchen, von Dr. J. Lamont.
    Band V. 8vo. Munchen, 1852.
Lee, Thomas, Esq. M.R.I. — A Visit to Mexico by the West India Islands, Yuca
    tan, and United States. By W. Parish Robertson. 2 vols. 12mo. 1853.
Longman, Messrs., and Co. — The Subject Matter of a Course of Six Lectures on
    the Non- Metallic Elements, by Professor Faraday. Arranged, by permission,
    from the Lecturer's Notes, by J. Scoffern. lfimo. 1853.
Lovell, E. B. Esq., M.R.I, [the Editor) —The Monthly Digest for April and
    May, 1853. 8vo.
   The Common law and Equity Reports in all the Courts. Edited by C. Words
    worth and E. B. Lovell, Esquires. Vol. I. Part 1. 8vo. 1853.
Lubbock, John, Esq., F.Z.S., M.R.I. , (the Author) —On two new Sub genera of
    Calanidae, 8vo. 1853
Macloughlin, David, M.D. M.R.I, (the Author) — Consideration Medico-legale
    sur quelques signes de Paralysies Vraies et sur la Valeur relative. 8vo.
    Paris, 1845.
   Reports    from the General Board of Health on Quarantine. Bvo. 1849-52.
   Report of the General Board of Health on the Epidemic Cholera of 1848-9.
Novello,
   Report
    W.
    With
    8vo.
    Properties
Morton,  T.W.
           Messrs.
            the
             1852.
             on
             G.T.Appendices.
                 Morton,
                  the
                  of
                   G.,Ether.
                      {the
                        M.D.
                        Epidemic
                           Publishers)
                                D.
                                8vo.
                            M (the 8vo.
                                    Cholera
                                    on
                                    Author)
                                        his
                                         —
                                        1853.
                                          1850-2.
                                            The
                                            Claim
                                              —
                                              in Statements,
                                                 Musical
                                                 Germany
                                                    to theTimes,
                                                           inDiscovery
                                                               supported
                                                               1852.Aprilofand
                                                                        By  the
                                                                            by
                                                                            R. D.
                                                                                Evidence,
                                                                                May,
                                                                                 Anaesthetic
                                                                                   Grainger,
                                                                                       1853.
                                                                                          of
    4tO.
Prevost, M A. P. (the Author) — Essai sur la Theorie de la Vision Binoculaire.
    4to. Geneve, 1843.
Quetelet, M. Ad., M. del'Inst. de France and Hon. M.R.I, (the Author) — Sur le
    Climat de la Belgique. 4e et 5e parties. 4to. Bruxelles, 1851-2.
   Rapport sur l'Observatoire Royal pendant 1852. 8vo. Bruxelles, 1853.
Smith, Mr. J. Russell (the Publisher) — The New Retrospective Review, No. 3.
    8vo. 1853.
Taylor, Rev.
Society  of ArtsW.,—F.R.S.,
                       Journal,M.R.I,
                                 Nos. (the
                                        19—24.
                                            Author)  —Report
                                                   8vo.  1853. to the British Association
    on the various Modes of Printing for the Blind. 8vo. 1838.
   Report to the Royal Scottish Society of Arts on the best Alphabet and Method
    of Printing for the Blind. 8vo. 1837.

312                       notices of the MEETINGS.             [May 9, 1853.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Jan.
    und Feb. 1853. 4to. Berlin.
Weale, John, Esq. (the Publisher) — Rudimentary Treatises, 12mo. 1853 : —
  On the Power of Water. By Joseph Glynn, F.R.S.
  Navigation and Nautical Astronomy. By H. W. Jeans, F.R.A.S.
  Fuel. By T. S. Prideaux.
  The Elements of Euclid, with additional Propositions and Notes, and an Intro
    ductory Essay on Logic. By H. Law, C. E. Part I. Books 1 —3.
Foxhall, Edward M., Esq., M.R.I. — Portrait of Sir John Soane, one of the Ori
    ginal Proprietors of the Royal Institution.
Langdon, Augustus, Esq. — Specimens of Graphite in its Natural and Prepared
    Conditions.
Spence and Dixon, Messrs., Pendleton, Manchester — Specimens illustrating the
    Manufacture of Ammonia- Alum derived entirely from Coal and Coal
    Strata : —
             1. The
        No. 2.      sameCoal
                Alumina        Shale.
                          calcined.                       •
        No. 3. Iron Pyrites as used for making Sulphuric Acid.
        No. 4. Model of " Roaching Cask," one-fourth actual size, containing
                  Alum Crystals ready for the market.

                    [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
                   instttution of dsreat Britatn.
                                   1853.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, May 6.
             RIGHT HON. BARON PARKE, in the Chair.
                   DR. LYON PLAYFAIR, C.B., F.R.S.
   On the Food of Man under different Conditions of Age and
                                 Employment.
THB Author commenced by adverting to our very imperfect ac
quaintance with the statistics of Food. We are still ignorant
regarding the quantity of the different proximate constituents of
Aliment necessary for Man's sustenance, even in his healthy and
normal condition. If the question were asked — How much carbon
should an adult man consume daily ? — there would be scarcely
more than one reliable answer, viz., that the soldiers of the body
guard of the Duke of Darmstadt eat about lloz. * of carbon in the
daily supply of food.
   If again the question were asked — How much flesh-forming
matter supports an adult man in a normal condition? — no positive
answer could be given. Even, as respects the relation between
the carbon in the flesh-forming matter and that of the heat-givers,
we have no reliable information. It is true that certain theoretical
conclusions on this head have been drawn from the composition of
flour, but no real statistical answer deduced from actual ex
perience exists.
   When we inquire into the cause of our ignorance on these points,
it is found that the progress to knowledge is surrounded with
difficulties. Neither chemistry nor physiology is in a sufficiently
advanced state to grapple satisfactorily with the subject of nutrition.
For example, we know that albumen in an egg is the starting-point
for a whole series of tissues ; that out of the egg comes feathers,
claws, fibrine, membranes, cells, blood corpuscules, nerves, &c.,
but only the result is known to us ; the intermediate changes and
their causes are quite unknown. After all, this is but a rude and
unsatisfactory knowledge. Hence, when we approach the subject
  * Liebig states it a higher amount, but this is a recalculation from the new
food tables.
      No. 16.                                                Z

314                    NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS                 [May 6,
it is only to deal with very rough generalities. Admitting that the
experience of man in diet is worth something, it is possible to arrive
at some conclusions by the statistical method — that is, by accepting
experience in diet and analyzing that experience. Take for
example the one general line of Pauper Diet for the English counties
placed in the table at the end of this notice. The mode of arriving
at the result of experience, in the case of paupers, was to collect
it from every workhouse in the kingdom, and then to reduce it to
one line. But the labour of this is immense. In the preparation
of this one line the following work had to be performed in acquiring
the data.
                   Explanatory
                   Calculations
       Number of Unions         to
                           applied
                                letters
                                   reduce
                                   to sent
                                         ...     them
                                           thetoresults        542
                                                               700
                                                         . 47,696
       Number of Additions of the above calculations . 6,868
       Number of Extra hours, beyond the office hours, paid
         to a Clerk for the reduction .... 1,248
    The statistical method, besides being very laborious, is extremely
 tedious, and has thus deterred persons from encountering it. In
 giving, therefore, an example of some of the results which have
 been collected within the last few years, they will represent much
 labour, but very little or no originality.
    The Lecturer then alluded shortly to the conditions in nutrition,
 which must be borne in mind in looking at these results. It was
 now admitted that the heat of the body was due to the combustion
 of the unazotised ingredients of food. Man inspires annually about
 7 cwt. of oxygen, and about 4-th of this burns some constituent and
 produces heat. The whole carbon in the blood would thus be
 burned away in about three days, unless new fuel were introduced
 as food. The amount of food necessary depends upon the number of
 respirations, the rapidity of the pulsations, and the relative capacity
 of the lungs. Cold increases the number of respirations and heat
 diminishes them ; and the Lecturer cited well known cases of the
 voracity of residents in Arctic Regions, although he admitted, as
 an anomaly, that the inhabitants of tropical climates often show
  a predilection for fatty or carbonaceous bodies. He then drew
 attention to the extraordinary records of Arctic Dietaries shown in
  the table, which, admitting that they are extreme cases, even in the
  Arctic Regions, are nevertheless very surprising.
     Dr. Playfair then alluded to the second great class of food ingre
  dients, viz., those of the same composition as flesh. Beccaria in
  1 742 pointed to the close resemblance between these ingredients of
  flesh, and asked " Is it not true that we are composed of the same
  substances which serve as our nourishment ?" In fact the simplicity
  of this view is now generally acknowledged ; and Albumen, Gluten,
  Casein, &c., are now recognized as flesh-formers in the same sense

  1853.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    315
 that any animal aliment is. After alluding to the mineral ingredients,
 attention was directed to a diet-table, which contained some mo
 difications, but was based on the one published in the Agricultural
  Cyclopedia under the article Diet : the table as shown being used in
 the calculation of the dietaries.
     The old mode of estimating the value of dietaries, by merely giving
 the total number of ounces of solid food used daily or weekly, and
 quite irrespective of its composition, was shown to be quite erroneous ;
 and an instance was given of an agricultural labourer in Gloucester
 shire, who in the year of the potato famine subsisted chiefly on flour,
 consuming 1 63 ounces weekly, which contained 26 ounces of flesh-
 formers. When potatoes cheapened he returned to a potato- diet
 and now eat 321 ounces weekly, although his true nutriment in
 flesh-formers was only about 8 or 10 ounces. He showed this
 further, by calling attention to the six pauper dietaries formerly
 recommended, to the difference between the salt and fresh meat
 dietary of the Sailor, &c., all of which, relying on absolute
 weight alone, had in reality no relation in equivalent nutritive
value.
    Attention was now directed to the diagrams exemplifying dietaries.
 Taking the Soldier and Sailor as illustrating healthy adult men, they
 consumed weekly about 35 ounces of flesh-formers, 70 to 74 ounces of
 carbon, the relation of the carbon in the flesh -formers to that of the
 heat-givers being 1:3. If the dietaries of the aged were contrasted
 with this, it would be found that they consumed less flesh-formers
 (25 —30 ounces), but rather more heat-givers (72—78 ounces) ; the
 relation of the carbon in the former to that of the latter being about
 1:5. The young boy, about ten or twelve years of age, consumed
 about 1 7 ounces weekly, or about half the flesh- formers of the adult
 man ; the carbon being about 58 ounces weekly, and the relations of
 the two carbons being nearly 1 : 5-1. The circumstances under which
 persons are placed influence these proportions considerably. In
workhouses and prisons the warmth renders less necessary a large
amount of food-fuel to the body ; while the relative amount of
labour determines the greater or less amount of flesh-formers.
Accordingly it is observed that the latter are increased to the
prisoners exposed to hard labour. From the quantity of flesh-
formers in food, we may estimate approximatively the rate of
change in the body. Now a man weighing 1401bs. has about 41bs.
of flesh in blood, 27^1bs. in his muscular substance, &c., and about
5 lbs. of nitrogenous matter in the bones. These 37 lbs. would be
received in food in about eighteen weeks ; or, in other words, that
period might represent the time required for the change of the
tissues, if all changed with equal rapidity, which is, however, not at
all probable.
    All the carbon taken as food is not burned in the body, part of
of it being excreted with the waste matter. Supposing the re
spirations to be 18 per minute, a man expires about 8.59 oz. of

 316                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [May 13,
 carbon daily, the remainder of the carbon appearing in the excreted
 matter.
    In conclusion, Dr. Playfair explained how the dietary-tables
 elucidated the various admixtures of food common to cookery, and how
 they might even be made to bear on certain national characteristics,
 which were in no small degree influenced by the aliments of
 different nations.
                                                              [L. P.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 13.
      THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
         PROFESSOR EDWARD FORBES, F.R.S., President of the
                           Geological Society.
                On some New Points in British Geology.
NOT many years ago it used to be said that the geology of England
was done, and yet the best investigated localities are constantly
affording fresh discoveries. When the Lecturer last year exhibited
Captain Ibbetson's beautiful and accurate model of Whitecliff Bay in
the Isle of Wight, in illustration of his views respecting the distribu
tion of species in time, he had not the slightest suspicion that this
particular locality, so often and apparently so thoroughly explored,
could yield new results and new interpretations. Nevertheless,
having had occasion, at the suggestion of Sir Henry De la Beche,
to examine the tertiary strata of the Isle of Wight for the purposes
of the Geological Survey of Great Britain, this very bay of White-
cliff proved to be a rich source of novel geological information.
Moreover, a great portion of the Isle of Wight, on further examina
tion, turned out to belong to a division of the older tertiaries, that
had never been demonstrated to exist within the British Islands.
As a general statement of these results and of their bearings may be
more intelligible to non-professional lovers of geology than the de
tailed memoirs about to be published on the subject, Professor
Forbes has taken this opportunity of communicating them to the
Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Isle of Wight is divided into two portions by a great chalk
ridge running east and west. This is the ridge of vertical chalk
beds. To the north of it, the country is composed of tertiary, to the

                  MS.                     (Da. LYON PI.AYFAIR on the Food of Man.)
                                             REMARKS.
   DIETARIES o
 English Soldie
    Do. in Ind   )lic Dietaries.
 English Sailor
       Do.
 Dutch Soldier    LDER.
       Do,
 French Soldie:   cial Return obtained.
 Bavarian Do.
 Hessian Do.
          DIETA
Christ's Hospi
         Do.     cial Returns obtained.
Chelsea Hospi
Greenwich Ho
           DIET
Greenwich Pen
Chelsea          cial Returns obtained.
 Gillespie Hosp
Trinity Hospit
          OLD P
Class 1. -
       2.
       3. -        6 dietaries recommended as equivalent by the Poor-Law
       4.    -   ommissioners.
       8. -
       6.
Average of all    ially reduced from all the Unions in 1851.
St. Cuthbert's    ial Returns.
City Workhou
        ENGLIS
Class 2.         victed Prisoners exceeding 7 days, but not exceeding 2 1 days.
                         Do.          Hard labour, exceeding 21 days but not
   „   3.         ore than 6 weeks.
                 victed Prisoners, Hard labour, above 6 weeks and not more
   „   4, 8 & 7. lan 4 months,
                  victed Prisoners, Hard labour, for terms exceeding 4 months.
        BENGAL,
Non-Labourin
Working Conv
Contractors' in
                 m information supplied from the India House.
        BOMBA
All Classes of P
Hard Labour
      ARCTIC
Esquimaux        se probably repre- Ross, 1835, p. 448. Parry,1823,p.413.
Yacut -           nt Extreme cases             Cochrane, p. 255. Saritcheff. Bar
Bosjesman         entioned by the             row, pp. 152, 258. Richardson, vide
Hottentot         Hi iv. in" authorities.     Agric. Cyc. article Diet.
Agricultural th^11"}8-^- Cyclopedia.
           Do.
           Do.   rwar, Bombay — Return in Bombay Prison Dietaries.

k
     1853.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     317
     south, of older strata, as far down in the geological scale as the
     Wealden. The Lower Greensand or Neocomian beds occupy the
     greater part of the surface of the southern division, and freshwater
     tertiaries that of the northern. At Alum Bay, on the west, and
     Whitecliff Bay, on the east, the ends of the older tertiary strata, as
     they rise above the chalk, are seen truncated and upturned, being all
     affected by the movement which caused the verticality of the chalk.
     These tertiaries constitute the following groups, successively enu
    merated in ascending order, the Plastic clay, the Bognor series (equi
    valents of the true London clay), the Bracklesham series, and the
    Barton series, upon which lie the Headon Hill sands, and those
    freshwater strata that spreading out form the gently undulating
    country, extending from near the base of the chalk ridge to the sea.
       Owing to the section at Headon Hill near Alum Bay being so
    clear and conspicuous, and their position being in the loftiest ter
    tiary hill that exhibits its internal structure in the island, the fresh
    water and fluvio-marine beds which compose that elevation have
   long attracted attention and have been described by many observers,
   the first of whom was the late Professor Webster. The apparent
   slight inclination of these beds, as seen in the Headon section,
   except at the point where they are suddenly curved in conformity
   with the verticality of the chalk and the beds immediately above it,
   appear to have led geologists to the notion that the fluvio-marine
   portion of the Tsle of Wight was composed entirely of continuations
   of the beds forming Headon Hill. Two observers only suspected
   a discrepancy, viz. Mr. Prestwich, who, in a short communication to
   the British Association at Southampton, expressed his belief that
   Hempstead Hill, near Yarmouth, would prove to be composed of
   strata higher than those of Headon ; and the Marchioness of Hastings,
   who, having given much time to the search for the remains of fossil
   vertebrata in the tertiaries of the Isle of Wight and Hordwell,
   declared her conviction that these remains belonged to distinct
   species, according as they were collected at Hordwell, Hempstead,
   and Ryde, and that these three localities could not, as was usually
   understood, belong to the same set of strata. The recently pub
  lished monograph of the pulmoniferous mollusks of the English
  Eocene Tertiaries, by Mr. Frederic Edwards, afforded also indications
  of the shells therein so well described and figured having been col-
, lected in strata of more than one age.
      A few days' labour at the west end of the island convinced Pro
  fessor Forbes that the surmises alluded to were likely to prove true,
  and that the structure of the north end of the island had been in the
  main misunderstood. After four months' constant work at both
  extremities and along the intermediate country, he succeeded in
  making out the true succession of beds, with most novel and gratifying
  results. During this work he was greatly aided by his colleague, Mr.
 Bristow, and by Mr. Gibbs, an indefatigable and able collector
  attached to the Geological Survey.

318                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [May 13,
    The freshwater strata of Whitecliff Bay proved to be wholly mis
interpreted. Instead of their being constituted out of the Headon
Hill strata only, more than a hundred feet thickness of them are
additional beds characterized by peculiar fossils, and resting' npon a
marine stratum that overlies the Bembridge limestome, the equiva
lent of which at Headon is a soft concretionary calcareous marl,
scarcely visible except in holes among the grass immediately under
the gravel on the summit of the hill.
    The beds of the true Headon series, in fact, are all included in the
 sub-vertical portion of the Whitecliff sections and are there present
in their full thickness. They are succeeded by peculiar strata of
 intermediate character, for which the name of St. Helen's beds is
proposed, and which become so important near Ryde that they con
 stitute a valuable building stone. The Bembridge limestone that
 lies above is the same with the Binstead limestone near Ryde, out
 of which were procured the remains of quadrupeds of the genera
 Anoplotherium, Palaeotherium, &c. identical with those found in the
 Gypsiferous beds of Montmartre. The Sconce limestone near Yar
 mouth is also the same, and none of these limestones are identical
 with any of those conspicuous among the fluvio-marine strata at
 Headon Hill, and with which they have hitherto been confounded.
 They are far above them, and are distinguished by distinct and pecu
 liar fossils.
     Almost all the country north of the chalk ridge, exclusive of the
  small strip occupied by the marine Eocenes, is composed of marls
  higher in the series than any of the Headon Hill beds, and hitherto
  wholly undistinguished, except in the Whitecliff section, where the
  age and relative position had been entirely mistaken. These are the
  Bembridge marls of Professor Forbes. Above them are still higher
  beds preserved only in two localities, viz. at Hempstead Hill, to the
  west of Yarmouth, and in the high ground at Parlchurst. For these
  the name of Hempstead series is proposed. Their characteristic
  fossils are very distinct, and the highest bed of the series is
  marine. These beds prove to be identical with the Limburg or
  Tongrien beds of Belgium and with the Gres de Fontainebleau
  series in France. We thus get a definite horizon for comparison
  with the continent, and are enabled to shew, that instead of our
  English series of Eocene tertiaries being incomplete in its upper
  stages as compared with those of France and Belgium, it is really
  the most complete section in Europe, probably in the world. We
   are enabled by it to correct the nomenclature used on the Continent,
   and to prove that the so called Lower Miocene formations of France
   and Germany are in true sequence with the Eocene strata, and are
   linked with them both stratagraphically and by their organic contents.
   We are also enabled to refer, with great probability, the so called
   Miocene tertiaries of the Mediterranean basin, of Spain and Por
   tugal,— those of the well-known Maltese type—to their true posi
   tion in the scries, and to plnce them on a horizon with the Tongrien

1853.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    319
division of the Eocenes. As these Maltese beds are unconformable,
and evidently long subsequent to the deposition of the great num-
muletic formation, we are enabled to assign an approximate limit
to the estimate of the latest age of that important series. From
well marked analogies we get at a probable date even for the Aus
tralian tertiaries. Thus the deciphering of the true structure of a
email portion of the British Islands can throw fresh light upon the
conformation of vast and far-apart regions.
   The peculiar undulatory contour of the surface of the fluvio-marine
portion of the Isle of Wight is due to the gentle rolling of these
beds in two directions, one parallel with the strata of the chalk ridge,
and the other at right angles to it. The valleys and hills running
northwards to the sea depend upon the synclinal and anteclinal
curves of the latter system of rolls, a fact hitherto unnoticed, and
 the non-recognition of which has probably been one cause of the
 erroneous interpretation of the structure of the Isle of Wight,
 hitherto received. The truncations of these curves along the coast
 of the Solent exhibit at intervals beautiful and much neglected
 sections, well worthy of careful study. There is one of these
 sections near Osborne. Her Majesty's residence stands upon a
 geological formation hitherto unrecognized in Britain. Near West
 Cowes there are several fine sections along the shore. The total
 thickness of unclassified strata in the Isle of Wight is four hundred
 feet, if not more, and within this range are at least two distinct sets
 of organic remains. The tfuvio-marine beds in all, including the
 Headon series, are very nearly COO feet thick.
                                                              [E. F.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, May 20.
          SIR JOHN P. BOTLEAU, Bart., F.R.S., Vice- President,
                              in the Chair.
                      DR. E. FRANKI.AND, F.C.S.
 Observations, economical and sanatory, on the employment of Chemical
                     Light for artificial Illumination.
 THERE are two principal sources of artificial light, viz. electricity
 and the chemical force ; the latter, however, has been, and still is,
 the only practical source of all artificial light. Although light can
 be thus obtained by the chemical action of substances belonging
 to all three kingdoms, yet closer observation demonstrates that the

320                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [May 20,
illuminating effect obtained from animal and mineral bodies is pri
marily derived from the vegetable kingdom ; every plant being an
apparatus for the absorption and concentration of light and heat
from the solar rays, and for the retention of these forces during its
passage through the subsequent stages in the formation of vege
table fuel.
   Until the commencement of the present century artificial light
was derived almost exclusively from the animal kingdom ; but the
great economy attending its immediate production from our vast
stores of vegetable fuel is becoming more and more apparent, and
is in fact so generally admitted, as to render more than a mere
allusion to it and a glance at the following Table, unnecessary.
   TABLE — shewing the comparative cost of light from various
sources each equal to 20 sperm candles burning 120 grains per
hour each, for 10 hours.
                                                       8.   d.
           War -              -        -       -        7 2|
            Spermaceti        -        -       -        68
           Tallow -           -        -       -        28
            Sperm Oil (Carce1's Lamp)          -        1 10
            London Gases. B, C, D, E*          -        0 4|
           Manchester Gas              -       -        03
            London Gas, A.             -       -       0 2J
   We will therefore confine our attention principally to the light
produced from vegetable fuel, in considering the economical and
sanatory bearings of artificial light.
   The production of artificial light depends upon the fact, that at cer
tain high temperatures all matter becomes luminous. The higher the
temperature the greater is the intensity of the light emitted. The
heat required to render matter luminous in its three states of
aggregation differs greatly. Thus, solids are sometimes luminous
at comparatively low temperatures, as phosphorus and phosphoric
acids. (A jet of flame produced by the formation of these substances
was exhibited, and its temperature shewn to be quite inadequate to
the ignition or even scorching of the finest cambric or gun cotton.)
 Usually, however, solids require a temperature of 600° or 700° F. to
render them luminous in the dark, and must be heated to 1000°
F. before their luminosity becomes visible in daylight. Liquids
require about the same temperature. But to render gases luminous,
 they must be exposed to an immensely higher temperature ; even the
 intense heat generated by the oxy-hydrogen blowpipe scarcely suffices
 to render the aqueous vapour produced visibly luminous, although
   * London Gases, A, B, C, D, E.— These are the gases furnished to consu
 mers by five of the principal London Companies. For obvious reasons the
 names of the Companies are not mentioned.

1853.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       321
solids, such as lime, emit light of the most dazzling splendour when
they are heated in this flame. Hence, those gases and vapours
only can illuminate, which produce or deposit solid or liquid matter
during their combustion. This dependence of light upon the pro
duction of solid matter is strikingly seen in the case of phosphorus,
which when burnt in chlorine produces a light scarcely visible ;
hut, when consumed in air or oxygen, emits light of intense bril
liancy : in the former case the vapour of chloride of phosphorus is
produced, in the latter solid phosphoric acid.
    Several gases and vapours possess this property of depositing
solid matter during combustion, but a few of the combinations of
carbon and hydrogen are the only ones capable of practical applica
tion : these latter compounds evolve during combustion only the
 same products as those generated in the respiratory process of
animals, viz. carbonic acid and water. The solid particles of carbon
 which they deposit in the interior of the flame, and which are the
 source of light, are entirely consumed on arriving at its outer
 boundary ; their use as sources of artificial light under proper
 regulations is therefore quite compatible with the most stringent
sanatory rules.
    In the usual process of gas manufacture there are generated in
 addition to these illuminating hydrocarbons two other classes of
gaseous constituents, viz. impurities and diluents. With the ex
 ception of hisulphuret of carbon and some organic compounds
 containing sulphur, all Hie impurities are removed in the usual
processes of purification, which have now been brought to great
 perfection ; but the presence of these sulphur compounds in coal gas
 is very objectionable, and constitutes the chief barrier to the universal
 employment of gas in dwelling-houses. The attention of the manu
 facturer ought therefore now to be earnestly directed to the dis
 covery of means for preventing the formation of these compounds,
 as it will probably be found impossible to remove them from the
 gas when once they have been formed.
    In addition to traces of these sulphur compounds, purified coal gaa
contains only the following ingredients.
                                                            Formula.
              r Olefiant Gas -                               C, H.
       $4     I Propylene ?      -                           C, H,
      11                                                     C4
                                                             C Ha*H
                                                                  H4
                                                            unknown
       11     j Butylene?        ...
      3 § L Other Hydrocarbons
         «   {Light carburetted hydrogen
         1      Hydrogen         ...
         s      Carbonic Oxide                               C    0
   * This gas has usually been described as possessing a certain amount of

322                     NOTICKS OF THE MEETINGS                     [Afoy 20,
    The light emitted during the combustion of coal gas is due
entirely to the first or illuminating class of constituents, which yield
an amount of light proportional to the quantity of carbon contained
in a given volume ; thus, propylene and hutylene yield respectively
50 and 100 per cent more light than olefiant gas, because they
contain respectively 50 and 100 per cent more carbon in a given
volume.
    It would not be desirable to employ a gas containing only
luminiferous ingredients, even if it were possible to manufacture
such a gas, because it is exceedingly difficult to consume these
constituents without the production of smoke attendant on imper
fect combustion. A diluting material is therefore necessary to
give the flame a sufficient volume, so as to separate the particles
of carbon farther asunder, and thus diminish the risk of their
imperfect combustion.
    All the three diluents above-mentioned perform this office equally
well ; but if we study their behaviour during combustion we shall
find that in a sanatory point of view hydrogen is greatly to be
preferred.
  ' The two objections most frequently urged against the use of
gas in apartments are, 6rst, the heat which it communicates to
 the atmosphere, and, second, the deterioration of the air by the
 production of carbonic acid. Now, in their action upon the atmos
phere in which they are consumed, the above three diluents present
striking differences in these two respects. •
     One cubic foot of light carburetted hydrogen, at 60° F. and 30 in.
 barometrical pressure consumes two cubic feet of oxygen during its
 combustion, and generates one cubic foot of carbonic acid, yielding
 a quantity of heat capable of heating 51bs. 14oz. of water from 32°
 to 212", or causing a rise of temperature from 60" to 80.8° in a
 room containing 2,500 cubic feet of air.
     One cubic foot of carbonic oxide at the same temperature and
 pressure consumes during combustion ^ a cubic foot of oxygen,
 generates one cubic foot of carbonic acid, and affords heat capable
 of raising the temperature of lib. 14oz. of water from 60° to
 66.6°.
     One cubic foot of hydrogen, at the same temperature and pressure,
 consumes }s cubic foot of oxygen, generates no carbonic acid, and
 yields heat capable of raising the temperature of lib. 13 oz. of
 water from 32° to 212° or that of 2,500 cubic feet of air from
 60 to 66.4°.
     This comparison shews the great advantage which hydrogen
  possesses over the other diluents, especially over light carburetted
  hydrogen, which is evidently a very objectionable constituent, and
  illuminating power, but a specimen of it brought from the coal strata beneath
  Chat Moss, Lancashire, shewed that it yields no more light than hydrogen or
 carbonic oxide when consumed from afii/i-tail burner.

1853.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.       ,              323
shews that a normal gas for illuminating purposes should consist of
illuminating hydrocarbons diluted with pure hydrogen. No method
is known by which a gas of exactly this composition can be manu
factured, but a very close approximation has been lately made to
this normal gas, by the employment of a process known as White's
Hydrocarbon method of gas-making. In this process the very
ingenious principle is adopted of generating the illuminating con
stituents in as concentrated a form as possible in one retort, and
the diluents consisting principally of hydrogen free from light-
carburetted hydrogen in another. By this arrangement the diluents
can be employed for a very remarkable and highly interesting
purpose ; they are conducted through the retort in which the illu
 minating constituents are being generated, in such a manner as
 rapidly to sweep out those constituents, before they have time to
 become decomposed by contact with the red hot interior surfaces of
 the retort, a mode of destruction which occurs so largely in the
 usual process of gas-making. This mode of treatment produces
 a gain in the amount of illuminating power derived from a given
 weight of coal, equal to from 50 to upwards of 100 per cent, whilst
 the increase in quantity of gas is frequently 300 per cent.
     The gas thus manufactured differs principally from coal gas made
 by the ordinary process, in having a large portion of the light
 carburetted hydrogen replaced by hydrogen ; it is therefore in a
 sanatory point of view the best gas hitherto produced. This is
 seen in the following Table, which exhibits the amount of carbonic
 acid and heat generated per hour by various sources of light, each
  equal to 20 sperm candles burning at the rate of 120 grains of
 sperm per hour.
        Tallow        -        -       10.1 cubicAcid.
                                      Carbonic     feet         100
                                                               Heat.
        Wax                         )  „ „                       „„
        Spermaceti -          -     ^              "
        Sperm Oil (Carcel's Lamp)      6.4         „    ,        63
        London Gases, B, C, D, E,      5.0                       47
        Manchester Gas        -        4.0                       32
        London Gas, A.       -         3.0                       22
        Boghead Hydrocarbon Gas        2.6                       19
        Lesmahago Hydrocarbon Gas      2.5                       19
     Notwithstanding the great economy and convenience attending
  the use of gas, and, in a sanatory point of view, the high position
  which, as an illuminating agent, coal gas of proper composition
   occupies, its use in dwelling houses is still extensively objected to.
  The objections are partly well founded and partly groundless. As
  is evident from the foregoing table, even the worst London gases
   produce, for a given amount of light, less carbonic acid and heat
   than either lamps or candles. But then, where gas is used, the
   consumer is never satisfied with a light equal in brilliancy only to

 324                 NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [May 20.
 that of lamps or candles, and consequently, when three or four
 times the amount of light is produced from a gas of had composi
 tion, the heat and atmospheric deterioration, greatly exceed the
 corresponding effects produced by the other means of illumina
 tion. By using a gas however of nearly the normal composition,
 such as the hydrocarbon gases above named, it is evident that
 three or four times the light may be employed, with the pro
 duction of no greater heat or atmospheric deterioration, than that
 caused by wax candles or the best constructed oil lamps.
    But there is nevertheless a real objection to the employment of
 gas-light in apartments, founded upon the production of sulphurous
 acid during its combustion : this sulphurous acid is derived from
 bisulphuret of carbon, and the organic sulphur compounds, which
 have already been referred to as incapable of removal from the gas
by the present methods of purification.
    The formation of sulphurous acid can readily be proved and even
its amount estimated, by passing the products of combustion of a
jet of gas through a small Liebig's condenser; the condensed
product being heated to boiling with the addition of a few drops of
nitric acid, and then treated with solution of chloride of barium,
yields a white precipitate of sulphate of barytes, if any sulphur com
pound be present in the gas.
    These impurities, which are encountered in almost all coal gas
now used, are the principal if not the only source of the unpleasant
symptoms experienced by many sensitive persons, in rooms lighted
with gas. It is also owing to the sulphurous acid generated during
the combustion of these impurities, that the use of gas is found to
injure the bindings of books, and impair or destroy the delicate
colours of tapestry. Therefore the production of gas free from these
noxious sulphur compounds is at the present moment a problem of
the highest importance to the gas manufacturer, and one which de
mands his earnest attention.
   As it is nearly impossible for the consumer to procure gas free
from these objectionable compounds, the only method of obviating
their unpleasant and noxious effects is to remove entirely the products
of combustion from the apartments in which the gas is consumed,
and thus prevent them from mingling with the circumambient air.
This suggestion was first made by Faraday, who, for accomplishing
this object, contrived the very beautiful and effective ventilating
burner exhibited in operation upon the lecture table. This apparatus,
which is used at Buckingham Palace, Windsor Castle, the House of
Peers, and in many public buildings, may be truly said to have brought
gas illumination to perfection ; for not only are all the products
of combustion conveyed at once into the open air, but nearly the
whole of the heat is in like manner prevented from communicating
itself to the atmosphere of the room. The only obstacles to the uni
versal adoption of this description of burner are its expense, and
the difficulty of conveying the ventilating tube safely into the nearest

1853.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      325
flue without injuring the architectural appearance of the room. The
public at large will therefore still await the removal of the objec
tionable compounds in question, by the gas manufacturer, before
they will universally adopt this otherwise delightful means of artificial
illumination.
   There are yet several other points of an economical and sanatory
nature connected with the use of artificial light, hut time does not
permit of their discussion.
   In conclusion, whilst coal gas is indisputably the most economical
means of illumination, difftrent varieties of that gas possess exceed
ingly variable values which ought to be known by the consumer.
   The high sanatory position which gas takes, with regard to the
production of a minimum amount of carbonic acid and heat, for a
given amount of light, ought to stimulate the manufacturer to perfect
the process, by removing all sulphur compounds, and attaining the
most desirable composition, so that this economical, and, if pure,
agreeable and sanatory light, may contribute to our domestic com
fort to a much greater extent than it has hitherto done.
                                                               [E. F.]
                             EVENING
                 WEEKLYFriday,      May 27.MEETING,
       RIGHT HON. BARON PARKE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                      B. C. BHODIE, ESQ., F.R.S.
         • On the formation of Hydrogen and its Homologues.
IN, what is termed, mineral chemistry, chemical substances are
classified according to the different nature of the elements of which
they consist. But in organic chemistry this distinction is no longer
available. Organic substances were formerly defined as triple
compounds of carbon, hydrogen, and oxygen, and this, with the
statement of the relative proportion of these elements in any given
compound, was all that was attempted to be made out as to its
constitution. But this class of bodies is more numerous, possibly,
 than all the older chemical substances taken together, with which
we are acquainted, and some further distinction was necessary for
the purposes of science. The eagacity of certain chemists at length
 discovered a relation which was capable of becoming the basis of
 a truly rational and natural classification. It was perceived that
 in the long series of chemical changes of which these bodies were
 susceptible, the whole of the substance did not change, and that,

 326                   notices of the meetings                [May 27,
in these combinations, certain groups of elements had the same
persistent character and fulfilled the same chemical function as the
simple elements themselves in other bodies. These constant
groups have been named radicals. Among these those hydro
carbons termed the homologues of hydrogen are of special interest.
Ethyl, a groupe consisting of two atoms of carbon and five of
hydrogen, C2 H5, is one of these bodies. Assuming water as two
atoms of hydrogen and one of oxygen, H H O, alcohol is com
posed of one atom of ethyl, one of hydrogen, and one atom of
oxygen, (C2 H5) HO. Hydriodic acid, the iodide of hydrogen,
consists of an atom of hydrogen combined with an atom of iodine,
H I. The iodide of ethyl consists of an atom of ethyl combined
with an atom of iodine, (C2 H5) I. It is from these and other
like analogies between hydrogen and ethyl, that the idea arose of
the similarity in their chemical function.
    Certain chemists however conceived these views to be mere
fanciful speculations. Their principal objection, reasonable or not,
was that this ethyl was a purely ideal substance. From hydro
chloric acid, or from water, we readily procure hydrogen. We
 separate metals from their combinations ; but ethyl could not thus
be obtained, and there was a point where it seemed that this analogy
failed. Frankland however has silenced this objection in the most
satisfactory manner, namely by procuring and isolating this ethyl.
    He prepared it by a modification of the form of experiment by
 which hydrogen itself is prepared. He placed together zinc and
 iodide of ethyl in tubes hermetically sealed, and heated them
 considerably above the boiling point of water. On opening the
 tubes the ethyl escapes as a colourless combustible gas. There is
 only one property of ethyl on which I need dwell, its weight — it is
 about twice the weight of air.
    Ethyl, however, when procured, did not realize all the anticipa
 tions formed of it, and there was one very important difference
 between the actual and the anticipated ethyl. It was supposed
 that when zinc acts upon iodide of hydrogen it takes away
 (so to say) the iodine, and the hydrogen becomes, what is termed,
free, and the same with ethyl. On this view ethyl would have
 a certain atomic constitution, C2 H5. Now there is much reason
 to believe, that in the gaseous form the molecules of all bodies
 occupy the same space, whether this molecule consist of two only,
 or, as may be the case, of one hundred atoms. Hence to ascertain
 of how many atoms the molecule of a substance consists, we
 have simply to compare its weight in the gaseous form, with that of
 some other gas of which the molecule is already determined.
 When this experiment was made with ethyl, it was found to be
 just twice as heavy as it should be ; that is to say, the space which
 should have contained two atoms of carbon and five of hydrogen,
 was found to contain just twice that quantity, or C4 HI0.
     Some chemists considered that ethyl was an exception to the

1853.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                            327
general rule, and that the molecule of ethyl only occupied half the
space of the molecule of other bodies, so that the same space which
contained one molecule of water truly contained two molecules of
ethyl. This however is evidently but an arbitrary assumption to
meet the case. Others said that, after all, the true ethyl remained
yet to be discovered, and that this body was not it, but a hydrocarbon
isomeric with it, for that the real ethyl would have only half the
density of this body.
   There is, however, a third view, on which the ethyl of theory is
also the ethyl of fact. On a former occasion I shewed reasons for
believing that the elements are in a certain sense compound molecu
lar groupes, consisting of two or more atoms, which (in the present "
state of our knowledge) we must regard as similar, united to form
a compound molecule. On this idea the gas hydrogen is re
presented, not by the symbol H, but as H H : and ethyl the analogue
of hydrogen would also consist of a double atom, and be repre
sented not as C„ H5, but as C2 H5 C2 H5.
    The old view, however, had always a certain advantage over this,
 in the clear and consistent account which it gave of the mode of
formation of hydrogen. How is it, it may be asked, and by what
process, that this compound atom of hydrogen is formed ? The
answer is by no means obvious. Indeed the investigation of the
nature of the process by which ethyl was formed, alone gave the
key to its solution.
    Ethyl is not, in truth, made by the direct action of zinc upon the
iodide of ethyl ; but by the intervention of another body, which
belongs to the class of, what I may term, fugitive or evanescent combi
nations, and which is made and decomposed again in the course of the
experiment. This body is zinc-ethyl. The molecule of zinc, Con
 sisting of two atoms Zn Zn, splits into two parts. One atom,
Zn, combines with the iodine of the iodide of ethyl, C2 H5 I, to
form iodide of zinc, Zn I, while the other atom at the same moment
combines with the ethyl, forming zinc-ethyl, Zn C2 H5.
    The mode of action of zinc-ethyl upon iodide of ethyl is perfectly
 analogous to its action upon water. In contact with water,
 H H O, it immediately decomposes, forming hydrated oxide
 of zinc, Zn H O, and hydride of ethyl C2 H5 H. This hydride of
 ethyl has hardly more than half the density of the ethyl gas.
 In the same space in which, in the other case, are contained
 two heavy atoms of ethyl are here contained one heavy atom of
 ethyl and one light atom of hydrogen. Now the zinc-ethyl with
 the iodide of ethyl decomposes in a perfectly similar manner,
 forming iodide of zinc, Zn I, and ethyl gas C2H5 C2HS. That
 this is truly the mode of the formation of the ethyl is proved by the
 fact, that by careful modification of the experiment, it is possible to
 break up this process of the formation of the ethyl into the two
 factors (so to say) of which it consists.* At a low temperature the
        * See Quarterly Journal of the Chemical Society, Vol. III. p. 405.

328                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [May 27,
zinc-ethyl alone isformed. At a higher temperature the zinc-ethyl
disappears and the ethyl is produced.
   It is evident that the formation of the compound molecule of
hydrogen H H, must be a very different physical event to the
formation of the single atom of hydrogen H, if such could exist.
The ordinary hypothesis of the ' liberation ' of hydrogen gives us
no conception of its nature : we need some other explanation.
   It seems to me probahle that when zinc acts on hydrochloric acid
and water, there are, as in the case of ethyl, two steps in the process ;
the first, the formation of a zinc-hydrogen, Zn H, the second, the
action of this zinc-hydrogen on the water with the formation of
hydrated oxide of zinc, Zn H O, and hydrogen gas H H. There
are various arguments in favour of this view. First, it explains the
result, which the other hypothesis does not. Secondly, the analogy of
ethyl compels us to it. It is not probable that bodies so similar, in
other respects, are dissimilar in the mode of their formation. Thirdly,
there is, at least, one experiment in which we are absolutely able to
analyse the process of the formation of hydrogen and to prove that
it does take place in this manner.
   This remarkable experiment is the formation of hydrogen by the
decomposition of hypophosphorous acid by copper salts.* Hypo-
phosphorous acid is, like zinc, what is termed a reducing agent. It
precipitates certain metals from their solutions, and by a process of
 disoxydation decomposes alkalies with the formation of phosphorous
acid and hydrogen. If this hypophosphorous acid be boiled with
the copper salt, nothing is perceived but the formation of metallic
copper and hydrogen gas ; but if the solution be gradually heated,
and the action arrested at a certain point, it can be shewn that this
formation of hydrogen is preceded by the formation of a combination
of hydrogen and copper, Cu,H, analogous to zinc-ethyl. The
part which this bears in the formation of the hydrogen is distinctly
shewn by the action of acids, hydrochloric acid, H Cl, for example,
upon it. This acid, which does not act upon metallic copper, im
mediately decomposes this body, forming protochloride of copper,
Cu,Cl, and hydrogen HH.
   This hydride of copper has only a very ephemeral existence. It
is decomposed very nearly at the same temperature at which it is
 produced, and its formation, for this reason, had long been overlooked
 by chemists. We can hence readily comprehend that other combi
 nations of this class may take place in the case of which the tem
 perature of formation and of decomposition may either coincide, or
 so closely approximate to each other, that it may ever be impossible
 to isolate the substance produced. This is probably the case in the
 action of zinc.
                                                                 [B. C. B.]
              • Sec Annales de Chimie, III. Seric, tome XI. p. 250.

1 853.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      329
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, June 3.
    THE DUKE OF NORTHUMBERLAND, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                              in the Chair.
                     DR. JOHN TYNDALL, F.R.S.
            On some of the Eruptive Phenomena of Iceland.
THE surface of Iceland slopes gradually from the coast towards the
centre, where the general level is about 2000 feet above the surface of
the sea. On this, as a pedestal, are planted the Jokull or icy mountains
of the region, which extend both ways in a north-easterly direction.
Along this chain the active volcanoes of the island are encountered,
and in the same general direction the thermal springs occur, thus
suggesting a common origin for them and the volcanoes. From the
ridges and chasms which diverge from the mountains mighty masses
of steam are observed to issue at intervals, hissing and roaring, and
where the escape takes place at the mouth of a cavern and the
resonance of the cave lends its aid, the sound is like that of thunder.
Lower down in the more porous strata we have smoking mud pools,
where a repulsive blue-black aluminous paste is boiled, rising at times
into huge bladders, which on bursting scatter their slimy spray
to a height of fifteen or twenty feet. From the base of the hills
upwards extend the glaciers, and on their shoulders are placed the
immense snow-fields which crown the summits. From the arches
and fissures of the glaciers, vast masses of water issue, falling at
times in cascades over walls of ice, and spreading for miles and
miles over the country before they find definite outlet. Extensive
morasses are thus formed, which leud their comfortless monotony
to the dismal scene already before the traveller's eye. Intercepted
by the cracks and fissures of the land, a portion of these waters is
conducted to the hot rocks underneath ; here meeting with the
volcanic gases which traverse these underground regions, both travel
together, to issue at the first convenient opportunity either as an
eruption of steam or as a boiling spring.
   The origin of the water which feeds the springs is here hinted at.
That origin is atmospheric. The summits of the Jokull arrest and
mix the clouds, and thus cause an extraordinary deposition of snow
and rain. This snow and rain constitute the source from which the
springs are fed. The nitrogen and ammonia which occur, without
exception, in every spring, exactly as we find them in rain water,
furnish the proof of this ; for the known deportment of these
                                                     AA

330                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [June 3,
substances preclude them from being regarded as real volcanic
products.
    The springs of Iceland permit of being divided into two great
classes ; one class turns litmus paper red, the other restores the
colour ; one class is acid, the other alkaline. Periodical erup
tions are scarcely ever known to occur among the former, while
to the latter belong the Geisers of the island. Here then we have
two facts which form the termini of a certain chain of opera
tions — the water of the clouds and the water of the spring : in
its passage from one terminus to the other is to be sought the
 cause of those changes which the water has undergone.
    In seeking insight here, experiment is our only safe guide. Let
 us endeavour to combine the agencies of nature, and see whether
 we cannot produce her results. Sulphurous acid is one of the most
 important gases which the water encounters in its passage. Now
 if a piece of palagonite, the rock through which the water filters, be
 heated with an excess of aqueous sulphurous acid, it dissolves in the
 cold to a fluid coloured yellow brown by the presence of peroxide
 of iron. On heating the fluid this peroxide is converted into
 protoxide ; a portion of its oxygen goes to the sulphurous acid,
 forming sulphuric acid, which combines with the bases of the rock
 and holds them in solution. This is the first stage of the fumarole
 process. But if the process ended here, we might expect to find the
 dissolved constituents of the rock in the resultant spring, which i
 by no means the case, as a glance at the following table will shew.
                          Relation of Bases.
                                 In Palagonite.    In the Suffion water.
       Oxide of iron                  36.75                   0.00
       Alumina                        25.50                  12.27
       Lime                           20.25                  42.82
       Magnesia                       11.39                  29.42
       Soda                            3.44                   9.51
       Potash                          2.67                    5.98
                                    100.00                  100.00
    We see here that the rock contains a large quantity of the oxide
 of iron, while the spring does not contain a trace of it. It is, how
 ever, an experimental fact that the oxide of iron has been dissolved
 with the rest. How is its disappearance to be accounted for ? The
 very rock from which it was originally extracted possesses the
 power of re-precipitating it, when by further contact with the rock
 the solution which contains it has its excess of acid absorbed and has
 thus become neutral. In this way the aqueous sulphurous acid acts
 as a carrier to the iron, taking up its burden here and laying it
 down there ; and this process of transference can be clearly traced

 1853.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                            331
 in the rocks themselves. Where the iron has been extracted, the
 rock has become a mass of white clay, where the iron is re-deposited
 the mass exhibits the colour produced by iron. But it would weary
 the audience, and thus defeat the object of the lecture, were the
 details thus minutely dwelt upon. Let it suffice therefore to weld
 swiftly together the links of the great chain operations, to which the
 various thermal springs and gaseous eruptions of Iceland owe their
 existence and peculiarities.
    Hydrochloric acid, though playing a far less important part in
 Iceland than at Vesuvius and Etna, is nevertheless present. The
 presence of common salt is proved by the fact of its being found as
 one of the products of sublimation. Now it is a well known fact
 that this substance, exposed to a high heat in the presence of silica
 and the vapour of water, is decomposed ; the sodium takes the
 oxygen of the water and becomes soda, the chlorine takes the
 hydrogen and forms hydrochloric acid. There is no difficulty,
 therefore, in accounting for the origin of this gas, as all the con
 ditions for its formation are present.
    Sulphurous acid and sulphuretted hydrogen play a most important
 part in Iceland ; — how can their presence be accounted for ? Let a
 piece of one of the igneous rocks of the island be heated to redness,
 and permit the vapour of sulphur to pass over it. The oxide of iron
 of the rock is decomposed ; a portion of the sulphur unites with the
 iron, which remains as sulphuret ; the liberated oxygen unites with the
 remaining sulphur, and forms sulphurous acid. Let the temperature
 of the heated mass sink till it descends just below a red heat, and then
let the vapour of water be passed over it ; a decomposition of the sul
 phuret before formed is the consequence ; the iron is reoxidised, and
the liberated sulphur unites with the free hydrogen to form sulphu
retted hydrogen, and thus the presence of two of the most important
agents in these phenomena is accounted for. These are experimental
facts capable of being repeated in the laboratory, and the chronological
order of the gases thus produced is exactly the same as that ob
served in nature. In the active volcanoes, where the temperature is
high, we have the sulphurous acid ; in the dormant ones, where the
temperature has sunk so far as to permit of the decompositions just
described, we have the sulphuretted hydrogen. This accounts for
the irregular and simultaneous appearance of these two gases in
various parts of the island. At Krisuvik, for example, exhalations
of sulphurous acid, sulphuretted hydrogen, steam, and sulphur, *
burst in wild disorder from the hot ground. The first two gases
cannot exist amicably together. In Iceland they wage incessant
war, mutually decompose each other, and scatter their sulphur over
the steaming fields. In this way the true salfataras of the Island
are formed.
   * In nature the vapour of sulphur is doubtless derived from the action of heat
upon certain sulphur compounds.

332                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [JutM 3,
   In process of time, however, the heat retires to greater depths,
the sources of the sulphurous acid and sulphuretted hydrogen become
by degrees exhausted, and at such places the acid reaction of the
soil disappears. Carbonic acid is found in abundance everywhere,
but as long as the more powerful sulphuric acid is present the former
must remain free. But when the acid reaction has disappeared,
the carbonic acid combines with the alkaline bases, the bicarbonates
thus formed impregnate the thermal waters, and become solvents
for the silica which these waters are known to contain in such sur
prising abundance, and which, as we shall presently see, furnishes
the materials for the wonderful architecture of the Geisers.
   Casting our thoughts back upon the foregoing description, the
hypothesis of internal heat will be seen to be implied, and from this
as a cause we have deduced the various chemical phenomena as con
sequences. Holding fast by experiment, we see that the various
gases whose existence has been urged as one of the strongest proofs
of the so called chemical theory, follow in the most natural and
necessary manner from the rival supposition. Given the heat and
the materials the results are such as any chemist acquainted with
the reactions might predict iJ priori. By the labours of a chemist
indeed a new and wonderful light has been thrown upon the entire
volcanic phenomena of Iceland. With implicit reliance on the appli
cability of his science to the solution of these phenomena, he has
travelled side by side with nature, combined her conditions, and
produced her effects. Basing all his reasoning upon experiment,
he has given to his conclusions a stability which mere speculation,
however plausible, could never claim. That chemist is Bunsen, to
whose researches in Iceland the audience were indebted for the
materials of the present discourse.
   The Lecturer then adverted to the Geisers ; and proposed, as his
time was limited, to confine his attention to the Great Geiser. We
have here a tube ten feet wide and seventy feet deep ; it expands at its
summit into a basin, which from north to south measures fifty-two
feet across, and in the perpendicular direction sixty feet. The interior
of the tube and basin is coated with a beautiful smooth plaster, so
hard as to resist the blows of a hammer. The first question that
presents itself is, how was this wonderful tube constructed ? How
was this perfect plaster laid on ? A glance at the constitution of
the Geiser water will perhaps furnish the first surmise. la 1000
parts of the water the following constituents are found : —
              Silica                                0.5097
              Carbonate of Soda     .     .      .0.1939
              Sulphate ofofSoda
              Carbonate     Ammonia.      .        0.0083
                                                ..0.1   0'/O
              Sulphate of
              Chloride     Potash
                           Magnesia .
                       of Sodium          .     .  0.0475
                                                   0.2521
                                                   0.0042

1853.]                 OF THB ROY AL INSTITUTION.                    333
              Sulphide of Sodium .          .     .  0.0088
              Carbonic Acid ....                     0.0557
   The lining of the tube is silica, evidently derived from the water ;
and hence the conjecture may arise that the water deposited the
substance against the sides of the tube and basin. But the water
deposits no sediment, even when cooled down to the freezing point.
It may be bottled up and kept for years as clear as crystal, and
without the slightest precipitate. A specimen brought from Iceland
and analyzed in this Institution was found perfectly free from sedi
ment. Further, an attempt to answer the question in this way
would imply that we took it for granted that the shaft was made by
some foreign agency and that the spring merely lined it. A painting
of the Geiser, the property of Sir Henry Holland — himself an eye
witness of these wonderful phenomena, — was exhibited. The
painting, from a sketch taken on the spot, might be relied on. We
find here that the basin rests upon the summit of a mound ; this
mound is about forty feet in height, and a glance at it is sufficient to
shew that it has been deposited by the Geiser. But in building the
mound, the spring must also have formed the tube which per
forates the mound ; and thus we learn that the Geiser is the archi
tect of its own tube. If we place a quantity of the Geiser water in
an evaporating basin, the following takes place : in the centre the
fluid deposits nothing, but at the edges where it is drawn up the sides
of the basin by capillary attraction, and thus subjected to a quick
evaporation, we find silica deposited ; round the edge we find a ring
of silica thus laid on, and not until the evaporation is continued for a
considerable time, do we find the slightest turbidity in the central
portions of the water. This experiment is the microscopic' repre-
sentant, if the term be permitted, of nature's operations in Iceland.
Imagine the case of a simple thermal spring whose waters trickle
over its side down a gentle incline ; the water thus exposed evapo
rates speedily, and silica is deposited. This deposit gradually elevates,
the side over which the water passes until finally the latter has to
choose another course ; the same takes place here, the ground
becomes elevated by the deposit as before, and the spring has to
go forward'— thus it is compelled to travel round and round, dis
charging its silica and deepening the shaft in which it dwells, until
finally, in the course of centuries, the simple spring has produced that
wonderful apparatus which has so long puzzled and astonished both
the traveller and the philosopher.
    Before an eruption, the water fills both the tube and basin,
 detonations are heard at intervals, and after the detonation a violent
 ebullition in the basin is observed ; the column of water in the pipe
 appears to be lifted up, thus forming a conical eminence in the
 centre of the basin and causing the water to flow over its rim. The
 detonations are evidently due to the production of steam in the
 subterranean depths, which rising into the cooler water of the tube.

334                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    [,/"/.> 3,
becomes condensed and produces explosions similar to those pro
duced on a small scale when a flask of water is heated to boiling.
Between the interval of two eruptions, the temperature of the water
in the tube towards the centre and bottom gradually increases.
Bunsen succeeded in determining its temperature a few minutes
before a great eruption took place ; and these observations furnished
to his clear intellect the key of the entire enigma. A little below
the centre the water was within two degrees of its boiling point,
that is within two degrees of the point at which water boils under
a pressure equal to that of an atmosphere, plus the pressure of the
superincumbent column of water. The actual temperature at thirty
feet above the bottom was 1 22° centigrade, its boiling point here is
124°. We have just alluded to the detonations and the lifting of the
Geiser column by the entrance of steam from beneath. These de
tonations and the accompanying elevation of the column are, as before
stated, heard and observed at various intervals before an eruption.
During these intervals the temperature of the water is gradually
rising ; let us see what must take place when its temperature is near
the boiling point. Imagine the section of water at 30 feet above
the bottom to be raised six feet by the generation of a mass of
vapour below. The liquid spreads out in the basin, overflows its rim,
and thus the elevated section has six feet less of water pressure upon
it; its boiling point under this diminished pressure is 121°; hence in
its new position, its actual temperature (122°) is a degree above the
boiling point. This excess is at once applied to the generation of steam ;
the column is lifted higher, and its pressure further lessened ; more
steam is developed underneath; and thus, after a few convulsive
efforts, the water is ejected with immense velocity, and we have the
Geiser eruption in all its grandeur. By its contact with the atmos
phere the water is cooled, falls back into the basin, sinks into the
tube through which it gradually rises again, and finally fills the basin.
The detonations are heard at intervals, and ebullitions observed ;
but not until the temperature of the water in the tube has once
more nearly attained its boiling point is the lifting of the column
able to produce an eruption.
   In the regularly formed tube the water nowhere quite attains the
boiling point. In the canals which feed the tube, the steam which
causes the detonation and lifting of the column must therefore be
formed. These canals are in fact nothing more than the irregular
continuation of the tube itself. The tube is therefore the sole and
sufficient cause of the eruptions. Its sufficiency was experimentally
shewn during the lecture. A tube of galvanized iron six feet long
was surmounted by a basin ; a fire was placed underneath and one
near its centre to imitate the lateral heating of the Geiser tube.
At intervals of five or six minutes, throughout the lecture, eruptions
took place ; the water was discharged into the atmosphere, fell back
into the basin, filled the tube, became heated again, and was dis
charged as before.

1853.]                OV THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     335
    Sir Geo. Mackenzie it is well known was the first to introduce the
idea of a subterranean cavern to account for the phenomena of the
Geiser. His hypothesis met with general acceptance, and was even
adopted undoubtingly by some of those who accompanied Bunsen to
Iceland. It is unnecessary to introduce the solid objections, which
might be urged against this hypothesis, for the tube being proved
sufficient, the hypothetical cavern disappears with the necessity
which gave it birth.
    From the central portions of the Geiser tube downwards, the
water has stored up an amount of heat capable, when liberated, of
exerting an immense mechanical force. By an easy calculation it
might be shewn that the heat thus stored up could generate, under
ordinary atmospheric pressure, a column of steam having a section
equal to that of the tube and a height of nearly thirteen hundred
yards. This enormous force is brought into action by the lifting
 of the column and the lessening of the pressure described above.
    A moment's reflection will suggest to us that there must be a
limit to the operations of the Geiser. — When the tube has reached
 such an altitude that the water in the depths below, owing to the
 increased pressure, cannot attain its boiling point, the eruptions of
 necessity cease. The spring however continues to deposit its silica
 and forms a laug or cistern. Some of these in Iceland are of a
 depth of thirty or forty feet. Their beauty is indescribable ; over
 the surface a light vapour curls, in the depths the water is of the
 purest azure, and tints with its own hue the fantastic incrusta
 tions on the cistern walls ; while at the bottom is observed the mouth
 of the once mighty Geiser. There are in Iceland traces of vast,
 but now extinct, Geiser operations. Mounds are observed whose
 shafts are filled with rubbish, the water having forced a way under
 neath and retired to other scenes of action. We have in fact the
 Geiser in its youth, manhood, old age, and death, here presented
 to us : — in its youth as a simple thermal spring, in its manhood
 as the eruptive spring, in its old age as the tranquil laug, while
 its death is recorded by the ruined shaft and mound which testify
 the fact of its once active existence.
     Next to the Great Geiser the Strokkur is the most famous
  eruptive spring of Iceland. The depth of its tube is forty-four feet.
 It is not, however, cylindrical like that of the Geiser, but funnel'
 shaped. At the mouth it is eight feet in diameter, but it diminishes
 gradually, until near the centre the diameter is only ten inches. By
 casting stones and peat into the tube and thus stopping it, eruptions
 can be forced which in point of height often exceed those of the
  Great Geiser. Its action was illustrated experimentally in the
 lecture, by stopping the galvanized iron tube before alluded to
 loosely with a cork. After some time the cork was forced up and
 the pent-up heat converting itself suddenly into steam, the water
 was ejected to a considerable height ; thus demonstrating that in
 this case the tube alone is the sufficient cause of the phenomenon.
                                                               [J. T.]

336                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                         [June 6,
                    GENERALMonday, MONTHLY           ¦
                                           June 6.MEETING,
William Pole, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                   in the Chair.
were duly  Alex.
               elected
           BenjaminWm.Members
                       Gray,
                         Grant,
                              Esq.of the RoyalLeo
                                 Esq.                Schuster, Esq.
                                                Institution.
                           John R. F. Burnett, Esq.
was duly admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members
   From       ordered to be returned for the same : —
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIII. No. 6. 8vo. 1853.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 231. 8vo. 1852.
Beer, Dr. August (the Author) — Einleitung in die höhere Optik. Braun
    schweig, 1853.
Bristol Blind Asylum Committee — Memoir of James Watt, printed for the Use
     of the Blind. Obi. 8vo. 1853.
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings for May, 1853. 4to.
Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings for May, 1853. 8vo.
Earl, G. W. Esq.— Correspondence relating to the Discovery of Gold in Australia.
    8vo. 1853.
Editor— The Medical Circular for May, 1853. 4to.
     1843. Mr. James, — Faraday on the Ventilation of Lamp-burners. 8vo.
Faraday,
Faraday, Professor, F.R.S. Sfc. SfC.— Abhandlungen der Akademie der Wissen
     schaften zu Berlin, aus dem Jahre 1851. 4to. Berlin, 1852.
   Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien : —
      Almanach : 3te Jahrgang. 16mo. 1853.
      Der feierliche Sitzung am 29 Mai, 1852. 8vo. 1852.
   Philosophisch-Historische Classe : —
         8vo. 1852.
      Sitzungsberichte,  Band VIII. Hefte 3 und 4. Band IX. Hefte 1 und 2.
         1852. fur Kunde CEsterreichischer Geschichtsquellen, Band VIII.
      Archiv                                                                 8vo.
      Notizenblatt. (Beilage zum Archiv.) No. 11-24. 8vo. 1852.
      Das Verbrüderungs-Buch des Stiftes S. Peter zu Salzburg aus dem achten
        bis dreizehnten Jahrhundert, mit Erläuterungen von Th. G. v. Karajan
        fol. 1852.
  Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Classe : —
         1852-3.
      Denkschriften,   Band III. Lieferung 2. Band IV. Lieferung 2. 4to.
         1852.
      Sitzungsberichte, Band VIII. Hefte 4 und 5. Band IX. Hefte 1 und 2. 8vo.
      Die Vegetationsverhältnisse von Iglau. Ein Beitrag zur Pflanzen -geographie
        des Böhmisch-Märischen Gebirges, von Alois Pokorny. Mit einer Karte.
        8vo. 1852.

 1853.]                   OF THE ROTAL INSTITUTION.                        337
Fairer, James Wm. Esq. M.R.I.—Y Gododin.—A Poem on the Battle of Cat-
    traeth, by Aneurin, a Welsh Bard of the Sixth Century, with an English
    Translation and Notes by the Rev. J. Williams ab Ithel. 8vo. 1852.
Forbes, John, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — Memorandums made in
    Ireland in the Autumn of 1852. 2 vols. 16mo. 1853.
 Geological Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 34. 8vo. 1853.
Lovell, E. b. Esq. M.R.I, (the Editor) — The Common Law and Equity Reports,
    Part 2. 8vo. 1853.
Perigal, H. Jun. Esq. (the Author) — Geometric Maps exhibiting the Method
    of Delineating Curves through the Intersection of Trigonometric Lines.
Prosser, John, Esq. Life-Sub. R.I. — M. T. Ciceronis Sex Orationum Fragmenta
    inedita, cum Commentariis Antiquis item ineditis invenit, recensuit, notis
    illustravit Angelus Maius. 8vo. 1816.
Royal Society — Proceedings, No. 95. 8vo. 1853.
   Transactions, 1853. Part1. 4to. 1853.
   Address of the President, Nov. 30, 1852. 1853.
Society of Arts — Journal, Nos. 25, 26, 27. 8vo. 1853.
    1853. Lord (the Author) — The Church Rate Question considered. 8vo.
Stanley,
Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XVI. Part 2. 8vo. 1853.
Taylor, Rev. W. F.R.S.,M.R.I.—Lachegern's Haus- und Lach-Apotheke. 16mo.
    Gratz, 1836.
   Das Goldmacherdorf. Von H. Zschokke. 16mo. Aarau, 1843.
   P. M. ImhoPs Anleitung zur Naturlehre. Aus dem Latein ins Deutsches
    fibersetzt von J. G. Prandel. 8vo. Amberg, 1802.
   Der narrische Vormund ; von F. Laun. 16mo. Leipzig, 1831.
   Schauderhafte Begebenheiten des Burgerkrieges zu Zippelzelle. Von Ferdi
    nand Doring. 16mo. Leipzig, 1826.
 Vigne, Godfrey, Esq. M.R.I. — Photograph of a Zodiacal Stone (otherwise
    " Montezuma's Watch") from Mexico.
Weale, John, Esq. (the Publisher) — A Treatise on Gas-works, by S. Hughes.
    C. E. 12mo. 1853.
Zoological Society — Transactions, Vol. IV. Part 3. 4to. 1853.
   Proceedings, Nos. 201-217, and 219-226. 8vo. 1850-1.
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                               Friday, June 10.
      The Duke of Northumberland, K.G., F.R.S., President,
                                 in the Chair.
                             Professor Faraday,
          MM. Boussingault, Frimy, Becquerel, fyc. on Oxygen.
The object of the speaker was to bring before the Members, in
the first place, M. Boussingault's endeavours to procure pure oxygen
from the atmosphere in large quantities ; so that being stored up in
gasometers it might afterwards be applied to the many practical and
                                                          BB

338                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [./•'/» 10,
useful purposes which suggest themselves at once, or which may
hereafter be developed. The principle of the process is to heat
baryta in close vessels and peroxidize it by the passage of a current
of air ; and afterwards by the application of the same heat, and a
current of steam (with the same vessels) to evolve the extra portion
of oxygen, and receive it in fitly adjusted gasometers : then the
hydrated baryta so produced is dehydrated by a current of air
passed over it at a somewhat higher temperature, and finally
oxidized to excess by the continuance of the current and a lower
temperature : — and thus the process recurs again and again. The
causes of failure in the progress of the investigation were described
as detailed by M. Boussingault ; the peculiar action of water illus
trated ; the reason why a mixture of baryta and lime, rather than
pure baryta, should be used, was given ; and the various other
points in the Mfmoire of M. Boussingault* noticed in turn. That
philosopher now prepares the oxygen for his laboratory use by the
baryta process.
   The next subject consisted of the recent researches of MM. Fremy
and E. Becquerel, on the influence of the electric spark in converting
pure dry oxygen into ozone. The electric discharge from different
sources produces this effect, but the high intensity spark of the
electric machine is that best fitted for the purpose.       When the
spark contains the same electricity, its effect is proportionate to its
length ; for at two places of discharge in the same circuit, but with
intervals of 1 and 2, the effect in producing ozone is as 1 and 2
also. A spark can act by induction ; for, when it passes on the out
side a glass tube containing within dry oxygen, and hermetically
sealed, the oxygen is partly converted into ozone. Using tubes of
oxygen, which either stood over a solution of iodide of potassium or,
being hermetically sealed, contained the metal silver, the oxygen
converted into ozone was absorbed ; and the conversion of the whole
 of a given quantity of oxygen into ozone could be thus established.
 The effect for each spark is but small ; 500,000 discharges were re
quired to convert the oxygen in a tube about 7 inches long and 0.2
 in diameter into ozone. For the details of this research, see the
 Annales de Chimie, 1852, xxxv. 62.
    Mr. Faraday then referred briefly to the recent views of Schon-
bein respecting the probable existence of part of the oxygen in oxy-
compounds in the ozone state. Thus of the peroxide of iron, the
third oxygen is considered by him as existing in the state of ozone ;
and of the oxygen in pernitrous acid, half, or the two latter propor
tions added when the red gas if formed from oxygen and nitrous gas,
are supposed to be in the same state. Hence the peculiar chemical
action of these bodies ; which seems not to be accounted for by the
                   * Annales de Chimie, 1852, xxxv. p. 1.

1853.]                      OP THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                 339
idea of a bare adhesion of the last oxygen, inasmuch as a red heat
cannot separate the third oxygen from the peroxide of iron ; and
hence also, according to M. Schonbein, certain effects of change of
colour by heat, and certain other actions connected with magnetism,
&c.                                                                            [M. F.]
                     GENERALMonday,    MONTHLY    July 4.MEETING,
  William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                       in the Chair.
                        Joseph Hayes, Esq.
                        Rear-Admiral J. Roberts Gawen
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
    John Tyndall, Esq., Ph.D., F.R.S. , was unanimously elected
Professor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution.
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
    From
Members       ordered to be returned for the same : —
Airy,Visitation,
     Greenwich
     Individual
         G. B. Esq.
                  June
                  ;Members
                    byF.R.S.
                         4, 1853.
                        the  Astronomer-Royal,
                               ofAstronomer
                                  the4to.
                                        Board    Royal
                                                 of Visitors
                                             1853.   and(the
                                                          his Report
                                                              Author)
                                                               of the read
                                                                      Royal
                                                                       — Address
                                                                               the Annual
                                                                                    to the
                                                                            atObservatory,
 Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIII. No. 7. 8vo. 1853.
        Jacob, Esq. (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal for June, 1853.
 Belt,8vo.
 Bengal, Council of Education — Annual Report of the Medical College of
      Bengal, Session 1852-3. 8vo. Calcutta, 1853.
 Blackwell, J. Kenyon, Esq., F.G.S. (the Author) — Explosions in Coal Mines,
      their Causes, and the Means available for their Prevention and Control.
      8vo. 1853.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of, — Proceedings, June, 1853. 4to.
  Cocks, Messrs. (the Publishers) — Cocks' Musical Miscellany, June, 1853. 4to.
 Editors — The Athenaeum for May, 1853. 4to.
    The Practical Mechanic's Journal, June, 1853. 4to.
    The Medical Circular, June, 1853. 4to.
      stitut Professor,
 Faraday,                   TomeSic.
             de France.F.R.S.      XXIII.
                                      — Mémoires
                                               4to. de   l'Académie
                                                      Paris, 1853. des Sciences de l'ln-
      France. de
     Mémoires    Tome   VIII. 4to.
                     l'Académie          Paris, 1853.
                                   des Sciences     Morales et Politiques de l'lnstitut de
  Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXII. No. 6 ; Vol. XXIV.
      No. 6 ; Vol. XXV. No. 4. 8vo. 1851-3.
      Island.
        Majesty's
  HerMagnetical Vol.and
                    Government
                      III.Meteorological
                             4to. (by
                                    1853.Col.Observatory        Observations
                                                E. Sabine)at—Hobarton,         madeDiemen
                                                                           in Van    at the

340                        notices op the meetings.                  [July 4, 1853.
Hind, J. Russell, Esq. (the Superintendant) — The Nautical Almanac for 1854,
     1855, 1856. 8vo. 1851-3.
London Institution, Managers of the — Catalogue of the Library of the London
    Institution, Vol. IV. 8vo. 1852.
London, Committee of the Library of the Corporation of the City of— A De
    scriptive Catalogue of the London Traders' Tavern and Coffee House Tokens
    current in the 17th Century ; presented to the Corporation Library by H. B.
    H. Beaufoy, Esq. By J. H. Burn. 8vo. 1853.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. (the Editor)— The Monthly Digest, June, 1853. 8vo.
   The Common Law and Equity Reports. Vol. I. Part 3. 8vo. 1853.
Novello, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical Times, June, 1853.
Oldfield, David, Esq. M.R.I. — Illustrations of the Remains of Roman Art in
    Cirencester, the site of the Ancient Corinium. By Professor Buckman,
    F.L.S. &c., and C. H. Newmarch, Esq. 4to. 1850.
Royal Society of London — Proceedings, No. 96. 8vo. 1853.
Society of Arts — Journal, Nos. 28, 29, 30, 31. 8vo. 1853.
Taylor, Rev. W., F.R.S., M.R.I. — Remarks on a Gold Ring found at Worm-
    leighton, Warwickshire. By W. B. Dickinson, Esq. 8vo. 1851.
   Report of the Bristol Blind Asylum for 1852. 12mo. 1853.
Twining, Miss Louisa — Symbols and Emblems of Early and Mediaeval Christian
    Art. By Louisa Twining. 4to. 1852.
   Crétins and Idiots — A short Account of the Progress of the Institutions for
    their Relief and Cure. 8vo. 1853.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfieisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Marz
    und April, 1853. 4to. Berlin, 1853.
Watson, Henry, Esq. M.R.I. — Hints on the Establishment of Public Industrial
    Schools for the Working Classes. By the Rev. John Sedgwick, M.A. 8vo.
    1853.
    Science.
    some
    on 26th
Wrottesley,Remarks
             The
             April,
               8vo.Lord,
                     1853,
                      upon
                       1853.
                           ontheLieut.
                         V.P.R.S, advantages
                                     (the
                                       Maury's
                                          Author)
                                               Plan
                                                  — for
                                              arising  from
                                                      Speech
                                                         Improving
                                                             the
                                                              in the
                                                                 Pursuit
                                                                      House
                                                                          of of
                                                                             Abstract
                                                                     Navigation, with
                                                                                Lords

                      [for the use of members.]
         iBopal institution of mm ¦Britain.
                                       1853.
                    GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                             Monday, November 7.
William Pole, Esq., M.A.,inF.R.S.,             Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                       the Chair.
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same ; —                                        ,
   From
Her Majesty's Government (by Col. E. Sabine) — Magnetical and Meteoro
     logical Observations at Toronto. Vol. II. 1843-5. 4to. 1853.
    Catalogue of Stars near the Ecliptic, observed at Markree in 1851-2. Vol. II.
      1853.
Actuaries, Institute of — List of Members. 1853. Constitution and Laws.
      1853.
    The Assurance Magazine, No. 12, 13. 8vo. 1853.
Agricultural Society of England, Royal — Journal, Vol. XIII. Part 2, and Vol.
      XIV. Part 1. 8vo. 1852-3.
American Philosophical Society — Proceedings, No. 48. 8vo. 1852.
Antiquaries, Society of— Archseologia, Vol. XXXV. Part1. 4to. 1853.
    Proceedings, Nos. 33 — 36. 8vo. 1852-3.
    List of Fellows, 1853. 8vo.
    Catalogue of the Kerrich Collection of Roman Coins. 8vo. 1852.
 Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, Nos. 232—235. 8vo. 1853.
     Catalogue of the Birds in the Museum of the Asiatic Society, Calcutta. By
      E. Blyth. 8vo. Calcutta, 1849.
 Asiatic Society, Royal — Journal, Vol. XV. Part 1. 8vo. 1853.
 Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIII. No. 89. 8vo. 1853.
     Memoirs, Vol. XXI. 4to. 1852-3.
 Bache, Dr. A. D. (the Superintendent) — United States Coast Survey, 5 sheets.
 Bayerische Akademie — Abhandlungen der Mathemat.-Physikalischen Classe.
       Band VII. Abtheilung 1. 4to. Munchen, 1853.
     Bulletins, 1852, No 25-29. 4to. 1852.
         Jacob,8vo.
  Bell,1853.     Esq. (the Editor) — The Pharmaceutical Journal, July to Nov.
 Boston Society of Natural History — Journal, Vol. IV. No. 2; Vols. V. and VI.
       No. 1 and 2, 8vo. Boston, U. S. 1842-50.
     Proceedings, Vols. I. II. III., and Vol. IV. No. 1—14. 8vo. Boston, U. S.
       1841-52.
  British Association for the Advancement of Science — Report of the Twenty-
       second Meeting, at Belfast, Sept. 1852. 8vo. 1853.
  British Architects, Royal Institute of— Proceedings, July 1853. 4to.
  Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 22, 23. 8vo. 1853.
      No. 17,                                                   CC

  342                        NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [iVbtf. 7,
  Clarendon, Right Hon. the Earl of, K.G., G.C.B. Sfc. — Grammar of the Bornu
        or Kanuri Language ; with Dialogues, Translations, and Vocabulary, by
       Edwin Norris.
     Dialogues           8vo. portion
                  and a small  1853. of the New Testament in the English, Arabic,
        Haussa, and Bornu Languages. Obi. folio. 1853.
  Colt, Col. Samuel (the Author) — On the application of Machinery to the Manu
        facture of Rotating Chamber-Breeched Fire-arms. 8vo. 1853.
  Commissioners in Lunacy — Seventh Annual Report to the Lord Chancellor,
        30th June, 1852. 8vo. 1853.
  Cornwall Polytechnic Society, Royal — Annual Report, for 1852. 8vo.
  De la Rive, M. Auguste, (the Author) — Francois Arago. 8vo. 1853.
  Editors — The Athenaeum for June to Oct. 1853. 4to.
     The Medical Circular, July to Oct. 1853. 4to.
     The Practical Mechanic's Journal, July to Nov. 1853. 4to.
     The Journal of Gas-Lighting, Vol. II. and No. 48—58. Folio, 1851-3.
  Faraday, M. Esq., F.R.S., fyc. — Monatsberichte der KiSnigl. Preuss. Akademie,
       April zu August, 1853. 8vo. Berlin.
         4to. 1853. der Konigliche Akademie der Wissenschaften zu Berlin, 1852.
     Abhandlungen
     Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien :—
     Philosophisch-Historische Classe .. —
         Depkschriften, Band IV. 4to. 1853.
            1852-3.
         Sitzungsberichte,  Band IX. Hefte 3, 4, 5. Band X. Hefte 1, 2, 3.     8vo.
           1853. fur Kunde CEsterreichischer Geschichts-quellen.
         Archiv                                                    Band IX.    8vo.
         Fontes Rerum Austriacarum. Zweite Abtheilung. Band V. und VI. 8vo.
           1852-3.
     Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Classe : —
         Denkschriften. Band V. Lieferung 1. 4to 1853.
         Sitzungsberichte, Band IX. Hefte 3, 4, 5. Band X. Hefte 1, 2, 3. 8vo.
          1852-3.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXV. No. 1 and 6. Vol.
      XXVI. No. 1, 2, and 3. 8vo. 1853.
 Geological Society — Journal, No. 35, 36. 8vo. 1853.
 Geographical Society, Royal — Address at the Anniversary Meeting, May 23,
       1853, by Sir R. I. Murchison, President. 8vo. 1853.
 Greenwich Royal Observatory — Astronomical, Magnetical, and Meteorological
      Observations at Greenwich in 1851. 4to. 1853.
 Balliwell, J. O. Esq., F.R.S., (the Author) — Curiosities of Modern Shak-
      spearian Criticism. 8vo. 1853.
Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. VIII. Parts 3, 4. 8vo. 1853.
Jones, H. Bence, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — On the Dissolution of
      Urinary Calculi in Dilute Saline Fluids, at the Temperature of the Body, by
      the aid of Electricity. (From Phil. Trans. Royal Soc.) 4to. 1853.
    On Sig. Carlo Matteucci's Letter to H. B. Jones, M.D., by Emil Du Bois-
     Reymond. 8vo. 1853.
Linnean Society of London — Transactions, Vol. XXI. Part 2. 4to. 1853.
    Proceedings, No. 48— 51. 8vo. 1851-2.
   List of Members, 1852. 8vo.
Lovell, E. B. Esq., M.R.I, (the Editor)—The Monthly Digest for July — Oct.
      1853. 8vo.
    Common Law and Equity Reports in all the Courts, Vol. I. Parts 4, 5. 8vo.
      1853.
Lubbock, John, Esq., F.Z.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — On two new Species of
     Calanidse. 8vo. 1 853.
Macilwain, George, Esq., F.R.S., M.R.I, (the Author). — Memoirs of John
     Abernethy, F.R.S., with a View of his Lectures, Writings, and Character.
     2 vols. 16mo. 1853.

1853.]                      OP THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          343
Newcastle-upon-Tyne, Literary and Philosophical Society of— Catalogue of the
     Library. 8vo. 1848.
Norton, Mr. C. B. (the Publisher) — Norton's Literary Register for 1853. New
     York. 16mo. 1853.
Novello, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical Times, for July — Oct. 1853.
     4to.
 Oldfield, D. Esq., M.R.I.— Observations on Mr. L. W. Wright's Patent Inven
     tions, &c. By D. King, M.D. 16mo. 1853.
Oliveira, B. Esq., M.P., F.R.S., M.R.I.— Essay on the Resources of Portugal.
     8vo. 1853.
   Ensaio sobre Portugal em relacao aos objectos da Grande Expozicao. 8vo.
     1853.
Pathological Society of London — Transactions. Vol. IV. 8vo. 1853.
Petermann, Augustus, Esq. (the Author) — Historical Summary of the Search
     for Sir John Franklin, 1848—53. 8vo. 1853.
   Die letzten Tage Dr. Adolf Overwegs. 8vo. 1853.
Photographical Society — Journal, No. 1 — 10. 8vo. 1853.
Physicians, Royal College of, London — Catalogue of Fellows, Licentiates, and
     Extra Licentiates. 1853.
Radcliffe Trustees, Oxford — Astronomical Observations made at the Radcliffe
     Observatory in 1851. By M. Johnson, M.A. 8vo. 1853.
Royal Society — Proceedings, No. 97. 8vo. 1853.
Smithsonian Institution — Sixth Annual Report, for the year 1851.              8vo.
     Washington, 1852.
     1853.
   Smithsonian    Contributions to Knowledge, Vol. V. 4to. Washington. 8vo.
   Catalogue of Portraits of North American Indians, painted by J. Stanley,
     deposited with the Smithsonian Institution. Svo. Washington, 1852.
     8vo.Mr.1853.
Smith,        J. Russell (the Publisher) — The Retrospective Review, No. 4 and 5.
Society of Arts — Journal, No. 32—50. 8vo. 1853.
Statistical Society of London — Journal, Vol. XVI. Part 3. 8vo. 1853.
   List of Fellows. 8vo. 1853.
Surgeons, Royal College of England — List of Fellows, &c. 8vo. 1 853.
Taylor, Rev. W., F.R.S., M.R.I. — The Construction of the Modern System;
    consisting of Six Drawings as executed at Sandhurst and Addiscombe, with
    Instructions. By T. Kimber. 8vo. 1852.
   Anglo-Saxon Relics from West Stow Heath. By S. Tymms, Esq. 8vo. 1853.
    4to.Introduction
   An       1824.       to Practical Astronomy, by the Rev. W. Pearson, Vol. I.
   Herr Immerlustig, eine Sammlung der Witzspiele und Anekdoten. 16mo.
    München, 1841.
   Rosa Von Tannenburg. Eine Geschichte des Alterthums. Von Ch. von
    Schmid. 16mo. Augsburg, 1845.
Thimm, Mr. F. (the Publisher) — Deutsches Athenaum fur 1853. 4to.
Tyndall, Prof. J., F.R.S., %c. (the Author.) —On Molecular Influences, Parti.
     Transmission of Heat through Organic Structures. (From Phil. Trans.
    Roy. Soc.) 4to. 1853.
Vereins zur Befdrderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Mai
    und Juni, 1853. 4to. Berlin.
    also aB.,
Vincent,       Assist.
            Letter      Sec.Author
                    to the    R.I.—on
                                    Essay
                                      the Music of theExpression.
                                          on Musical                   C. Avison
                                                       Ancients, &c.By16mo.  1775.;
Visitors of Hanwell Lunatic Asylum — Reports. 8vo. 1842-53.
Weale, John, Esq. (the Publisher)
      AgriculturalTreatises
   Rudimentary                :
                     Engineering.   By G. H. Andrews. Vol. III. 12mo.       1853.
      Masting, Mast-making, and Rigging of Ships. By R. Kipping, N.A. 12mo
         1853.

344                        notices of the MEETINGS             [Dee. 5, 1853.
Weale, John, Esq. (the Publisher)
      Construction of Locks. By A. Hobbs. Edited by C. Tomlinson. 12mo. 1853.
      Steam and Locomotion. By John Sewell, L. E. Vol. II. 12mo. 1853.
   Astronomical Annual for 1854. 12mo. 1853.
   Dictionary of English, German, and French Languages. Part I. By N. E.
     Hamilton. 12mo. 1853.
   Grammar of the French Language. By G. L. Strauss, Ph. D. 12mo. 1853.
   Outlines of the History of England. By W. D. Hamilton. Vol. II. 12mo. 1853.
Wilson, Mr. C— An Atla» of 34 Large Maps. Folio. 1745—85.
                  GENERALMonday,  MONTHLY Dec. 5.MEETING,
William Pole, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                                  in the Chair.
    Joseph Collis, Esq.             Benjamin Gray, Esq.
   John Ferguson, M.D.              Thomas Spencer Wells, Esq., F.R.C.S.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Secretary reported that the following Arrangements had been
made for the Lectures before Easter, 1854 :
    Six Lectures on Voltaic Electricity (adapted to a Juvenile Audi
tory)—by Michael Faraday, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., &c., Fullerian
Professor of Chemistry, R.I.
   Twelve Lectures on Heat — by John Tyndall, Esq., Ph. D.,
F.R.S., Professor of Natural Philosophy R.I.
   Twelve Lectures on Animal Physiology — by T. Wharton Jones,
Esq. F.R.S., Fullerian Professor of Physiology, R.I.
   Twelve Lectures on the Chemistry of the Non-Metallic Elements
— by W. A. Miller, M.D., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry, King's
College, London.
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
   From
Members      returned for the same ; —
Bell, Jacob, Esq. — The Pharmaceutical Journal, Dec. 1853. 8vo.
Belts, Mr. John, — Capt. M'Clure's Despatches from Her Majesty's Discovery
   Ship, Investigator, off Point Warren and Cape Bathurst. 8vo. 1853.
British Architects, Royal Institute of— Proceedings in Nov. 1853.
Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings in Nov. 1853. 8vo.
De la Beche, Sir Henry — Lecture on the Educational Uses of Museums. By
   E. Forbes, F.R.S. 8vo.
Editors — The Medical Circular for Nov. 1853. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum, Nov. 1853. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal, Dec. 1853. 4to.

 Jan. 20, 1854.]              of the royal institution.                               345
 Faraday, Professor — Bulletin de la Classe Physico-Mathématique de 1'Academie
       I mpenale
    Memorie        des Reale
                della   SciencesAccademia
                                  de Saint -Petersbourg.
                                            delle Scienze Tome      XI. 4to.
                                                            di Torino.           Seconda.
                                                                          Serie 1853.
       Tomo XIII. 4to. Torino, 1853.
 Forrester, Joseph J, Esq. (the Author) — The Oliveira Prize-Essay on Portugal.
    (With a Map of the Wine Districts of the Alto-Douro.) 8vo. 1853.
 Graham, George, Esq. (Registrar-General) — Tenth, Eleventh, and Twelfth
    Reports of the Registrar-General. 8vo. 1852-3.
   The E.
 Lovell,     B. Esq. Law
          Common             and Equity
                      (the Editor)   — The
                                         Reports
                                             Monthly   all theforCourts,
                                                   in Digest             Vol. I.8vo.
                                                                   Dec. 1853.      Part 6.
     8vo. 1853.
 Lubbock, John, Esq., F.Z.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — On Two New Species of
    Calanidae. 8vo. 1853.
 Macloughlin, David, M.D., M.R.I. — Proces-Verbaux dela Conference Sanitaire
    Internationale ouverte a Paris le 27 Juillet, 1851. folio. Paris. 1852.
 Medical and Chirurgical Society, Royal — Medico-Chirurgical Transactions, Vol.
    XXXVI. 8vo. 1853.
 Moxon, Edward, Esq. M.R.I. — Poems of Wit and Humour. By T. Hood.
    16mo. 1853.
 Novello, Messrs. — The Musical Times, Dec. 1853. 4to.
 Photographic Society — Journal, No. 11. 8vo. 1853.
 Royal Society of Edinburgh — Transactions, Vol. XX. Part 4. 4to. 1853.
    Proceedings, No. 43. 8vo. 1852-3.
Society of Arts — Journal, No. 5 1 -54. 8vo. 1 853.
 Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Juli
   und August, 1853. 4to. Berlin.
Webster, John M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I., — Physicians* Report of the Royal Hospital
      of Bethlem
   General          for of1846.
              Reports             8vo. Hospitals of Bridewell and Bethlem and of the
                            the Royal
      House of Occupations, 1848-52.          8vo.
                                         1854.
         Right Hon.        BaronFriday,
                      WEEKLY        Parke,
                                      EVENING
                                            January
                                              Vice-President,
                                                      20.
                                                      MEETING,     in the Chair.
                      Professor Faraday, D.C.L., F.R.S.
           On Electric Induction — Associated cases of current and
                                      static effects.
Certain phenomena that have presented themselves in the course
of the extraordinary expansion which the works of the Electric
Telegraph Company have undergone, appeared to me to offer

346                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Jull. 20,
remarkable illustrations of some fundamental principles of Electricity,
and strong confirmation of the truthfulness of the view which I
put forth sixteen years ago, respecting the mutually dependent nature
of induction, conduction, and insulation (Experimental Researches,
 1318, &c.). I am deeply indebted to the Company; to the Gutta
Percha works, and to Mr. Latimer Clarke, for the facts ; and also for
the opportunity both of seeing and shewing them well.
    Copper wire is perfectly covered with gutta percha at the Com
pany's works, the metal and the covering being in every part
regular and concentric. The covered wire is usually made into
half mile lengths, the necessary junctions being effected by twisting
or binding, and ultimately, soldering ; after which the place is covered
with fine gutta percha, in such a manner as to make the coating as
perfect there as elsewhere : the perfection of the whole operation
is finally tried in the following striking manner, by Mr. Statham,
the manager of the works. The half mile coils are suspended from
the sides of barges floating in a canal, so that the coils are
immersed in the water whilst the two ends of each coil rise into
the air : as many as 200 coils are thus immersed at once, and when
their ends are connected in series, one great length of 100 miles of
 submerged wire is produced, the two extremities of which can be
 brought into a room for experiment. An insulated voltaic battery
 of many pairs of zinc and copper, with dilute sulphuric acid, has one
 end connected with the earth and the other, through a galvanojneter,
 with either end of the submerged wire. Neglecting the first effect,
 but continuing the contact, it is evident that the battery current
 can take advantage of the whole accumulated conduction or de
 fective insulation in the 100 miles of gutta percha on the wire, and
 that whatever portion of electricity passes through to the water will
 be shewn by the galvanometer. Now the battery is made one of
 intensity, in order to raise the character of the proof, and the gal
 vanometer employed is of considerable delicacy ; yet so high is the
 insulation that the deflection is not more than 5°. As another
 test of the perfect state of the wire, when the two ends of the battery
 are connected with the two ends of the wire, there is a powerful
 current of electricity shewn by a much coarser instrument ; but
 when any one junction in the course of the 100 miles is separated,
 the current is stopped, and the leak or deficiency of insulation ren
 dered as small as before. The perfection and condition of the
 wire may be judged of by these facts.
    The 100 miles, by means of which I saw the phenomena, were
 thus good as to insulation. The copper wire was Jy of an inch in
 diameter : — the covered wire was y^ ; some was a little less, being
 •^y in diameter : — the gutta percha on the metal may therefore be
 considered as 0.1 of an inch in thickness. 100 miles of like
 covered wire in coils were heaped up on the floor of a dry ware
 house and connected in one series, for comparison with that under
water.

1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     347
   Consider now an insulated battery of 360 pairs of plates (4x3
inches) having one extremity in contact with the earth, the water wire
with both its insulated ends in the room, and a good earth discharge
wire ready for the requisite communications : —when the free battery
end was placed in contact with the water wire and then removed,
and, afterwards, a person touching the earth discharge touched also
the wire, he received a powerful shock. The shock was rather
that of a voltaic than of a Leyden battery : it occupied time, and
by quick tapping touches could be divided into numerous small
shocks : I obtained as many as 40 sensible shocks from one charge
of the wire. If time were allowed to intervene between the charge
and discharge of the wire, the shock was less : but it was sensible
after 2, 3, or 4 minutes, or even a longer period.
   When, after the wire had been in contact with the battery, it was
placed in contact with a Statham's fuze, it ignited the fuze (or even
6 fuzes in succession) vividly : — it could ignite the fuze 3 or 4
seconds after separation from the battery. When, having been in
contact with the battery, it was separated and placed in contact
with a galvanometer, it affected the instrument very powerfully : —
it acted on it, though less powerfully, after the lapse of 4 or 5
minutes, and even affected it sensibly 20 or 30 minutes after it
had been separated from the battery. When the insulated galvano
meter was permanently attached to the end of the water wire, and
the battery pole was brought in contact with the free end of the
instrument, it was most instructive to see the great rush of elec
tricity into the wire ; yet after that was over, though the contact
was continued, the deflection was not more than 5°, so high was the
insulation. Then separating the battery from the galvanometer, and
touching the latter with the earth wire, it was just as striking to
see the electricity rush out of the wire, holding for a time the
 magnet of the instrument in the reverse direction to that due to
the ingress or charge.
   These effects were produced equally well with either pole of the
batten' or with either end of the wire ; and whether the electric
condition was conferred and withdrawn at the same end or at the
opposite ends of the 100 miles, made no difference in the results.
An intensity battery was required, for reasons which will be very
evident in the sequel. That employed was able to decompose only
a very small quantity of water in a given time. A Grove's
battery of 8 or 10 pair of plates, which would have far sur
passed it in this respect, would have had scarcely a sensible power
in affecting the wire.
   When the 100 miles of wire in the air were experimented with
in like manner, not the slightest signs of any of these effects were
produced. There is reason, from principle, to believe that an
infinitesimal result is obtainable, but as compared to the water
 wire the action was nothing. Yet the wire was equally wel1' and
 better insulated, and as regarded a constant current, it was an

348                    NOTICES OF THE MKF.T1NOS                [/fln. 20,
equally good conductor. This point was ascertained, by attaching
the end of the water wire to one galvanometer, and the end of
the air wire to another like instrument ; the two other ends of
the wires were fastened together, and to the earth contact; the
two free galvanometer ends were fastened together, and to the
free pole of the battery : in this manner the current was
divided between the air and water wires, but the galvanometers
were affected to precisely the same amount. To make the
 result more certain, these instruments were changed one for the
other, but the deviations were still alike : so that the two wires
conducted with equal facility.
    The cause of the first results is, upon consideration, evident
enough. In consequence of the perfection of the workmanship, a
Leyden arrangement is produced upon a large scale : the copper wire
becomes charged statically with that electricity which the pole of
the battery connected with it can supply ;* it acts by induction
through the gutta percha (without which induction it could not
itself become charged, Exp. Res. 1177), producing the opposite
state on the surface of the water touching the gutta percha, which
forms the outer coating of this curious arrangement. The gutta
percha across which the induction occurs, is only 0.1 of an inch
thick, and the extent of the coating is enormous. The surface
of the copper wire is nearly 8300 square feet, and the surface of
the outer coating of water is four times that amount, or 33000
square feet. Hence, the striking character of the results. The
intensity of the static charge acquired is only equal to the in
tensity at the pole of the battery whence it is derived ; but its
quantity is enormous, because of the immense extent of the Leyden
arrangement ; and hence when the wire is separated from the
battery and the charge employed, it has all the powers of a con
siderable voltaic current, and gives results which the best ordi
nary electric machines and Leyden arrangements cannot as yet
approach.
   That the air wire produces none of these effects is simply
because there is no outer coating correspondent to the water, or
only one so far removed as to allow of no sensible induction, and
therefore the inner wire cannot become charged. In the air wire
of the warehouse, the floor, walls, and ceiling of the place con
stituted the outer coating, and this was at a considerable distance ;
and in any case could only affect the outside portions of the coils
of wire. I understand that 100 miles of wire stretched in a line
through the air, so as to have its whole extent opposed to earth, is
equally inefficient in shewing the effects, and there it must be the
distance of the inductric and inducteous surfaces (1483), combined
with the lower specific inductive capacity of air, as compared with
gutta percha, which causes the negative result. The phenomena alto-
              • Davy, Elements of Chemical Philosophy, p. 154.

 1854.]              OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        349
 gether offer a beautiful case of the identity of static and dynamic
 electricity. The whole power of a considerable battery may in this
 way be worked off in separate portions, and measured out in units
 of static force, and yet be employed afterwards for any or every
purpose of voltaic electricity.
    I now proceed to further consequences of associated static and
 dynamic effects. Wires covered with gutta percha, and then in
closed in tubes of lead or of iron, or buried in the earth, or sunk
in the sea, exhibit the same phenomena as those described ; the
like static inductive action being in all these cases permitted by the
conditions. Such subterraneous wires exist between London and
Manchester, and when they are all connected together so as to
make one series, offer above 1500 miles; which, as the duplications
return to London, can be observed by one experimenter at intervals
of about 400 miles, by the introduction of galvanometers at these
returns. This wire, or the half, or fourth of it, presented all the
phenomena already described ; the only difference was, that as the
insulation was not so perfect, the charged condition fell more
rapidly. Consider 750 miles of the wire in one length, a galvano
meter a being at the beginning of the wire, a second galvanometer b
in the middle, and a third c at the end :—these three galvanometers
being in the room with the experimenter, and the third c perfectly
connected with the earth. On bringing the pole of the battery
into contact with the wire through the galvanometer a, that in
strument was instantly affected ; after a sensible time b was affected,
and after a still longer time c: when the whole 1500 miles were
included, it required two seconds for the electric stream to reach
the last instrument. Again ; — all the instruments being deflected,
(of course not equally because of the electric leakage along the
line,) if the battery were cut off at a, that instrument instantly fell
to zero ; but b did not fall until a little while after ; and c only after
a etill longer interval; — a current flowing on to the end of the
wire whilst there was none flowing in at the beginning. Again ;
by a short touch of the battery pole against a, it could be deflected
and could fall back into its neutral condition, before the electric
power had reached 4 ; which in its turn would be for an instant
affected, and then left neutral before the power had reached c ; a
wave of force having been sent into the wire which gradually
travelled along it, and made itself evident at successive intervals of
time, in different parts of the wire. It was even possible, by ad
justed touches of the battery, to have two simultaneous waves in
the wire, following each other, so that at the same moment that
c was affected by the first wave, a or b was affected by the second ;
and there is no doubt that by the multiplication of instruments
and close attention, four or five waves might be obtained at once.
    If after mukingand breaking battery contact at a, a be immediately
connected with the earth, then additional interesting effects occur.
Part of the electricity which is in the wire will return, and passing

350                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                           [Jan. 20,
through n will deflect it in the reverse direction ; so that currents
will flow out of both extremities of the wire in opposite directions,
whilst no current is going into it from any source. Or if a be
quickly put to the battery and then to the earth, it will shew a
current first entering into the wire, and then returning out of the
wire at the same place; no sensible part of it ever travelling on
to I, or c.
    When an air wire of equal extent is experimented with in like
manner, no such effects as these are perceived : or if, guided by
principle, the arrangements are such as to be searching, they are
perceived only in a very slight degree, and disappear in comparison
with the former gross results. The effect at the end of the very
long air wire (or c) is in the smallest degree behind the effect at gal
vanometer a ; and the accumulation of a charge in the wire is
not sensible.
    All these results as to time, &c. evidently depend upon the same
condition as that which produced the former effect of static charge,
namely, lateral induction ; and are necessary consequences of the
principles of conduction, insulation, and induction, three terms
which in their meaning are inseparable from each other (Exp. Res.
 1320, 1326,* 1338, 1561, &c.). If we put a plate of shell lac upon
 a gold leaf electrometer and a charged carrier (an insulated metal
 ball of two or three inches diameter) upon it, the electrometer is
 diverged ; removing the carrier, this divergence instantly falls, this
 is insulation and induction : if we replace the shell lac by metal, the
 carrier causes the leaves to diverge as before, but when removed,
 though after the shortest possible contact, the electroscope is left
 diverged, this is conduction. If we employ a plate of spermaceti
 instead of the metal, and repeat the experiment, we find the diver
 gence partly falls and partly remains, because the spermaceti insu
  lates and also conducts, doing both imperfectly : but the shell lac
  also conducts, as is shewn if time be allowed ; and the metal also
  obstructs conduction, and therefore insulates, as is shewn by simple
  arrangements. For if a copper wire, 74 feet in length and -fa of
    * 1326. All these considerations impress my mind strongly with the con
 viction, that insulation and ordinary conduction cannot be properly separated
  when we are examining into their nature : that is, into the general law or laws
  under which their phenomena are produced. They appear to me to consist in
  an action of contiguous particles, dependent on the forces developed in electrical
  excitement ; these forces bring the particles into a state of tension or polarity,
  which constitutes both induction and insulation ; and being in this state the
  contiguous particles have a power or capability of communicating these forces,
  one to the other, by which they are lowered and discharge occurs. Every body
  appears to discharge (444.987); but the possession of this capability in a greater
  or smaller degree in different bodies, makes them better or worse conductors,
  worse or better insulators : and both induction and conduction appear to be the
  same in their principle and action (1320), except that in the latter, an effect
  common to both is raised to the highest degree, whereas in the former, it occurs
  in the best cases, in only an almost insensible quantity.

1854.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                   351
an inch in diameter, be insulated in the air,
having its end m a metal ball ; its end e
connected with the earth, and the parts near
m and e brought within half an inch of each
other, as at s; then an ordinary Leyden jar
being charged sufficiently, its outside con
nected with e and its inside with m, will give
a charge to the wire, which instead of tra
velling wholly through it, though it be so
excellent a conductor, will pass in large pro
portion through the air at s, as a bright
spark : for with such a length of wire, the
resistance in it is accumulated until it becomes
as much, or perhaps even more, than that of
the air, for electricity of such high intensity.
   Admitting that such and similar experiments
shew that conduction through a wire is preceded by the act of
induction (1338), then all the phenomena presented by the sub
merged or subterranean wires are explained ; and in their explanation
confirm as I think, the principles given. After Mr. Wheatstone
had, in 1 834, measured the velocity of a wave of electricity through
a copper wire, and given it as 288,000 miles in a second, I said, in
1838, upon the strength of these principles (1333.) "that the
velocity of discharge through the same wire may be greatly varied,
by attending to the circumstances which cause variations of
discharge through spermaceti or sulphur. Thus, for instance, it
must vary with the tension or intensity of the first urging force,
which tension is charge and induction. So if the two ends of
the wire, in Professor Wheatstone's experiment, were immediately
connected with two large insulated metallic surfaces exposed to
 the air, so that the primary act of induction, after making the
 contact for discharge, might be in part removed from the internal
 portion of the wire at the first instant, and disposed for the moment
 on its surface jointly with the air and surrounding conductors,
 then I venture to anticipate, that the middle spark would be more
 retarded than before : and if these two plates were the inner and
 outer coating of a large jar, or a Leyden battery, then the retar
 dation of that spark would be still greater." Now this is precisely
 the case of the submerged or subterraneous wires, except that
 instead of carrying their surfaces towards the inducteous coatings
 (1483), the latter are brought near the former; in both cases the
 induction consequent upon charge, instead of being exerted almost
 entirely at the moment within the wire, is to a very large extent
  determined externally ; and so the discharge or conduction being
 caused by a lower tension, therefore requires a longer time.
  Hence, the reason why, with 1500 miles of subterraneous wire,
 the wave was two seconds in passing from end to end ; whilst
 with the same length of air wire, the time was almost inappre
 ciable.

352                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [Jnn. 20,
   With these lights it is interesting to look at the measured
velocities of electricity in wires of metal, as given by different
experimenters.
   * Wheatstone in 1 834, with copper wire made Miles       it     288,000
                                                                  per  second.
   *  Walker in America with telegraph iron wire -                   18,780
   *  O' Mitchell, ditto.          -      ditto.      -       -      28,524
   *  Fizeau and Gonnelle (copper wire)               -       -     112,680
    * Ditto.       -     - (iron wire)         -      -       -      62,600
   t  A. B. G. (copper) London and Brussels Telegraph                 2,700
   t  Ditto.       (copper) London and Edinburgh Telegraph 7,600
    Here, the difference in copper is seen by the first and sixth
result to be above a hundred fold. It is further remarked in
Liebig's report of Fizeau's and Gonnelle's experiments, that the
velocity is not proportional to the conductive capacity, and is
independent of the thickness of the wire. All these circumstances
and incompatibilities appear rapidly to vanish, as we recognise and
take into consideration the lateral induction of the wire carrying
 the current. If the velocity of a brief electric discharge is to be
 ascertained in a given length of wire, the simple circumstances of
 the latter being twined round a frame in small space, or spread
 through the air through a large space, or adhering to walls, or
 lying on the ground, will make a difference in the results. And
 in regard to long circuits such as those described, their conducting
 power cannot be understood, whilst no reference is made to their
 lateral static induction, or to the conditions of intensity and quantity
 which then come into play; especially in the case of short or
 intermitting currents — for then static and dynamic are continually
 passing into each other.
    It has already been said that the conducting power of the air
 and water wires are alike for a constant current. This is in
 perfect accordance with the principles and with the definite cha
 racter of the electric force, whether in the static or current or
 transition state. When a voltaic current of a certain intensity is
 sent into a long water wire, connected at the further extremity
 with the earth, part of the force is in the first instance occupied
 in raising a lateral induction round the wire, ultimately equal in
 intensity at the near end to the intensity of the battery stream,
 and decreasing gradually to the earth end, where it becomes nothing.
 Whilst this induction is rising, that within the wire amongst its
 particles is beneath what it would otherwise be ; but as soon as
the first has attained its maximum state, then that in the wire
becomes proportionate to the battery intensity, and therefore equals
that in the air .wire, in which the same state is (because of the
             • Liebig and Kopp's Report, 1850 (translated), p. 168.
             t Athenaeum, 14th January, 1854, p. 54.

 1854.]               OF THK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     353
absence of lateral induction) almost instantly attained. Then of
course they discharge alike and therefore conduct alike.
   A striking proof of the variation of the conduction of a wire by
variation of its lateral static induction, is given in the experiment
proposed 16 years ago (1333.) If, using a constant charged jar,
the interval s, page 6, be adjusted so that the spark shall freely
pass there (though it would not if a little wider), whilst the short
connecting wires n and o are insulated in the air, the experiment
may be repeated twenty times without a single failure ; but if
after that, n and o be connected with the inside and outside of an
insulated Leyden jar, as described, the spark will never pass across
s, but all the charge will go round the whole of the long wire.
Why is this ? The quantity of electricity is the same, the wire is
the same, its resistance is the same, and that of the air remains
unaltered ; but because the intensity is lowered, through the lateral
induction momentarily allowed, it is never enough to strike across
the air at s ; and it is finally altogether occupied in the wire, which
in a little longer time than before, effects the whole discharge.
M. Fizeau has applied the same expedient to the primary voltaic
currents of Ruhmkorff's beautiful inducting apparatus, with great
advantage. He thereby reduces the intensity of these currents at
the moment when it would be very disadvantageous, and gives us
a striking instance of the advantage of viewing static and dynamic
phenomena as the result of the same laws.
   Mr. Clarke arranged a Bains' printing telegraph with three pens
so that it gave beautiful illustrations and records of facts like those
stated : the pens are iron wires, under which a band of paper imbued
with ferro-prussiate of potassa passes at a regular rate by clock-work ;
and thus regular lines of prussian blue are produced whenever a
current is transmitted, and the time of the current is recorded. In
the case to be described, the three lines were side by side, and about
0.1 of an inch apart. The pen m belonged to a circuit of only a few
feet of wire, and a separate battery ; it told whenever the contact key
was put down by the finger; the pen n was at the earth end of
the long air wire, and the pen o at the earth end of the long
subterraneous wire ; and by arrangement, the key could be made to
throw the electricity of the chief battery into either of these wires,
simultaneously with the passage of the short circuit current through
pen m. When pens m and » were in action, the m record was a
regular line! of equal thickness, shewing by its length the actual time
during which the electricity flowed into the wires ; and the n record
 was an equally regular line, parallel to, and of equal length with the
former, but the least degree behind it ; thus indicating that the long
air wire conveyed its electric current almost instantaneously to the
further end. But when pens m and o were in action, the o line did
not begin until some time after the m line, and it continued after the
 m line had ceased i. c. after the o battery was cut off. Furthermore, it
 was faint at first, grew up to a maximum of intensity, continued at

354                      NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                 [Jan. 20,
that as long as battery contact was continued, and then gradually
diminished to nothing. Thus the record o shewed that the wave of
power took time in the water wire to reach the further extremity ; by
its first faintness, it shewed that power was consumed in the exertion
of lateral static induction along the wire ; by the attainment of a
maximum and the after equality, it shewed when this induction had
become proportionate to the intensity of the battery current ; by its
beginning to diminish, it shewed when the battery current was cut off;
and its prolongation and gradual diminution shewed the time of the
outflow of the static electricity laid up in the wire, and the consequent
regular falling of the induction which had been as regularly raised.
   With the pens m and o the conversion of an intermitting into a
continuous current could be beautifully shewn ; the earth wire by the
static induction which it permitted, acting in a manner analogous to
the fly wheel of a steam engine, or the air spring of a pump. Thus
when the contact key was regularly but rapidly depressed and raised,
the pen m made a series of short lines separated by intervals of equal
length. After four or more of these had passed, then pen o, belong
ing to the subterraneous wire, began to make its mark, weak at first,
then rising to a maximum, but always continuous. If the action of
the contact key was less rapid, then alternate thickening, and attenua
tions appeared in the o record ; and if the introductions of the
electric current at the one end of the earth wire were at still longer
intervals, the records of action at the other end became entirely
separated from each other. All shewing most beautifully, how the
individual current or wave, once introduced into the wire, and
never ceasing to go onward in its course, could be affected in its
intensity, its time, and other circumstances, by its partial occupation
in static induction.
   By other arrangements of the pens n and o, the near end of the
subterraneous wire could be connected with the earth immediately
after separation from the battery ; and then the back flow of the
electricity, and the time and manner thereof, were beautifully
recorded ; but I must refrain from detailing results which have
already been described in principle.
   Many variations of these experiments have been made and may
be devised. Thus the ends of the insulated battery have been
attached to the ends of the long subterraneous wire, and then
the two halves of the wire have given back opposite return cur
rents when connected with the earth. In such a case *he wire is
positive and negative at the two extremities, being permanently
sustained by its length and the battery, in the same condition
which is given to the short wire for a moment by the Leyden
discharge (p. 351) ; or, for an extreme but like case, to a filament of
shell lac having its extremities charged positive and negative.
Colomb pointed out the difference of long and short as to the
insulating or conducting power of such filaments, and like difference
occurs with long and short metal wires.

 1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      355
   The character of the phenomena described in this report, induces
me to refer to the terms intensity and quantity as applied to electricity ;
terms which I have had such frequent occasion to employ. These
terms, or equivalents for them, cannot be dispensed with by those who
study both the static and the dynamic relations of electricity ; every
current where there is resistance has the static element and induction
involved in it, whilst every case of insulation has more or less of the
dynamic element and conduction ; and we have seen that with the
same voltaic source, the same current in the same length of the same
wire, gives a different result as the intensity is made to vary, with
variations of the induction around the wire. The idea of intensity
or the power of overcoming resistance, is as necessary to that of elec
tricity, either static or current, as the idea of pressure is to steam in
a boiler, or to air passing through apertures or tubes : and being
independent of the idea of quantity, we must have language com
petent to express both relations. Furthermore, I have never found
either of these terms lead to any mistakes regarding electrical action,
or give rise to any false view of the character of electricity or its
unity. I cannot find other terms of equally useful significance with
these ; or any which, conveying the same ideas, are not liable to
such misuse as these may be subject to. It would be affectation,
therefore, in me, to search about for other words ; and besides that,
the present subject has shewn me more than ever their great value
and peculiar advantage in electrical language.
                                                      [M. FARADAY.]
   The fuze referred to in page 347, is of the following nature.
Some copper wire was covered with sulphuretted gutta percha ; after
some months it was found that a film of sulphuret of copper was
formed between the metal and the envelope ; and further, that when
half the gutta percha was cut away in any place, and then the copper
wire removed for about j of an inch, so as to remain connected only
by the film of sulphuret adhering to the remaining gutta percha, an
intensity battery could cause this sulphuret to enter into vivid igni
tion, and fire gunpowder with the utmost ease. The experiment was
shewn in the Lecture-room, of firing gunpowder at the end of eight
miles of single wire. Mr. Faraday reported that he had seen it fired
through 1 00 miles of covered wire immersed in the canal, by the use
of this fuze.

356                   NOTICES OF T1IR MKBTINO8                (Jim. 27,
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, January 27.
   COL. PHILIF J. YORKE, F.R.S., Pres. Chem. Soc., in the Chair.
                 JOHN TYNDALL, Esq., Ph. D., F.R.S..
           PROFESSOR OF NATURAL PHILOSOFHY, ROYAL INSTITUTION.
On the Vibration and Tones produced by the Contact of Bodies having
                            different Temperatures.
IN the year 1805, M. Schwartz, an inspector of one of the smelting
works of Saxony, placed a cup-shaped mass of hot silver upon a cold
anvil, and was surprised to find that musical tones proceeded from
the mass. In the autumn of the same year, Professor Gilbert of
Berlin visited the smelting works and repeated the experiment. He
 observed, that the sounds were accompanied by a quivering of the
hot silver, and that when the vibrations ceased, the sound
 ceased also. Professor Gilbert merely stated the facts, and made no
attempt to explain them.
    In the year 1829, Mr. Arthur Trevelyan, being engaged in
spreading pitch with a hot plastering iron, and once observing that the
 iron was too hot for his purpose, he laid it slantingly against a block
 of lead which chanced to he at hand ; a shrill note, which he com
 pared to that of the chanter of the small Northumberland pipes, pro
 ceeded from the mass, and, on nearer inspection, he observed that the
 heated iron was in a state of vibration. He was induced by Dr.
 Reid of Edinburgh to pursue the subject, and the results of his
 numerous experiments were subsequently printed in the Transactions
 of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.
    On the 1st of April, 1831, these singular sounds and vibrations
 formed the subject of a Friday Evening Lecture by Professor Faraday,
 at the Royal Institution. Professor Faraday expanded and further
 established the explanation of the sounds given by Mr. Trevelyan
 and Sir John Leslie. He referred them to the tapping of the hot
 mass against the cold one underneath it, the taps being in many cases
 sufficiently quick to produce a high musical note. The alternate ex
 pansion and contraction of the cold mass at the points where the hot
 rocker descends upon it, he regarded as the sustaining power of the
 vibrations. The superiority of lead he ascribed to its great expansi
 bility, combined with its feeble power of conduction, which latter
 prevented the heat from being quickly diffused through the mass.
    Professor J. D. Forbes of Edinburgh was present at this Lecture,

 1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      357
and not feeling satisfied with the explanation, undertook the further
examination of the subject ; his results are described in a highly
 ingenious paper communicated to the Royal Society of Edinburgh in
 1833. He rejects the explanation supported by Professor Faraday,
and refers the vibrations to " a new species of mechanical agency in
heat "— a repulsion exercised by the heat itself on passing from a good
conductor to a bad one. This conclusion is based upon a number of
general laws established by Professor Forbes. If these laws be
correct, then indeed a great step has been taken towards a knowledge
of the intimate nature of heat itself, and this consideration was the
lecturer's principal stimulus in resuming the examination of the
subject.
   He had already made some experiments, ignorant that the subject
had been further treated by Seebeck, until informed of the fact by
Professor Magnus of Berlin. On reading Seebeck's interesting
paper, he found that many of the results which it was his intention
to seek had been already obtained. The portion of the subject
which remained untouched was, however, of sufficient interest to
induce him to prosecute his original intention.
   The general laws of Professor Forbes were submitted in succession
to an experimental examination. The first of these laws affirms that
" the vibrations never take place between substances of the same nature.''
This the Lecturer found to be generally the case when the hot
rocker rested upon 'a block, or on the edge of a thick plate of the same
metal ; but the case was quite altered when a thin plate of metal
was used. Thus, a copper rocker laid upon the edge of a penny-
piece did not vibrate permanently ; but when the coin was beaten out
by a hammer, so as to present a thin sharp edge, constant vibrations
were obtained. A silver rocker resting on the edge of a half-crown
refused to vibrate permanently ; but on the edge of a sixpence con
tinuous vibrations were obtained. An iron rocker on the edge of
a dinner knife gave continuous vibrations. A flat brass rocker
placed upon the points of two common brass pins, and having its
handle suitably supported, gave distinct vibrations. In these ex
periments the plates and pins were fixed in a vice, and it was found
that the thinner the plate, within its limits of rigidity, the more
certain and striking was the effect. Vibrations were thus obtained
with iron on iron, copper on copper, brass on brass, zinc on zinc,
silver on silver, tin on tin. The list might be extended, but the
cases cited are sufficient to shew that the proposition above cited
cannot be regarded as expressing a " general law."
   The second general law enunciated by Professor Forbes is, that
" both substances must be metallic." This is the law which first attracted
the Lecturer's attention. During the progress of a kindred enquiry,
he had discovered that certain non-metallic bodies are endowed with
powers of conduction far higher than has been hitherto supposed,
and the thought occurred to him that such bodies might, by suitable
treatment, be made to supply the place of metals in the production
of vibrations. This anticipation was realized. Rockers of silver,
                                                       UD

360                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  \_l\li. 3,
get the discharge by carrying or convection, and by disruption, as
in the spark.
   In the year 1852, Mr. Grove communicated at an Evening
Meeting of the Members of the Royal Institution, his researches on
the disruptive discharge, shewing by the oxidation and reduction of
the terminal surfaces, a state of chemical polarity in the gaseous
intervening medium, antecedent to the discharge, the discharge
consisting of a subversion of this polarity attended with intense
local heat, and a transmission of minute particles of the terminals
between which it took place.*
    In what may be termed Pneumatic Electricity, or the electrical
effects produced on and by gases, there seems some reason to believe
that the molecules conduct, or in other words that at indefinitely
minute spaces, electricity can pass without the phenomena of dis
ruptive discharge : for instance in the gas battery, either the mole
cules must conduct, or the gases must by contact with the platinum
be brought into a liquid state.
   The effects of rarefaction on gases (as by the air-pump) tends to
render the disruptive discharge more facile, and to enable electricity
of the same degree of intensity to pass across much larger spaces
than it would when transmitted across gases in a dense state.
   The next enquiry is whether the effect of rarefaction by heat is
the same as that by mechanical attenuation ; and heated gas was
shewn by Mr. Grove to facilitate the disruptive discharge of elec
tricity : so strikingly was this evidenced with flame, that when the
flame of a spirit lamp was held near the terminal point of the coil
apparatus of Ruhmkorff, (the coatings of a Leyden phial being con
nected with the secondary coil, and the terminals being separated to
a distance far beyond that at which the spark would pass in cold
air), the spark darted to and along the margin of the flame, and
could be curved or twisted about in any direction, at the will of the
experimenter, giving a striking illustration of the crooked form of
lightning, and of the probable reason why it does not pass in straight
lines, the temperature of the air being different at different points of
its passage, and much of this variation of temperature being in all
probability occasioned by the mechanical effect on the air of the
discharge itself.
   No amount of rarefaction has hitherto shewn any thing like
conduction in gases at ordinary temperatures ; but on the other hand
flame does give distinct evidence of conduction without disruptive
discharge, and an experiment was made demonstrating this.
   Is this effect of flame due simply to its consisting of highly heated
gas ? or is it due to the chemical action taking place throughout the
whole structure of the flame ?
   When closely approximated metals are brought to the point of
visible ignition, signs, but very feeble signs of transmission of elec
tricity take place. M. E. Becquerel has recently published some
                          * Phil. Trans. 1852, p. 87.

 1854.]                OF THB HOY M, INSTITUTION.                      361
very interesting experiments on this subject,* and Mr. Grove not by
means of M. E. Becquere1's plan, but by igniting by the voltaic
battery two platinum wires placed close to each other in an ex
hausted receiver, and connecting them with a third voltaic battery,
had obtained slight deflections of a delicate galvanometer.
   These effects are however far inferior to those shown by flame,
and appear to depend more upon the state of the terminals than
upon the state of the intervening gas : —thus, until the terminals
attain a red heat, no transmission takes place, whatever be the
 degree of attenuation of the gas ; while if the terminals have attained
a red heat, the current is much more easily transmitted by rare than
by dense gas. Thus alterations in the density of the gas do not
appear to affect the trasmission, until a certain definite change has
taken place in the state of the terminals. Reasoning from these
effects, and bearing in mind the effect of rarefied gas on the dis
ruptive discharge and the quasi-radiation of matter in the phenomena
elicited by Moser and others, Mr. Grove inclined to the opinion
that the transmission across heated gas differed specifically from that
across flame, the former being in some respects analogous to the
disruptive, while the latter resembled the electrolytic discharge.
   FJame moreover has been observed to conduct better in one
direction than another, and the question next arises will flame produce
or generate a voltaic current ? M. Hankel and M. Buff have
published papers shewing, by the use of highly sensitive galvanome
ters, a current apparently produced by flame, which passes from the
upper to the lower part of the flame. M. Buff attributes this
current to thermo-electricity —the flame being a conductor and two
metals in contact with different parts of it, the thermo-current
passes from the hotter to the cooler metal, and hence the result.
   Mr. Grove in studying this subject, and without having then read
the papers of Hankel and Buff, found the results so varying in ordi
nary flame that he %ould come to no satisfactory conclusion ; he was
then led to think, that as in the flame of the blow-pipe, the direction
or line of combustion is more definite than in ordinary flame, he
might get more definite results. He experimented with the latter
flame, and immediately got very distinct evidence of a current not
due to thermo-electricity, as it could be made to conquer both the
effect of the thermo-flame- current noticed by Buff, and of any thermo-
current excited in the junction of the wires exterior to the flame.
   This current which Mr. Grove termed the flame current proper,
moves from the root towards the point of the blow-pipe flame —the
best points for placing the collecting spirals or plates of platinum being
for the one a little above the root or base of the blue cone, and for the
other, in the full yellow flame a little beyond the apex of the blue cone.
   As the latter metal is much more heated than the former, the
thermo-flame-current is opposed to, and though it by no means
destroys, it tends to weaken the effect of the flame current proper ;
                      • Annales de Chimie, Nov. 1853.

 362                NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    !/•'•''.. 6,
 if then this metal can be adventitiously cooled, we should have the
 two currents co-operating, instead of conflicting ; and so experiment
 proved, for by using a capsule of platinum filled with water in the
 full flame, and a coil or sheet of platinum foil at the base, a very
 marked current resulted. By arranging in a row of jets worked by a
 large bellows a sheet of platinum foil placed just over the roots of
 the flames, and a trough of platinum foil filled with water just
 beyond the points of the blue cones, the large galvanometer of the
 Institution was deflected to 30° or 40°, so as to be easily visible to
 the audience ; the deflection being in the reverse direction upon re
 versing the connections respectively with the plate and trough.
 The same apparatus will also readily decompose iodide of potas
 sium ; iodine being evolved at the platinum point in connection
 with the trough.
    There was another apparatus on the table for arranging the flame
battery as an intensity series. The direction of the current is from
the points in the flame where combustion commences, to those where
it concludes ; it appears to be transmitted by a chain of chemical
action taking place between these. Though speaking with some
reserve on the theory of the phenomenon, Mr. Grove could at
present see no objection to its being regarded as a current produced
by chemical action ; the platinum at the commencement of action
representing the zinc which burns or combines with oxygen ; that
at the conclusion, representing the platinum, or the points where
chemical action concludes, and a tendency to reduction or de-
oxidation is manifested. The distinction being that the generative
chemical action, instead of taking place, as in the ordinary battery
only at the zinc surface, and being simply transmitted by the
electrolyte, takes place throughout the intervening section of flame ;
and thus, within certain limits, the intensity of the electricity
increases with the distance of the plates, instead of decreasing as
in the ordinary battery.                          *    [W. R. G.]
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                      Monday, February 6, 1854.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                             in the Chair.
   Archibald Boyd, Esq.               Matthew Noble, Esq.
   John Hall Gladstone, Esq.,         John Percy, M.D., F.R.S.
      Ph. D., F.R.S.                  Samuel Petrie, Esq.
   William Scurfield Grey, Esq.       Michael Wills, Esq.
   Thomas Haig, Esq.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.

 1854.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         363
    The following Presents were announced ; and the thanks of the
   From
Members      returned for the same : —
Actuaries, Institute of — The Assurance Magazine, No. 14. 1854. 8vo.
Agricultural Society, Royal — Journal, Vol. XIV. Part 2. 8vo. 1853.
American Academy of Arts and Sciences — Memoirs, New Series, Vol. V.
    Part1. Cambridge, U. S. 1853.
Art-Union of London — Seventeenth Annual Report. 8vo. 1 853.
   Almanac for 1 854.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 236. 8vo. 1853.
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIV. Nos. 1,2. 8vo. 1853.
Barnard, George, Esq. (the Author) — Handbook of Foliage and Foreground
    Drawing. 16mo. 1853.
Basel, Naturforschende Gesellschaft — Bericht fiber die Verhandlungen, vom
   Aug. 1850 bis Juni 1852. 8vo. Basel, 1 852.
Bell, Jacob, Esq. (the Editor) — Pharmaceutical Journal, Jan. and Feb. 1854.
Bodichon, Dr. (the Author) — De l'Humanite Genese. 8vo. Alger, 1854.
   Projet d'un Exploration d'Alger a Tombouctou par le Sahara. 8vo. Paris, 1 849.
    Bombay,
Bombay         1841-53.
           Branch   of the Royal Asiatic Society — Journal, No. 1—18. 8vo.
Bosanquet, J. W. (the Author) — The Fall of Nineveh and the Reign of Sen
    nacherib, chronologically considered with a view to the Readjustment of
    Sacred and Profane Chronology. 8vo. 1853.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical World for Jan. 1854. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings, Dec. 1853 and Jan. 1854.
Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, No. 24. 8vo. 1854.
 Cheshire, Edward, Esq. Assist. Sec. Statist. Soc. (the Author) — Results of the
     Census of Great Britain in 1851 ; with a Description of the Machinery and
    Processes employed to obtain the Returns. 8vo. 1853.
Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings, Dec. 1853 and Jan. 1854. 8vo.
De Brock, M., Ministre des Finances de Russie — Annales de l'Observatoire
    Physique Central de Russie, &c., par A. Kupffer. Annee 1850. 2 vols.
     4to. St. Pe'tersbourg, 1853.
   Compte-Rendu Annuel du Directeur de l'Observatoire Physique Central de
     Russie pour l'Annee 1852. 4to. 1853.
De la Rue, Warren, F.R.S.. M.R.I. — Saturn as seen with a Newtonian Equa-
     toreal of 13 inches aperture, Nov. 1852. (Warren De la Rue, delt.) En
     graving. 1853.
 Demidoff, the Prince — Observations Meteorologiques faites a Nijn^ Taguilsk
     (Monts-Oural).Gouvernement de Perm. Annees 1850-1. 8vo. Paris, 1852.
East India Company, the Hon. — Magnetical and Meteorological Observations
    made at Bombay in 1849. 4to. 1852.
   The Medical
Editors           Circular forfor
         — The Atheneeum          Dec.
                               Dec.  1853,
                                        1853,
                                           andand  Jan.
                                                Jan.      Feb. 1854.
                                                     and1854.   4to. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for Jan. and Feb. 1 854. 4to.
   The Common Law and Equity Reports. Vol. I. Parts 7, 8. 8vo. 1853-4.
   The Journal of Industrial and Social Progress. No. 1. Jan. 1854. 8vo.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting, Dec. 1853, and Jan. 1854. 4to.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L., F.R.S.
   Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien : —
     Philosophisch-Historische Classe — Sitzungsberichte. Band X. Heft 4. 8vo.
         1853.
         8vo. fur1853.
      Archiv       Kunde Oesterreichischer Geschichtsquellen. Band X. Heft 1 .
      Fontes Rerum Austriacarum. Zweite Abtheilung. Band VII. 8vo. 1853.
      Monumenta Habsburgica. Zweite Abtheilung. Band I. 8vo. 1853.
     Mathematisch'Naturwissenschaftliche Classe: — Denkschriften. Band IV.
          Lieferung 1. Band V. Lieferung 2. 4to. 1853.
        Sitzungsberichte. Band X. Hefte4und5. 8vo. 1853.

 364                        notices or the meetings                     [Feb. 6,
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L., F.R.S.— (continued).
       Monatsberichte der Konigl. Preuss. Akademie, Sept. — Dec. 1853. 8vo.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXVI. Nos. 4—6. Vol.
      XXVII. No. 1. 8vo. 1853—4.
 Graham, George, Esq., Registrar-General — Census of Great Britain, 1851:
      Religious Worship — England and "Wales. Report and Tables. 8vo. 1853.
 Hamilton, Edward, M.D., F.L.S., M.R.I, (the Author) — Flora Horoceopathica.
    Vol. II. 8vo. 1853.
 Hellyer, W. V., Esq., M.RI. — Remarks by Col. Chesney, D.C.L. F.R.S.,
      on the Tubular Life-boat invented by H. Richardson, Esq. 16mo. 1853.
 Hesheth, R., Esq. (the Author) — '* Shall the New Street between the Eastern
      and Western Parts of the Metropolis be Straight or Crooked ? " 8vo. 1854.
 Horticultural Society of London — Journal, Vol. IX. Part1. 8vo. 1854.
 Irish Academy, Royal — Proceedings, Vol. II. and Vol. V. Part 3. 8vo.
      1840—53.
 London, University of — The London University Calendar, 1854. 12mo. 1854.
 Lovell, E. B., Esq., M.R.[.(the Editor) —Monthly Digest, Dec. 1853, Jan. 1854.
 Maury, M.F., Lieut. U.S.N. (Superintendent of the National Observatory,
      Washington) — Official Report of the United States Expedition to explore
     the Dead Sea and the River Jordan. By Lieut. W. F Lynch, U.S.N. 4to.
     Baltimore, U.S. 1852.
   Maury's Sailing Directions. Fifth Edition. 4to. Washington, 1853.
Novello, Messrs. (the Publishers) —fhe Musical Times, Jan. and Feb. 1854.
Parker, J. W., Esq. — Poetical Works of John Dryden. Edited by R. Bell.
     Vol. I. 16mo. 1854.
Parkyns, Mansfield, Esq., M.R.I, (the Author) — Life in Abyssinia; being
     Notes collected during Three years' Residence and Travels in that country.
     2 Vols. 8vo. 1853.
Petermann, A. Esq. (the Author) —Royal Geographical Kalendar for 1854.
Photographic Society — Journal, No. 12. 8vo. 1853.
Pollock, F., Esq., M.R.I. (the Translator) — The Divine Comedy of Dante. With
     Illustrations by G. Scharf. 8vo. 1854.
Royal Society of London — Proceedings, No. 99. 8vo. 1853.
Sabine, Col. Edward, R.A., V P. R. S. (the Author) — On the Influence of the
     Moon on Magnetic Declination, &c. (Phil. Trans.) 4to. 1853.
Shelford, Leonard, Esq. (the Author) — The Law of Copyholds, and the Copy
     hold Acts ; with Notes. 12mo. 1853.
Smith, John, Esq. Mus. D. (the Author) —A Treatise on the Theory and Practice
     of Music. 4to. 1853.
Society of Arts— Journal, Nos. 55— 63. 8vo. 1853—4.
Statistical Society — Journal, Vol. XVI. Part 4. 8vo. 1853.
St. Petersbourg, I'Academie Imperiale des Sciences de — Memoires, Sixieme
    SeVie. Sciences Mathematiques. Tome V. Livraisons 5 et 6. 4to. 1853.
Thimm, Mr. F. (the Publisher) — Deutsches Athenaum, Jan. 1854.
Tyndall, Professor, J., Ph. D., F.R S. — Untersuchungen fiber die Heizkraft der
    wichtigeren Brennstoffe des Preussischen Staates, von Dr. P. W. Brix.
    4to. Berlin, 1853.
Twining, Thomas, Jun., Esq., M.R.I, (the Author) — Letters on the Condition
    of the Working Classes of Nassau. 8vo. 1853.
Ward, N. B., Esq., F.R.S., F.L.S. (the Author)— On the Growth of Plants in
    Closely-Glazed Cases. 2nd Edition. 12mo. 1852.
Williams, John, Esq. (the Author) — Chinese Numismatics. 8vo. 1853.

 1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                   365
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 10.
       Right Hon. BARON PARKE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                       PROFESSOR OWEN, F.R.S.
               On the Structure and Homologies of Teeth.
THE Lecturer commenced by observing that, although the teeth
were among the least vitalised of animal parts, and commonly
possessed no power of repairing fracture or decay, they presented
many phenomena of anatomical, physiological, and homological
interest, a selection from which he proposed to offer as the sub
ject of the evening's discourse.
   Any hard body attached to the walk and projecting into the cavity
of the mouth, where it is exposed to view when the mouth is
open, is called a tooth : but the parts properly so called, are those
which consist of a gelatinous basis, hardened by earthy salts, in
which the phosphate of lime predominates. Such teeth are pecu
liar to the Vertebrate Classes. In them they present manifold
varieties as to number, size, form, structure, position, and mode
of attachment, but are principally adapted for seizing, tearing, di
viding, pounding, or grinding the food ; in some species they are
modified to serve as formidable weapons of offence and defence ;
in others as aids in locomotion, means of anchorage, instruments
for uprooting or cutting down trees, or for transport and working
of building materials ; they are characteristic of age and sex ; and
in man they have secondary relations subservient to beauty, and to
speech.
   Teeth are always intimately related to the food and habits of the
animal, and are therefore highly interesting to the physiologist :
they form for the same reason important guides to the naturalist
in the classification of animals ; and their value, as zoological
characters, is enhanced by the facility with which, from their
position, they can be examined in living or recent animals ; whilst
the durability of their tissues renders them not less available to
the palaeontologist in the determination of the nature and affinities
of extinct species, of whose organisation they are often the sole
remains discoverable in the deposits of former periods of the
earth's history.
   Teeth are not of an uniform tissue or substance like bone : that
which forms the body of the tooth is called " dentine ," the tissue
which forms the outer crust is called " cement ;" and in most
Vertebrata a third substance is situated between the dentine and
cement, culled " enamel." The characteristics of these three
                                                   DD5

366                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [Fe6. 10,
primary tissues of a tooth were briefly defmed : they differ in
hardness, the cement being least dense, the enamel most.
    The tubular structure of the dentine relates to the disposition
of the hard material so as best to resist pressure, and to the cir
culation of plasma, transuded from the pulp through the dentine,
so as to maintain a certain, though languid, vitality of the
tissue.
    Some secondary modifications of the chief tissue of teeth were
noticed under the names of osteo-dentine, vaso-dentine, vitro-
 dcntine, dendro-dentine and labyrintho-dentine : the latter highly
 complex and beautiful modification, being due rather to a modi
 fication of disposition, than of composition of the dentine itself.
 The singular labyrinthic interblending of the dentine and cement,
 reaches its maximum of complexity in the teeth of some gigantic
 extinct batrachian Reptiles, from the Triassic formations, called
 from their distinct peculiarities " Labyrinthodonts."
    The chief varieties in the form of the teeth in Fishes were then
 enumerated, and more especially illustrated in the predatory Pike,
 the vegetarian Carp, the shell-crushing Myliobntes and the coral-
 browzing Scarus. The elastic attachment of the teeth of the
 Lophius, and the mode of growth and succession of the Shark's
 numerous teeth were explamed.
    From the class of Reptiles examples of dental structure were
 selected ; from the Serpent-tribes, in relation to the poison-appa
 ratus, and from the Crocodile, in respect of the constant succes
 sion and displacement of the teeth. The structure of the teeth
 of the extinct Iguanodon and Megalosaurus was also noticed.
     The Mammiiliun class might be divided in regard to the suc
 cession of the teeth, into two groups — the Monophyodonts, or
  those that generate but one set of teeth, and the Diphyodonts, or
 those that generate two sets of teeth.
     The Monophyodonts include the Cetacea and the Bruta (Eden
  tata of Cuvier); all the other Orders are Diphyodonts.
     The teeth of the Mammalia, especially the Diphyodonts, have
  usually so much more definite and complex a form than those of
  fishes and reptiles, that three parts are recognised in them : va.
  the " fang," the " neck," and the " crown." The fang or root
  (radii) is the inserted part ; the crown (corona) the exposed
  part ; and the constriction which divides these is called the neck
  (cervix). The term " fang" is properly given only to the im
  planted part of a tooth of restricted growth, which fang gradually
  tapers to its extremity ; those teeth which grow uninterruptedly
  have not their exposed part separated by a neck from their im
  planted part, and this generally maintains to its extremity the same
  shnpe and size as the exposed crown.
     It is peculiar to the class Mammalia to have teeth implanted in
  sockets by two or more fangs ; but this can only happen to teeth
  of limited growth, and generally characterises the molars and

1854.]              OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    367
premolars ; perpetually growing teeth require the base to be kept
simple and widely excavated for the persistent pulp. In no mam-
miferous animal does anchylosis of the tooth' with the jaw con
stitute a normal mode of -attachment. Each tooth has its par
ticular socket, to which it firmly adheres by the close co-adapta
tion of their opposed surfaces, and by the firm adhesion of the
alveolar periosteum to the organised cement which invests the fang
or fangs of the tooth.
   True teeth implanted in sockets are confined, in the Mamma
lian class, to the maxillary, premaxillary, and mandibular, or
lower maxillary bones, and form a single row in each. They may
project only from the premaxillary bones, as in the Narwhal, or
only from the lower maxillary bone, as in Ziphius ; or be apparent
only in the lower maxillary bone, as in the Cachalot ; or be limited
to the superior and inferior maxillaries, and not present in the
premaxillaries, as in the true Kuminants and most Bruta.
   The teeth of the Mammalia usually consist of hard unvascular
dentine, defended at the crown by an investment of enamel, and
everywhere surrounded by a coat of cement. The coronal cement
is of extreme tenuity in Man, Quadrumana, and terrestrial Car-
nivora ; it is thicker in the Herbivora, especially in the complex
grinders of the Elephant; and is thickest in the teeth of the
Sloths, Megatherioids, Dugong, Walrus, and Cachalot. Vertical
folds of enamel and cement penetrate the crown of the tooth in
the Ruminants, and in most Rodents and Pachyderms, charac
terising by their various forms the genera of the last two orders ;
but these folds never converge from equidistant points of the
 circumference of the crown towards its centre. The teeth of the
quadrupeds of the order Bruta (Edentata, Cuv.) have no true
 enamel; this is absent likewise in the molars of the Dugong and
 the Cachalot. The tusks of the Narwhal, Walrus, Dinotherium,
 Mastodon, and Elephant, consist of modified dentine, which, in
 the last two great proboscidian animals is properly called " ivory,"
 and is covered by cement.
    The Dolphins and Armadillos present little variety in the shape
 of teeth in the same animal, the teeth are often very numerous ;
 and this sameness of form is characteristic of most of the mono-
pbyodonts.
    In almost all the other Mammalia, particular teeth hare special
 forms for special uses : thus, the front teeth, from being commonly
 adapted to effect the first coarse division of the food, have been
 called cutters or incisors ,- and the back teeth, which complete its
 comminution, grinders or molars; large conical teeth, situated
 behind the incisors, and adapted by being nearer the insertion
 of the biting muscles, to act with greater force, are called
 holders, tearers, laniaries, or more commonly canine teeth, from
 being well developed in the dog and other Carnivora, although
 they are given, likewise, to many vegetable feeders for defence
 or combat : e. g. Musk-deer.

368                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS              [/•'/;. 10,
   Molar teeth, which are adapted for mastication, have either
tuberculate, or transversely ridged, or flat summits, and usually
are either surrounded by a ridge of enamel, or are traversed by
similar ridges arranged in various patterns. Certain molars in
the Dugong, the Mylodon, and the Zeuglodon, are so deeply in
dented laterally by opposite longitudinal grooves, as to appear,
•when abraded, to be composed of two cylindrical teeth cemented to
gether, and the transverse section of the crown is bilobed. The
teeth of the Glyptodon were fluted by two analogous grooves on
each side. The large molars of the Capybara and Elephant have
the crown cleft into a numerous series of compressed transverse
plates, cemented together side by side.
   The modifications of the crown of the molar teeth are those
that are most intimately related to the kind of food of the animal
possessing them. Illustrations were given of the chief of these
modifications in the purely Carnivorous mammals, where the
molars are simple, trenchant, and play upon each other like scissor-
blades : in the mixed feeding species where the working; surface
of the molars is flattened or tuberculated : in the insectivorous
species where it is bristled with sharp points : and in the purely
herbivorous kinds, where the broad grinding surfaces of the teeth
are complicated by folds and ridges of the enamel entering the
substance of the tooth : the most complex forms being presented
by the Elephants.
   Teeth of each of the kind above determined, and arbitrarily
named " incisors," " canines," " molars," have received other
special names, in regard to certain peculiarities of form or other
property ; and the ablest comparative anatomists have been led
astray in determining their homologies when they have suffered
themselves to be guided exclusively by morphological characters.
The small anterior grinding teeth in the human subject have been
called " bicuspids." The penultimate upper tooth and the last
lower tooth in the Lion are termed, from their peculiar form,
" sectorials," or " carnassial teeth," " molaires carnassieres " of
Cuvier. Teeth of an elongated conical form, projecting consider
ably beyond the rest, and of uninterrupted growth, are called
" tusks ; " such are the incisors of the Elephant and Dugong, and
 the canines of the Boar and Walrus : the long and large incisors of
the Rodents have been termed, from the shape and structure of
 their cutting edge, scalpriform or chisel-teeth, "dentes scalprariL"
 The inferior incisors of the flying Lemurs (Galeopithecus) have the
crown deeply notched like a comb, and are termed "denies pecti-
tiati." The canines of the Baboons are deeply grooved in front,
 like the poison fangs, " dentet canaliculati," of some serpents.
 The compressed conical crowns of the molar teeth of the small
 clawed seals, Stenorhynchut, are divided either like a trident into
 three sharp points, or like a saw, into four or five points; the
 molars of the great extinct Zeuglodon had a similar form > such

 1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                  369
 teeth have been called dentes serrati. But the philosophical course
 of the knowledge of nature tends to explode needless terms of art,
 invented for unimportant varieties, and to establish and fix the
 meaning of those words that are the signs of determinate species
of things.
   The Cuviers divided the molar series of teeth, according to their
form, into three kinds : " false molars," " carnassials," and " tu
bercular molars ; " and, in giving the generic characters of
Mammalia, based the dental formula: on this system : thus the
genus Felis is characterised as having " fausses molaires 2—2 *
                1 — 1,. ,     ,     1—1    _8.,
carnassieres        — tuberculeuses      ; — -•
                1— 1                0—0       6
   In a diagram of the leading modifications of Diphyodont denti
tion, an uninterrupted line marked " Cuvier " was made to intersect
the teeth in each jaw of the Carnivora, called by that great anato
mist, "carnassieres ;" those anterior to them being the teeth which
he called "fausses molaires ; " those behind being the " tubercu
leuses." Most zoologists, both at home and abroad, have adopted
the Cuvierian system of formulising the molar teeth. Prof. De
Illaitivilli', however, abandoned that classification of the molar
series, without assigning his objections to it ; and proposed another,
in which he divides the series into "avant-molaires," "principales,"
and " arriere-molaires ;" he exemplifies this division by the human
dentition, in which the five grinders on each side of both jaws are
formulised as " two avant-molaires, one principale, and two
arriere-molaires." The teeth regarded by De Blainville as the
homologues of these, were indicated in the diagram above referred to
by a dotted line intersecting the "dent principale" in each species.
   Truly homologous teeth are determined, like other parts, by
their relative position, by their connections, and by their de
velopment. The teeth of one side of the jaw repeat, are an
swerable to, or are homotypes, of the teeth on the other side ; and
those in the upper jaw usually correspond, in like manner, to
those in the under jaw.
   Those teelh which are implanted in the premaxillary bones,
nnd in the corresponding part of the lower jaw, are called
" incisors," whatever be their shape or size. The tooth in the
maxillary bone, which is situated at, or near to, the suture with
the premaxillary, is the "canine," as is also that tooth in the
lower jaw which, in opposing it, passes in front of its crown
when the mouth is closed. The first-formed incisors and canines
are deciduous ; they are succeeded and displaced vertically by
the permanent incisors and canines. With regard to the other
teeth, their true nature, and homologies, about which the dif
ference of opinion has chiefly prevailed amongst anatomists, are
detcrminable not by shape or size, or by relative position to the

370                 NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [Feb. 10,
zygoma, but by developmental characters exclusively. The first
set are the " deciduous molars ; " the teeth which displace and
succeed them vertically are the " premolars ; " the more posterior
teeth, which are not displaced by vertical successors, but succeed
each other horizontally, are the " molars " properly so called.
   The phenomena of the development and succession of the
teeth were then explained and illustrated in examples of Carnivo
rous, Herbivorous, and mixed-feeding species of Diphyodont
Mammalia.
   Genus Felit.—In the Cat, the deciduous incisors begin to appear
between two and three weeks old ; the canines next, and then the
molars follow, the whole being in place before the sixth week.
After the seventh month they begin to full in the same order ; but
the lower sectorial molar and the tubercular tooth above, appear
before the deciduous molars arc shed ; they do not push out any
predecessors, and have no successors ; they are, therefore, true
molars. The first deciduous molar in the upper jaw is a very
small and simple one-fanged tooth ; it is succeeded by the corre
sponding tooth of the permanent series, which answers to the
second premolar of the hyaena and dog. The second deciduous
molar is the sectorial tooth ; its blade is trilobate, but both the
anterior and posterior smaller lobes are notched, and the internal
tubercle, which is relatively larger than in the permanent sectorial,
is continued from the base of the middle lobe, as in the deciduous
sectorial of the dog and hyaena ; it thus typifies the form of the
upper sectorial, which is retained in the permanent dentition of
several Viverrine and Musteline species. The third or internal
fang of the deciduous sectorial is continued from the inner
tubercle, and is opposite the interspace of the two outer fangs.
The Musteline type is further adhered to by the young Feline in
the large proportional size of its deciduous tubercular tooth. In
the lower jaw, the first milk-molar is succeeded by a tooth which
answers to the third lower premolar in the dog and civet. The
deciduous sectorial, which is succeeded by the premolar, an
swering to the fourth in the dog, has a smaller proportional
anterior lobe, and a larger posterior talon, which is usually
 notched ; thereby approaching the form of the permanent lower
sectorial tooth in the Mustelida. The last tooth which is func
tionally analogous to the carnassial above, is the first of the true
molar series, and is the homotype of the little tubercular tooth
above.
   The true nature of the dentition of the Lion and other Felines,
as determined by the above -phenomena of development is:—
*•       ' c'      ' '          m'       ! ""1*11 that there are
3 incisors, 1 canine, 3 premolars and 1 molar, on each side of the
upper jaw, and the same, with the exception of a small premolar,
 on each side of the lower jaw. The teeth, which are the seat of

   1854.]             OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     371
the sectorial or carnassial modifications, are not homologous or
bomotypal in the two jaws.
     In the genus Ursus the dentition was, in like manner, shown
to ,be :— i.. 3 —3 , c. 1 — 1 •, p. 4—4 , m. 2—2 = 4?.   ._
               3—3         1 — 1 ' 4—4         3—3
     In the Hog, four deciduous molars are succeeded by four
premolars, vertically ; and three molars are developed in hori
zontal succession behind these, the dental formula being : —
t.. 3—3 , c. 1 — 1 , p. 4—4 , m. 3—3 = 44.
     3—3        1—1        4—4       3—3
     This number of teeth is never surpassed in the Diphyodont
series ; and the Lecturer regarded it as the typical dentition.
It is, however, rarely maintained in existing species, but appears
to have been much more common in extinct Mammalia, es
pecially those from the most ancient tertiary epochs ; illustrations
of which were given in the Hyanoilun, and Hyopotamus, and
examples cited in the extinct genera Chteropotamus, Anthraco-
therium, Hyracotherium, Oplotherivm Meryco/iotamus, Hippohyus,
Anoplotherium, Palaotherium und Paloplutherium. In the three
latter genera, Professor Owen had determined the nature of the
molar series to be the same as in the Hog, by specimens shewing
the deciduous dentition.
     In the hoofed quadrupeds with toes in uneven number (Peris-
sodactylu), whose premolars, for the most part, repeat both the
form and the complex structure of the true molars, such pre
molars are distinguished by the same character of development
as those of the Artiodactyla, or Ungulates with toes in even
number ; although here the premolars are distinguished also by
modifications of size and shape.
     In most of the South American Quadrumana, the number of
teeth as contrasted with the Monkeys of Africa and Asia, is in
creased to thirty-six, by an addition of one tooth to the molar
series on each side of both jaws. It might be concluded ii priori,
that as three is the typical number of true molars in the placental
Mammalia with two sets of teeth, the additional tooth in the New-
World Monkeys would be a premolar, and form one step to the
resumption of the normal number (four) of that kind of teeth.
The proof of the accuracy of this inference was given by the state
of the dentition in the young of the Howler-Monkey (Mycetes) in
which a diagram was exhibited of a dissection of the jaws, expos
ing the germs of the permanent teeth : the crown of a premolar
being found above the third milk-molar in place, as well as above
the second and first. As regards number, therefore, the molar
series, in Mycetes, is intermediate between that of the bear, Ursus,
and i't-.lis ; the little premolar p. i. in Ursus, tells plainly enough
which of the four is wanting to complete the typical number in the
South American Monkey, and which is the additional premolar

372                    NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS                 [Feb. 10,
distinguishing its dental formula from that of the Old World
monkeys and man.
    With regard to the Human Dentition, the discovery, by the
great poet Goethe, of the limits of the premaxillary bone in man,
leads to the determination of the incisors, which are reduced, as in
Apes and Monkeys, to two on each side of both jaws ; the con
tiguous tooth shows by its shape, as well as position, that it is the
canine; and the characters of size and shape have also served to
divide the remaining five teeth in each lateral series into two
bicuspids and three molars. In this instance, as in the dentition
of the bear, the secondary characters conform with the essential
ones. But since we have seen of how little value shape or size are,
giestheoforder
in             Carnivora,
          the teeth, it is satisfactory
                            in the determination
                                        to know that     more homolo-
                                                  of the exact  constant
and important character of development gives the requisite certi
tude as to the nature of the so-called bicuspids in the human
subject. The condition of the teeth was shown in the jaws of a
child of about six years of age. The two incisors on each side are
followed by a canine, and this by three teeth having crowns re
sembling those of the three molar teeth of the adult. In fact, the
last of the three is the first of the permanent molars ; it has
pushed through the gum, like the two molars which are in
advance of it, without displacing any previous tooth, and the
substance of the jaw contains no germ of any tooth destined to
displace it : it is therefore, by this character of its development,
a true molar, and the germs of the permanent teeth, which are ex
posed in the substance of the jaw between the diverging fangs of
the two anterior molars, prove them to be temporary, destined to
be replaced, and prove also that the teeth about to displace them
are premolars. According, therefore, to the rule previously laid
down, we count the permanent molar in place, the first of its
series, and the adjoining premolar as the last of its series, and
consequently the fourth of the typical dentition ; the next pre
molar in advance being the penultimate or third of the typical
series.
    We are thus enabled, with the same scientific certainty as that
whereby we recognise in the middle toe of the foot the homologue
of that great digit which forms the whole foot, and is encased by
the hoof in the horse, to point to the second bicuspid in the upper
jaw, and to the first molar in the lower jaw of man, as the homo-
logues of the great carnassial teeth of the lion and tiger. We also
conclude that the teeth which are wanting in man to complete the
typical molar series, are the first and second premolars, the homo-
logues of those which were marked in the diagram of the den
tition of the bear. The characteristic shortening of the maxillary
bones required this diminution of the number of their teeth, as
well as of their size, and of the canines more especially ; and the
 still greater curtailment of the premaxillary bone is attended with

 1854.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     373
a diminished number and an altered position of the incisors. One
sees, indeed, in the carnivorous series, that a corresponding de
crease in the number of the premolars is concomitant with the
molar   belowof istheabrogated
shortening                      ; in Felts
                       jaws. Already    in also
                                           the Musttlidx,
                                                above, with     first
                                                           thethe     pre-
                                                                   further
loss of the second premolar in the lower jaw ; the true molars
being correspondingly reduced in these strictly flesh-eating ani
mals, but taken away from the back part of their series.
   If we were desirous of further testing the soundness of the
foregoing conclusions as to the nature of the teeth absent in the
reduced dental formula of man, we ought to trace the mode in
which the type is progressively resumed in descending from man
through the order most nearly allied to our own.
   Through a considerable part of the Quadrumanous series, e. g.
in all the Old World genera above the Lemurs, the same number
and kinds of teeth are present as in man ; the first deviation being
the disproportionate size of the canines and the concomitant break
or "diastema" in the dental series for the reception of their
crowns when the mouth is shut. This is manifested in both the
Chimpanzees and Orangs, together with a sexual difference in the
proportions of the canine teeth. Then comes the added pre
molar in the New- World Monkeys, and the further additions in
lower quadrupeds, until in the Hog genus we see the old primi
tive type of Diphyodont dentition resumed or retained.
   With regard to the application of the above principles and
characters to other or newly discovered species : —When the
premolars and the molars are below their typical number, the
absent teeth are missing from the fore-part of the premolar series
and from the back part of the molar series. The most constant
teeth are the fourth premolar and the first true molar ; and, these
logies known
being   of the by     their order
                  remaining   molars
                                  and and
                                       modepremolars  are determined
                                             of development,   the homo-by
counting the molars from before backwards, e. g. " one," " two,"
"three;" and the premolars from behind forwards, " four,"
" three," " two," " one." The incisors are counted from the
median line, commonly the foremost part of both upper and lower
jaws, outwards and backwards. The first incisor of the right
side is the homotype, transversely, of the contiguous incisor of
the left side in the same jaw, and, vertically, if its opposing tooth
in the opposite jaw ; and so with regard to the canines, pre
molars, and molars ; just as the right arm is the homotype of
the left arm in its own segment, and* also of the right leg of a
succeeding segment. It suffices, therefore to reckon and name
the teeth of one side of either jaw in a species with the typical
number and kinds of teeth; e. g-. the first, second, and third in
cisors,— the first, second, third, and fourth premolars,— the first,
second, and third molars ; and of one side of both jaws in
any case.

374                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.                [Feb. \ 0. 1 854.
    The homologous teeth being' thus determinable, they may be
severally signified by a symbol as well as by a name. The in
cisors, . . g., by their initial letter /'., and individually by an added
number,byi. the
molars               2, and
               1, i.letter          ; the
                           p. t.; 3and the canines
                                            molars by
                                                    by the   letterc. m.
                                                        theletter        ; these
                                                                      ; the  pre-
also being differentiated by added numerals. Thus, the number
of these teeth, on each side of both jaws, in any given species,
Man e. g., may be expressed by the following brief formula :—
«.. 2——,2 c. 1 — 1 , p. 2—1 , vi. 3—3 — 31; and, the                ,
                                                              ., homologies, .
    2—2          1 — 1 ' 2—2              3—3
of the individual teeth, in relation to the typical formula, may be
signified by i. 1., i. 2. ; c. ; p. 3:', p. 4.; m. I., m. 2., m. 3. : the
suppressed teeth being i. 3., p. 1., and p. 2.
    These symbols are so plain and simple as to form no obstacle to
the ready comprehension of the facts explained by means of them.
Were those facts described in the ordinary way, by means of the
verbal phrases or definitions of the teeth ; as for example, in Man,
" the second deciduous molar, representing the fourth deciduous
molar in the typical dentition," instead of rf. 4, and so on, the de
scriptions of the manifold modifications of the teeth and of dental
development must continue to occupy much unnecessary space,
and levy such a tax upon the attention and memory, as would in
evitably tend to enfeeble the judgment and impair the power of
seizing and appreciating the results of the comparison.
    Each year's experience had strengthened the Lecturer's con
viction that the rapid and successful progress of the knowledge
of animal structures, and of the generalizations deducible there
from, would be mainly influenced by the determination of the
homology of parts and organs, and by the concomitant power of
condensing the propositions relating to them, and attaching to
them signs or symbols, equivalent to their single substantive
names. In the Lecturer's work on the " Archetype of the
Skeleton," he had denoted most of the bones by simple numerals :
the symbols of the teeth are fewer in number, are easily under
stood and remembered ; and, if generally adopted, might take the
place of named : they would, then, render unnecessary the endless
repetition of the verbal definition of the part, harmonise conflicting
synonyms, serve as a universal language, and at the same time
express the expositor's meaning in the fewest and clearest terms.
The Entomologist had long found the advantage of such signs as
   £ and 5 , in reference to the sexes of Insects and the like ; and
the Anatomist would find if to his advantage to avail himself of
this powerful instrument of thought, instruction, and discovery,
from which the Chemist, the Astronomer, and the Geometrician
have obtained such important results.                                 [R. O.]

                     [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
        ttoral Institutton of dsreat oantain.
                                  1854.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, February 17.
       Right Hon. BARON PARKK, Vice-President, in the Chair.
                    JOHN CONOLLY, M.D., D.C.L.
                      On the Characters of Insanity.
HOWEVER various the forms of Insanity appear to the inexperienced
visitor of an Asylum, it is found that in every case there is either
Mania or Melancholia, only varying in degree and manifestation.
There is either excitement or depression, more or less continued, and
more or less influencing the mental faculties. It may perhaps be
strictly said that all the forms of mental disorder are dependent on
one of three states of the Nervous System,— a state of increased, or
a state of diminished, or a state of unequal excitement of that system.
There is almost always accompanying disorder of some of the bodily
functions ; of the circulation, which is so implicated with the nervous
system ; and of digestion and assimilation ; and of the function by
which animal heat is preserved and regulated. Sleep is always im
perfect. The improvement of the bodily health usually precedes
mental recovery. Recent, or chronic mania, or recent or chronic
melancholia, may appear in paroxysms, or may persist without inter
vals of mitigation. They may appear alternately. The delusions
usually accompanying the malady may appear in the paroxysms only,
or remain permanently even in the intervals. All other forms of
Insanity appear to be mere varieties, or complications, or results.
    Mania is usually ushered in by a change in the ordinary habits of
life. Impatience in business, irritability, fits of silent thought, in
 pient disorder.
attention          Irregularitydisregard
            to appearances,              of and
                                 as to diet,         — characterise in
                                             hours,restlesj
 general alteration of countenance and manner at* observed. The
 face and figure undergo unfavourable change \jht manners become
 morose ; innumerable letters are written,, chiefly on public affairs.
 The patient thinks he is accused of crimes/ and prepares to resist
 going to prison ; or he escapes, and wandei's over the country ; or
 rushes into the streets and declaims loudly,' or commits actions of
 violence. In Melancholia the patient often 'thinks himself reduced to
 poverty, and without hope in this world or tfre next ; and expresses
 an intention to destroy himself, and attempts to do so. Women are
 among the most frequent subjects of melancholia ; they become in-
      No. 18.                                             EE

  376                         NOTICBS OF THB MEETINGS                 [Feb. 17,
  (1. ili-iit , apathetic, silent, indifferent to all around them ; they accuse
  themselves of unpardonable sins, and refuse all religious consolation.
  This state often arises from disappointment of the affections, some
  times from some sudden mental shock, and not nnfrequently from
  mere debility. The disposition to suicide is manifested with an in
  genuity and perseverance which demand incessant watching. But
  all these miserable symptoms of malady are often recovered from.
       In the above forms of mental disorder it is found, in a large pro
  portion of instances, that there is a constitutional disposition in the
  patient disposing him to such attacks. Another, and a very peculiar and
  serious form often arises without any known predisposition ; and this
  form of malady seems to be becoming more common than formerly.
  Forty years ago, it was not known, or not described ; and except
 among physicians familiar with the insane, its characters are scarcely
 yet distinctly recognised. It appears in men of all classes of life,
 hut seldom in women. Its causes are most commonly to be found
 in anxieties, over- exertion in depressing circumstances, reverses, and
 shocks. In some instances intemperance, and in others violent in
 juries of the head, seem to induce it. Its commencement is marked
 by a more singular disregard of ordinary circumstances and of pru
 dential habits than any other form of insanity. Business is neg
 lected, new pursuits are adopted, expense is needlessly incurred in
 the gratification of extravagant fancies. The patient considers him
 self on the eve of possessing great wealth and high rank. He boasts
 of his accomplishments, and speaks of vast designs which he is to
 accomplish. His temper becomes capricious; contradiction or doubt
 exasperate him ; and his occasional violence alarms his family. The
 physician finds these mental peculiarities associated with a peculiar
 lingering in the speech, and a very slight alteration in the mode of
 walking : but his patient is in the highest spirits, and acknowledges
 no consciousness of illness : he is pleased, however, to see his
 physician ; pleased to go from home ; pleased with an asylum if
 placed in one ; and satisfied for a time with every thing. Now and
 then paroxysms of irritability disturb him ; and his malady makes
 rapid advances ; sometimes, however, seeming to recede, but always,
 in reality, making progress to more and more indistinct speech,
 greater loss of general muscular power, and increased feebleness of
 mind. Nutrition goes on well, and the exhilaration of the spirits often
 remains when the patient can no longer walk, or speak so as to be
 understood. Although, by care, the patient's life may be prolonged
 for some years, 1 believe this form of malady to be incurable. Its
 usual denomination is General Paralysis. It might, I think, be more
 correctly called the Paralysis of the Insane. I have never known it
 exist without mental disorder.
     The Insanity of Old Age is another form of disease incidental to
persons of very various intellectual power; coming on in some
instances even before the age of sixty, but more usually in much
more advanced periods of life. It is often characterised by melan-
.choly, a fear of poverty, and paroxyms of maniacal excitement

 1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    377
associated with the memory of past years ; followed by a tranquil
state of imbecility, in which the most familiar faces and places are
feebly recognised, or not at all.
   Divisions of insanity have sometimes been based on mere varieties
of its mode of manifestation ; as Pyromania, characterised by a
propensity to set fire to buildings, &c. ; Kleptomania, with a pro
pensity to theft. But in these cases, as in othera where the pre
vailing tendency is to homicide, &c. a full investigation generally
reveals wider impairment of the mind. Even the terms Monomania,
or madness on one subject only, and Moral Insanity, or exclusive
disorder of the moral feelings, have been far too extensively applied,
and with some inconvenience ; although their precise distinction is
important in relation to crime. The occupations and amusements
of the insane are often as fixed and determined as their more serious
propensities. One man is always writing letters ; another engaged
in calculations ; music alone delights others ; and gardening and
various work form to most of them the chief solace of their lives.
Some are only active in devising mischief, and others, more dis
ordered in intellect, talk and write with curious incoherence.
   The state of Delusion, although common to so many cases, seems
at first sight the most unaccountable of all the phenomena of mad
ness : but its nature affords perhaps the clearest illustration of what
Unsound Mind really is. A mere definition of insanity seems im
possible. Unsound Mind, being the converse of Sound Mind, is a
complicated state : for soundness of mind depends on the integrity
and due relation to each other of many faculties ; and it is the im
pairment of this integrity and the interruption of this due relation
which constitutes unsoundness of mind. Such impairment may
primarily exist in the sensations, or in the attention, or in the ima
gination, or in the memory, or in the affections and propensities ;
but it is the degree of the impairment, and the obstruction it creates
to comparing and judging, which make the mind unsound, and
lead to irrational conclusions and conduct. The various shades of
insanity depend upon the extent and nature of the impairment of
any of the faculties, and the degree in which it interrupts their
due and co-ordinate exercise, and impedes due comparison and con
sequently perverts the judgment.
   Several instances are recorded of persons being subject to ocular
or aural hallucinations, or to both together, and for a length of time ;
but yet continuing sensible that they were only hallucinations. If
the figures and voices are judged to be real in any case, the mind -
is on that subject unsound , and the consequences of this unsound/-
ness are often dangerous. When the hallucinations are recognised
to be hallucinations, the person can compare them with realities,, and
his judgment concerning them is correct. When they are beVieved
to be real, this power of comparing is lost, and the judgmjent is
incorrect, and the resulting conduct is that of an insane person.
The soliloquy of Macbeth, when, in the agitation of his mmd be
fore the murder of the king, he imagines that a dagger appears

 378                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Feft. 17,
 before him, furnishes a remarkahle illustration of the struggle be
 tween delusion and reality, and the final triumph of the exercise
  of the comparing faculty. After the murder, he is less successful ;
  and he believes that the ghost of Banquo fills a chair at the supper-
 table, although none of his guests are discomposed. For the time,
 and to that extent, he is then of unsound reind.
    This kind of illustration might be extended to cases in which not
 the senses, but the memory, or even the affections or propensities,
 are primarily affected : but it is always to be remembered, that it is
 the degree in which any faculty is impaired, and the extent of its
 influence over the judgment, and the form and tendency of the re
 sulting actions, which justify interference. A man may think his
 figure changed, or his rank ; or he may believe in monitory voices
 addressed to him alone ; and yet his conduct may be harmless, and
 he may possess, as regards his property, a sound disposing mind.
    We endeavour, but without success, to find any intelligible
 explanation of the mental functions in health, or their disturbance
 in disease, in what anatomy or physiology have taught us respecting
 the arrangements and functions of nerves, or ganglia, or the brain.
 The distinct character and office of the vesicular or grey matter of
 the nervous substance, and the fibrous or white matter, have been
 clearly established : the recipient and governing character of the
 vesicular portion ; and the messenger- office of the nerve-fibres, with
 its impassable limits as regards the offices of different fibres and
 different nerves. The functions of the spinal cord and the nerves
 proceeding from it ; the reflex actions apparently originating in it,
 independently in ordinary cases, of the brain, and yet not dissociated
 from it ; the offices of the complicated system called ganglionic or
 sympathetic, extending over important functions distinct from those
 of the spinal cord, and yet implicated with them, and not depending
 on the brain or will, and yet, in various exigencies, influenced by
 them ; the various arrangement of the vesicular matter in the
 ganglia, and in the spinal column, and in the separate masses at the
 base of the brain, and in the larger mass of the brain itself; have all
 been investigated with the utmost patience and skill. Many general
conclusions, and some more minute and precise, have been arrived
 at. Nerves of motion have been distinguished from nerves of
sensation, and traced to distinct portions of the spine ; the function
of respiration, indispensable to life, has been found to depend on the
integrity of a point of grey or vesicular matter in the medulla oblon-
i^ata ; the co-ordinate motion of the muscles has been assigned as
onif- of the uses of the cerebellum ; the sense of sight has been
provt-d to be lodged in the smaller masses called the corpora quad-
ragem^na ; and, in the higher animals, all these functions are known
to be subservient to and dependent on the integrity of the brain for
their continuance ; whilst to this superadded and large portion of
the nervous system we assign the manifestation of the propensities,
of the affectioas, and of the mental faculties of man ; as, without a
brain, lucre is m/ intellectual life. An influence extends from or to

1854.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    379
the vesicular portions of nervous matter, transmitted along the
nervous fibres. If a nerve of sensation or of motion is divided,
sensation and motion no longer exist below the divided part ; if the
spinal column is injured, the parts supplied with nerves from portions
of it below the injured portion are deprived of motion and of sensa
tion. If the medulla oblongata is severely injured, respiration
ceases. If the brain itself is variously injured or diseased, the sen
sations become untrue, the movements irregular, all the bodily
functions usually suffer more or less disorder, and the mental
faculties are variously impaired. But as nothing that we know of
the optic nerve and its association with the corpora quadragemina
explains the wonders of sight or the sense of the beautiful ; and as
the auditory nerve and its origins have no intelligible relation to
the sense of melody : so, in equal ignorance, we curiously examine
the convolutions of the brain, and fail to discover the repositories
of memory, or any clue to its capricious failures or revelations. We
are incapable of conceiving the connection between these arrange
ments of matter and the tender affections and divine fancies which
are among the privileges of man. The inspiration of the painter or
sculptor, the reasonings of the philosopher, the calculations of the
astronomer, are, we know, dependent on certain states or actions
in these elementary nervous tissues, but we feel that we have not
advanced one step to knowing how. Here, as in all branches of
enquiry fully pursued, we seem to arrive at the confines of material
existence, and can but conjecture a finer agency, of which we only
see the effects.
    We therefore return and rest upon the idea that the various forms
of Insanity may depend upon the excess, or deficiency, or inequality,
of this nervous agency, whatever it is, in different portions of the
nervous system. We find that thinking and muscular exertion
 equally produce fatigue and exhaustion ; and that sleep is the
 general restorer of power in both cases. Various states of bodily
 disease declare its partial or imperfect distribution, temporarily or
permanently ; the consequences being, increased, or deficient, or
 irregular action. The maniac seems often to require no sleep ; the
hysteric and the epileptic drop asleep after strong nervous excite
 ment ; and in patients affected with delusions, it is impossible not
 to recognise analogies which make their condition appear to be a
 state in which some of the faculties are not awake like the rest.
 The effects of stimulants and narcotics support the same view ; and
 if we could comprehend the manner in which, by the inhalation of
 certain vapours and gases, all the relations between the external
 world and the brain are modified, we might arrive at some less
 vague notion than we possess of the actual condition of the nervous
 system both in health and disease. Disordered secretions, and a
 diseased state of the blood, may readily be supposed to act on the
 nervous system in such a manner as to disturb its functions ; and
 the intimate and universal association of blood-vessels with nerves
 is additionally illustrated by the almost invariable combination of

 380                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [Feb. 17,
 nervous disorder with imperfection or excess in the circulating
system.
    Although the doctrines of the phrenologists have met with little
 favour, and the pretensions of recent professors of occult methods
 of acting upon the nervous system have thrown an air of absurdity
 even over the truths of what is called phrenology, no person not
 altogether devoid of the power of observation can affect to overlook
 the general importance of the shape and even of the size of the
 brain in relation to the development of the mental faculties. The
 head of an idiot always manifests defect in one of these particulars,
 if not in both. The head of a lunatic is irregularly developed in a
 very large majority of instances ; and in the worst cases of insanity,
 where the tendency of the disorder is to pass into dementia, the
 anterior lobes of the brain are very defective. If we refuse to
 admit that the constitution, size, and shape of the brain have any
 relation to or connection with the extraordinary manifestation of
 particular faculties, in various instances, independently of all edu
 cation, we must deny that the large lobes of the brain in man are
 of any use at all in relation to faculties which are certainly not
 seated in other portions of the nervous system. It is more rea
 sonable to consider each of the large and marked divisions of the
 brain, and each of the convolutions, with their copious supply of
 grey or vesicular nerve-substance, as possessing distinct offices;
 and the more or less perfect development of these several masses,
 and the greater or less nervous energy they possess, as circum
 stances connected with the varieties of mental character, and with
 the disordered manifestations of the mind. Each mass, or each
 subdivision of such masses, may, like each nerve, have a distinct
 office. Each, however excited, may only be capable of one kind of
 manifestation of the excitement. Each, when in a healthy state,
 may be excited simultaneously throughout ; and each in disease may
 be excited irregularly, or too long, or lose the power of being
 excited altogether.
    But, leaving these speculations or analogies, where so much is
 obscure, experience has taught us that the violent emotions and
passions of the mind, and propensities rendered masterly by indul
gence, and the undue and exclusive employment of certain intellec
tual faculties, tend to produce disturbances in the functions of the
brain, — to confuse the reason, to disorder the affections, and to
 degrade man to the dust. The reason and sense which we boast of
should be employed therefore to secure itself amidst the shocks and
blows incidental to the battle of life, and to guide the whole mind
temperately through the sunshine and the storm. Well ordered
affections, well directed aspirations, worthy and practicable objects,
the pursuit of truth, and the desire to do good, — these things
exercise, but do not discompose the understanding. Patience
under trials which must come to all, and a trustful hope of a higher
life after this life,— these things do not lead to mental derangement.
But all vehement passions, and mere worldly ambition, and frettings
                                                                           '
                                                                         ,

  1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     381
 and envyings, and jealousies and care, and fits of wild impulsive
 enthusiasm, however directed, — these things carry tumult into the
 brain, and lead to madness. However ignorant we may be of the
 primary changes in the brain induced by such injudicious exertion
 of its functions, we may at least gather wisdom from a consideration
 of their undoubted results.                                 [J. C.]
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, February 24.
      SIR JOHN P. BOILBAU, Bart. F.R.S. F.S.A. Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
               HENBY BENCE JONES, M.A., M.D., F.R.S.
        On the Acidity, Sweetness, and Strength of different Wines.
IN the Philosophical Transactions for 1811 and 1813 Mr. Brande
has given a table of the strength of wine, beer, and spirits : if these
fluids acted on the system only as stimulants, no further experiments
would be required to enable any one to determine their comparative
medicinal and dietetic values ; but wine and beer contain many other
substances besides spirit and water. Acids, sugar, aethers, salts, and
colouring matter are all also present in varying proportions ; and it
must at least be known which wine or beer is most sweet, and
which is most acid, as well as which is most strong, before any
satisfactory answer can be given whether port or sherry, claret or
champagne, bitter beer or brandy should be taken. It would also be
very desirable that the amount of salts and volatile aethers should
also be known ; but the large quantity of fluid requisite for the
analyses renders the questions relative to these substances still more
difficult to answer.
      I. On the Acidity of different liquids.
   Hitherto, though acid is as invariably present as alcohol, very few
observations have been made on the acidity of different wines. In
Dr. Henderson's work on wine, Dr. Prout has given four determi
nations of the amount of acid in Rhine wine.
Johaunisberger, 1788         contained 4,1 grs. {
Rudesheimer, 1811                 "      2,7 grs.
Rhenish                                  4,6 grs.
Same                              ''     4,4 grs.
   Professor Liebig in a paper on Australian Wines gives
Verdeilho and la Follie           ••     2,1 grs.    ••
La Follie and Muscat              "      2,6 grs.
White Muscat Lunel                ''     2,8 grs.
Verdeilho                         ''     2,5 grs.
Riesling                          "      1,2 grs.

382                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [Fefr. 24,
Irrewang, Pineau Noir, Tinta 1        „„           , T»rtaric KM by weight
Pineau ffris                   f        * o • \ in M ounce of wine.
Irrewang white                  ''     2,9  grs.
   Fresenius in the Annalen der Chemie,     1847, gives
Hattenheimer                    ''     2,4  grs.       "             "
Marcobrnmier                    ''     2,3  grs.
Steinberger                     "      2,1  grs.
Choice Steinberger              "      1 ,8 grs.
   For determining the amount of acid stated in the following tables,
a standard solution of caustic soda was prepared, so that each
division of the graduated tube contained 0,15 grs. of caustic soda;
a thousand grain bottle was filled with the fluid to be examined ; it
was then weighed, and the quantity of test alkali necessary for
neutralisation was determined by Clarke's test paper. In the tables,
the acidity, although manifestly due to the presence of several acids,
is by calculation reduced to the standard of tartaric acid in an ounce
of fluid. The particular wines and the number of each kind will
be there stated.
   The following general results were obtained :          a measure equal
   The quantity of alkali required to neuturalise
to 1 000 grs. of water was —
      In Port wine                           2, 10 grs.   to 2,55 grs.
      In Sherry                              1,95         to 2,85
      In Champagne                           2,40         to 3,15
      In Claret                              2,55         to 3,45
      In Madeira                             2,70         to 3,60
      In Rhine wine                          3,15         to 3,60
      In Burgundy                            2,55         to 4,05
      In Moselle                             2,85         to 4,50
      In Geneva                              0,07
      In Whiskey                               49
      In Brandy                              0,15         to 0,60
      In Rum                                 0,15         to 0,30
      In Pale Ale                            0,90         to 1,65
      In Stout                               1,35         to 2,25
      In Porter                              1,80         to 2,10
      In Cider                               2,85         to 3,90
    Hence proceeding from the least acid wine to the most acid we
have Sherry, Port, Champagne, Claret, Madeira, Burgundy, Rhine
 wine, Moselle. The least acid fluids examined were Geneva and
 Whiskey ; then Rum, Brandy, Ale, Porter, Stout ; the wines were all
 more acid than the malt liquids.
    The nature of the acid was not absolutely determined, but a volatile
 acid distils over from wine, which is not acetic acid ; and the action
 of polarised light shews that tartaric acid is seldom present ; hence
 the fixed acid is most probably racemic and perhaps malic acid.

1854.]                       OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                       383
      II. On the Sweetness of different liquids.
   That sugars are of different kinds is easily seen by the different
effects of the same test ; but the most delicate test of all is polarised
light. There are three different kinds of sugar, which when present
in different solutions in equal quantities rotate the polarised ray in
right
uncrystallisable
different into
changed    ^-, and
          degreessugar
                     sugar;
                      and
                      if treated
                               directions.
                              which       rotates
                                    for with     acid
                                            if the Cane
                                                     tosolution
                                                        forthe
                                                            sugar
                                                              a left
                                                                   be
                                                                 few ^minutes
                                                                    rotates
                                                                       even the
                                                                              evaporated
                                                                              This
                                                                                itlight   to
                                                                                          called
                                                                                              the
                                                                                               to
                                                                                    isisentirely
right
dryness, ^-.
undergoes  itnoisThis
                 change
                     changed   whenisinto
                            sugar         again
                                           called
                                                sugar
                                                   treated
                                                    grape     with
                                                              sugaracid.
                                                           which      or glucose,
                                                                     again   rotatesand       the
                                                                                         to this
   By means of the saccharometer of Soleil the degree of rotation
to the left or right can be measured, and thus the quantity of sugar
in a solution can be determined ; with cane sugar alone the results
are probably perfectly accurate. With the other sugars the results
are not yet so fully established : still at least the minimum amount
will be obtained. It is essential that the fluids to be examined
should be decolorised first with one tenth of a solution of subacetate
of lead, and afterwards if requisite with animal charcoal.
   Previous to the determination of the quantity of sugar present
in these liquids, when decolorised they were examined by other
tests for sugar, by the sulphate of copper test, by the liquor
potassae test, and with the polariscope. I found no Sherry, Port,
Madeira, or Champagne that did not contain more or less uncrys
tallisable sugar ; two samples of sherry excepted which were free
from any sugar. I met with no Claret, Burgundy, Rhine, or
Moselle wine, excepting only one sample of Sauterne, which was
not free from every kind of sugar. Usually spirits contain no
sugar ; but one specimen of genuine French brandy had some cane
sugar added to it. All kinds of Ale, Porter, and Stout contain much
glucose. Hard cider I found also to be perfectly free from sugar.
Sweet cider contained uncrystallisable sugar.
   The particular results will be given in the Tables ; the general
results may be here stated.
                                                                         Amount of Sugar in an
                                                 Degrees                      ounce of fluid.
In Sherry the sugar varied from 2 to 9 .^                             =     4 grs. to 18 grs.
    Port           .              .            . 8 to 17 . . =             16       to 34
    Madeira               .             .        3 to 10 . . =              6       to 20
    Malmsey Madeira .                           28 to 33 . . =            56        to 66
    Tokay .              .             .37                     . . =      74
    Samos        .              . .             44             . . =       88
    Paxarete           .              .47                      . . =       94
    Cyprus       . .            .               51              . . .=   102.
    Champagne .                       .          3 to 14 . . =              6 to 28
    Sweet Cider                  .            . 9 to 22 . . =              18 to 44
    Bitter Ale         .             .          12 to 130          >•=     12 to 130
    Porter       .              .               23 to 40 . . =             23 to 40
    Stout .           .              .          45 to 64 ..=               45 to 64

3S4                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                       [Feb. 24,
   The fluids examined may be arranged in the following order,
commencing with those which contain no sugar, and ending with
the most saccharine.
   Geneva, Rum, Whiskey, Claret, Burgundy, Rhine, Moselle.
These have no sugar. Brandy, Sherry, Madeira, Champagne, Port,
 Cider, Porter, Stout, Malmsey, Ale, Tokay, Samos, Paxarete,
Cyprus.
      III. On the Strength of different liquids.
   Having determined the acidity and the sweetness, the strength
of these fluids was the next object of experiment. This was effected
by an alcoholometer invented by M. Geisler of Bonn, which depends
on the tension of the vapour of the fluid to be examined forcing
up a column of mercury. To shew how nearly the results obtained
by this instrument agreed with those obtained by the ordinary
process of distillation, comparative experiments were made on the
same wine ; Thus
                              By distillation (Mr. Witt)   By Alcoholometer
                                per cent, by measure.    per cent, by measure.
Sherry,
Madeira
Port  1834    .
          Montilla
                                       22,46 .                  (23,2 7
                                                               123,5 5
                                                                4 20,7)
                                       19,95 .
                                                                (20,6)
                                       22,40 .                  (28,61
                                                                1 23,2 ;
Haut Brion Claret
Chambertin
                                       10,0
                                       11,7
                                                 .
                                                 .
                                                              m (13,2}
                                                                1 13,0 5
                                                                (21,1)
Low quality Sherry                     20,7                     120,9 5
                                                                (23,0)
Brown Sherry                  :        23,1       .             123,3 5
Amontillada .                          20,5      .              (21,0|
                                                                (21,0)
                                                                (15,4)
Mansanilla .                           14,4       .             (15,4 5
                                                                (21,1)
Port Best     .                        20,2      .              1 21,0 5
                                                                ( 9,7)
Marcobrunner                             8,3      .            \ 9,55
                                        6,4      .              ( 7,0)
Home Ale .
                                                                I 7,15
                                                                ( 7,0)
Export Ale .                            6,4      .
                                                               I 6,9 5
Strong Ale .                            9,0                       10,7 55
                                                               J110,8

 1854.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                 385
    Generally it may be stated, from my experiments, that the alcohol
 varied
                                     Per cent.             Per cent, by measure
    Marsala
    Sherry
 In Madeira
    Port from .                           15,4
                                          19,0
                                          19,9
                                     . 20,7        .   to        .    21,1
                                                                      19,7
                                                                      24,7
                                                                      23,2
    Claret                            .     9,1                       11,1
    Burgundy                              10,1     .             .    13,2
    Rhine Wine
    Moselle    .   .                  . 9,5 8,7    .             .     9,4
                                                                      13,0
    Champagne      .                  • 14,1                          14,8
    Brandy                                50,4     .             .    53,8
    Rum                               . 72,0                          77,1
    Geneva .           .                  49,4
    Cider                             . 5,4                            7,5
    Bitter Ale                              6,6    .             .    12,3
    Porter .                          • 6,5                            7,0
    Stoat                                   6,5    .             .     7,9
   The particular kinds of wine or beer examined as to acidity,
sweetness, and strength, are recorded in the following tables : —
                                Table I.
            PORT.            Tartaric
                              per Ounce.Acid Sugar per     Alcohol        Specific
                                                Ounce.    per cent.       gravity.
A. quality from importer       4,0 grs.       22 grs.     (21,1]
                                                          121.05         993,2
A. quality                     4,2            18          (21,3]
                                                          121,3 5        990,2
General                        4,0            20          (21,0 \
                                                          [21,05         991,8
                                              16
                                                          (21,7]
Low                           4,3                                        992,6
                                                          1 21,8 5
                               3,6            34          (23,2}
Very fine                                                                996,2
                                                          123,2 5
                                                                   en
                                                            to to OS
                                                            toto
Low                           4,0             24                        1003,4
                                                          ( 20.8 )
G. B. Port                    3,6             28                         996,6
                                                          120,7 5
Roussillon                    5,0             30
                                                          (20,7)
                                                                         996,6
                                                          120,7 5

386                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [Feb. 24,
                            Table II.
                           Tartaric Acid Sugar per Spirit per   Specific
J. c.    .SHERRY.           per Ounce.    Ounce.      cent.     gravity.
                             3,6 grs.      6 grs.  i 18.5 7    990,5
                                                   U8,5 j
Low light                    3,8         126       1 21,1 5    988,8
                                                   120,9 5
Golden low       . •         4,2                   ( 23,2 7    991,1
                                                   123,2)
Golden better                4,3         10        1 21,4 1    992,9
                                                   1 21,4 5
General light                3,7          4        121.1 \     988,2
                                                   1 21,0 5
Best                         3,6         186       (21,2 5
                                                               990,0
                                                   I 21,1 5
Low brown                    4,5                   ( 23,0 5
                                                   1 23,3 '5   997,1
Very low light .             3,4         10        1 21.8]     987,9
                                                   122,15
Very low dark     .      .   4,2         12        ( 24,6 7
                                                   124,75      991,2
C. Golden         .      .   3,3
                             4,8
                             3,6
                             4,3
                             3,7
                             3,5         164        f 17,4 7
                                                   117.35      988,7
B. Good                                             (20,2 5
                                                    1 20,2 5   997,0
Light A. quality Amontil-                104        (20,7")
   lada .         .      .                         (20,65      985,3
B. Amontillada .                                    (17,0 7
                                                   117,05      992,4
F. Amontillada very good                   0       (21,07
                                                   (21,0)      984,0
B. Mansanilla                              2       (15,77
                                                   115.65      987,8
                                                   (16,6 7
                             4,5          6                    992,2
C. Mansanilla                                      U6.65
                                          6        ] 16,8 7
                                                               990,0
                                                   U6.85
T. Mansanilla                4,3          4
                                                   ( 19,3 7
                                                   [19.0)      988,0
G. Mansanilla                3,5          0
                                                   (15,4 7
                                                   115,4)      989,2

 1854.]                     ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                             Table III.
     MARSALA. MADEIRA.      Tartaric Acid Sugar per  Spirit per  Specific
                                                                       387
                             per Ounce.     Ounce.     cent.     gravity.
Paxarete imported direct,                           (18,8-)
                               3,6 grs.     94 grs.             1039,9
    12 years old .                                  (.18.9)
B. Marsala, 1847                4,3         10
                                                       85
                                                    (20,0 )
                                                                  990,5
I. Marsala                      4,3         10                    990,9
                                                    (19.9 )
Lisbon     .                    4,8                 (19,0)
                                              6                   989,0
                                                    1 19,1 j
Teneriffe                       5,0                 ( 20,6 )
                                              8                   990,0
                                                    (.20,7 5
Madeira 1 7 years in bottle                         (19,7]
                                5,0           6                   991,2
   at Ceylon                                        119.7)
Madeira three times in                              (19,2]
                               4,5          16                    996,3
   East Indies                                      119,0)
Madeira direct    .                                 (19,1]
                                4,8         20                    994,8
                                                    1 19,0 5
Madeira Agoa de Mellos                              (19,8 7     1012,0
                              12,0          66
                                                    (19,8)      1011,9
Malmsey Madeira                                     (18,8)
                              10,0          56
                                                    1 18,7 ) 1046,4
Tokay     .                    9,0          74      (16,0 j     1016,8
                                                    (.16.0)
Saiuos                                              (15,1]
                              10,8          88                  1050,1
                                                    (15.0)
Cyprus    .                                         (15,4)
                              10,8        102       1 15.5 5 1041,4
Shiraz                                              (18,3)
                               5,0          16      (18,4)
                                                                  996,8
                             Table IV.
   CLARET AND BURGUNDY.      per Ounce.
                            Tartaric Acid Sugar per Spirit per   Specific
                                            Ounce.     cent.    gravity.
T. Medoc                      5,0 grs.      Ogrs.
                                                    |Mj         995,4
L. and S. Medoc, 24s.         5,8           0       I siej      995,1
Medoc 36s.                    5,3           0
                                                       "88      995,3
Talbot St. Julien, 48s.       5,3           0
                                                         S      995,3
 Haut Brion                   4,3           0          iS       994,3

 388                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    [Feb. 24,
                         Table IV. continued.
   CLARET AND BURGUNDY.       per Ounce.
                             Tartaric Acid  Sugar per  Spirit per   Specific
                                             Ounce.      cent.      gravity.
Claret 60s.                    4,8 grs.      Ogrs.                 994,4
                                                         10,5 j
                                                      1(10.5)
Chambertin 84*. .              4,3           0         (18.2]      993.0
                                                      1 13.0 5
Macon, (red) 40s.              5,5           0         (10.5)
                                                                   994,4
                                                       1 10,4 5
Grave (white) 42s.             6,8           0         (10,1)
                                                                   997,4
                                                      i 10,1 j
Sauterne 72s.                  5,5           5         (13,6)
                                                                   996,7
                                                      1 13,5 5
B. Sauterne                    6,8           0         ( 14,5 )
                                                      1 14,3 ;     998,1
                               Table V.
HOCK, MOSELLE, CHAMPAGNE. Tartaric    Acid Sugar per  Spirit per    Specific
                              per Ounce.     Ounce.      cent.     gravity.
lludesheimer, 1834             5,3 grs.      0 grs.
Marcobrunner Cabinet           6,0           0
   1818 .                                                          996,5
                                                      I 9.5 }      994.3
Steinberger, 1846             5,3            0        (12,9)       992,5
                                                      U3.0 j
Geisenheimer, 1842            5,8            0
                                                      J38SI        994,9
         Moselle.
Brauneberger, 1842            7,6            0
                                                      }8J|         995,3
Scharzhofberger, 1843      .  4,8            0                     995,3
                                                      { S}
       Champagne.
Sillery Mousseux Pre                       24         ( 14.8 ) 1011,8
   miere quality .            4,9          24         i 14.7 )
Sparkling, 48s.               4,6          28         (14.3) 1021,7
                                                      1 14.1 j
Moet's first quality, 1846,                24         (14.5) 1014,2
   80s. .                     5,2          24         114,4)
Moet's Still dry Sillerv,                             ( 14,5 )    989,2
                              4,0           6
   1842,110s. .                                       114.5)

 1854.]                 0F THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.
                                 Table VI.
                                Tartaric Acid Sugar per  Spirit per    Specific
     SPIRITS, LIQUEURS.          per Ounce.    Ounce.       cent.            389
                                                                      gravity.
Best Brandy                        1,1 grs.    4,4grs. ( 53,6)        930,1
                                                        I 53,8 5
Cheap Brandy        .              0,27           0     ( 52,0 j      933,3
                                                        I 52,0 5
                                                        ( 50,6)
Calais Brandy                      1.1            0                   932,6
                                                        I 50,4 5
                                                        (52,6)
Cognac                             1.1            0                   928,9
                                                        I 52,4 5
                                                        (51,2)
Thompson Brandy                    1.1            0                   930,8
                                                        I 51,0 5
                                                        ( 72,2)
Best Rum                           0,56           0                   885,4
                                                        (72,0 5
Cheap Rum                          0,56           0     (77,1)        874,6
                                                        I 77,15
                                                        ( 49,4")
Geneva .                           0,18           0                   932,8
                                                        ) 49,4 5
                                                        ( 59,4)
Whiskey, Highland                  0.18           0                   915,5
                                                        I 59,2 5
                                               150      (29,4)
                                       0
Noyau
                                                        129,4 5 1159,4
                                                 ?      ( 46,0) 1101,8
Curacoa                                0
                                                        I 46,0 5
                                               120      ( 36,8 ) 1113,1
Maraschino                              0
                                                        1 37,0 j
                                 Table VII.
             CIDER
  From Stockiand, near Honiton. Tartaric Acid Sugar per   Spirit per   Specific
                                 per Ounce.    Ounce.       cent.      gravity.
    medium
A. best.   . quality Hard
                                    6,0 grs.    Ogrs.
                                                        Hi]           998,1
B. Hard .                           6,5         0
                                                        \Z\          1001,3
C. Hard .                           5,8         0
                                                        .8            998,5
D. Hard .                           5,0         0
                                                        \li\          999,0
L. Sweet                            6,2        18
                                                        {81          1005,2
W. Sweet                            4,7        20                    1006,7
                                                        I s!4 j
S. Sweet                            5,5        44
                                                             SI      1013,8
N. Sweet                            5,9        36       { S;i i      1012,6

390    PORTER, STOUT.NOTICES    OF THE
                             Tartaric AcidMEETINGS                  [Feb. 24,
                             Table VIII.
                                            Sugar per
                                              Ounce.    Spirit per   Specific
                              per Ounce.                  cent.      gravity.
Y. Mild Porter     .             3,4 grs.    34 grs.               1011,0
Bottled Porter     .             3,4         23                    1009,4
Stout                            3,7         49                    1017,9
Mild Stout                       3,2         64 .                  1027,1
N. Porter, 18 months             3,2         37                    1011,0
Porter,      3 months            3,0         40                    1015,0
Stout,      18 months           3,7          45                    1014,0
Stout,       3 months           3,7                                1023,7
                             Table IX.
         BITTER ALE.         Tartaric Acid Sugar
                                             60 per    Spirit per    Specific
                              per Ounce      Ounce.       cent.      gravity.
T. Pale Ale, Nov. 18S2 .        2,0 grs.     12 grs.
                                                      {8]          1003,8
Family Ale, Dec. 1852
Strong Ale, Oct. 1852
                           .
                           .
                                1,8
                                2,7
                                             14
                                             45
                                                      [8
                                                      (10,5)
                                                                   1002,9
                                                                   1016,7
                                                      1 10,5 5
Stout, Dec. 1852
S. Pale Ale, March 1853
                                2,2          42
                                                           S       1017,2
Pale Ale, Dec. 1851
                                1,5
                                2,5
                                             45
                                             35
                                                      18           1011,8
                                                                   1008,6
Pale Ale, strong, Jan. 1853     1,7        103
                                                      [%]
                                                      (11,0)
                                                      110,9 5 1034,6
P. Pale Ale, 5 months           1,5          40
Pale Ale, 18 months             1,8          30
                                                      i 8}         1011,4
                                                                   1007,8
Arctic Ale, very strong
Home Ale
                           .    2,7
                                1,5
                                             83
                                             40
                                                      m
                                                      f?:!S
                                                                   1023,4
                                                                   1010,6
Export Ale                      1,5
                                2,2          43                    1011,7
                                                      I 6,9 (
Strong Ale                                 100        (10,8)
                                                                   1029,2
                                                      1 10,7 J

1854.]                  09 TUB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                              391
   The salts and aethers and colouring matters are also very important
ingredients of wine, but as yet very little information has been ob
tained regarding them. As to the salts in the fluids examined, it is
evident that Brandy and the other spirits, from the mode of their pre
paration, should contain no salts. In wine the salts must be very
different in different kinds of wine, or even from grapes cultivated on
different soils. The nature of the ashes of the wine may be con
jectured from the ashes of the juice of the grapes.
   In 100 parts of must or juice of grapes there have been found
                            Furple grapes ripe Furple crapes r pe Green grapes ripe
                              on Forphyry.       on other soil.      on Porphyry.
Potassa                         0,2122             0,2939             0,1819
Soda                            0,0014             0,0049        .    0,0077
Lime                            0,0114             0,0139             0,0148
Magnesia                        0,0161             0,0163             0,0115
Oxide of Iron                   0,0015             0,0003             0,0012
Oxide of Manganese .            0,0025             0,0004             0,0009
Phosphoric Acid                 0,0564             0,0575             0,0494
Sulphuric Acid           .      0,0189             0,0149             0,0142
Chlorine        .        .      0,0035             0,0020              0,0020
Silica                          0,0071             0,0049              0,0064
                                0,3400             0,4090              0,2900
   The variations of the salts in each kind of wine have yet to be
determined.
   The same may be said of Beer ; the ash of one kind analysed by
Mitscherlich was 0,307 in 100 parts of beer.
    In 100 parts of ash he found Phosphoric acid                   ' 20.0
                                       Potassa         "           ' 40,8
                                       Soda            "           '     0,5
                                       Phosphate of Mugnes a 20,0
                                       Phosphate of Lime '               2,6
                                       Silica            "         ' 16,6
    For many other analyses of the ash of beer see translation of
Liebig's Annual Report for 1848, p. 318.
    Of the tethers still less is known. The cenanthic aether exists in all
wine ; it has a peculiar smell which is not vinous. The ceuanthic
acid is identical with Pelargonic acid, which is obtained from Pelar
gonium roseum, and it may be formed artificially by oxydation of
nl t-ie acid, or from the astherial oil of rue. Other volatile aetners exist
in wine ; for example, in Bordeaux wine acetic aether, butyric
 aether, and valerianic aether. Each wine like each fruit has probably
its own peculiar volatile principles ; and as art has succeeded in
imitating if not in actually forming the odoriferous principles of
many fruits, as the pear, (acetate of oxide of amyl), of the pine-
                                                                FF

392                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [Feb. 24,
apple (butyric aether), of green-gage, of black currant, of grapes,
so doubtless the characteristic essences of wine will before long be
artificially prepared. But though the flavour of the wine is mainly
dependent on the volatile principles, still the alcohol, water, and
sugar, are also concerned in producing the effect ; each substance
plays its part ; though as regards flavour all are inferior to the
volatile constituents of the wine. This union of principles producing
a single effect, is also to be observed in the colour of wine. The
acid which is present in all wine plays an inferior but decided part
in the production of the colour of the wine, for when the acid is
neutralised, the colour of all wine is more or less deepened ; in some
clarets and sherries this is most conspicuous ; so also cider becomes
dark brown when neutralised.
   From what has been said it will be very evident that we are not yet
possessed of sufficient knowledge to enable us to estimate accurately
the action of wine and beer on the system. However, the two most
important agents in fermented liquids are the alcohol and the acid.
If wine were only a stimulant, Mr. Brande's table would give suf
ficient information to enable us to decide on the comparative sti
mulating action of different liquids. In the preceding tables I have
endeavoured to give the means of estimating the other important
agent, namely, the acid of these fluids.
   It is very prohable that all sugar is converted in the stomach into
acid. Some sugars are changed quicker than others,— cane-sugar
the slowest ; glucose or the sugar of beer the quickest. Hence to de
termine the acid action of wine the amount of sugar must be added to
the amount of acid. In the wine that has no sugar, the full amount
of acid immediately acts in the stomach ; whilst in beer, in which
there is much sugar and little acid, the full amount of acid is slowly
produced in the stomach, but in the end is greater than in the more
acid wine. In forming an opinion upon the acid action of these fluids
the acid alone must not be considered, but the acid and sugar must
be taken together. Thus, the following order may be observed in
the fluids which were used for these experiments. Proceeding from
the fluid producing least to that producing most acid : —
   Geneva, Whiskey, Rum, Brandy, Claret, Burgundy, Rhine, Mo
selle, Sherry, Madeira, Champagne, Cider, Port, Porter, Stout, Ale,
Malmsey, Tokay, Cyprus. In all dietetic or medicinal questions re
garding these fluids, first, the stimulating properties, and secondly,
the ultimate acidifying properties of these liquids must be con
sidered. The above tables may at least assist in approximative!}-
forming correct answers.
   It is very evident from these tables that determinations of the water,
alcohol, and sugar, though useful in relation to the stimulating and
acidifying action of wine and beer, are of no use for determining the

1854.]                OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     393
quality of the wine. You cannot thus tell port from sherry ; far less
good port from bad port. If you look at the Port table the numbers are
nearly identical. Mr. Brande's experiments were undertaken for the
purpose of saying whether alcohol was added to the wine or not ;
whether it was natural or " fortified." It would be as easy to add
salt to sea-water and then endeavour by chemistry to say which
salt belonged to the sea-water and which was added.
   In the last Report of the Committee of the House of Commons,
it is stated that most wine is fortified with ten per cent, of brandy,
and even as much as one sixth of all the spirit may be intermixed ;
more seldom grape-juice, evaporated wine, and elder-berry extract
areadded. "Strong, black, and sweet" form the criterion of excellence,
according to the Portuguese government ; what we require at present
is not this, but the exact chemical composition of unblended, unfor
tified vintage wines ; until these are obtained we have no means of
making true comparisons.
   For the detection of most of the adulterations of wine at home and
abroad, there is but one scientific method possible. This may be
summed up in these words,— accurate comparison with standard
wines : by means of these we shall be able to trust to the science
of the chemist, whilst without them we can only depend on the skill
of the taster acquired by use.
                                                           [H. B. J.]
                              EVENING
                  WEEKLYFriday,              3.
                                     March MEETING,
     GKOROK DODD, Esq., F.S.A., Vice-President, in the Chair.
      Rev. BADBN POWELL, M.A., V.P.R.S., F.R.A.S., F.G.S.,
                SAVILIAN PROFESSOR OF GEOMETRY, OXFORD.
               On certain Phenomena of Rotatory Motion.
THE mechanical principle of " the composition of Rotatory Motion,"
originally discovered by Frisi about 1750, (see Frisius de Rotatione,
Op. ii. 134, 157, and Cosmographia, ii. 24) is equally simple in its
nature, important and fertile in its consequences and applications,—•
and susceptible of the easiest explanation and experimental illustra
tion ; yet it has been singularly lost sight of in the common elementary
treatises. It is indeed discussed and applied in a Mathematical form
in Mr. Airy's Tract on Precession (Math. Tracts, p. 192, 2nd ed.) ;
and the theorem is stated by Professor Playfair in his " Outlines of
Natural Philosophy" (i. 144), and its application explained (ib. ii.

394                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [March 3,
308). These, however, are not books of a popular kind, and the
author is not aware of any mention of it in other English works.
In a more abstract analytical form it has been discussed by several
foreign mathematicians, especially by Poinsot, in a Memoir read to
the Academy of Sciences, May 19, 1834, but of which only an
abstract was published ; as well as by Poisson, in a paper in the
Journal de l'Ecole Polytechnique (xvi. 247).
   The principle is involved in the explanation of several important
phenomena, some of which are in fact mere direct instances of it ;
so that a simple experimental mode of exhibiting it would be emi
nently desirable; and several such have accordingly been devised
which yet seem to have been but little generally known..
   An ingenious instrument of the kind was contrived some years
ago by Mr. H. Atkinson, a very brief account of which is given in the
Astronomical Society's Notices, vol. i. p. 43, though so brief that
it is difficult to collect what the precise mode of its action was,—
but it seems somewhat complex.
   A far more complete and instructive apparatus was invented by
Bonenberger and described in Gilbert's Annalen (lx. p. 60). It is
also explained in some German elementary works. Attention has
been more recently drawn to the subject by a highly interesting
paper of Professor Magnus of Berlin, (Abhandlungen der Konigl.
Preuss. Akad. 1852, translated in Taylor's Foreign Scientific Memoirs,
 N. S. Part 3, p. 210,) in which some remarkable applications of this
apparatus are given ; he also describes it (with a figure) and observes
that the execution of it requires great delicacy and correctness of
workmanship. Copies of this instrument have indeed been made in
this country (one of which was exhibited through the kindness of Pro
fessor Wheatstone) ; but of these the author believes no description
has ever appeared in English works, and they are certainly very little
known, notwithstanding their manifest value to every lecturer : the
essential parts are a sphere capable of rotating about an axis whose
extremities rest in opposite points of a hoop which can turn on
pivots horizontally, within another hoop turning on pivots about a
vertical line.
    In fact the author of the present communication has long felt
the want of such an apparatus for lecture illustration ; and before he
was aware of the existence of any of those just alluded to, had con
structed one in a different form, and which is found to answer fully
the purposes of illustration for which it is designed, without any nice
workmanship or complex machinery. (See Astronomical Society's
Notices, vol. xi'ii. p. 221-248.)
    Its object, like that of the instrument last mentioned, is to exhibit
experimentally the actual composition of rotations about two different
axes impressed at once on the same body.
   The essential parts are merely a bar capable of rotating freely
about one end of an axis, (and loaded at its extremities to keep up
the rotation,) while the axis itself can turn about a point in its

1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      395
length near* the end carrying the bar, upon a horizontal axis,
capable of moving freely round a vertical pillar. At the lower end
of the fir>t axis is a weight which more than counterpoises the
upper part.
   If then there be no rotation in the bar about the first axis, the
effect of the weight is to produce a rotation about the second alone,
bringing down the first axis into a vertical position.
   If now the first axis be held horizontally or obliquely, and a rota
tory motion be given to the bar about it, on letting the axis go, we
compound both rotations; and the resulting effect is, that the weight
will no longer bring the axis down, or alter its inclination at all :
but will cause it to take a new position, or make the whole to turn
round the vertical, in a direction opposite to that of the rotation.
   Thus, although confessedly not new in principle, to make public
an experimental illustration in so simple a form may not be without
its use for a great majority of students.
   Even the theoretical principle is capable of being stated in a way
quite intelligible to those acquainted only with the very first rudi
ments of theoretical mechanics, presenting itself in close analogy
to that well known first principle, the composition of rectilinear
motion.
   As in this last case, if a body be in motion in one direction, and
any cause tend to make it move in another, it will move in neither,
but in an intermediate direction,—so we have the strictly analogous
case in rotatory motion ; when a body is rotating about an axis, and
any cause tends to make it rotate about another axis, it will not
rotate about either, but about a new axis intermediate to the two. Thus
the result of compounding the two rotations will be, that the axis
 (carrying with it the rotating body) will simply take a new position,
or will move in a direction determined by the nature of the impressed
motions.
   Professor Magnus, in the very able, but rather prolix and obscurely
written Memoir, before referred to, speaks (p. 223) of the conse
quences of such a law as evinced in the resulting rotations, but without
any distinct or explicit statement of the essential theorem of the
composition of rotatory motion. He gives, however, some singular
and even paradoxical exemplifications of it. We may allude to one
of these, which is capable of being put into a form at once more
simple, and at the same time more paradoxical, than that in which
 he describes it. It consists in this : a wheel at one end of an axis,
and a weight at the other, are suspended in equilibrio ; which is, of
 course, unaltered, whether the wheel be at rest or in rotation : the
 weight is then slid so that the balance is destroyed : now if the wheel
be set in rapid rotation, the equilibium is restored. This is nothing
but a simple case of the principle just stated, as shewn by the author's
apparatus.
    Besides certain other cases traceable to a different cause, Professor
Magnus's immediate object is to explain a curious observed anomaly

 396                     NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [March 3,
in the motion of projectiles of an elongated form shot from rifled
 guns, and which consequently rotate about their axis, while passing
through the air in the direction of that axis.
    He mentions the fact that artillery experiments in different coun
 tries with rifled cannon and missiles of a cyliudical form with a
 conical apex, always shew a deviation of the point of the missile to
 the right, the rifle-spiral being right-handed.
    To explain the nature of this deviation was the object of special
 experiments on the part of the Prussian Artillery Commission, in
 which Professor Magnus assisted. The missiles were fired with
 low charges, so as to allow the motion to be accurately observed, and
 it was found that the axis remained sensibly in the direction of the
 tangent to the curved path, while the deviation to the right was always
 clearly marked. He observes that left-handed rifles have never been
 tried.
    Professor Magnus, after some fruitless conjectures as to the cause,
 at length sought it in the principle of the composition of rotatory
 motion. He tried experimentally the effect of a current of air on a
 projectile of the form employed, by inserting such a body instead
of the rotating sphere in Bonenberger's apparatus, and observing
the effect on it, first at rest, and then in rotation, when the strong
 current of a blowing machine was directed against the conical apex.
When at rest, the current elevated the apex ; owing to the forpa of
the missile the resistance acting not through the centre of gravity,
but above it : when in rotation no elevation took place, but a deviation
in the direction of the axis, in a direction opposite to that of rotation.
To shew the application of the principle in this case, he observes
that the axis of the elongated projectile, which for an instant
coincides with the tangent to its curved path, momentarily changes
its direction, so that the front extremity or apex falls below its
former position. Or, for a single instant it may be regarded as
if locally at rest, but turning about its centre of gravity so as to
depress the apex.
    If the motion were simply in the direction of the axis, the re
sistance of the air would operate directly against it ; but when the
apex is continually tending to turn downwards from that line, the
resistance acts against it partially upwards, and thus tends to raise
the apex.
    Thus, at a given instant, the elongated projectile may be re
presented by the rotating part of the apparatus just described.
    When there is no rotation, the resistance of the air tending to
raise the apex is represented by the weight at the lower end, which
produces the same effect.
   When a rapid rotation is communicated, (suppose from left to
right of the gunner,) the result will be, no elevation of the apex,
but a lateral movement, or commencement of a rotation round the
vertical,—in astronomical language retrograde, if the former rotation
be direct ; —but which beginning from the opposite part of the circle
is, relative to the operator, towards the right.

 1854.]                OF THE ROY At INSTITUTION.                      397
   The form of the projectile used in these experiments differs from
that in the Minie' rifle, in that the latter is hollow at its broader
end, and thus the centre of gravity is thrown forward towards the
apex. Hence, according to the same theory, the effect would pro
bably here be to depress the apex, and therefore to give an opposite
deviation : but it does not appear whether any such observations
have been made ; and in practice the effect would probably be quite
insensible.
   It occurred to the author that a very simple illustration of this
deviation of rifle projectiles might be made by merely forming a sort
of small arrow, whose head was composed of a cork, like a shuttle
cock, but instead of the feathers, small card vanes inclined in the
same direction round it, with a tail to balance it, and which thus in
the mere act of throwing acquires a rotatory motion from the re
action of the air, to the right or left according as the vanes are
inclined-; and on trying this there was always observed a deviation
in the direction of the axis or point of the missile to the right or left
accordingly, relative to the experimenter. It is in fact nearly im
possible to throw such a body in a direction perfectly in one plane.
The true deviation is, however, peculiarly liable to be disguised by
the general resistance of the air on so light a missile, as well as by
currents, &c. which it is not easy to guard against.
   The well known case of the Boomerang exhibits effects closely
similar : for it is found that if so projected that its rotation is from
left to right, its deviation will be in the same direction, sad vice versd :
that is, supposing (as is the usual case) that its plane is inclined
upwards from the operator : —If it be inclined downwards, the devia
tion is in the direction opposite to that of the rotation.
   In the former case the reaction of the air against the flat surface
of the missile would tend to increase its inclination upwards, in the
latter downwards, with respect to the operator : and this in each case
respectively would give the motion stated ; as is easily seen on the
principle, and by means of the apparatus, before described.
   Thus it would follow that this extraordinary instance of savage
invention, which long ago puzzled inquirers, is simply a case (like
the last) of " the composition of rotatory motion."
    It should, however, be mentioned that some experimentalists have
 entertained a different view of the cause of deviation in this instance.
   Besides the results above stated, Professor Magnus (in the same
 Memoir) mentions several other highly curious cases produced by
certain modifications of the apparatus ; but all referrible to the same
principles.
    M. Fessel has also invented an apparatus (since called the Gyro
 scope) an account of which is given with some remarks by Professor
 Plucker, and the Editor in PoggendorfFs Annalen (1853, Nos. 9 and
 10), which though apparently invented without any knowledge of
 Bonenberger's apparatus, is a modification of it, referring to phe
 nomena of the same kind as those of the equilibrium experiment
 mentioned at first.

398                     NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS                [March 3,
   This apparatus has been greatly improved upon by Professor
Wheatstone, who has introduced other movements to include the
conditions of rotation in different planes. One of these instruments
was exhibited.
    From these singular applications of a very simple mechanical
truth, we may now turn to what is but another exemplification of
the same thing, however apparently remote from those we have con
sidered, and upon a far grander scale.
   The phenomenon of the Precession of Equinoxes was known to
Hipparchus; but no explanation of the fact was for ages imagined.
Even Kepler, in the multiplicity of his hypothetical resources, could
not succeed in devising anything plausible. The axis of the Earth
is slowly shifting its position, so that its pole points continually to a
new part of the heavens,—a new pole star,—at the rate of about 50"
a year, and of course carries with it the point of intersection of the
Earth's equator with the ecliptic or plane of its orbit, at the same
rate and in a direction opposite to that of its motion, or the order
 of the signs.
   These phenomena remained wholly without explanation till
Newton, led by the analogy of those disturbing forces on the orbit
of a planet which cause its nodes to regress, shewed that the same
would occur in a satellite to the earth, —-in a ring of such satellites,
•— in such a ring adhering to the equator, or the protuberant part
of the terrestrial sphere ; and thus that the equinoctial points would
slowly regress. (See Principia, i. 66, Corr. 1 1 —22.)
    The more exact determination of quantitative results was reserved
for Newton's successors, when a more powerful analysis had been
applied by Eulcr, D'Alembert and others to the full exposition of the
theory, founded on general equations of motion ; as since given in
the writings of Laplace, (Mec. Cel. liv. xiv. ch. 1.) and Pontecou-
lant (Theorie du Systeme du Monde, liv. iv. ch. 5.), which are
necessary for including all the minuter variations detected by
Bradley, and subsequent observers, shewing the nutation of the axis,
and the inequalities of precession due to the varying configurations
of the attracting luminaries.
    These higher mathematical views, though of course the most
complete and systematic, are not the most direct or easy mode of
explaining the subject to the student. Gre'ater simplicity certainly
characterizes the method adopted by Mr. Airy (in the tract before
cited) of applying directly the theorem of the composition of rotatory
motion ; as doubtless Newton would have done had it been knCTra
to him. But here, as in so many other instances, the first explana
 tion presented itself mixed up with more complex considerations ;\
 and as has been well observed " simplicity is not always a fruit of
the first growth."
    To those not versed in the mathematical theory, of all points in
 Physical Astronomy, the " modus operand!" of the Precession,
 perhaps, usually seems the most paradoxical, and the explanations

  1854.]                OF THE ROYAI. INSTITUTION.                     399
  given in some of the best popular treatises are seldom found satis
  factory, following as they do the letter of Newton's illustration and
  omitting the direct introduction of the principle of composition,
  which, if only from what has been here offered, is at once seen to
  he easily capable of the most elementary explanation. Indeed it
  was from this consideration forcing itself on the mind of the author,
  in several courses of popular lectures on Astronomy, that he was
  led to seek the means of experimental illustration above described ;
  and which would more palpably imitate the phenomena to the eye,
  if, instead of the rotating bar a terrestrial globe be substituted (as in
  Bonenberger's instrument) — for better illustration made protuberant
  at the equator,— where the weight at the south pole acts the part of
  the sun's and moon's attraction, to pull down the protuberant matter
  of the spheroid at the equator if at rest, but when combined with
  the earth's rotation results in a transference of the position of its
  axis, or slow revolution of its pole round the pole of the ecliptic in
  a direction opposite to its rotation, carrying with it the equinoxial
  points, and causing the signs of the zodiac to shift backwards from
  their respective constellations.
      It always affords a sort of intellectual surprise, to perceive for
  the first time the application of some simple and familiar mechanical
  principle to the grand phenomena of astronomy : to see thp.t it is
  but one and the same set of laws which governs the motions of
  matter on the earth and in the most distant regions of the heavens ;
  to find the revolution of the apsides in a pendulum vibrating in
  ellipses, or the conservation of areas in a ball whirled round by a
  string suddenly shortened : or (as in the present case) to perceive a
  celestial phenomenon, vast in its relations both to time and space
  and complex in its conditions, identified, as to its mechanical cause,
  with the rotatory movement of a little apparatus on the table before
  us,— or to discover the Precession of Equinoxes in the deviation of
  a rifle or a boomerang. And the simple experimental elucidation
  of such phenomena and their laws will not be useless, as it tends to
  confirm in the mind of the student the great characteristic of the
  modern physical philosophy first asserted by Galileo, the identity
  of the causes of the celestial and terrestrial motions, and to aid and
  elevate our conception of those grand and simple principles accord
  ing to which the whole machinery of the universe is so profoundly
  adjusted.
                                                                 [B. P.]
\

400                     NOTICES OV THB MEETINGS               [March 6,
                 GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                         Monday, March 6, 1854.
       Right Hon. BARON PARKE, Vice-President, in the Chair.
George Richard Burnett, Esq.           Edmund C. Johnson, M.D.
William Chapman, Esq.                  Barry Charles Knight, Esq.
George Clowes, Esq.                    John Parrott, Esq.
Thomas Davis, Esq.                     Henry Pollock, Esq.
Hananel De Leon, M.D.                  Charles Sartoris, Esq.
Lt.-Col. Lothian Sheffield Dickson. George Ward, Esq.
The Hon. Sir William Erie, Justice Nathaniel B. Ward, Esq. F.R.S.
   of the Court of Queen's Bench.        F.L.S.
Richard
were         electedEsq.
       dulyHoper,                      Thomas
                     Members of the Royal        Young, Esq.
                                            Institution.
   John Hall Gladstone, Esq., Ph. D. Samuel Petrie, Esq.
      F.R.S.                             Michael Wills, Esq.
were admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   MR. FARADAY gave an account of some recent researches by
Dr. Schonbein on the action of temperature upon the physical
condition of bodies as manifested by their changes of colour.
That heat deepens the colour of many bodies is well known;
thus, sulphur becomes more and more coloured as it is heated.
Schonbein has shewn that the change does not cease at com
mon temperatures, but that very cold sulphur is a colourless body.
Even ink appears to be such a body ; for diluted ink, being
frozen, gives a dark coloured ice, and this by cooling to 40° below
zero becomes colourless : it resumes its colour as it rises in tem
perature, and becomes dark before it ceases to be ice. Some bodies
which are colourless at common temperatures acquire colour, either by
heating or cooling ; — thus, if an infusion of roses or dahlias, ren
dered colourless by sulphurous acid, be raised in temperature, it will
become coloured, and will lose the colour again as it cools. Or if
it be introduced into a glass tube, and frozen by a mixture of snow
and salt, it first freezes into a white ice, and then at a lower tem
perature becomes beautifully coloured red, after which, if it be
raised in temperature it first loses the colour, then thaws, and at
last mclts into a colourless fluid.

  1854.]                      OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                    401
     The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same : —
    From
    Agathocles,
 Airy,            Thales,
         G. B. Esq.   F.R.S.      Xerxes. (From Phil.
                            andAstronomer-Royal        (theTrans.
                                                             Author)  — Soc.)
                                                                   Roy.  On the4to.    1853. of
                                                                                   Eclipses
    assembledLord
 Ashburton,             (the Author)
                at Winchester,      Dec.—16,   1853. to
                                            Address               Elementary Schoolmasters
                                                        8vo.the 1854.
 Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIV. No. 3. 8vo. 1853.
 Athenaeum Club — List of Members, 8tc. 1853.
 Bell, Jacob, Esq. — Pharmaceutical Journal, March, 1854. 8vo.
 Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical World for Feb. 1854. 4to.
 British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings in Feb. 1854.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings in Feb. 1854. 8vo.
 Cambridge Observatory, Syndicate — Astronomical Observations made at Cam
    bridge, by the Rev. James Challis. Vol. XVII. 4to. 1854.
    The Practical
 Editors Journal
          — The Medical
         Athenaeum     Gas-Lighting,
                        for Feb.
                   ofMechanic's
                              Circular
                                   1854.
                                   Journal
                                        for
                                        Feb. Feb.
                                             for
                                               1 854.
                                            4to.   1854.4to.1854.
                                                  March,     8vo. 4to.
   The Mechanics' Magazine. Vol. LVII.—LIX. and continuation. 8vo. 1852-4.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L., F.R.S.—
    Geschichte der Prager Universitiit, von Wenzel Wladiwoj Tomek. 8vo.
     Prag, 1849.
   Tomase ze Stitného Knizky Sestery o Obecnych Vecech Krestanskych. 8vo.
     Praze, 1852.
   Monatsbericht
   Atti               der Konigl.
         dell' Accademia             Preussischen
                               Pontificia  de' Lincei.Akademie
                                                            Anno zu     Sess. Jan.
                                                                   V.Berlin,          4. 8vo.
                                                                               2, 3,1854.  4to.
     Roma, 1853.
Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXVII. Nos. 2. 8vo. 1854.
Geographical Society, Royal — Journal. Vol. XXIII. 8vo. 1853.
   Index to Second Ten Volumes of the Journal. 8vo. 1853.
Geological Society — Journal. No. 37. 8vo. 1854.
Graham, George, Esq. Registrar- General — Weekly Reports of the Registrar-
   General. Feb. 1854. 8vo.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. (the Editor) —The Monthly Digest for Feb. 1854. 8vo.
Lyne, T. Esq. (the Author) — Tribunals of Commerce. 8vo. 1854.
Novello, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical Times, March, 1854. 4to.
   M.D. and Royal
Physicians,              Gull, M.D.
               W. W. College             8vo. 1854.
                                  of— Reports       on Epidemic Cholera, by W. Baly,
   kept atC.Uckfield,
Prince,                   Esq. (the
               Leeson, Sussex,        Author)Sheet.
                                   in 1853.       — Results of a Meteorological Journal
Royal Society of London — Philosophical Transactions, Vol. CXLIII.                     Parts 2
   Proceedings,
     andof3.Fellows.
   List                  4to.
                         101. 1853.
              4to.No.1853.       8vo. 1854.
Society of Arts — Journal, Feb. 1854. 8vo.
Smith, Mr. J. Russell (the Publisher) — The Retrospective Review. No. 6.
     8vo. 1854.
   " Who shall make the Law-makers? A Question, with Answer attempted."
     8vo. 1854.
Statistical Society — Jommd, Vol. XVII. Part1. 8vo. 1854.
   8vo. Rev.
Taylor,    1840.W., F.R.S. M.R.I — The Flora of Yorkshire, by Henry Baines.
Vereins zur Beforderung des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen,
   Sept.—Dec. 1853. 4to. Berlin.
Wells, Thomas Spencer, Esq. M.R.I, (the Author) — Practical Observations on
   Gout and its Complications. 16mo. 1854.

402                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                [A/flfcA 10,
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                •. BARON Friday,
       Right Hon.                   Vice-President,
                            PARKE, March   10.       in the Chair.
                     CHARLES BROOKE, M.A., F.R.S.
                   SURGEON TO THE WESTMINSTER HOSFITAL.
       On the Construction of the Compound Achromatic Microscope.
 MR. BROOKE stated his motive in giving the Lecture to be an
 observation frequently made, that many who are in possession of
 the best microscopes, cither for the purpose of pursuing original
 investigations, or of seeking rational recreation in acquiring a know
ledge of the structure of natural objects, do not develop the full
 power of their instruments, from a want of sufficient acquaintance
 with the principles on which the definition of objects depends.
    After briefly adverting to the ordinary phenomena of reflection,
 the Lecturer illustrated those of refraction by a movable diagram,
 which readily explained the total reflection of a ray of light in
 cident on the common surface of two medin at an angle greater
 than the critical angle, corresponding to which the angle of refrac
 tion is 90°.
    The aberration of rays reflected or refracted at a spherical sur
 face was then alluded to ; and although the reflectors employed
 in microscopes may be rendered free from spherical aberration
 by giving them an elliptic, and those of telescopes, a parabolic
 form, there is no practicable method at present known of con
 structing lenses otherwise than with spherical or plane surfaces :
 and from the difficulty of obtaining sufficiently perfect reflecting
 surfaces, and of preserving them when obtained, refracting micro
 scopes are now almost universally employed. '
     Chromatic dispersion was then mentioned, and the usual mode
 of producing achromatism by the combination of various Kind- of
 glass, which differ in their dispersive power, was illustrated by a
  combination of three prisms. The construction of achromatic
 object-glasses was next explained, as well as the nature of the aber
  ration produced by the presence or absence of a plate of thin glass
 covering the object, and the mode of correcting it in object-glasses
 of high power, by varying the distance of the anterior from the
 posterior combinations, as first extensively applied in practice by
 Mr. A. Iloss, and fully detailed in his article on the Microscope,
  in the Penny Cyclopaedia.
     The angle of aperture of object-glasses was then explained, and
 the power of those of large angular aperture in developing the

1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      403
structure of certain test objects, such as the siliceous shells of
diatnmaceae, was explained to be totally distinct from the mere
 increase of the amount of light transmitted. Mr. Brooke offered
an hypothesis as to the structure of these objects,, From which it
would follow that that structure would be rendered visible by
oblique rays alone, and the necessary degree of obliquity would
depend on the smallness of the elevations on the undulating
surface of the shell. This view was thus shewn to be highly pro
bable ; a specimen of the Pleurosigma formosum (first found by
Mr. lirooke at Walton-on-the-Naze) was viewed under a half
inch object-glass by Ross, and an achromatic eye-piece of high
power, (which was stated to be unquestionably superior to a deep
Htiygenian eye-piece) ; when an opaque disc was interposed
between the object and the centre of the object-glass, which cut
off a large portion of the central rays, the diagonal rows of dots
were still distinctly visible ; but when the marginal rays were
stopped out by a diaphragm, although a much larger quantity of
light was admitted than in the former case, the markings were
entirely lost.
    In order to render visible the more difficult objects of this class,
glasses of large angle of aperture have been constructed, but their
employment is much limited, owing to the greatly increased
difficulty of correcting the aberrations, under any given circum
stances of the transmitted pencil of light. and consequently this
small amount of correction, that is, of adaptation to altered cir
cumstances, that they admit of. From investigations which he
knew to be in progress, the Lecturer expressed a hope that by due
adjustments of the illuminating pencil, the most difficult test-
objects would be rendered equally visible un.ler object-glasses of
moderate aperture, which are much more generally useful.
    Mr. Brooke then alluded to the preposterous reputed angle of
aperture of certain foreign object-glasses, viz. 172°, and explained
the fallacy of the ordinary method of determining that angle ;
 which consists in viewing through a microscope the light of a
 lamp placed at a few feet distance, and moving either the light or
the microscope, so as to traverse the entire angular distance
 through which the light is visible. In this method the course of
the rays is contrary to their usual course, and oblique pencils may
 be brought to an imperfect focus at the back of the object-glass,
 and produce a glare of light, but which meet at a greater angle
 than the extreme rays that can enter the object glass from the
Jield of view, and which consequently are the extreme available
 rays.
    A very perfect instrument for measuring the angle of aperture,
 designed by Mr. Gillett, was then explained: this consists of two
 microscopes, the optical axes of which may be adjusted to coinci
 dence. One of these is attached horizontally to the traversing

404                   NOTICES OF THB MBBTINGS            [AfflTcA 10,
arm of a horizontal graduated circle, and is adjusted so that the
point of a needle, made to coincide with the axis of motion of the
movable arm, may be in focus and in the centre of the field of
view. The other microscope, to which the object-glass to be
examined is attached, is fixed, and so adjusted, that the point of
the same needle may be in focus in the centre of its field. The
eye-piece of the latter is then removed, and a cap with a very
small aperture is substituted, close to which a lamp is placed.
It is evident that the rays transmitted by the aperture will pursue
the same course in reaching the point of the needle, as the visual
rays from that point to the eye, but in a contrary direction,
and being transmitted through the movable microscope, the eye
will perceive an image of the bright spot of light throughout that
angular space that represents the true aperture of the object glass
examined. The applications of this instrument in the construction
of object-glasses are too numerous to be here detailed: amongst
the most obvious of -which may be mentioned the ready means it
presents of determining the nature, and measuring the amount of
the aberration in any given optical combination.
   The important subject of Illumination was then so far considered
as the short space of time allotted to the discourse would permit.
It may be taken as an axiom that in the illumination of transparent
objects, the amount of definition will depend on the accuracy with
which the illuminating rays converge upon the several points of
an object ; consequently the source of light and the field of view
must be the conjugate foci of the illuminator, of which an achro
matic combination, similar to an object-glass, is the best form, and
the common mirror usually employed is probably the worst,
inasmuch as in a pencil of rays obliquely reflected at a spherical
surface, no focal point exists.
   The first compound microscopes on record, as those of P.
Bonnani, about 1697, which was placed horizontally, and that of
J. Marshall in the beginning of the eighteenth century, which was
vertical, were furnished with central condensers, but in later
 years the perfection of the illuminating apparatus has by no means
kept pace with that of the ocular portion of the microscope,
though scarcely of less importance, in attaining the utmost practi
cable perfection in the vision of microscopic objects.
   The advantages of employing an achromatic condenser were
first pointed out by Dujardin, since which time an object-glass
has been frequently, but inconveniently employed, and more
recently achromatic illuminators have been constructed by most
of our instrument-makers.
   Some years since Mr. Gillett was led by observation to appre
ciate the importance of controlling not merely the quantity of light,
 which may be effected by a diaphragm placed any where between
 the source of light and the object, but the angle of aperture of the

  1854.]                 OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          405
 illuminating pencil, which can be effected only by a diaphragm
 placed immediately behind the achromatic illuminating combi
 nation. An elastic diaphragm, or artificial pupil as it might be
 called, was first proposed by Mr. Brooke, which was shewn to
 answer very well in a large model, and produced a remarkable
 semblance of vital contractility ; but mechanical difficulties inter
fered with its application, and the revolving diaphragm in the
 instrument, now well known as Gillett's condenser, was sub
stituted.*
    When the rays of light converging on the field of view meet at
 a greater angle than that of the extreme rays that can enter the
 object-glass, the dark-ground illumination is produced, in which
 the objects are seen in strong lines of light on a dark ground;
 this is best suited to objects having a well-marked outline, such as
 the spicula of sponge, or the shells of the polygastrica. This may
 be effected either by Wenham's truncated parabolic reflector, or by
a central opaque stop in Gillett's condenser.
    The value of this kind of illumination in certain cases was shewn
by its effect in rendering visible the persistent cell-walls in a speci
men of hard vegetable tissue, a section of a plum- stone, which
could hardly be distinguished by the ordinary, or bright-ground
illumination.
    A white cloud brightly illuminated by the sun has long been
recognised as the best source of illumination, but as this is not
often obtainable, the light of a lamp thrown upon a flat surface
of plaister of Paris, or powdered carbonate of soda, has been used
as a substitute. A flat surface of white enamel finely ground, but
not polished, has been used wi:h advantage by Mr. Gillett, as
the surface can always be rendered perfectly clear by a little
soap and water. By either of these means the glare resulting from
throwing the unmodified light of a lamp on the object is com
pletely obviated.
    The effect of glare or diffused light in interfering with the vision
of an object was illustrated by reference to an experiment of
Professor Faraday's, in which a screen of gauze partially blackened
is held in front of a printed placard or diagram ; the diffused
light reflected from the white gauze considerably obscures the
object, which is scarcely interfered with by the blackened portion.
    The influence of illumination upon definition was rendered very
evident by placing the two halves of a fly's tongue, similarly
mounted, under two microscopes having precisely similar object-
glasses and eye-pieces ; the one was carefully illuminated by an
achromatic condenser, and artificial white cloud •, the other, by the
light of a similar lamp reflected from a concave mirror : the dif-
   • A description of this very useful apparatus has been recently published in
the " Elements of Natural Philosophy," by Golding Bird and Charles Brookc.

406                NOTICES OF THE MEBTiNGS.       [March 10, 1854.
ference was so conspicuous, that some were inclined to doubt the
identity of the objects.
   The whole subject of the illumination of opaque objects, as well
as that of oblique illumination, by Kingsley's condenser, and by
the prisms of Nachet and Amici, of which diagrams were exhibited,
and by other means, wus unavoidably omitted
   Microscopes by the three leading makers were placed on the
table ; between the optical parts of which Mr. Brooke declined the
task of drawing any invidious distinctions. He however expressed
a preference for the stand of Mr. Ross, on account of its having
a secondary stage with rectangular adjustments, and a rotatory
movement by which any illumimating apparatus may be made to
revolve after its axis has been brought to coincide with that of the
microscope.
   A stand by Mr. Lndd was also exhibited, in which the various
movements are effected with great smoothness, and without " loss
of time," by means of wrapping chains : also the ingenious appa
ratus of Mr. Highley, for obtaining photographs of microscopic
objects, uf which time did not admit of any explanation being
offered.
    In a curious and complicated microscope, the property of Prof.
 Quekett, constructed about the middle of the lust century by
 Benjamin Mai tin, might be noticed several points of construction,
 that have been introduced as recent improvements.
                                                           [C. B.J

                   [FOR THE USE OF MEMBERS.]
       ffiopal institution of dsreat Britain,
                                 1854.
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                           Friday, March 17.
     SIR JOHN P. BOILBAU, Bart. F.R.S. F.S.A. Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                   STEFHEN H. WARD, M.D. LOND.
           On the Growth of Plants in Closely-glased Cases.
HAVING glanced at the various causes, the soot, dust, deleterious
gases, and cold, drying winds, which interfere with the growth of
plants in cities and towns, the Lecturer noticed the incident
which, in the year 1829, led Mr. Ward to discover a remedy
in the " closely-glazed cases."
   In the principle and construction of the Wardian cases there is
no mystery whatever. The principle is, the exclusion from the
plants of deleterious influences and agents, the admission and reten
tion of those that are necessary ; and it is realteed in a common
stoppered hottle, a garden-pot, or a pan covered with a bell-glass,
or a trough surmounted by a glazed frame-work. Nothing can be
more erroneous than the notion which has been entertained, even
by educated persons, that these cases are hermetically sealed, and
that the plants live without air. Closely-glazed the cases are and
should be, but not closed. Closed only to adverse, open to genial
and indispensable influences. Excluding soot and dust and the
deleterious gases entangled in smoke, guarding against sudden
changes of temperature and drying winds, preserving the nutritious
aqueous vapour, admitting light, and subtly, but certainly in obe
dience to the diffusion law, such renewal of air as is required by the
plants.
   The construction of a case is very simple and is easily effected.
The trough may be made of any material, wood tarred within,
earthenware, or zinc ; the last being perhaps preferable. To this
a bell-glass or glazed frame- work is to be nicely adapted ; and,
supposing that ferns are to be grown in the case, the mode of
arrangement is as follows. Into the bottom of the trough are
thrown pieces of stone, potsherds, &c. ; upon this a mixture of
peat-mould and loam up to the level of the trough, and on the
surface any artificial elevation or picturesque rock-work. The ferns
are then planted, the mould is well saturated with water, the glass
    No. 19.                                             GG

408                    NOTICES OF THK MEETINGS             [March 17,
covering is fitted on, and the case placed in a situation where it
may be exposed to a due amount of light, but for ferns, not to
the full force of the sun's rays. For the drainage of superfluous
 water, it is necessary either to have apertures perforated in the
bottom of the case, or, what is better, a depression in a corner from
 which such water may be removed by means of a sponge or syringe.
 In a case so arranged, the several natural conditions of plants are
 fully realized. The closely-fitting glass covering, while it excludes
 soot and dust, admits freely the light which is essential to the
vigorous and healthful growth of plants, since without it they are
 not duly nourished, and grow devoid of odour and colour, sickly and
unattractive in aspect. In the next place, the water with which the
 mould has been saturated, and without which neither seeds nor
plants can develop or grow, is retained or escapes only in inap
preciable quantities. Exhaling from the leaves and rising from
the mould in the form of vapour, it becomes condensed on the
 surface of the glass in the form of small beaded drops which,
coalescing, form streamlets that course down the side of the
glass : the water is again absorbed by the mould, evaporated and
condensed, and so keeps up a ceaseless circulation. The plants
in a bottle which was exhibited had had no fresh water for nine
teen years. Again, the perfect tranquillity of the air within the
case enables the plants to bear both higher and lower degrees of
temperature than they would do if exposed, because the protective
vapour which surrounds them is not carried off. For this reason,
a glass shade placed over cut flowers preserves them in a state
of freshness for a considerable period. And, lastly, with regard
to the admission of air. The case is not, and cannot be her
metically sealed or air tight. If it were, the first change in the
relative temperature of the air within and without would result
in the fracture of the glass. Change of air is effected very
subtly, but must ever be going on in obedience to the diffusion
law by which gases of different density become intimately blended ;
rising against the attraction of gravitation, passing through bladder
and other membranes, and through barriers more complete than
a glazed frame- work which is only nicely adapted to, not amal
gamated with the case below.
   While the different natural conditions are realized in one of
these cases, they may be so modified as to suit the requirements
of different kinds of plants. Ferns generally require a peaty mould,
a humid atmosphere, and a moderate supply of light. As an instance
of the perfection to which they will attain under this plan, may
be noticed the success which has attended one of the most deli
cate, the Trichomanes speciosum. In the first experiment made
with this, the fronds attained a size one fourth larger than native
specimens either from Killarney or Teneriffe ; and Mr. Callwell of
Dublin has a plant which, remarkably slow as this fern is of
growth, has produced in nine years three hundred fronds varying

1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                         409
in length from fourteen to twenty inches and a half. For
flowering plants a more loamy soil is desirable, less moisture, a
greater volume of air, and more or less exposure to the direct
rays of the sun. But that they can be grown just as successfully
as ferns is proved by the fact, that in the most smoke-charged
atmosphere in the east of London, various spring flowers, fairy
roses, &c. flowered, year after year, most luxuriantly, and remained
in flower much longer than they do in our country gardens. For
cactuses and succulent plants a dry sandy soil and direct sunlight
are necessary. In short, the isolating glass covering enables us to
obtain in these cases a climate within a climate, a little world
within a world.
   As regards design and dimensions, the cases may be varied to
an indefinite extent. [Attention was here directed to the sugges
tive diagrams by E. W. Cooke, A. R. A.] It is desirable, in order
to obtain a light and elegant appearance, that the trough should
be shallow ; increase of surface for the growth of plants being
gained by some picturesque central elevation. For hints, however,
in reference to this part of the subject Mr. Ward's little work *
may be advantageously consulted.                                •
   The applications of these cases are various. The first and one of
the most important is to the growth of plants in towns and cities ;
the citizen being enabled by them to enjoy the constant prospect
of ferns and flowers, instead of looking out upon dingy tenements.
They may not only be used as beautiful window-blinds ; but a case
of larger dimensions may be built out from a library or breakfast
parlour, in which, by aid of moderate artificial heat during the
winter, plants of warmer climates may be associated with those
of this country. Not only may they be made to occupy window-
recesses, but the spaces between and at the sides of windows,
which under the present system of domestic architecture are usually
so dark as to be unavailable for pictures or any other purpose,
might be converted into Wardian cases, in which plants and
animals might be associated. Such an arrangement would be the
source of constant interest to the mind, and would, at the same
time, render the room lighter and consequently healthier and more
cheerful. Modifications of the plan such as have just been sug
gested are, however, adapted only for those of tolerably ample
means. Now the cultivation of plants has ever been peculiarly
the poor man's luxury. To the taste and love for nature which he
often exhibits, these cases may be made to minister ; for they may
be constructed at a very trifling expense, and the plants that
would flourish in them, the primrose and anemone in spring, the
wood-sorrel, the pimpernel, the common ivy which may be trailed
over any part of the case, and the commoner kinds of fern may
   * On the Growth of Plants in closely-glazed cases, by N. B. Ward, F. R. S.
published by Van Voorst, Second Edition.

410                  NOTICES OF THE MEKTtNOS                [March 17,
be procured by any one in a long walk or a very short railway
ride out of London.
   The Lecturer, in the next place, alluded to the application of the
" cases " in promoting what he termed the " aesthetics " of the sick
room ; and showed how important it was, in the treatment of
chronic diseases and during the period of convalescence from
others, to endeavour to dissipate morbid feelings and divert atten
tion from still lingering symptoms by the cheering presence of
things of beauty. In the chamber of the invalid, these cases
presented an advantage over plants exposed in the ordinary way,
because they confined those exhalations from flowers, which,
agreeable as they may be to sense, are frequently prejudicial to
the patient. At the suggestion of Mr. Burch, the resident medi
cal officer of the London Hospital, some money had been col
lected for the construction of cases to be placed in the wards of
that hospital.
    In the conveyance of useful plants from one country to another,
the plan has been of signal benefit to mankind. Formerly plants
were packed in moss in boxes, or allowed to grow during the voyage,
and, in consequence, a large proportion of them died. Now, the
same arrangement which protected them from noxious influences in
large towns, was found available in preserving the plants during
long voyages from the salt spray and rough winds, from ex
tremes of heat and cold, in admitting the light, and retaining the
water which, on ship-board, is often a valuable commodity. In
 1833 two cases, filled with British plants, were entrusted to Captain
Mallard, who engaged to follow out directions, and take them with
him to Sydney. When they arrived, after four or five months, at
their place of destination, the plants were in full health, and a prim
rose which was in flower created no little sensation among the colo
nists. They were refilled with Australian plants, which reached
England in perfectly good condition, and some of which had never
been seen alive before in this country. From this time the plan
 became gradually adopted, in this and other countries, for the trans
 port of plants. One or two examples will show the benefit it has
 conferred in this respect. The late Mr. Williams, the Missionary,
 on leaving this country in 1839 took with him a plant of banana,
 so important in the food which it furnishes to man, and introduced
 it into one or two of the Navigator Islands, where it was previously
 unknown. Mr. Fortune conveyed twenty thousand tea-plants in these
 cases in safety and perfect health from Shanghae to the Himalayas.
 Some of the finest palms that now decorate our large conservatories
 could not have been brought over to this country, but for Mr.
 Ward's invention ; for even the seeds of these plants, in consequence
 of the oily matter which they contain, become decomposed when
 brought over in the ordinary way. They are now placed in the
 mould in a closed case ; germination takes place during the voyage,
 and the young palm is found to be developed on arrival at the place

1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     411
of destination. Sir W. Hooker bears ample testimony to the suc
cess of the plan, and states that in about four years nearly three
thousand plants have been despatched to different parts of the world.
When Captain M'Clintock left for the Arctic regions, a case con
taining British plants was entrusted to him, and, when last heard
of, the plants had passed successfully through one polar winter.
   Having glanced at the various philosophical purposes to which
these cases may be applied, such as observations upon the habits of
plants in an undisturbed atmosphere, the value of different moulds,
and the action of the several vital stimuli, and having exhibited a
plant of Linaria Cymballaria in illustration of the effects produced
by deficient light, the Lecturer proceeded to notice the application
to animals and man.
   Philosophers have long been aware of the influence exerted by plants
in counterbalancing the effects of animal respiration. Towards the end
of the last century, Lavoisier led the way in determining what has been
happily called " nature's balance," by showing the exact changes
produced in the atmosphere by the respiration of animals. Priestley,
soon after, proved by experiments with growing plants in air that had
been vitiated by respiration and combustion, that they -restored air
so vitiated to its original purity. Senebier demonstrated the precise
action exerted by plants in decomposing carbonic acid and fixing the
carbon and liberating the oxygen, and that this takes place in water
as well as air. Boussingault further proved that plants decompose
water, and, from this, furnish another source of oxygen to air that
has been deteriorated by animal life. Now, these counterbalancing
actions of animal and vegetable life which are ever going on in the
world without, and which are among the greatest marvels in the
economy of Nature, may be realised most completely in one of these
cases. Mr. Ward felt this, and accordingly in 1841 established in
his largest fern-house, in a capacious earthenware vessel given to
him by Mr. Alfred White, an aquarium for fish and plants. In this
vessel, which contained twenty gallons of water and which he sur
rounded with rock-work raised several feet above its margin, he
placed gold and silver fish in company with several aquatic plants,
viz. Valisneria spiralis, Pontederia crassipes, Pistia stratiotes, and
Papyrus elegans. In this miniature lake, the water of which was
never changed, but kept in a constantly pure state by the action of
the associated plants, the animals lived in a healthy condition for
many years. This aquarium or vivarium soon gave the hint to Mr.
 Bowerbank who procured a large glass-jar, in which he placed
 stickle-backs, minnows, and snails, with plants of Valisneria, and
 covered in the jar with a piece of glass. Mr. Mitchell of the Zoolo
 gical Society states that the jar just noticed, gave him the suggestion
 for the interesting vivaria at the Gardens. Aquaria in open bottles
 would seem to have been ornaments of the philosopher's study nearly
 a hundred years ago, as a coloured illustration in a work by Leder-
 nuiller, published in 1763 will prove. All that Mr. Ward claims

 412                    NOTICES Or THE MEETINGS            [March 11 ,
  credit for, is the having introduced them into bis closed cases, and
  depended for success entirely upon the counterbalancing actions of
  animal and vegetable life. The individual to whom is due the merit
  of having introduced marine vivaria into London is Mrs. Thynne.
  Having procured some living madrepores when at Torquay in the
  autumn of 1846, she placed them in some sea-water in a bottle
  covered with a bladder, and brought them safely to town. They
  were then transferred to two glass bowls, the sea-water being kept
  aerated by being daily poured backwards and forwards, and being,
 moreover, periodically renewed by a fresh supply from the coast.
 In the spring of 1847, Mrs. Thynne sent for some pieces of rock,
 shells, &c. to which living sea-weeds were attached, and subsequently-
 depended upon the action of these for the purification of the water.
 For the removal of the conferva: which cover fresh-water aquatic
 plants, fresh-water snails are very serviceable. They are recom
 mended to be introduced into vivaria for this purpose, in the number
 of the Microscopical Journal for Sept. 2, 1841, and, prior to that
 time, were used by Mr. Cornelius Varley.
    By considerably increasing the volume of air, and introducing
 plants of high purifying action, there can be little doubt that these
 cases may be applied to the higher animals and even to man.
 Medical men have long felt the want of buildings, in which they
 might imitate the climate of any country, and adapt it to the neces
 sities of the patient. In the early part of the present century, one
 or two physicians paid particular attention to the maintenance of
 equable temperature in the rooms of consumptive patients, through
 the aid of German stoves and what was then known of the prin
ciples of ventilation ; and Dr. Arnott, in his Elements of Physics
published more than twenty years back, describes a contrivance for
the same purpose. From Mr. Ward, however, emanated the sug
gestion for the construction of a Sanatorium upon philosophical
principles. His views were first brought before the public in the
lecture delivered by Professor Faraday in April, 1838, and are clearly
laid down in the first edition of his work, " The Growth of Plants,
&c." published in 1842. Those who are acquainted with the means
by which M. Payerne and his crew contrived to remain for twenty-
four hours in a submarine vessel under the Seine, will feel, that,
whatever may be the difficulties in the erection and renewal of air
of such a building, they are not insurmountable. Sir J. Paxton's
design for a Sanatorium in connexion with the Hospital for Con
sumption at Victoria Park, would seem to realize the sort of edifice
proposed by Mr. Ward.
                                                       [S. H. W.]

 1854.]              OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      413
                    WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, March 24.
          WILLIAM WILBERFORCB BIRD, Esq., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                   EDWIN LANKKSTER, M.D., F.R.S.
   On the distinctions supposed to limit the Vegetable and Animal
                                Kingdoms.
 IN commencing, the Lecturer made some general remarks on classi
 fication, and pointed out the importance of accurate definitions in
order to constitute the classes, families, genera, and species of the
naturalist. The importance of defining species was greater than that
of larger groups, because these were composed of species. As genera
were collections of species, and families collections of genera, so the
animal and vegetable kingdoms were but collections of species. The
difficulty in distinguishing between the animal and vegetable king
doms consisted in our imperfect knowledge of the characters of
species which existed on what might be called the limits of the two
kingdoms. The history of the attempts at defining animals and
plants, for systematic purposes, would afford the best idea of the
nature of these difficulties. The definition of Linnaeus, that minerals
grow, plants grow and live, animals grow, live, and feel, was first
examined. In order to apply this definition, the terms growth, life,
and feeling, required explanation. Growth simply indicated increase.
The term life could not be defined in such a manner as to render it
inapplicable to the physical phenomena of the inorganic world and
at the same time embrace the lowest forms of organised beings.
Feeling could not be defined so as to separate the movements evinced
by so many members of the vegetable kingdom on the application of
external stimulants, as the movements of the leaves of the sensitive
plant, of the Diontea muscipula, the stamens of the barberry, and
the closing and unfolding of flowers from those of the animal king
dom. Such were the distinctions attempted to be made by one who
disregarded the use of the microscope.
    One of the most obvious distinctions between the organic and in
organic kingdoms was the presence of the cell in the former. Under
some circumstances it was not easy to detect the cell, as in certain
fossils, and sometimes inorganic matters assumed a cellular form.
   Another distinction adopted by naturalists, even since the general
introduction of the microscope into natural history inquiries, was,
that animals moved, whilst plants were fixed. This distinction,
though applicable to the higher forms of plants and animals, was

414                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS               [A/WT/l 'j4,
more than ever inapplicable to the organisms which required the mi
croscope to detect their existence. Recent researches had shewn that
the motile tissues in animals were composed of the same substance
that was found to be present in the cells of all plants, and which
under the names of nucleus, cytoblast, primordial utricle, and endo-
plast, had been recognised by all vegetable physiologists. This
 substance, composed of protein, was as actively motile in the plant as
 the animal. It was this substance which gave motility to the cella
 of Protococcus, the fibres of Oscillaria, the spores of various con-
ferva and/unjri, and probably also to all other movements observed
amongst plants.
    When cilia were originally discovered as the agents of movement
 in infusoria, and upon the internal organs of higher animals, they
 were regarded as characteristic of animal life. These organs were
 now known to be present in the zoospores of various conferva, and
 were the active agents of movement in the Volvox globator, of whose
 vegetable nature there could be little doubt since the researches of
Williamson and Busk.
    The possession of what were called eye-spots in doubtful organisms
 had been brought forward to decide the animality of these beings.
 Such eye-spots were present as red points in certain stages of the
 growth of Volvox, and other undoubtedly vegetable organisms, and
 according to Henfrey were due to the relation of the contents of the
 cell to light, and were in no way the agents of vision in the cells in
 which they are found.
    The definition of Aristotle, that animals possessed a mouth, whilst
 plants had none, had been recently revived ; and of all merely struc
 tural characters, it was the one best suited to the purpose of the
 naturalist. Until recently the exceptions to this definition were
 numerous ; but since the botanist had claimed so large a number of
 mouthless infusoria, as the Diatomacete, Desmidete, and Fo/toriwra,
 it was more than ever applicable. There were, however, certain
 exceptions ; and these were found in the Foraminifera, the Difflugite,
 and other low organisms which had no permanent mouth. Some of
 these have the power of forming a temporary sac for the purposes
 of digestion.
    Chemistry had from time to time offered its aid 'to the naturalist.
 At one time the possession of cellulose by the vegetable kingdom
 was considered distinctive, and the ready application or iodine and
 sulphuric acid as the test of its presence rendered it an ^asily as-
 certainable diagnostic mark. It had, however, been recentlvdetected
 by Smid in the Ascidian mollusca, by Thwaites in the Acarfet and
 by yirchow in the brain and spleen of man.                       \
    Another substance, chlorophyll, appeared at one time, to prono^8
 the presence of plants ; but it had been found by Schulz in //«,*'
 Turbellaria, Vortex, Mesostomum, Stentor, Bursaria and other \
 cidedly animal organisms.                                             \
    Starch was another vegetable product, easily detected by iodin'
                                                                         1

  1854.]               OF THK nOYAL INSTITUTION.                     415
  whose universal presence in the plant seemed to offer the best prac
  tical chemical test ; but Busk and other observers had recently de
  tected this substance in the brain of man, and there was reason to
  suppose that starch might be very generally present in the ani
  mal kingdom.
     It was thus seen that no one point in structure or chemical com
  position could furnish a means of distinction. A physiological point
  of much interest and importance had principally determined a certain
  number of botanists in claiming the Diatomacete and Desmidea as
  plants. In certain confervae it had been observed, that previous to the
  production of the zoospore, two contiguous cells united, and each con
  tributed its contents to form the germinating spore. This process
  was observed by Half and others in Desmidete, and subsequently by
  Thwaites in the Diatomacete. In addition to this point these families
  exhibit other relations with the vegetable kingdom.
     Whaterer might be the difficulties presented in any individual case
  in the application of all or any of the before-mentioned distinctions,
  there was evidently a great antagonism or polarity exhibited by the
  animal and vegetable kingdoms when viewed as a whole. They
  were mutually dependent, attained the same ends in their growth
  and organization, but by contrary means. The great function of
  the animal tissues was the absorption of oxygen, and the disengage
  ment of carbonic acid. The great function of the vegetable tissues
   was the absorption of carbonic acid and the disengagement of
   oxygen. The processes in the history of the life of the two king
   doms in which these distinctive functions appeared to be reversed,
   were not exceptions to the law, but were due to other agencies
   than those connected with the essential life of the plant or the
   animal. Thus carbonic acid was given out by plants at night,
   during fructification and germination. In the first instance, the
   gas given out was that which had been taken up during the day,
   and was not decomposed by the agency of light. In the latter
   instances a process of exudation took place in which the contents of
   the cells were undergoing change independent of the life of the plant.
   The germ during the growth of its cells absorbed carbonic acid and
   gave out oxygen, as in the growth of all other vegetable cells. The
   development of the carbonic acid arose from the decomposition of
   the starch and the sugar of the albumen of the seed. In the cases
   where animals had been found to give off oxygen, it was doubtful
   as to whether plants were not present or even mistaken for ani
   malcules.
      The composition of a series of vegetable and animal products was
   exhibited ; and attention was drawn to the fact, that in all cases the
   vegetable compounds were formed from carbonic acid and water,
   or from carbonic acid, water, and ammonia, by the loss of oxygen.
   Acetic acid was referred to as an exceptional instance ; but it was
   shewn that it was more probable, where acetic acid occurred as the
   result of vegetation, that it occurred as the result of deoxidation
!

416                   NOTICES OF THE MBETINOS                [Mnfffl 31,
than of a process of fermentation in which alcohol was developed
and subsequently oxidised. An exception was also referred to in
the animal kingdom in which fat is supposed to be formed by the
deoxidation of sugar ; but attention was drawn to the fact that this
process admitted of another explanation, not opposed to the phy-
siologico-chemical distinction pointed out.
   These processes were further shewn to be connected with the
relations existing between the animal and vegetable kingdoms. The
plant was produced from mineral compounds—carbonic acid, water,
and ammonia,—the substances out of which the animal was formed ;
and no instance was known of the animal appropriating and forming
organic substances out of these compounds. This was the distin
guishing feature of the life of the plant, and the liberation of oxygen
gas its most constant result. The appropriation of substances thus
formed, and the uniting them once more to oxygen gas, was the dis
tinguishing feature of animal life, and the formation of carbonic acid
gas its most constant result. Minor changes occurred ; but these
were the grand distinguishing features of the two kingdoms, the
recognition of which by structure, function, or results could alone
enable us to distinguish between plants and animals.
                                                              [E. L.]
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                          Friday, March 31.
 COL. PHILIF J. YORKE, F.R.S. President of the Chemical Society,
                             in the Chair.
            JOHN HALL GLADSTONE, Esq., Ph. D., F.R.S.
          On Chemical Affinity among Substances in Solution.
AN historical sketch of the development of the ideas of chemists
concerning " Affinity " was first given. The dogma of Hippocrates
that " Like combines only with like," was shewn to be superseded
by the view of Glauber and others, that unlike substances com
bine most readily : and that where two bodies have an affinity for
one another, it is a sign that they have no affinity with one another.
The views of Newton and Boyle in reference to the different de
grees of strength of affinity were then considered, and particular
attention was directed to the doctrine of Bergmann, that when a
decomposition takes place by means of the greater elective attrac
tion of a third body, that decomposition is complete. In op
position to this, Berthollet contended that in all such cases of
composition, or decomposition, there takes place a partition of the

1854.]               OF THB ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        417
base, or subject of the combination, between the two bodies whose
actions are opposed ; and that the proportions of this partition are
determined, not solely by the difference of energy in the affinities,
but also by the difference of the quantities of the bodies,— by their
physical condition,— and by that of the combinations capable of
being generated. These views did not meet with a favourable
reception at the time of their promulgation ; and the attention of
chemists had been drawn away from the subject until within these
last few years, when Malaguti, Bunsen, Debus, and Williamson, have
published investigations bearing upon the point. The Lecturer then
stated that before any of these papers had appeared, he had been
thinking of and performing some experiments upon the subject in
question, and that he was still continuing them.
   After a few experiments illustrative of " Chemical combination "
and of " Elective Affinity," others were introduced to show how
easily this latter phenomenon was affected by circumstances. Thus
ammonia will displace alumina from a solution of the sulphate, but
on the other hand, alumina will displace ammonia when heated with
the solid sulphate of that volatile base ; whilst if solutions of chloride
of aluminum and sulphate of ammonia be mixed and evaporated,
crystals of the double sulphate, ammonia-alum, will appear. There
were on the table two white salts ; the one had been carbonate of
baryta, but by boiling with excess of sulphate of potash, it had been
converted into the sulphate ; the other had been sulphate of baryta,
but by long continued boiling with much carbonate of potash, it had
suffered the opposite change into the carbonate. The Lecturer then
stated that so great is the influence exerted by these various circum
stances, that some have doubted whether there be a true " elective
affinity ;" he however believed that after making every allowance for
known causes there is still a residuary phenomenon to which that
name is the most appropriate. Allowing then, with Bergmann,
that relative degrees of affinity exist, the question arises :— Is
Berthollet's law also correct ? It is very difficult to arrive at a
satisfactory answer, since it is almost impossible to eliminate
other influences. Several reactions, however, were mentioned
as tending to show that there is some truth in the law :—
for instance, the solution of gold in hydrochloric acid upon the
 addition of nitrate of potash. The experiments of Bunsen on
 mixtures of carbonic oxide and hydrogen, exploded with a quantity
 of oxygen insufficient for complete combustion ; and those of Debus
 on the precipitation of mixed hydrates of lime and baryta by carbonic
 acid, were explained ; as also the remarkable fact noticed by both, that
 the resulting products were always in certain atomic proportions to
 one another. But in both these cases the first products of the
 chemical action are removed at once from the field : it is quite
 another case when they remain free to act and react on one another.
 Supposing they all remain in solution, the requisite is fulfilled ; but
 how are we to know what has then taken place ? Malaguti thought

418                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [March 3T,
to obtain an indication of this by mixing the aqueous solutions of
two salts, one of which is soluble in alcohol, and the other is
insoluble, and then pouring them into very strong alcohol, and
analyzing the salts immediately thrown down. His results are
tabulated ; they are valuable, but to some extent open to objection
on account of the disturbing influence of the alcohol. Some
observations of Professor Graham, and others of Professor William
son, as yet unpublished, were then spoken of, and the Lecturer
proceeded to describe his own endeavours to arrive at a knowledge
of the intimate constitution of a mixture of salts in solution by
observing their physical properties, especially colour.
   If solutions of one equivalent of nitrate of iron, and a triple equi
valent of sulphocyanide of potassium be mixed, a blood-red colour
results owing to the formation of sulphocyanide of the sesquioxide
of iron ; the question arises— Has all the iron left the nitric acid to
unite itself with the sulphocyanogen ? It has not ; for on the
addition of equivalent after equivalent of sulphocyanide of potassium,
a deeper red is constantly obtained. The arrangement by which
this deepening of colour was quantitatively determined was explained,
and imitated on the lecture table. The result was that even up to
375 equivalents, a regular increase was observed to take place, more
rapidly at first than afterwards, which was exhibited to the eye by
the results being projected as a curve. Again, as in the mixture of
equal equivalents of the two salts, some iron still remains in combina
tion with the nitric acid, a portion of the potassium must still remain
united to the sulphocyanogen. Accordingly, the addition of more iron
salt also gives a deeper colour. The curve expressing the results of
this experiment was a regular continuation of the curve formerly
mentioned; and neither of them exhibited any of those sudden transi
tions which the .experiments of Bunsen and Debus present. Dia
 grams exhibiting curves of the gallate and meconate of iron were
 also exhibited. Various experiments were then performed, showing
 the alteration in the resulting colour upon any change of any of the
 elements in the primary experiment ; for instance, the substitution of
 other acids for the nitric acid, or of other bases fur the potash. On
 the addition of a colourless salt to a coloured one, there results a
 diminution of the colour greater than the mere dilution would have
 produced, as was exemplified in the cases of the red sulphocyanide
 of iron mixed with sulphate of potash, and of the scarlet bromide
 of gold mixed with chloride of potassium. The lecturer accord
 ingly drew the conclusion that when two salts mix without precipi
 tation or volatilization, the acids and bases frequently, if not uni
 versally, arrange themselves according to some definite proportion ;
 and that this depends on the relative quantity of the two salts, as
 well as upon the proper affinities of the substances composing them.
 He was unable then to enter upon the influence of heat, or of dilu
 tion in certain cases, or to add any remarks connected with double
 salts, or with other metals, or upon certain practical applications of
 these views in chemical and physiological science.

1854.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                  419
   The fact that we very frequently find the double decomposition of a
salt to be complete, the whole of one of its constituents being pre
cipitated, was shown to be easily explained on the principles of
Berthollet. Thus, for instance, when chromate of potash and
nitrate of silver are mixed, at the first moment a division will take
place producing four salts, but one of these — the chromate of
silver, is thrown down at once as a precipitate, and thus put out of
the field of action. Another division of the acids with the bases
must take place, producing of course more of the insoluble chromate,
and so on till at length the whole of the silver is removed. And
that this is really what does take place is rendered almost certain by
the fact that wherever by an interchange of acids and bases a pre
cipitate can be produced, that precipitate does form ; and, if the
substance be perfectly insoluble, the whole is thrown down; this
occurring in opposition to all rules of " affinity," and to all tables
that Bergmann, or any other chemist, ever did or could construct.
The volatility of one of the products acts in the same manner as in
solubility, as is exemplified in the decomposition of carbonates by
any other acid. Crystallization also is but another phase of the same
phenomenon. An experiment was exhibited in illustration of this.
Dilute solutions of nitrate of lime, and sulphate of soda, were mixed
at the ordinary temperature without producing any separation of
solid matter ; but they were so proportioned that upon heating the
mixture, the crystallization of some sulphate of lime was determined,
and when once this had commenced, it progressed rapidly ; re
sembling in that respect the ordinary phenomena of precipitation.
If in a double decomposition a far larger quantity of a sparingly
soluble salt be produced at the first moment than the water can dis-
solve, the crystals will be formed rapidly and will accordingly be
very small in size; but should there be formed at once only just
sufficient to determine a separation in the solid form, the crystals
will grow gradually, and will often attain a large size. This was
exemplified on the mixture of nitrate of silver with the sulphates of
copper and of potash respectively.
   It is possible that the law of Berthollet may not be universally
applicable ; yet the present advanced state of science shows that not
only is there, as Bergmann insisted, a true chemical affinity, that is —
a preference of one substance to combine with a certain other sub
stance instead of a third,—but, in a great number of instances at
least, this substance will combine with both according to certain
proportions, whenever the whole of the affinities can be brought into
play at the same time.
                                                         [J. H. G.]

420                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [.Ijirif 3,
                GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                        Monday, April 3, 1854.
                                the Chair.
WILLIAM POLE, ESQ., M.A.,inF.R.S.,     Treasurer and Vice-President,
   The Rev. George Edward Biber, LL.D. was duly elected a Member
of the Royal Institution.
   George Clowes. Esq.                  Hananel De Leon, M.D.
   Col. Lothian Sheffield Dickson.      Barry Charles Knight, Esq.
were duly admitted Members of the Royal Institution.
   The Rev. JOHN BARLOW, Hon. Sec., R.I., reported that the fol
lowing Arrangements had been made for the Lectures after Easter :
    Seven Lectures on EBULLITION, COMBUSTION, and other Pheno
mena of HEAT. By JOHN TYNDALL, Ph. D., F.R.S., Prof. Nat.
 Phil. R.I. To commence on Tuesday, April 25th, 1 854.
    Seven Lectures on BOTANY. By MAXWELL T. MASTERS, Esq. of
 the Fielding Herbarium, Oxford. To commence on Thursday,
 April 27th, 1854.
    Seven Lectures on EDUCATION. To commence on Saturday,
 April 29th, 1854, viz.
    1. REV. W. WHEWELL, D.D., F.R.S., Master of Trin. Coll. Camb.
       —On the Influence of the History of Science upon Intellectual
       Education.
    2. PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L., F.R.S.— Observations on Mental
       Education.
    3. ROBERT GORDON LATHAM, M.D., F.R.S.— On the Importance
       of the Study of Language as a branch of Education for all
       Classes.
    4. CHARLES G. B. DAUBENY, M.D., F.R.S.— On the Importance
       of the Study of Chemistry as a branch of Education for all
       Classes.
    5. PROFESSOR TYNDALL, F.R.S.— On the Importance of the Study
       of Physics as a branch of Education for all Classes.
    6. JAMES PAOET, Esq., F.R.S.—On the Importance of the Study
       of Physiology as a branch of Education for all Classes.
    7. W. B. HODGSON, Esq., LL.D.— On the Importance of the Study
       of Economic Science as a branch of Education for all Classes.

1854.]                     OP THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                           421
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same ; —
   From
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIV. No. 4. 8vo. 1853.
Author — " Where shall the New Law Courts be built ?" By an Old Law Re
    former. 8vo. 1854.
Bell, Jacob, Esq.— Pharmaceutical Journal, April, 1854. 8vo.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical World for March, 1854. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings in March, 1854.
Brown, William, Esq., M.P. (the Author) — Letter to Francis Shand, Esq. on
    the Decimal Coinage. 8vo. 1854.
Chemical Society — Quarterly Journal, Vol. VII. No. 1. 8vo. 1854.
Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings in March, 1854. 8vo.
Editors — The Medical Circular for March, 1854. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for March, 1854. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for April, 1854. 4to.
  The Journal of Gas-Lighting, March, 1854. 4to.
  The Mechanics' Magazine, for March, 1 854.
Faraday, Professor, D.C.L., F.R.S. 8fc. — Mémoires de l'Acad^mie des Sciences de
      l'Institut de France. Tome XXIV. 4to. Paris, 1854.
   Kaiserliche Akademie der Wissenschaften, Wien: — Almanach: 4teJahrgang.
         16mo. 1854.
    Philosophisch-Historische Classe : — Sitzungsberichte. Band XI. Heftel,2,
         3. 8vo. 1853.
       Archiv fur Kunde CEsterreichischer Geschichtsquellen, Band X. Heft 2 ;
         und Band XI. 8vo. 1853.
       Notizenblatt. (Beilage zum Archiv.) 1 853. No. 1 —20. 8vo.
    Mathematisch-Naturwissenschaftliche Classe : — Denkschriften.         Band VI.
         4to. 1853.
        Sitzungsberichte. Band XI. Hefte 1—4. 8vo. 1853.
     1854. Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXVII.
Franklin                                                              No. 3. 8vo.
Graham, George, Esq. Registrar- General — Weekly Reports of the Registrar-
    General for March, 1854. 8vo.
     1853. John, Esq., M.R.I. — On the Plurality of Worlds; an Essay. 8vo.
Holdship,
Leeds Philosophical Society — Annual Report, 1852-3. 8vo.
   Reports of the Proceedings of the Geological and Polytechnic Society of the
    West Riding of York for 1852. 8vo. 1853.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. (the Editor) — The Monthly Digest, Annual Volume for 1853.
    and the Number for March, 1854. 8vo.
   The Common Law and Equity Reports, Part 9. 8vo. 1854.
Novello, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical Times, April, 1854. 4to.
Photographic Society — Journal, No. 15. 8vo. 1854.
Society of Arts — Journal for March, 1 854. 8vo.
    Relations
Sylvester,          TwoM.A.,
            J. J.ofEsq., Rational
                              F.R.S.
                                  Integral
                                      (the Author) — On4to.
                                           Functions.         1853.of the Syzygetic
                                                         a Theory
Twining, Thomas, Jun., Esq., M.R.I. — Jahrbücher des Vereins fur Naturkunde
    im Herzogthum Nassau. Achtes Heft. 8vo. Wiesbaden, 1852.
Crampton, Mr.— Specimen of Submarine Electric Telegraph Cable laid down in
    October, 1851 taken up about November, 1853.

422                       NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                   [April 7,
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 7, 1854.
         Sir Charles Fellows, Vice-President, in the Chair.
   Rev. J. Barlow, M.A., F.R.S., Vice-President, and Sec. R. I.
             On Silica and some of its applications to the Arts.
Silica is one of the most abundant substances known. Quartz,
common sand, &c. flint, chalcedony, opal, &c., and a variety of sand
described by Mr. J. T. Way,* may respectively be taken as examples
of crystallized and uncrystallized silica. Under all these forms
silica is capable of combining with bases as an acid. Heat is how
ever essentially necessary to effect this combination, a combination
of which all the well known silicates, whether natural, as feldspar,
mica, clay, &c., or artificial, as glass, slags, &c. are the results. The
common forms of insoluble glass are produced by the union of
silica with more than one base. But, when combined with an
alkaline base only, silica forms a soluble glass, the degree of solu
bility of which depends on the proportion which the silicic acid
bears to this alkaline base .... This soluble silicated alkali (or
water-glass) may be prepared by various processes. If sand
be used, 15 parts of fine sand, thoroughly incorporated with 8
parts of carbonate of soda, or with 10 of carbonate of potass,
and one of charcoal fused in a furnace will produce a silicated
alkali which is soluble in boiling water. Messrs. Ransomes obtain
this silicated alkali by dissolving broken flints in a solution of
caustic alkali at a temperature of 300° Fah.f And, more recently, Mr.
Way has observed that the sand which he has described, will com
bine with caustic alkali at boiling heat, also producing a water-glass.
   This water-glass has been applied to several important purposes,
three of which were specially noticed.
    I. To protect building-stones from decay. The stone surfaces of
buildings, by being exposed to the action of the atmosphere, become
liable to disintegration from various causes. Moisture is absorbed
into their pores. The tendency of their particles to separate, in con
sequence of expansion and contraction, produced by alternation of
temperature, is thus increased. Sulphurous acid is always present
in the atmosphere of coal-burning cities, and cannot but corrode
the calcareous and magnesian ingredients of oolites and dolomites.
   * Quarterly Journal of Chemical Society, July 1, 1853, and Journal of Royal
Agricultural Society, Vol. xiv. Part I.
   t Report of a communication made to the Royal Institution by Professor
Faraday, May 26, 1848. Fide Athenaeum, June 17th, 1848.

 1854.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                          423
It is true that good stone resists these sources of injury for an
indefinite time, but such a material is rarely obtained. As a pre
ventive of destruction, whether arising from physical or chemical
causes, it has been proposed to saturate the surfaces of the stones
with a solution of the water-glass.
   It is well known that the affinity of silica for alkali is so feeble
that it may be separated from this base by the weakest acids,
even by carbonic acid. According to the expectation of those who
recommend the silication of stone, the carbonic acid of the atmo
sphere will set the silica free from the water-glass, and the silica,
thus separated, will be deposited within the pores and around the
particles of the stone. The points of contact of these particles
will thus be enlarged, and a sort of glazing of insoluble silica
will be formed, sufficient to protect the stone against the effects
of moisture, &c. This cause of protection applies chiefly to sand
stones. But wherever carbonate of lime or carbonate of mag
nesia enters notably into the composition of the building-stone,
then an additional chemical action, also protective of the stone,
is expected to take place between these carbonates and the water-
glass. Kuhlmann remarks, " Toutes les fois que 1'on met en
contact un sel insoluble avec la dissolution d'un sel dunt 1'acide
peut former avec la base du sel insoluble un sel plus insoluble
encore, il y a echange ; mais le plus souvent cet echange n'est que
partiel.''* In consequence of this " partial exchange" an insoluble
salt of lime may be looked for whenever a solution of water-glass
is made tu act on the carbonate of lime or carbonate of magnesia
existing in oolitic or dolomitic building-stones.
   This expectation, however, has not been altogether sanctioned
by experiment. A gentleman, eminently conversant with building
materials.f immersed a piece of Caen-stone in a solution of silicate
of potass in the month of January, 1849. This fragment, together
with a portion of the block from which it had been separated, was
placed on the roof of a building in order that it might be fully
exposed to the action of atmosphere and climate. After five years
the silicated and the unsilicated specimens were found to be both
in the same condition, both being equally corroded. [These specimens
were exhibited in the Theatre of the Institution.] But whatever
ultimate results may ensue from this process, the immediate effects
on the stone are remarkable. Two portions of Caen-stone were
exhibited, one of which had been soaked in a solution of water-
glass two months before. The surface of the unsilicated specimen
was soft, readily abraded when brushed with water, and its calca
reous ingredients dissolved in a weak solution of sulphurous acid.
The silicated surface, on the other hand, was perceptibly hard, and
resisted the action of water and of dilute acid when similarly applied. J
   • Experiences Chimiques et Agronomiques, p. 120.
   t Charles H. Smith, Esq. one of the Authors of the " Report on the Selection
of Stone for the Building of the New Houses of Parliament."
   t Silliman's American Journal, January, 1854, contains a notice of the appli
cation of the water-glass to the decaying surfaces in the Cathedral of N6tre
 Dame in Paris.
                                     H H

424                           NOTICES OF THK NEETINGS                   [April 7,
    II. Another proposed use of the water-glass is that of hardening
cements, mortars, Scc., so as to render them impermeable by water.
    Fourteen years since Anthon * of Prague proposed several applica
tions of the water-glass. Among others he suggested the rendering
mortars water-proof. He also suggests that this substance might
he beneficially employed as a substitute for size in white-washing
and staining walls. It was demonstrated by several experiments
that carbonate of lime, mixed up with a weak solution of water-glass,
and applied as a whitewash to surfaces, was not washed off by
sponging with water, and that common whitewash, laid on in the
usual manner with size, was rendered equally adhesive when washed
over with water-glass.
       III. The Stereochrome of Fuchs.
   The formation of an insoluble cement by means of the water-
glass, whenever the carbonic acid of the atmosphere acts on this
substance, or whenever it is brought in contact with a lime-salt, has
been applied by Fuchs to a most important purpose. The stereo-
chrome is essentially the process of fresco seccof invested with the
capability of receiving and perpetuating works of the highest artistic
character, and which may be executed on a vast scale.—Fuchs's
method is as follows :{ —
    " Clean and washed quartz-sand is mixed with the smallest quan-
'' tity of lime which will enable the plasterer to place it on the wall.
" The surface is then taken off with an iron-scraper, in order to re-
" move the layer formed in contact with the atmosphere ; the wall
" being still moist during this operation. The wall is then allowed
" to dry; after drying it is just in the state in which it could be rubbed
" off by the finger. The wall has now to \>e fared, i.e. moistened with
" water-glass.§ (An important point is not to use too much water-
" glass in moistening the wall.) This operation is usually performed
" with a brush. The wall must be left in such a condition as to
" be capable of receiving colours when afterwards painted on. If,
" as frequently happens, the wall has been too strongly fixed, the
" surface has to be removed with pumice and to be fixed again.
" Being fixed in this manner the wall is suffered to dry. Before
" the painter begins, he moistens the part on which he purposes to
" work with distilled-water, squirted on by a syringe. He then
" paints : if he wishes to repaint any part, he moistens again. As
   * Neuere Mittheilungen uber die Nutzanwendung des Wasser-Glases, 1840.
This subject has also been fully treated by Kuhlmann in his " Memoire sur 1'Inter-
vention de la potasse ou de la soude dans la formation des chaux hydrauliques,"
&c. 1841. Experiences Chimiques et Agronomiques.
   f Vide Eastlake's Materials fora History of Oil Painting, p. 142.
   t These particulars were obtained by Dr. Hofmann from Mr. Echter. A
stereochromic picture by Echter and a sample of the water-glass as prepared in
Munich were also exhibited by Dr. Hofmann.
   § The composition of the specimen produced was                  23.21
                                                           Silica Per cent.
                                                           Soda     8.90
         (The specific gravity of the solution 3.81.]      Potass   2.52

1854.]                 OF THE BOYAL INSTITUTION.                             425
 ' soon as the picture is finished, it is syringed over with water-glass.
 ; After the wall is dry, the syringing is continued as long as a wet
   sponge can remove any of the colour. An efflorescence of car
   bonate of soda sometimes appears on the picture soon after its
   completion.        This may either be removed by syringing with
 ' water, or may be left to the action of the atmosphere." Not to
dwell on the obvious advantages possessed by the stereochrome
over the real fresco, (such as its admitting of being retouched and
its dispensing with joinings,) it appears that damp and atmospheric
influences, notoriously destructive of real fresco, do not injure pictures
executed by this process.
    * The following crucial experiment was made on one of these pic
tures. It was suspended for twelve months in the open air, under
the principal chimney of the New Museum at Berlin ; " during that
time it was exposed to sunshine, mist, snow, and rain," and never
theless " retained its full brilliancy of colour."
    The stereochrome has been adopted on a grand scale by Kaulbach
in decorating the interior of the great national edifice at Berlin
already alluded to. These decorations are now in progress, and
will consist of historical pictures t (the dimensions of which are
21 feet in height and 24£ in width), single colossal figures, friezes,
arabesques, chiaro scuro, &c. On the effect of the three finished pic
tures, it has been remarked by one whose opinion is entitled to
respect, that they have all the brilliancy and vigour of oil paintings,
while there is the absence of that dazzling confusion which new oil
paintings are apt to present, unless they are viewed in one direction,
which the spectator has to seek for.
    Mr. A. Church has suggested that if the surface of oolitic stones
(such as Caen-stone) is found to be protected by the process already
described, it might be used, as a natural intonaco, to receive coloured
designs, &c. for exterior decorations ; the painting would then be
cemented to the stone by the action of the water-glass.
    Mr. Church has also executed designs of leaves on a sort of terra
cotta, prepared from a variety of Way's silica rock, consisting of 75
parts clay and 25 of soluble silica. This surface, after being hardened
by heat, is very well adapted for receiving colours in the first in
stance, and for retaining them after silication.
                                                                      [J. B.]
   * Communication from Mr. George Bunsen.
   •f Three of these pictures are finished : —
      1. The Fall of Babel.
      2. The BIQthe Griechenlands (' the golden age of Grecian art and poetry').
      3. The Fall of Jerusalem (an engraving of this picture was exhibited by Mr.
         Ackerman,) — Two other compositions are drawn, i. e.
      4. The Battle of the Huns.
      5. The Crusaders' arrival before Jerusalem.
      6. The subject not yet decided on. (Communication from Mr. G. Bunsen.)

426                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [April 7,
                 WILLIAM ROXBURGH, M.D., M.R.I.
                        On the Cartesian Barometer.
 [The following remarks have been supplied by Dr. ROXBURGH in relation to
   a barometer constructed by him and exhibited on this and several preceding
   evenings.]
 SOON after the discovery of the variations in height of the baro
meter, Descartes proposed the following mode of rendering them
 more conspicuous, almost as much so as they are in one filled
 with water alone. He suggested that two tubes should be joined
 to the opposite ends of a short wide cylinder, so as to form one
 straight tube, which, being closed at one end, was to be filled
with pure water and mercury in such proportions as to allow of
the two fluids at all pressures meeting in the cylinder. In this,
the Cartesian barometer, the pressure of the atmosphere is balanced
by the wuter and mercury conjointly; but the variations of pres
sure are indicated chiefly by movements of the water, as the level
of the mercury varies little in consequence of the large area of
the cylinder. The movements of the water and mercury are to
each other inversely as the areas of the tube and cylinder. The
scale is that of the common barometer enlarged, as in the wheel
barometer; when, therefore, the movements ure said to amount
to so many hundredth* of an inch, it is to be understood as mean
ing that they are equal in value to that height of mercury. The
scale can be enlarged so as to render movements of , ,', ,,i!i of on
inch visible to the unassisted eye.
   The only records of this instrument that I have seen state that
the air contained in the wuter is given off when the pressure is
removed, and so renders its indications incorrect; also that this
imperfection is irremediable. This depression, amounting in one
year, in my first experiment, to only 'O2 of an inch, has led me
to suppose that the depression which caused the plan to be set
aside was owing to the force of vapour, which was not so well
understood at that time as at present , and as many variations of
pressure are easily seen in this barometer, which would escape
notice in the mercurial one, and if not attended to give rise to
error, I think it will prove a valuable addition to a standard baro
meter, though never a substitute for one.
   In hopes of getting rid of the air, and of lessening the correc
tion required for the force of vapour, I tried several fluids in
place of pure water. Among these was oil of turpentine ; this
caused a rapid evolution of gas and blackening of the mercury,
and depressed the column several inches in a few minutes. A

1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                   427
saturated solution of muriate of soda seemed ut first more suc
cessful, but in a short time the column became depressed, and this
depression continuing to increase at a regular rate, the tube was
emptied, when it was found th»t the salt having crystallized be
tween the mercury and the glass, hail so allowed the air to enter.
    A solution of muriate of lime, not being crystallizable, was
next tried ; and this seems to stand best, as yet having sunk in
2-i- years only '03 of an inch, the greater part of this depression
having occurred in the first few months, giving rise to the surmise
that the air which has caused it was left in at the time of filling,
and has not crept in since. The addition of the salt to the water,
besides removing to a great extent the air, has the effect of
diminishing the correction required for the force of vapour; the
last named solution has its boiling-point at 234° F., and, as has
been shown by experiments, the tension of vapour from water
and watery solutions of silts is the same at an equal number of
degrees below their boiling-points, the correction to be applied is
lessened to that of pure water "22° lower than the observed tem
perature. This correction, which is to be added, and that for the
expansion of the fluids, which is to be subtracted, thus nearly
neutralizing each other at low temperatures, I have applied by
means of a moveable scale, in the same way as is used in the
 sympiesometer. Among the slighter variations shown by this
 barometer may be mentioned the oscillations during a gale of wind ;
 thetie are quite as conspicuous in this barometer as they were
 observed by Professor Daniell in the water barometer, amounting
 frequently to O'OS, and once to 0'04 of an inch; they vary in
 duration from 5 to 7 seconds ; they begin with a short, quick
 rise, followed by a slower and much greater descent, and then a
 return to the point of rest, which is much nearer the top than the
 bottom of the oscillation. Previously to a gale of wind, the
 column descends by jerks and with irregular rapidity ; but on one
 occasion, on which no wind followed for two days, the column
 fell without the slightest jerk more than half an inch ; there was,
 however, a heavy and long-continued fall of rain. During heavy
 and sudden showers the column rises, and falls again on the cessa*
 tion of the shower ; on one occasion the rise was '02 of an inch.
 In a room with a fire, with a door and window shut, the column
 is lower than when the window is open; the difference is usually
  •005, but with a good fire '01 of an inch. The last two causes
  are very likely to give rise to error, and the better the barometer
  the greater will be the error.
                                                            [W. R.]

428                   NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                  [April 28.
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, April 28.
         SIR CHARLES FELLOWS, Vice -President, in the Chair.
                      PROFESSOR E. FORBES, F.R.S.
 On the manifestation of Polarity in the distribution of Organized beings
                                 in Time.
OF the four relations among organized beings, viz : Affinity (or
relation through homology), Analogy, Representation, and Polarity,
the three first have been recognized in the distribution of beings in
 Geological Time ; the fourth has neither been observed nor sought
for. The term itself is one not familiar in the language of Natural
 History, although proposed many years ago by the Swedish botanist
 Fries, and systematically employed by several naturalists for some
 time past. The word Polarity seems objectionable, since it has been
 appropriated with a peculiar signification by Physical philosophers.
 The sense in which it is employed by Naturalists, that of a manifes
 tation of force of development at opposite poles of an ideal sphere,
 cannot however be indicated by any other word at present invented,
 implying as it does something very different from divergence and
 from antagonism, words which have been suggested as substitutes.
 The ordinary illustration of the relation of Polarity, in a natural
 history sense, is that representing the rela
 tion of opposition or progression in oppo
 site directions of the Animal and Vegeta
 ble series ; the meeting point of both being
 at the points of lowest development of
 each (a, v, in the accompanying diagram),
 where the animal and vegetable natures
 are almost confounded, whilst the strongest
 manifestations of each are at A and V, the
 highest animals being farthest removed
 from the highest vegetables,—in other
 words, at opposite poles of the sphere of
 organized beings.
    The earnest desire implanted instinctively in every enquiring mind,
 to discover a law or scheme in arrangements of Nature, has given
 origm to many speculations concerning the distribution of life in
 geological time, all of them founded on facts more or less clearly

1854.]                     OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                  429
understood. Hence have arisen the hypothesis of an evolution of all
organized types, during the course of time, from one rudimentary
prototype ; that of the succession of distinctly originating forms of
animals and vegetables in order of the progression within their re
spective series ; of the coeval starting of the great groups wholly or
mostly at the beginning, but in each instance by the lower forms of
the type ; of the representation by the faunas and floras of geo
logical epochs, of the successive zones of life belting the geographical
regions between the poles and the equator ; of an uniformity of life
arrangements throughout time and repetition through substitution of
equal and similar groups ; and of manifestations in the distribution
of life in time of analogies that are essentially theological.
   For several years I have been persuaded that the simple and un
questionable phenomena of substitution of groups by representative
groups, manifested in the arrangements of the faunas and floras of
all geological epochs, and comparable with like phenomena exhibited
by the geographical distribution of existing organized beings, would
prove sufficient for the explanation of all the appearances, that have
suggested such speculations, some purely hypothetical, some fairly
theoretical, as those I have just indicated. The apparent contradic
tions and unexplained peculiarities presented by the more ancient
epochs as contrasted with the middle and newer ones, seemed to
depend on the incomplete state of our knowledge, and to be possibly
explainable by supposing, that of some great geological epochs in time
we had as yet discovered no traces. Thus the great gap between
the Palaeozoic and Mesozoic life might depend upon our not yet
having discovered traces of the rudimentary formations that had
been deposited during the interval between the Permian and Triassic
epochs.
    But the rapid accumulation of palaeontological facts gathered within
the last very few years, and the great additions that have been re
cently made towards our knowledge of the Palaeozoic fauna, all
mainly in accordance with facts known before, have satisfied me that
the explanation offered above does not sufficiently meet the full
truth, and that the various theories concerning progression, develop
ment, &c. have all originated in the obscure perception and imperfect
interpretation of the workings of some great law in the distribu
tion of organic beings in time.
    It is no longer possible, in the face of palaeontological evidence, to
hold any of the notions cited. The scale of the first appearance of
groups of beings of any degree is most clearly not one of organic
progression. Suitable conditions have been met by the creation of
suitable types ; no type, whether generic and therefore ideally mani
fested, or specific and therefore manifested actually and through
individuals, visibly, being found to be ever repeated in time, when
the full history of either is made out. This is a great law and a
grand result of geological research. Nevertheless in the relative
arrangements, so to speak, of generic types in time, there is an indi

430                      NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [April 28,
cation of the working of a general law of another kind, and one,
which seems to me to depend on the manifestation of the relation of
Polarity,
   We are accustomed to group all geological epochs under three
great sections, the Palaeozoic, or oldest, the Mesozoic or middle, and
Cainozoic, more commonly termed Tertiary, or newest. If we con
sider the faunas (and floras) of these three great sections, we cannot
but perceive that there is a far stronger affinity between the Mesozoic
and Tertiary epochs than between the Mesozoic and Palaeozoic.
This is especially manifest when we regard the details of the distri
bution of those preservable forms of animal life, which being inhabit
ants of the medium in which sedimentary strata are deposited, are
most likely to afford an approach towards complete evidence. On
the other hand, the forms of life that characterize the Palaeozoic
formations, the products of a vast succession of time-periods, have,
when regarded in their totality, a wonderful agreement and relation
ship among themselves.
    For this reason I propose to denominate the sum of the epochs
after the PALEOZOIC, by the name of NEOZOIC.
    Now if we regard these two great periods separately, we find that
the manifestation of generic types during each exhibits striking and
 contrasting phenomena. The maximum development of generic types
 during the Palteozoic period was during its earlier epochs ; that during
 the Neozoic period towards its later epochs. And thus, during the
 Palaeozoic period, the sum of generic types and concentration of
 characteristic forms is to be observed in Silurian and Devonian
 formations ; during the Neozoic period it is during the Cretaceous,
 Tertiary, and present (itself part of the Tertiary) epochs that we find
 the maximum development of peculiar generic types (or ideas). On
 the other hand, during the closing epochs of the Palaeozoic and the
 commencing epoch of the Neozoic period there was a poverty in the
 production of generic ideas, with few exceptions the species of the
 epochs in question being members of genera that form constituents
 in the assemblage, accumulated during the epochs of maximum of
 generic types or ideas.
    The following table may render my meaning more evident :
             C Present and Tertiary epochs'! Epoch of maximum development
 Neozoic     I Cretaceous epochs             J of Neozoic Generic types.
   period    | Oolitic epochs     ...          .   Intermediate.
             \,TriaSStC epochs               1 Epochs afpovertyofprotvcKm
           {Permian epochs                   ]"' Generic '^ '" Time-
               Carboniferous epochs      .     • Intermediate.
               Devonian epochs               1 Epoch of maximum development
               Silurian epochs               Jof ttta~*1 <*»er"*»«•
    Before the Silurian and after the commencement of the present,
 no special creations of generic types have as yet been shewn to be
 manifested. In the system of life of which all known creatures

1834.]                 OF THE UOYAL INSTITUTION.                      431
living or extinct as yet described, so far as onr knowledge extends—
and there is a consistency in its co-ordination that suggests the
probability of our being acquainted with its extremes,— the creation
of the fauna and flora of the oldest Palaeozoic epoch would seem to
be the primordial and the appearance of man the closing biological
events.
   When the assemblage of characteristic Neozoic groups or genera
is contrasted with that of the Palaeozoic, there we find that the
concentration of a maximum development of generic types towards
the earlier stages of the one and the later of the other great period,
includes something more than a mere numerical profusion of generic
ideas. The two great manifestations of creative intensity are in
opposition, or contrast, and respectively substitute each other ;
groups that are parallel within their sub-kingdoms or classes taking
the place of each other and playing a corresponding part in the
economy of nature. This replacement does not depend on the sub
 stitution of a group of higher organization during the latter epoch,
for one of lower during the former. Where there is such a substi
tution it must be regarded as an accident ; for the rule is not
 general nor can it be held good except for a few instances.
    A few leading examples of the substitution of group for group
during the contrasting epochs are cited in the following table and will
illustrate this point better than a mere abstract statement.
Cycloid and NEOZOIC.
               Ctenoid Tubes                     PAL.EOZOIC.
                                       Ganoid and Placoid Tubes.
Malacostracous Crustacea .             Entomostracous Crustacea.
Dibranchiate Cephalopoda .             Tetrabranchiate Cephalopoda.
Lamellibranchiate Acephala              Palliobranchiate Acephala.
6-starred Corals
Echinoidea                              4-starred Corals.
                                        Crinoidea.
    If we were to shew by means of a
detailed diagram the relations in each                        Maximum
                                                                generic
                                                                 types. of
                                                              develop,
of these groups of the development of
generic types to time, we should sym
 bolise it by a cone or a pyramid, the
 base or fullest portion of which should                      Minimum
 be turned respectively towards the                            produc
 commencement of the Paleozoic, or                             tion of
 termination of the Neozoic epoch. The                         generic
 last example given will shew this                               types.
 strikingly, though in most instances
 the groups interlace.                                          generic
                                                              Max. ofdev.
    Relations of this kind may be mani
 fested in a low degree, even within the
 range of a single group.                                        types.

432                 NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS.                  [April 28,
   From all these considerations, the numbers of species in a group
or genus at any given epoch is to be excluded, not being an ele
ment in the discussion of the question, though apt to be introduced
through mistake of the nature of the generalization attempted to be
attained.
   There may appear to be a contradiction involved in the expression
manifestation of polarity in time, for since time implies sequence or
progression in one direction only, how can we connect with time an
arrangement that involves the notion of progression in opposite
directions, proceeding from a median zero ?
   But time is an attribute with which man's mind invests creation ;
a mode of regarding Divine ideas, necessary for the conception of
time by our limited faculties and forming in itself no part or
essence of the Divine scheme of organized nature. We speak of
Polarity in Time, for want of a better phrase : but this polarity, or
arrangement in opposite directions with a development of intensity
towards the extremes of each, is itself, if I am right in my specula
tions, an attribute or regulating law of the divinely originating
scheme of creation, therefore strictly speaking independent of the
notion of time, though perceptible by our minds only in connection
with it.
    By a diagram such as the above we may fairly express this view,
the shaded portions of the circles included within the great circle
of the system of nature representing the maxima of development
 of generic ideas, and the dotted area, z, the region of their minimum
productions.
    In venturing on a speculation of this kind I am aware that it is
 subject to much misrepresentation and liable to be misunderstood ;
the more so since the suggestion must precede the demonstration.
At present it can scarcely be received as more than a suggestion ;
one put forth as worthy of consideration. But in issuing it I do so
keeping in view a vast number of individual facts and base it upon
the results of investigations of no small extent. To lay these before
 the scientific world in detailed and tabulated shape will be the work
 of more leisure than can at present be given to the task. In the
hope of acquiring fresh data for this investigation I, rashly as
 some may think, make public this hypothesis. That it is the only

1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     433
one of its class which holds out a prospect of eliminating the germs
of truth contained in the conflicting theories at present more or less
in vogue, and the only one with which the presence of species of
any group of organized beings at any geological epoch will not
disagree, are surely considerations that should secure for it a friendly
reception. If it be as true, as I believe it to he, then the truth that
it contains is most important ; if it prove in the end to be a mis
interpretation, it will at least have served the good purpose of
stimulating inquiry in a iresh direction.
                                                             [E. F.]
                        ANNUAL MEETING,
                             Monday, May 1.
WILLIAM POLE, Esq., M.A., F.R.S., Treasurer and Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
   The Annual Report of the Committee of Visitors was read, and
adopted.— It states that the Contributions from Members and An
 nual Subscribers in 1853 have been very satisfactory, as well as
the Receipts for attendance at the courses of Lectures. The total
 Receipts amounted to £4428, being an increase of Income beyond
that of any preceding year ; in consequence of which the Managers
have been enabled to make investments to the extent of £600.
   The appointment of Dr. Tyndall on the 4th of July, 1853, as Pro
 fessor of Natural Philosophy in the Royal Institution, the Visitors
 consider will tend to elevate the character of the Institution.
    A List of Books Presented accompanies the Report, amounting in
 number to about 290 volumes, and making a total, with those pur
 chased by the Managers and Patrons, of more than 1100 volumes
 (including Periodicals) added to the Library in the year.
    Thanks were voted to the President, Treasurer, and Secretary, to
 the Committees of Managers and Visitors, and to Professor Faraday,
 for their services to the Institution during the past year.
    The following Gentlemen were unanimously elected as Officers
 for the ensuing year : —
      PBBBIDENT — The Duke of Northumberland, K.G. F.R.S.
      TREASURER — William Pole, Esq. M.A. F.R.S.
       SECRETARY — Rev. John Barlow, M.A. F.R.S.

 434                       NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                     [May 5,
                                 Managers.
 Lord Ashburton, F.R.S.                  Henry Bence Jones, M.D., F.R.S.
 William Wilberforce Bird, Esq.          Edward Kater, Esq., F.R.S.
 John Bate Cardale, Esq.                 George Macilwain, Esq.
 J. Griffith Cole, Esq., M.A.            Frederick Pollock, Esq., M.A.
 James William Farrer, Esq.              Alfred S. Taylor, M.D. F.R.S.
 Aaron Asher Goldsmid, Esq.              Charles Wheatstone, Esq., F.R.S.
 William R Grove, Esq., Q.C. F.R.S.      Colonel Philip J. Yorke, F.R.S., Pres.
 Sir Henry Holland, Bart., M.D., F.R.S.    Chem. Soc.
                                   Visitors.
 J. G. Appold, Esq., F.R S.              John Holdship, Esq.
 John Charles Burgoyne, Esq.             John Kirkpatrick, Esq.
 William Carpmael, Esq.                  John Gorham Maitland, Esq.
 Alexander Crichton, Esq.                Robert R. I. Morley, Esq.
 The Earl of Ducie.                      John North, Esq.
 Edward M. Foxhall, Esq.                 Rev. William Taylor, F.R.S.
 Frederick Gaussen, Esq.                 Henry Twining, Esq.
 Colonel Francis Vernon Harcourt, M.P.
                                 EVENING
                    WEEKLY Friday,      May 5. MEETING,
The Rev. John Barlow,          M.A.,
                           Henry      Noad, Ph.
                                   M. F.R.S.,       D.
                                               Secretary,   R.I., in the Chair.
               LECTURER ON CHEMISTRY AT ST. GEORGE'S HOSPITAL.
                          On the Manufacture of Iron.
The history of this important metal was first briefly sketched ; it was
shown by reference to the four books of the Mosaic law, that it was
known and used in the earliest ages of the world : from various
passages in Hesiod, Homer, and ^Eschylus it was rendered probable
that the ancient Greeks, though acquainted with both iron and
bronze, used the latter in the construction of their warlike weapons
till the period of the Heroic ages ; but that after that time bronze
was superseded by iron obtained from the Chalybes : and from pas
sages from the writings of Polybius, Pliny, and Diodorus, the conclu
sion was drawn that even in the earliest times the Romans used
weapons of iron which they obtained principally from Spain. It
was mentioned, on the authority of Mr. Arthur Aikin, as a curious
fact, that cutting and even surgeons' instruments were found in the
excavations at Herculaneum and Pompeii made of bronze, though
some were also found of iron ; from which it was to be concluded

1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     435
that at this period (about the year 59) the great superiority of iron
over every other kind of metal in the manufacture of cutlery was
only partially acknowledged.
   A glance was next taken at the different ores of iron. Upwards
of forty species have been described, the metal occurring in all rocks,
into the composition of the greater number of which it enters as a
base to silicic acid.
   The following ores (as the most important) were exhibited and
described : —
    1°. Specular, oligistic, and micaceous iron, of which there are
several varieties differing greatly in appearance, but all when pure
represented by the formula Fe, O,. The principal localities in this
country are Ulverstone in Lancashire, where it often occurs in large
botryoidal masses, and is hence called kidney ore ; and the Forest of
Dean, where it is much mixed with carbonate of lime ; the specular
variety is found in Cornwall. This variety of ore always yields good
and strong iron ; it greatly improves all inferior ores, and forms an
excellent flux in the blast furnace. It is from the specular ore that
the celebrated " damask iron" of Persia, and the " wootz" of India
are manufactured.
   2°. Hydrated oxide or brown Htematite.—This ore, which usually
contains about 14 per cent, of water, and is represented by the
formula 2 Fe, O, + 3 HO, is not found in any quantity in this
country, though it occurs at Alston Moor and in Durham ; it abounds
however in Normandy, Berry, Burgundy, and Lorraine, and supplies
the greater number of the French iron-works.
   3°. Aimantine or magnetic Iron ore.— This ore, the richest of all
in metal, and composed of Fe O + Fe, O,, is not found in any
abundance in this country. It exists plentifully in Norway and
Sweden, in Germany, in India, and in the states of New York and
New Jersey in America. The iron furnished by it is of the finest
description.
    4°. Carbonates.—Of the pure white carbonate, Spathoze iron, side-
rose or iron spar, we do not possess any large quantities in this
country. It has lately however been found in Somersetshire, and is
remarkable for containing a large per centage of manganese.
    The Ironstone of the Coalformations. — It is to the richness of our
coal fields in the argillaceous, and blackband ironstone, that the sur
prising increase in the production of iron during the last hundred
 years is to be attributed. It is calculated that this ore supplies
 -j^ths of the entire iron produced. It is not found in all coal fields;
 those of Northumberland, Durham, Lancashire, Leicestershire, and
 Somersetshire do not furnish any important supplies. The coal
 basin of South Wales, comprising an area of 1045 square miles, yields
 the largest quantity of iron ; then follow Staffordshire, Shropshire,
 Yorkshire, Derbyshire, and North Wales. This ore is especially
 valuable, from its occurring in close proximity to the very materials
 required for its smelting, viz. to coal and limestone. It is frequently

436                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                      [AfojT 5,
found in egg-shaped masses of various sizes ; and on carefully splitting
these in a longitudinal direction, it is not unusual to find in the
centre, as a sort of nucleus round which the carbonates of iron and
lime and of clay have arranged themselves, a shell or a vegetable
remain. [One of these in a great state of perfection, from the Cwm
Celyn Iron-works in South Wales, was on the table.]
   The Oolitic Ironstones of Northamptonshire are also beginning to
excite considerable attention. They are found, in largest quantity
and best quality, along the Northampton and Peterborough line from
Higham Ferrers to Hardingstone near Northampton ; and from
Gayton near Blisworth to Towcester. They are of very varied
character, and the per centage of iron which they contain ranges from
20 to 55 per cent.
    Treatment of the Coal measure Ironstone.—The ore occurs in beds of
varying thickness and generally inclined to the horizon. There are
usually several beds or seams one beneath another, separated by beds
of other minerals, and in all such cases every bed has a local name,
frequently of a very fanciful nature, applied to it. The ore is stacked
and exposed for some months to the weather, during which time the
outer coating, containing but a small quantity of iron, cracks and falls
off. The first process that it undergoes is that of roasting, which is
performed either in the open air or in kilns, the latter being most
effectual ; by this process it loses water and carbonic acid, the loss
of weight being about 25 per cent. ; and the iron from being in the
state of carbonate, is brought into the state of peroxide, and is now in
the form of a red, more or less porous mass, a state in which it can
be acted upon more readily in the furnace. By roasting, the ore also
loses the sulphur, though the ironstones of Cwm Celyn, to which the
Lecturer's attention has been more particularly directed, contain very
small quantities of that pernicious element.
   The amount of carbonate of iron in the coal measure ironstones,
varies from 50 to 80 per cent.— the other constituents being silica,
alumina, lime, and magnesia, with minute quantities of sulphur,
phosphorus, and potash.
   The Blast-furuace was next described. The outer stack is com
posed of stone or brick, within which is a casing of masonry about
fourteen inches thick, which when the furnace requires to be re
newed inside, admits of being taken down and rebuilt without injury
to the outer fabric ; next comes a space of about six inches filled
with river sand compactly rammed in,— which being a bad conductor
of heat tends to preserve the casing of masonry ; lastly, a coating of
best fire brick about fourteen inches in thickness.
   The following are the names and dimensions of the internal parts
of the furnace. 1st, The hearth, which may be from three to six
feet in width. 2nd, The boshes,— height from twelve to sixteen feet ;
width from twelve to fifteen feet. 3rd, The cone or cavity, height from
thirty to thirty-six feet ; — total height of the furnace from forty-five to
fifty feet. The furnace when in full work contains upwards of one

1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      437
hundred tons of materials, to supply the requisite heat for which, a
powerful and constant blast of air is sent in at three or four different
sides through tubes surrounded with a stream of cold water, and
which are called " Tuyeres." Some of the large Welsh furnaces
consume upwards of 20,000 gallons of air per minute, a quantity
exceeding in weight the totals of all the solid materials used in
smelting. The blast enters the furnace under a pressure of from
two to three pounds and a half to the square inch, and (unless pre
viously heated) at a lower temperature than the external air, in
consequence of its compression in the blowing machine, by which
latent heat is separated and lost, which heat it again obtains at the
expense of surrounding objects as it escapes in its recovered state
of expansion from the Tuyere. It is almost the universal rule, how
ever, at the present time to heat the air to about 600° before it
enters the furnace, by which an effective increase of about ith or
of 360° F is obtained. The influence which this capital improve
ment (first introduced about twenty-five years ago by Mr. Neilson
at the Clyde Iron-works) has had on the iron manufacture has
been immense. It has in many cases enabled manufacturers to in
crease their weekly production of iron 50 per cent., and to produce
a better sort of cast-iron from inferior materials. It has effected
a great saving of fuel ; and it has enabled the Scotch Iron-masters
to smelt alone and with coal the black band ironstone discovered
by Mr. Mushetin 1801.
   The great importance of the hot blast, and the influence of an
uniform temperature on the working of the furnace, is well shown by
the following statement furnished by F. Levick, Esq. the intelligent
Manager of the Cwm Celyn and Blaina Works. (The Lecturer
took the occasion of mentioning this gentleman's name, to express
the obligations he was under to him for the facilities he had re
peatedly offered him for studying the details of the iron manufacture
at the above admirably conducted works, and for the specimens of
the various interesting products which were on the table.)
   It is to be understood that both furnaces were making White
or Forge Iron to be afterwards manufactured into Railway bars.
      No. 1. Furnace at Cwm Celyn; — one week's work, ending
                            7th April, 1854.
   The blast was not sufficiently heated, the blast stoves being out
of repair, and the furnace was " scouring."
      Charges driven, 652 ;            Iron made, 181 tons 9 cwt.
            Consumption of fuel on the ton of Iron made.
                   Cwt.                     Tons. Cwt.       Cwt.
   Coal burthen     10      378 Charges = 189 .. 0 = 20-8S
   Coke „            6±     274 . . = 88 .. 11 = 9'78
                   16^      652                             30-66

438                     notices op the meetinos                    [May 5,
      Mineral burthen.
                                         Tons Cwt.          Cwt.
       Limestone       1 cwt.    .         32 . . 12       360
       Welsh Mine       10 cwt.          326 . . 0        3602
       Red ore           1 „               32 . . 12  = 360
       Cinder            4 „             130 . . 8    = 14-40
                       15 cwt.           489 .. 0        5402 =
        = Consumption of Iron minerals per ton of Iron made.
      No. 2.    Furnace at Cum Celyn ; — one week's work, ending
                     1th April, 1854; working well.
     Charges driven, 652 ;               Iron made, 236 tons 1 6 cwt.
                    Cwt.                         Tons Cwt.       Cwt.
   Coal burthen      10      380 Charges = 190 .. 0 = 1603
   Coke . .           6|     272     „      = 81 .. 12 = 6-88
                             652                                22-91
             as Consumption of fuel per ton of Iron made.
      Mineral burthen.
                                       Tons Cwt.             Cwt.
    Limestone & „ cwt.                 . 46 ... 4           3-89
                                },
    Welsh mine 1 1 cwt.       .    .    358 .. 12          30-26
    Red ore         2 „       .    .      65 .,. 4    =     5-50
    Cinders         6 „       .    .    195 .. 12     =    16-50
                   19 cwt.              619 .. 8          52-26
           ~ Consumption of minerals per ton of Iron made.
    From this statement it appears that with the same number of
 charges, No. 2 made during the week 55 tons 7 cwt. more iron than
 No. 1 ; that while No. 1 took nearly 31 cwt. of fuel to make a ton
 of iron. No. 2 took only 23 cwt. ; that No. 1 carried a " burthen "
 of 1 5 cwt. of iron minerals on each charge of fuel, and No, 2,
 19 cwt. ; and that while No. 1 required 54 cwt. of iron minerals to
 make one ton of iron, No. 2 required 52 cwt. 26 lbs. only.
    The colour, consistence, and general appearance of the scoria,
 cinders, or slag, are to the furnace manager good general indications
 of the manner in which his furnace is working. When white iron is
 being made, a good cinder will have a clear olive green colour, and
 will flow regularly and smoothly from the tap-hole ; a " scouring "

1854.]                 OF THK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      439
cinder on the other band, such as was flowing from No. 1, is thick,
runs from the tap-hole with difficulty, has a dull, nearly black colour,
and is very heavy ; in fact analysis shows that it contains 20 per
cent, of oxide of iron. The cinder from the gray or foundry iron
furnace has altogether a different appearance, but both white and
gray cinders are nearly as interesting to the chemist and mineral
ogist, as they are to the iron manufacturer. They are received from
the furnace in large iron boxes, whence, as soon as they have
solidified, they are removed on railroads to be used for the construc
tion of roads, rough walls, &c. The outside of the cinder lumps,
" donkeys " as they are called by the workmen, have a vitreous
fracture ; but the interior, where the cooling process has taken place
very slowly, is stony, and usually contains cavities which are lined
with crystals ; those from white iron have a composition which
places them among the pyroxene or augite class of minerals ; those
from grey iron are more nearly allied to idocrase. [Reference was
here made to a Table giving the per centage composition of three
varieties of crystalline slags obtained from the Cwm Celyn works.]
   The iron from the blast furnace is usually " tapped " twice in
twenty-four hours ; the liquid metal is either received into moulds
where it assumes the form of semi-cylindrical bars, technically called
" pigs," or it is run into wider channels from which, after being
broken up, it is removed directly to the " refinery."
   The " cinders " alluded to in the above statement of the mineral
burthens of the two Cwm Celyn furnaces, are not the cinders of the
blast furnace, but " forge cinders ;" that is, the cinders that separate
from the cast iron during the processes of " refining," " puddling,"
and " balling," by which the cast iron is converted into wrought
iron. These cinders are very rich in iron, which exists principally in
the form of silicate of the protoxide ; they often occur beautifully
crystallized, particularly after they have been " calcined," an operation
which is now always performed on them in well conducted works,
and which has for its object the removal of the sulphur and the
peroxidation of a portion of the iron : the tendency of sulphur even
when it exists in iron in very small quantity, is to make the metal
what is called " hot short," so that it cannot be worked under the
hammer ; the tendency of phosphorus, another element always found
in " forge cinders " is' to make the iron " cold short," BO that it
breaks on attempting to bend it. The separation of sulphur, by
calcining, is very perfectly effected, and it is interesting to trace the
process of its gradual elimination ; in some places large masses of
prismatic crystals of pure sulphur are seen, but usually nearly the
entire surface of the heap is covered with a thin layer of sulphate
of iron, sometimes crystallized, but generally in various stages of
decomposition ; lower down in the heap, where the heat is greater,
the sulphate of icon disappears, and in its place " colcothar " is
found. The separation of phosphorus from the forge cinders is still
a desideratum. [Specimens of forge cinders, raw and calcined, crystal

440                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                  [May 5,
lized and amorphous, were here exhibited, and Tables exhibiting
numerous analyses of them were referred to.]
    Theory of tfie Blast-Furnace.—Though much has been written on
this subject, it can scarcely be said that any very sound scientific
views were entertained respecting the theory of the Blast-Furnace
previous to the beautiful researches of Professors Bunsen and Playfair,
and more recently those of the late lamented Professor Ebelmen, on
the gases evolved from the furnace at different depths.
   Tables in which these experiments were compared were referred
to ; the difference in the results may in a great measure be explained
by the circumstance that the English furnace (Alfreton, in Derby
shire) was working entirely with coal, whereas the Seraing furnace,
on which M. Ebelmen's experiments were made, was working with
coke . alone ; this would at any rate explain the difference as relates
to the carburetted hydrogen, and hydrogen gases ; mere traces of
the former were found by Ebelmen, while Bunsen and Playfair
found as a maximum 8'23 per cent, of the former, and 12'42 per
cent of the latter. As it is probable, however, that neither of these
gases takes any share in the reduction of the ore, their presence or
absence will not materially interfere with the discussion of the
theory of the blast-furnace.
   Both series of analyses shew, what at first sight appears most
remarkable, viz. : that the gases in the immediate neighbourhood of
the blast do not contain a trace of carbonic acid ; shewing that
powerful oxidizing and de-oxidizing actions must take place at that
point. Here also in the English furnace were found Cyanogen and
vapours of Cyanide of potassium ; in the Seraing furnace no Cyanogen
was detected, but abundance of Cyanide of potassium and vapours of
nj.ii/r of zinc. The Cyanide of potassium, which, doubtless from its
powerful reducing action exercises an important influence on the
reduction of the stubborn forge cinder, is formed by the action of
the nitrogen of the blast, on the red hot carbon of the fuel in the
presence of potash derived from the ore. Bunsen and Playfair cal
culated that in the Alfreton furnace 224'7 Ibs. of this salt were pro
duced daily.
   The conclusions deduced by Bunsen and Playfair from their gas
analyses are, that the reduction of the iron minerals, and the disen
gagement of carbonic acid from the limestone, takes place at a depth
of between 24 and 25 feet, that is in the boshes of the furnace, the
cone or body of the furnace being entirely taken up in the process
of coking the coal. Ebelmen thinks, on the other hand, that the rapid
diminution of carbonic acid and corresponding increase of carbonic
oxide in descending the furnace, which are shewn by his analyses,
 indicate conclusively that an energetic reduction of ore takes place in
the vicinity of the mouth of the furnace, that reduction being
 effected by carbonic oxide under the influence of the high temperature
of the ascending gases without any change in the^olume of the gas,
and without any consumption offuel. This mutual relation of the car

 1854.]              OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                       441
bonic acid and carbonic oxide gases is not observable in the analyses of
Bunsen and Playfair, which Ebelmen attributes to the circumstance
that those chemists collected their gases through narrow iron tubes,
which, becoming intensely heated and partially choked by the frag
ments of ore and fuel introduced by the rapid stream of gas, so modified
the composition of the gases that the analyses, however carefully con
ducted, could not represent accurately the actual composition of the
furnace gases. Ebelmen collected his gases through wide tubes, and
from the lower part of the furnace, by piercing the solid masonry.
According to Ebelmen's analyses, the gases between the depths of 12
and 45 feet are composed almost entirely of carbonic oxide and nitrogen.
The proportion of oxygen to nitrogen at 12 feet is as 29'9 to 100 ;
in atmospheric air it is as 26'3 to 100 ; the difference amounting to
3'6 represents the oxygen arising from the bed of fusion from the
Tuyeres to this height. It arises from the reduction of the silicates
of iron constituting the forge cinders, which takes place between the
Tuyeres and the depth of 12 feet. Without wishing in the slightest
degree to impugn the accuracy of Bunsen and Playfair's analyses,
it was considered that the conclusions of Ebelmen accord best with
the general phenomena of the Blast-furnace, inasmuch as if the re
duction of the ore only takes place in the boshes as the former
chemists suppose, there seems no reason why furnaces should not be
built one half their present height, and the fuel consist entirely of
coke. It is found, however, practically impossible to reduce ma
terially the height of the furnace ; but this is at once intelligible, if
 we suppose that the oxide of iron is reduced principally in the cone,
and that in its descent through the boshes to the crucible it acquires
from the fuel that proportion of carbon which it requires to bring it
to the state of fusible cast iron. It is very desirable, however, that
this interesting chemical question should undergo further elucidation
at the hands of some chemist properly skilled in the difficult subject
of gaseous analyses.
    The practical application of the furnace gases was lastly briefly
 alluded to. It was shown on the authority of Bunsen and Playfair,
 and from calculations deduced from data furnished by the posthu
 mous papers of Dulong, that of the heat produced by the combustion
 of the fuel in a coal-fed blast furnace, only 18'5 per cent, is rea
 lized in carrying out the processes of the furnace, the remainder
 81-5 per cent, being lost. This loss in well conducted establishments
 is no longer permitted. The gases are now collected at the mouth
 of the furnaces and conveyed by large pipes underneath the boilers
 of the engines and round the hot air stoves. The principle has been
 carried out in great perfection at Cwm Celyn : the pipes are six feet
 in diameter, and are lined with fire-brick ; and the gases from two
 furnaces only more than suffice for the supply of seven boilers, and
 for the hot blast for both furnaces, at a saving of full 10,000 tons of
 coal a year. [Drawings on a scale of one inch to the foot showing
 the entire arrangement were exhibited and referred to.]
                                                          [H. M. N.]

442                    NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                          [May 8,
    Mr. Faraday exhibited apiece of the Submarine Electro-telegraph
cable (from Mr. Crampton), consisting of four insulated copper wires
surrounded by packing, and then by ten external iron wires or rods
to give protection, weight, and strength. A kink or sharp short
twist which occurred in the laying it down under the full force of
the steam-tug had somewhat deranged the wires, but had broken
nothing nor caused any interference with the insulation, and for two
full years that part acted telegraphically in the sea as well as any
other part of the cable.
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                Monday, May 8.
  William Wilberforce Bird, Esq., Vice-President, in the Chair.
   John Laing, Esq.                Joseph Skey, M.D.
 i William Nicol, Esq.             Matthew William Thompson, Esq., M. A.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                             Matthew Noble, Esq.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.
    The following Professors were unanimously re-elected : —
    William Thomas Brands, Esq.. D.C.L., F.R.S. L. & E., as
Honorary Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Institution.
    John Tyndall, Esq., Ph.D., F.R.S. , as Professor of Natural
Philosophy in the Royal Institution.
    The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same ; —
   From
Actuaries, Institute of — The Assurance Magazine, No. 15. 8vo. 1854.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 238. 8vo. 1853.
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIV. No. 5. 8vo. 1854.
Bell, Jacob, Esq.— Pharmaceutical Journal, May, 1854. 8vo.
Best, Hon. and Rev. Samuel, M.R.I, (the Author) — Thoughts for the Improve
     ment of the Civil Service. 8vo. 1854.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical World for April, 1854. 4to.
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings in April, 1854. 4to.
 Cambridge Philosophical Society — Transactions, Vol. IX. Part 3. 4to. 1853.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings in April, 1854. 8vo.
 East India Company, the Hon. — Rig-Veda-Sanhita, the Sacred Hymns of the
     Brahmans. Edited by Max Muller, M.A. Vol. II. I to. 1854.

  1854.]                      OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                      443
 Editors — The Medical Circular for April, 1 854. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for April, 1854. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for May, 1854. 4to.
   The Mechanics' Magazine, for April, 1854. 8vo.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting, April, 1854. 4to.
   Deutsches Athenäum, May, 1 854.
   Our Friend,
 Faraday,          Nos. 1 D.C.L.,
              Professor,   — 5. 8vo.   F.R.S.   Sfc.— Recherches Experimentales sur la
                                             1854.
     Vegetation. Par M. Georges Ville. 4to.. Paris, 1853.
   Monachtsbericht
Franklin                  Pennsylvania
            Institute ofder   Konigl. Preuss.
                                            — Journal,
                                                  Akademie,     XXV.1854.
                                                           Vol.Feb.            5. 8vo.
                                                                          No.8vo.    Berlin.1853.
   Vol. XXVII.
 Gerling,              No. 4. Darstellung
           Dr. — Graphische          8vo. 1854.der Magnetischen Deklination zu Mar
     burg. George,
 Graham,               Esq. Registrar-
               1848—1852.      fol.        General — Weekly Reports of the Registrar-
     General
Hawes,         for April,
          William,           (the Author)
                      Esq. 1854.      8vo. — Observations on Limited and Unlimited
Horticultural
Kay,   John William,
    Liability.    8vo. 1854.
                 Society   Esq.
                          of   London
                                    (the —Editor)
                                            Journal,   Vol. IX. No.
                                                   — Memorials      of 2.    8vo.Government
                                                                         Indian       1854.      ;
     being a Selection from the Papers of H. St. George Tucker, late Director of
    the East
Liverpool       India Company.
             Literary                 8vo. 1853.
                        and Philosophical       Society — Proceedings for 1851 — 1853.
    8vo. 1854.
Lovell, E. B. Esq. (the Editor)—The Monthly Digest, April, 1854. 8vo.
   The Common
Madras               Society
          Literary Law             Madras
                           and—Equity     Reports,
                                             JournalParts    10, 11, &and
                                                       of Literature           8vo. Vols.
                                                                         12.Science.   1854.I. II.
Novello,
    &XIII.
Phillipps,   Sir
          Messrs.
               — XVI.
                  Thomas,
                    [the&Publishers)
                             Bart.,
                            Vol.      F.R.S.
                                  XVII.   —Part
                                             The
                                              F.S.A.  8vo.
                                                        M.R.I,
                                                 1.Musical    Madras,
                                                             Times.
                                                                (the May,
                                                                     Author)
                                                                         1833 — —Catalogue
                                                                            1854. 53.4to.       of
Photographic
Sharpe,
Royal   Society
     Knights
          Hercules,
               made
                 of
                 Society
                      by
                      Esq.,
                    London—
                          Charles
                              M.R.I.
                              —
                              Journal,
                                     I.—1No.
                                          624—46.
                                           Certain
                                  Proceedings, 16.Vol.
                                                     Sermons
                                                      8vo.
                                                         VII. 1854.
                                                                or Homilies,
                                                               Nos.   1, 2. 8vo.   1854. to be
                                                                                appointed
    read of
Society   in Arts
              Churches.
                   — Journal     for April,
                             12mo.     1687. 1854.      8vo.
Stodart, George, Esq., M.R.I. — The Poetical Works of the late Catherine
    Grace Godwin. Edited, with a sketch of her Life, by A. Cleveland Wigan.
    4to. 1854.
Taylor, Rev. W., F.R.S., M.R.I. — Grosse und gute Handlungen Russischer Re
    genten, Feldherrn, Staatsbeamten, und Anderer. 8vo. Berlin, 1804.
Taylor, James, Esq. (the Author) — An Examination of Galena in the various
    processes of the Manufacture of Lead. 8vo. 1854.
Twining, Thomas, jun. Esq., M.R.I.— Amtlicher Bericht über die 29te Ver
    sammlung der Gesellschaft deutscher Naturforscher und Aerzte zu Wies
    baden im September, 1852. Herausgegeben von Professor Fresenius und
    Dr. Braun. 4to. Weisbaden, 1853.
Vereins zur Beförderung des Gewerbfleises in Preussen — Verhandlungen, Jan.
    und Feb. 1854. 4to. Berlin.
Ward, F. 0. Esq., (the Author) — Moyen de creer des Sources Artificiellei d'Eau
    pure pour Bruxelles, &c. 8vo. Bruxelles. 1853.

444                     NOTICES or THE MEETINGS                [May 12,
                  WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                             Friday, May 12.
       SIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., Vice-President,
                               in the Chair.
                      THOMAS HUXLEY, ESQ. F.R.S.
                   On the common Plan of Animal Forms.
THB Lecturer commenced by referring to a short essay by Gothe ——
the last which proceeded from his pen — containing a critical
account of a discussion bearing upon the doctrine of the Unity of
Organization of Animals, which had then (1830) just taken place in
the French Academy. Gothe said that, for him, this controversy
was of more importance than the Revolution of July which immedi
 ately followed it — a declaration which might almost be regarded as
 a prophecy ; for while the CJutrte and those who established it have
.vanished as though they had never been, the Doctrine of Unity of
 Organization retains a profound interest and importance for those
 who study the science of life.
     It would be the object of the Lecturer to explain, how the con
troversy, in question arose, and to shew what ground of truth was
 common to the combatants.
     The variety of Forms of Animals is best realized, perhaps, by re
 flecting, that there are certainly 200,000 species, and that each
 species is, in its zoological dignity, not the equivalent of a family or
 a nation of men, merely, but of the whole Human Race. It would
 be hopeless to attempt to gain a knowledge of these forms, there
 fore, if it were not possible to discover points of similarity among
 large numbers of them, and to classify them into groups,— one
 member of which might be taken to represent the whole. A rough
 practical classification, based on obvious resemblances, is as old as
 language itself; and the whole purpose of Zoology and Comparative
 Anatomy has consisted chiefly in giving greater exactness to the
 definition and expression of these intuitive perceptions of resem
 blance.
     The Lecturer proceeded to shew how the celebrated Camper
 illustrated these resemblances of the organs of animals, by drawing
 the arm of a man, and then by merely altering the proportions of its
 constituent parts, converting it into a bird's wing, a horse's fore
 leg, &c. &c. Organs which can in this way be shewn to grade into
  one another, are said to be the same organs, or in anatomical phrase
  ology are Homologous :— and by thus working out the homologies of
  all the organs of the Vertebrate class, Geoffroy, Oken, and Owen,—
  to the last of whom, we are indebted for, by far, the most elaborate

 1854.]               OF I UK ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    445
and logical development of the doctrine,— have demonstrated the
homology of all the parts of the Vertebrata, or in other words, that
there is a common plan on which all those animals which possess
back-bones are constructed,
    Precisely the same result has been arrived at, by the same methods,
in another great division of the Animal Kingdom — the Annulosa.
As an illustration, the Lecturer shewed how the parts of the mouth
of all insects were modifications of the same elements, and briefly
sketched the common plan of the Annulosa, as it may be deduced
from the investigations of Savigny, Audouin, Milne-Edwards, and
Newport.
    Leaving out of consideration (for want of time merely,) the Ra
diate animals, and passing to the remaining great division, the
Mollusca,— it appears that the same great principle holds good even
for these apparently unsymmetrical and irregular creatures : and the
Lecturer, after referring to the demonstration of the common plan
upon which those Mollusks possessing heads are constructed, —
which he had already given in the Philosophical Transactions,
— stated that he was now able to extend that plan to the remaining
orders, and briefly explained in what way the ' Archetypal Mollusk '
is modified in the Lamellibranchs, Bracniopoda, Tunicata, and
Polyzoa.
   We have then a common plan of the Vertebrata, of the Articulata,
of the Mollusca, and of the Radiata,— and to come to the essence of
the controversy in the Academic des Sciences — are all these com
mon plans identical or are they not ?
    Now if we confine ourselves to the sole method which Cuvier
admitted — the method of the insensible gradation of forms —
there can be doubt that the Vertebrate, Annulose, and Alolluscan
plans are sharply and distinctly marked off from one another, by
very definite characters ; and the existence of any common plan, of
which they are modifications, is a purely hypothetical assumption,
and may or may not be true. But is there any other method of
ascertaining a community of plan beside the method of Gradation ?
    The Lecturer here drew an illustration from Philology— a science
which in determining the affinities of words also employs the
method of gradation. Thus units, uno, tin, one, ein, are said to be
modifications of the same word, because they pass gradually into one
 another. So Hemp, Hennep, Hanf, and Cannabis, Canapa, Chanvre—
are respectively modifications of the same word : but suppose we
wish to make out what, if any, affinity exists between Hemp and
 Cannabis — the method of gradations fails us. It is only by all
 sorts of arbitrary suppositions that one can be made to pass into
the other.
   Nevertheless modem Philology demonstrates that the words are
the same, by a reference to the independently ascertained laws of
change and substitution for the letters of corresponding words, in the
Indo-Germanic tongues : by shewing in fact, that though these

446                    NOTICES OF THB MEETINGS                    [May 19,
words are not the same, yet they are modifications by known de
velopmental laws of the same root.
   Now Von Bar has shewn that the study of development has a
precisely similar bearing upon the question of the unity of organiza
tion of animals. He indicated, in his masterly essays published five
and twenty years ago, that though the common plans of the adult
forais of the great classes are not identical, yet they start in the course
of their development from the same point. And the whole tendency
of modern research is to confirm his cdnclusion.
    If then with the advantage of the great lapse of time and pro
gress of knowledge, we may presume to pronounce judgment where
Cuvier and Geoffrey St. Hilaire were the litigants — it may be said
that Geoffrey's inspiration was true, hut his mode of working it 'out
false. An insect is not a vertebrate animal, nor are its legs free
ribs. A cuttlefish is not a vertebrate animal doubled up. But
there was a period in the development of each, when insect, cut
tlefish, and vertebrate were undistinguishable and had a Common
Plan.
    The Lecturer concluded by remarking, that the existence of
hotly controverted questions between men of knowledge, ability, and
especially of honesty and earnestness of purpose, such as Cuvier and
his rival were, is an opprobium to the science which they profess.
He would feel deeply rewarded if he had produced in the minds of his
hearers, the conviction that these two great men — friends as they
were to one another — need not be set in scientific opposition ; that
 they were both true knights doing battle for science ; but that as
 the old story runs, each came by his own road to a different side of
the shield.                                                      [T. H.]
                   Esq., Q.C.,
   W. R. GROVE,WEEKLY          EVENING
                                 F.R.S.,
                             Friday,        19.
                                              MEETING, in the Chair.
                                      MayVice-President,
                 JOHN TYNDALL, Esq., Ph.D., F.R.S.
        PROFESSOR OF NATURAL FHILOSOFHY IN THE ROYAL. INSTITUTION.
         On some Phenomena connected with the Motion of Liquids.
 THE Lecturer commenced by referring to certain phenomena
  exhibited by liquids, and at variance with our commonly re
  ceived notions as to their non-cohesive character. According
  to Donny, when the air has been as far as possible expelled

  1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    447
 from water by persistent boiling, such water possessess an ex
  traordinary cohesive power, sufficient indeed to permit of its
  being heated to a temperature of 275° Fah. without boiling.
 The adhesion of water thus prepared to the surface of a glass
 tube was shewn experimentally ; the force being sufficient to
 sustain a column of water of considerable height. The contractile
 force of a snap-bubble was referred to ; and the Lecturer passed
 on to the exhibition of the phenomena resulting from the shock
 of two opposing liquid veins. In this case, though the forces
 are in opposite directions, motion is not annihilated ; but the liquid,
 as first shewn by Savart, spreads out so as to form a thin trans
 parent film, the plane of which is at right angles to the direc
 tion of the jets. By varying the pressure on one side or the
 other, or by making the jets of different diameters, the plane film
 could be converted into a curved one, and sometimes actually
 caused to close, so as to form a pellucid sack. A cistern, situa
 ted at the top of the house and communicating by pipes with
 the lecture table, placed a considerable pressure at the disposal of
 the Lecturer, and enabled him to exhibit^ in a striking manner
 the various phenomena described by Savart in his researches on
  the motion of liquids. A vein was caused to fall vertically upon
 a brass disk upwards of three inches in diameter : the liquid
 spread laterally on all sides and formed an umbrella-shaped
 pellicle of great size and beauty. With a disk of an inch in
.diameter, a pellicle of at least equal magnitude was formed.
  When a candle was placed underneath the curved sheet of water
 a singular effect was produced. The film above the candle was
  instantly dissipated ; and on moving the candle, its motion was
  followed by a corresponding change of the aqueous surface.
  On turning a suitable cock so as to lessen the pressure, the
  curvature of the film became increased, until finally the mole
  cular action of the water caused it to form a curve returning
  upon itself, and exhibiting the appearance of a' large flask.
  When the film completely embraced the vertical stem which
  supported the brass disk, a change in the form of the liquid
  flask was observed, the latter became elongated, and waa some
  times divided into two portions, one of which glided down the
  vertical stem and was broken at its base. When the jet was
  projected vertically upwards, large sheets were also obtained.
  The jet was also suffered to fall into small hollow cones of various
  apertures, and the shape of the liquid sheet received thereby
  some beautiful modifications. The inclosed sides of the hollow
  cone gave the liquid an ascending motion which, combined with
  the action ofgravity, caused the film to bend and constitute a vase-
  shaped surface of great beauty. The Lecturer next referred to the
  constitution of a liquid vein ; he had pointed out, some years
  ago, a simple mode of observing this constitution by means of the

 448                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [May 19,
 electric spark ; this method corroborated the result before arrived at
 by Savart, that the lower portion of a liquid vein owes its turbidity
 to the fact of the mass being there reduced to drops, although the
 quickness with which they succeed each other gives the eye the
 impression of continuity. Savart's last experiments on this subject
 were repeated : a tube about five feet long and two inches wide
 had a perforated brass disk fixed at its lower extremity ; the tube
 was filled with water, which, after it had become motionless, was
 permitted to issue from an orifice pierced in the centre of the
 disk. As the liquid escaped it gave birth to a succession of mu
 sical notes of sufficient intensity to be distinctly heard through
 out the theatre. That these notes were not due to the motion
 imparted to the air by the descending drops of the liquid vein
 was proved, first, by intercepting the vein in its continuous
 portion, and secondly, by permitting it to discharge itself into a
 vessel containing water, the orifice being caused to dip beneath
 the surface of the latter. In this case the mass of liquid was con
 tinuous, but the notes were nevertheless produced ; thus shewing
 that the vibrations whic* produce them must take place in the glass
 cylinder itself ; — and corroborating the conclusions arrived at by
 Savart from his earliest experiments on this subject. The pitch
 of the note depends upon the height of the liquid column which
 produces it; and by attaching a tube of an inch in diameter,
 furnished with a perforated bottom, to a cylindrical vessel about
 eighteen
 long      inches
       duration  andwide,
                      of sensibly
                          and filling
                                   constant pitchwith
                                      the whole       obtained.
                                                  waswater,  a note of •
    The Lecturer concluded with an experimental illustration of the
 total reflexion of light at the common surface of two media of dif
 ferent refractive indices. The tube communicating with the
 reservoir before referred to was fitted into the top of a small
 box, into one of the sides of which was fitted a glass tube three
 quarters of an inch wide and five inches long. The side of the
 box opposite to that through which the glass tube was introduced
was of glass. Behind the box was placed a camera, by means of
which the electric light could be condensed and caused to pass, first
through the glass back of the box, and then through the tube in
front, so as to form a white disk upon a screen held in the direct
path of the light. When, however, the cock was turned so as to
permit water to spout from the tube, the light on reaching the
limiting surface of air and water was totally reflected, and seemed
to be washed downward by the descending liquid, the latter
being thereby caused to present a beautiful illuminated appear
ance.
                                                            [J. T.]

 1854.]                   OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                   449
                   WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                              Friday, May 26,
    SIR IlhN'iiv HOLLAND, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., Vice-President,
                                in the Chair.
                       B. C. BRODIE, Esq., F.R.S.
                            On Melting Points.
WHBN, the temperature of certain substances is raised, they pass
from the solid to the fluid and from the Haiti to the gaseous con
dition. These transitions are attended with the absorption of heat.
There are other bodies which by elevation of temperature undergo a
transformation of a different kind. Thus, when liquid phosphorus
is heated, in such a manner that its change into the gaseous con
dition is prevented, at a certain temperature it becomes solid, and
passes into the red modification ; these allotropic changes also are
invariably attended with evolution or absorption of heat.
   Considerable anomalies are found in the statements which dif
ferent experimenters have made as to the melting point of sulphur.
The cause of these discrepancies lies in the facility with which the
allotropic condition of sulphur is altered by heat. The melting
point of octohedral sulphur lies very close upon the point at which
it undergoes a change into the oblique-prismatic condition. When
this sulphur has been melted, it passes more or less completely into
a third allotropic form. For these reasons, the melting point taken
was never that of a pure sulphur. However, by certain precautions
in experimenting, the true melting points of sulphur have been
ascertained.
   The experiment cannot be made in the usual manner of taking
a melting point, namely, by placing a thermometer in the fluid sub
stance, and observing the point of solidification. Fluid sulphur
is always a mixture of more than one modification. The experiment
is made by placing minute fragments of sulphur in thin glass-tubes,
immersing the tubes in a bath of dilute sulphuric acid, and observing
the temperature of the fluid at the melting of the substance. Ex
periments thus conducted have shewn that the melting point of octo
hedral sulphur is 114-5° C. and of the oblique sulphur 120°C. This
latter sulphur
hedral               a temperature
        sulphur isat obtained  in a pure
                                     belowcondition
                                            its melting point, from
                                                    by heating       100°
                                                                the dcto-
to 110°C. This change invariably takes place when the sulphur
is exposed, even momentarily, to this temperature in a state of
powder.
   The solidifying point of melted sulphur varies according to the

450                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                   [Affly 26,
temperature to which it has been raised in the melted condition.
Powdered sulphur, carefully melted so as not to raise its temperature
above one degree beyond its melting point, will solidify precisely at
its melting point, 120° C. If, however, the temperature be raised
to 300° C. it will solidify at about 110°C. The cause of this dif
ference is, that the sulphur in the latter case always contains a large
portion of a third modification, namely, the viscid form of sulphur.
   There are some remarkable anomalies in melting points which do
not so readily as the above admit of explanation. Under certain
circumstances drops of sulphur will remain in the liquid condition
at a temperature far below the true point of solidification, and solidify
instantaneously when touched. The same is the case with phos
phorus. Water contained in a capillary tube may be immersed without
freezing in a mixture cooled to — 1 10° C. The same experiment may
be made with a considerable quantity of water if the surface be pro
tected by a thin layer of aether. In these cases the water instantly
freezes by agitation or by touching the surface with a solid body.
Similar observations have been made in the crystallization of certain
salts. A solution of sulphate of soda made at 30° or 40° C. will
not crystallize on cooling, provided the fluid be not disturbed, but
instantly crystallizes on touching the surface with a wire. This
phenomenon does not take place with all solutions. A solution of
nitre crystallizes normally. There is also a difference of degree in
this property. A solution of borax will remain in an open flask in
the supersaturated condition, and crystallizes only on violent agitation.
   An experiment was shewn by which a connexion was established
between this class of facts and those of which mention was first
made. Two tubes were exhibited, each containing the same quantity
 of sulphur dissolved in the same quantity of bisulphide of carbon.
 One tube had crystallized in the normal manner, the other had de
 posited no crystals. The sulphur had in both tubes been dissolved
 at the same time and in the same manner. But the tube in which
 the sulphur did not crystallize had been exposed to a higher tem
 perature than the other tube. In this case therefore it was evident
 that the cause of the supersaturated condition was an alteration of
 the substance induced by heat. On breaking the point of the tube
 and agitating the fluid with a wire, the sulphur instantly crystallized.
 The analogy was pointed out of the sudden alteration of this con
 dition by agitation and contact, and the decomposition which many
 chemical substances, such as the iodide of nitrogen, undergo by
 similar causes.
                                                           [B. C. B.]

1854.]                 OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                  451
                WEEKLY EVENING MEETING,
                            Friday, June 2.
   WILLIAM ROBERT GROVE, ESQ., Q.C., F.R.S., Vice-President,
                              in the Chair.
                      DR. E. FRANKLAND, F.R.S.
  On the dependance of the Chemical properties of Compounds upon the
                 Electrical character of their constituents.
THE Lecturer first directed attention to the remarkable continuity
and correlation of the natural forces, owing to which, the phi
losopher, seeking to eliminate the effects legitimately due to each,
frequently experienced the greatest difficulty in separating the true
results of a single force, from the cognate influence of other
forces. Such difficulties were more especially encountered in the
manifestations of the chemical force or chemical affinity, which
rarely or never acted singly and alone, but was constantly accom
panied, modified, and controlled, by collateral forces, which alter
nately exalted, depressed, or altogether inverted it.
   The powerful influence of cohesion and heat especially attracted
the attention of Berthollet, and so impressed that profound philoso
pher with their potency, as to lead him to ignore completely the
existence of a separate chemical force. Notwithstanding the other
wise singularly ingenious and sound conclusions of this chemist,
the Lecturer believed that later researches had demonstrated the
total denial of a distinct chemical force to be untenable.
   The influence of electricity upon chemical affinity was perhaps
even still greater than that of cohesion or heat ; the most power
ful combinations being broken up by this agent, if its operations
were favoured by the two conditions — mobility of particles (fluidity),
and conductibility of the electric current. The phenomenon of
the evolution of the separate elements of a binary compound, at
the opposite poles of the decomposing cell, was one of the most
remarkable attending the resolution of compounds into their elements
by the electrical force. It immediately attracted the attention of
philosophers, and almost forced upon them the conclusion, that such
elements were oppositely electrified.
   Davy was the first to seize upon these facts and model them
into an electro-chemical theory, which, notwithstanding its defects,
was at least as soundly philosophical as those which succeeded
it. Davy supposed that the elements in their uncombined con
 dition did not contain free electricity, but that by contact they

452                  NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                    :J .!>:•• 2,
became excited. Thus, a particle of sulphur became negative when
placed in contact with a particle of copper, which last was simul
taneously rendered positive : the application of heat intensified the
charge, until at a certain point, the tension of the two electrici
ties became so high, that they suddenly re-combined, carrying with
them the molecules of copper and sulphur, which were thus
intimately mingled, whilst evolution of heat and light resulted
from the combination of the two electricities. Ampere and Ber-
zelius subsequently attempted to remove some of the difficulties,
which were encountered in endeavouring to make Davy's theory
embrace all chemical phenomena. Ampere considered each element
to be permanently endowed with a definite amount of one or the
other electricity, being thus invariably either electro-positive or
electro-negative to an extent dependent upon the intensity of the
charge. Such a naturally charged molecule Ampere imagined to
attract around it an atmosphere of the opposite electricity of cor
responding intensity, and that when two molecules oppositely
charged were brought in contact, their atmospheres of electricity
united, giving rise to the heat and light of chemical combination,
whilst the original charge retained the attracting molecules in per
 manent union. Although this theory elucidated some points which
 Davy's view left unexplained, yet it would not be difficult to start
 several very serious objections to it : the attempted removal of these
 gave rise to the electro-chemical theory of Berzelius, who sup
 posed that each element contained the two electricities, but that
 the one was more powerfully developed than the other, as in
 the case of a magnet in which one pole, by being divided, was
 apparently weaker than the other. In chemical combination, Berze
 lius imagined, that one of the electricities of each element was
 discharged, producing the heat and light of chemical action, whilst
 the other was retained and served to hold the elements in combi
 nation.
    But these attempts of Ampere and Berzelius to improve the
 theory of Davy succeeded perhaps less in perfecting our views of
electro-chemical phenomena, than in demonstrating the necessity
for much further research, before these phenomena could be satis
 factorily interpreted ; for these theories, in which different degrees
 of affinity were explained by differences in the degree of elec
trical excitement, have been proved radically defective by the
remarkable discovery of Professor Faraday, that compounds, whose
 elements were united by the most dissimilar degrees of affinity,
required equal quantities of electric force for their decomposition.
    Such defects in the attempts to account for chemical phenomena
by electrical agency led Dumas and other .chemists to reject
altogether the idea of electro-chemical combination. Dumas re
 garded a chemical compound as a group of molecules connected by
a single force in a manner analogous to a planetary system, and the
 chemical character of a compound as dependant upon the position
                                                                             I

1854.]                OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                     453
of the separate molecules, and not upon their individual character.
This beautiful and highly poetical view would neither have received
such an extensive adoption, nor have been the parent of such
numerous and brilliant discoveries in the organic portion of the
science, if it had not contained a profound truth : nevertheless the
Lecturer conceived that the total abnegation of the influence of the
electrical character of elements upon the chemical properties of
their compounds, implied by this theory of types, was directly
opposed to many of the phenomena of chemical combination, which
invariably revealed such a connection.
   The effect of successive additions of oxygen to an electro-positive
element, in gradually weakening its basic, and consequently electro
positive, qualities, and finally converting it into an acid, or electro
negative body, was well known in the case of manganese, iron,
chromium, gold, &c., but the effects of the juxtaposition of two or
more elements of similar electrical character had not hitherto been
much studied. Granting the existence of an electrical charge as
sociated with the molecules of matter, it was evident that such a
union of atoms, as that just mentioned, would resemble two ap
proximated globes similarly electrified. Now the effect of the ap
proximation of two such globes would be the intensification of the
charge of each ; and therefore, if there were any connection between
electrical and chemical character, it would be exemplified by an
increased energy of affinity under such circumstances. Examples
of such an approximation of atoms of similar character were not
wanting, even amongst inorganic bodies : thus the compounds of
chlorine with oxygen were remarkable instances of the union of
like atoms ; and we saw in several of them the truth of the fore
going proposition fully borne out. Hypochlorous, chlorous, and
chloric acids were all distinguished by the intense energy of their
affinities and contrasted strongly with the compounds of oxygen or
chlorine with electro-positive elements.
   The compounds of phosphorus with hydrogen also exemplified
the same effect. Phosphorus, though usually regarded as an electro
negative body, was yet far more closely associated in its general
character with the metals than with the metalloids ; we were
 therefore entitled to regard a compound of this element with
 hydrogen, as a juxtaposition of two similarly electrified atoms. Now
 two of the compounds of phosphorus with hydrogen, viz. bin-
 hydride and ter-hydride of phosphorus, were remarkable for the
 intensity of their affmities, the one being spontaneously inflammable
and the other merely requiring a diminution of pressure, when
 mixed with atmospheric air or oxygen, to determine its combustion.
    But the influence of the electrical character of elements upon the
chemical properties of their compounds was perhaps most strikingly
 seen in the behaviour of the organo-metallic bodies, nearly all of
 which had only recently been discovered. Most of these bodies,
 which, in their isolated condition, consisted of two or more simi

454                   NOTICES OF THE MEETINGS                 [Jllne 5,
larly electrified atoms, were distinguished by an intensity of affinity
affinity which was quite foreign to their proximate, or even elemen
tary, constituents. Zinc and methyl, for instance, were neither of
them distinguished for any remarkable energy of affinity in their
free state ; but united as zinc-methylium, they formed a compound
whose combining energy surpassed that of all known bodies, and
this behaviour was shared in also by the corresponding compounds
of zinc with ethyl and amyl. In cacodyl, stanethylium, stibethy-
 liiini, and the new compounds of arsenic with ethyl, we had addi
 tional and striking evidence of the same law, for the affinities of
arsenic, tin, and antimony, were, in these compounds, exalted in
a most remarkable manner by the approximation of similarly elec
trified atoms.
    These examples seemed to prove clearly the great influence of
the electrical character of elements upon the chemical properties
of their compounds ; but further study of the subject also revealed
the paramount influence of molecular structure, which modified and
controlled the effects of electrical character, and limited all affinity
however heightened by electric induction. To this effect of mo
lecular arrangement was no doubt to be attributed the occurrence
of some apparent anomalies which, at first sight, appeared to
contradict the general law just laid down, such as perchloric acid,
 biphosphide of hydrogen, &c. ; but the pursuit of the subject into
this ramification would have far exceeded the limits of the lecture,
 the chief object of which was to point out that, although all the
 electro-chemical theories hitherto proposed were far from satisfac
 tory, yet, that amongst the factors of chemical action, the electrical
 character of elements could not be denied a place, without ignoring
 and leaving unexplained some of the most remarkable of chemical
 phenomena.                                                 [E. F.J
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                            Monday, June 5.
  WILLIAM WILBERFORCE BIRD, Esq., Vice-President, in the Chair.
          George J. Lyons, Esq.
          Charles Roderick Macgrigor. Esq., and
          The Rev. Thomas George Alfred Rushton, B.A., F.S.A.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
                         John Ferguson, M.D.
was admitted a Member of the Royal Institution.

1854.]                  OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                        455
   The Secretary read the following Report from the Managers : —
   " THE MANAGERS have the gratification of reporting to the
Members an act of munificence greatly enhanced in value by special
circumstances.
   " On Friday last the Secretary received the following letter from
Mr. J. Pepys :
                                      " 8, Berkeley Street, 2nd June, 1854,
   " Mr DBAR SIR,
          As Honorary Secretary to the Royal Institution I trouble
you with the following.
   " I find I have belonged to the Royal Institution since the month
ceived
of  March     1 800that
          during     (now
                        period
                           moremuch
                                  than mental    gratification
                                         fifty-four            andhaving
                                                    years) ; and          re-
                                                                    pleasure,
I wish to make some small return for the entertainment I have
enjoyed ; I therefore enclose a draft for One hundred pounds, to be
disposed of in any way the Managers may think most to the ad
vantage of this most excellent Institution, of which / believe I am
now the oldest living Associate. With the earnest wish for its lasting
prosperity, I remain much yours,                             JOHN PEFYS.
    "This is the Fifth Donation to the same amount bestowed by the
 same generous Member. On the four previous occasions, however,
 the recipient of Mr. Pepys's bounty was in a condition very different
 from the present.
    " At that time the reputation of the Royal Institution was, indeed,
 rapidly advancing ; but neither its high character nor its increasing
 usefulness prevented this society from being almost overwhelmed by
 pecuniary difficulties. Such was the period chosen by Mr. Pepys
 for making those large donations which powerfully contributed to
 rescue the Inscitution from absolute ruin.
    " The Managers therefore feel that this long-tried friend is en
 titled to the two-fold credit of having first sustained the society
 to which he has so long been attached in the hour of its adversity,
 and of having now added increasing efficiency to its present con
 dition of prosperity and success."
    It was then moved by Professor Faraday, seconded by Dr. Webster,
 and RESOLVED unanimously,—
    " That the hearty thanks of this Meeting be presented to JOHN
 PEFYS, Esq., for the present proof of his good will and effectual
 support ; which is only one of many equally striking instances
 of his earnestness in the cause of the Royal Institution, exerted in
 times both of adversity and prosperity extending through a period
 of half a century."
    The following PRESENTS were announced, and the thanks of the
 Members returned for the same : —
    FROM
 Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIV. No. 6.   8vo.  1854.
 Bull, Jacob, Esq. — Pharmaceutical Journal, June, 1854. 8vo.
                                      KK

                                                                                     <f
 Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers)
 456                      NOTICES OF     THEMusical
                                     — The     MEETINGS World for May, 1854. {June 4to. 5,
 British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings in May, 1854. 4to.
  Camden Society — Promptorium Parvulorum, sive Clericorum Lexicon Anglo-
      Latinum Princeps, recensuit A. Way. Tom. II. 4to. 1853.
 Chiosso, Captain (the Author) — Gymnastics an Essential Branch of National
      Education. 8vo. 1854.
 Civil Engineers, Institution of— Proceedings in May, 1854. 8vo.
 De Paravey, Chevalier (the Author) — Du Pays primitif du Ver a soie. 8vo.
      1851.
 East India Company, the Hon.— Bombay Magnetical and Meteorological Obser
      vations in 1850. 4to. 1853.
    General Report of the Administration of the Punjab, for 1849-51. (With
      Maps.) fol. 1854.
 Editors — The Medical Circular for May, 1854. 8vo.
    The Athenseum for May, 1854. 4to.
    The Practical Mechanic's Journal, for June, 1854. 4to.
    The Mechanics' Magazine, for May, 1854. 8vo,
    The Journal of Gas-Lighting, May, 1 854. 4to.
    Deutscher Atheniium, May, 1854. 4to.
 Faraday, Professor, D.C.L., F.R.S.— Monatsbericht der Konigl. Preuss. Aka-
     demie, Marz, 1854. 8vo. Berlin.
 Franklin Institute of Pennsylvania — Journal, Vol. XXVII. No. 5. 8vo. 1854.
 Geological Society — Quarterly Journal. No. 38. 8vo. 1854.
 Graham, George, Esq. Registrar. General — Weekly Reports of the Registrar-
     General, for May, 1 854. 8vo.
    Census of Great Britain, 1851.—Education: England and Wales,— Report
     and Tables. 8vo. 1854.
               Religious Worship and Education : Scotland ; Report and Tables.
     8vo. 1854.
     8vo. 1854.
 Granville,  Rev. A. K. B., M.A. {the Author) — Deptford Worthies, a Lecture.
Hood,    W. Charles,
     Criminal         M.D. 8vo.
               Lunatics.            1854. — Suggestions for the Future Provision of
                             (the Author)
Howard, Luke, Esq. F.R.S. (the Author) — Papers on Meteorology. 4to. 1854.
Jones, Henry Bence, M.D., F.R.S., M.R.I. (the Editor) — A Manual of Elemen
     tary Chemistry, by George Fownes, F.R.S. Fifth Edition. Edited by Drs.
     Bence Jones and Hofmann. 16mo. 1854.
   The Common
Lovell,              (theand
         E. B. Esq.Law        Equity
                           Editor) —The
                                      Reports,
                                           Monthly     13. 8vo.
                                                Part Digest           1854.
                                                                for May,  1854. 8vo.
    Invariable David,
Macloughlin,            M.D.,
                Existence   of aM.R.I,
                                  Premonitory
                                        (the Author)
                                                Diarrhoea     in Cholera.
                                                       — Result             8vo. into
                                                                    of an Inquiry  1854.the
Noad, H. M., Ph. D., M.R.I, (the Author)— Lectures on Chemistry in connec
    tion with Agriculture. 8vo. 1850.
Novello, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical Times, June, 1854. 4to.
Photographic Society — Journal, No. 17. 8vo. 1854.
Royal Society of London — Proceedings, Vol. VII. No. 102. 8vo. 1854.
Society of Arts — Journal for May, 1854. 8vo.
Statistical Society — Journal, Vol. XVII. Part 2. 8vo. 1854.
   Historical
Taylor,         W., F.R.S.
          Rev. Sketch   of theM.R.I
                                Bristol
                                     — Asylum                 Blind, 16mo.
                                        MagazineforforthetheBlind.            1854. 4to.
                                                                      June, 1854.
Tyndall, John, Ph. D., F.RS. (the Author)— On the Vibrations and Tones pro
    duced by the contact of Bodies having different Temperatures. (From
    Phil. Trans. Roy. Soc.) 4to. 1854.
Welton, T. A. Esq. (the Author) — Freedom in America : its Extent and Influ
    ence. 8vo. 1854.

 1854.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                    457
                 WEEKLY EVENING MEETING.
                             Friday, June 9.
     SIR HENRY HOLLAND, Bart., M.D., F.R.S., Vice^President,
                              in the Chair.
                 PROFESSOR FARADAY, D.C.L., F.R.S.
                        On Magnetic Hypotheses.
THIS discourse, the purpose of which was to direct the attention of
the audience to the different hypothetical attempts made to account
physically for the known properties of matter in relation to its
magneto-electrical phenomena, followed on very naturally to that
of Dr. Frankland on the 2nd instant, who then gave an account
of the different views advanced hy Davy, Ampere, and Berzelius,
of the manner in which electricity might be associated with the
atoms or molecules of matter, so as to account for their electro-che
mical actions, and of the logical and experimental objections which
stood in the way of each. On the present occasion reference was
first made to Coulomb's investigations of mutual magnetic actions ;
to the hypothesis advanced by him, that two magnetic fluids, asso
ciated with the matter of magnetic bodies, would account for all
the phenomena ; and to Poisson's profound mathematical investiga
tion of the sufficiency of the hypothesis. Then Oersted's discovery
of the relation of common magnetism to currents of electricity was
recalled to mind : — hence an enormous enlargement of the scope
of magnetic force and of our knowledge of its actions ; and hence
Ampere's beautiful investigations, and his hypothesis (also sustained
by the highest mathematical investigation),— that all magnetic phe
nomena are due to currents of electricity ; and that in such bodies as
magnets, iron, nickel, &c. the atoms or particles have naturally
currents of electricity running round them in one direction, about
what may be considered as their equatorial parts. After Oersted's
time, further experimental discoveries occurred ; currents of elec
tricity were found competent to induce collateral currents, and
magnets proved able to produce like currents ; thus shewing the
identity of action of magnets and currents in producing effects of
a kind different to ordinary magnetic attractions and repulsions.
Then diamagnetism was discovered, in which actions analogous to
those of ordinary magnetism occurred, but with the antithesis of
attraction for repulsion and repulsion for attraction : and these
were so extensive, that whatever bodies were not magnetic proved
to be diamagnetic ; and thus all matter was brought under the
dominion of that magnetic force, whose physical mode of action

458                   NOTICKS OF THK MEBTINGS                  {June 9,
hypothesis endeavours to account for. As the hypothesis of Am
pere could not account for diamagnetic action, some assumed that
magnetic and electric force might, in diamagnetic matter, induce
currents of electricity in the reverse direction to those in magnetic
matter ; or else might induce currents where before there were none :
whereas in magnetic cases it was supposed they only constrained
particle-currents to assume a particular direction, which before were
in all directions. Weber stands eminent as a profound mathe
matician who has confirmed Ampere's investigations as far as they
proceeded, and who has made an addition to his hypothetical views ;
namely, that there is electricity amongst the particles of matter,
which is not thrown into the form of a current until the magnetic
 induction comes upon it, hut which then assumes the character of
 current, having a direction the contrary to that of the currents
which Ampere supposed to be always circulating round magnetic
matter ; and so these other matters are rendered diamagnetic.
    De la Rive, who has recently most carefully examined the various
hypotheses, and who as an experimentalist and discoverer has the
highest right to enter into the consideration of these deep, searching,
and difficult enquiries, after recalling the various phenomena which
 shew that the powers concerned belong to the particles of matter
 and not to the masses merely, (the former conferring them by
 association upon the latter,) then distinguishes magnetic action
 into four kinds or modes, — namely, the ordinary, the diamagnetic,
 the induction of currents, and the rotation of a ray ; and points out
 that any acceptable hypotheses ought to account for the/oi/r modes of
 action, and, it may be added, ought to agree with, if not account
 for, the phenomena of electro-chemical action also. De la Rive
 conceives that as regards these modes of action this hypothe
 tical result may be obtained, and both Ampere and Weber's views
 also retained in the following manner.            All the atoms of
 matter are supposed to be endowed with electrical currents of
 a like kind, which move about them for ever, without diminution
 of their force or velocity, being essentially a part of their nature.
 The direction of these currents for each atom is through one
 determinate diameter, which may therefore be considered as the
 axis. Where they emerge from the body of the atom they divide
 in all directions, and running over every part of the surface
 converge towards the opposite end of the axis diameter, and
 there re-enter the atom to run ever through the same course.
 The converging and diverging points are as it were poles of
 force. Where the atoms of matter are close or numerous in a
 given space, (and chemical considerations lead to the admission
 of such cases.) the hypothesis then admits that several atoms
 may conjoin into a ring, so that their central or axial currents
 may run one into the other, and not return as before over the
 surface of each atom : these form the molecules of magnetic
 matter, and represent Ampere's hypothesis of molecular currents.

1834.]               OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                      459
Where the atoms, being fewer in a given space, are farther
apart, or where, being good conductors, the current runs as freely
 over the surface as through the axis, then they do not form
like groups to the molecules of magnetic matter, but are still con
sidered subject to a species of induction by the action of external
magnets and currents ; and so give rise to Weber's reverse currents.
The induction of momentary currents and the rotation of a ray
are considered by De la Rive as in conformity with such a sup
position of the electric state of the atoms and particles of matter.
   The Lecturer seemed to think that the great variety of
these hypotheses and their rapid succession was rather a proof
of weakness in this department of physical knowledge than of
strength, and that the large assumptions which were made in
turn for each should ever be present to the mind. Even in the
most perfect of them, i. e. De la Rive's, these assumptions are
very considerable ; for it is necessary to conceive of the molecules
as being flat or disc-like bodies, however numerous the atoms
of each may be ; also that the atoms of one molecule do not
interfere with or break up the disposition of those of another
molecule ; also that electro-chemical action may consist with
such a constituted molecule ; also that the motive force of each
atom current is resident in the axis, and on the other hand that
the passage of the current over the surface offers resistance;
for unless there were a difference between the axial and the
surface force in one direction or the other, the atoms would have
no tendency to congregate in molecules. In making these
remarks, however, the speaker had no thought of depreciating
hypothesis or objecting to its right use. No discoverer could
advance without it ; and such exertions as those made by De la
Rive, to bring into harmony thoughts which in their earlier forms
were adverse to each other, were of the more value, because
they were the exertions of a man who knew the value both of
hypothesis and of laws, of theory and of fact, and had given
proofs of the power of each by the productions of his own mind.
Still the speaker advocated that mental reservation which kept
hypothesis in its right place and which was ready to abandon it
when it failed ; and as examples referred to Newton, who (as is
shewn by his Letters to Bentley) had very strong convictions of
the physical nature of the lines of gravitating force, yet in what he
publicly advanced stopped short at the law of action of the force,
and thence deduced his great results ;— and also to Arago, who,
discovering the phenomena of magnetic rotation, yet not per
ceiving their physical cause, had that philosophic power of mind
which enabled him to refrain from suggesting one.
                                                             [M. F.]

460                          NOTICES OF THE MEETINgS                         [July 3,
                  GENERAL MONTHLY MEETING,
                                  Monday, July 3.
          William Wilberforce Bird, Esq., Vice-President,
                                    in the Chair.
                R. W. Blencowe, Esq.
                John M. Heathcote, Esq.
                Thomas Sopwith, Esq., and
                Robert Stephenson, Esq., M.P., F.R.S.
were duly elected Members of the Royal Institution.
   The following Presents were announced, and the thanks of the
Members returned for the same :—
Airy, G. B. Esq , F.R S., Astronomer Royal — Regulations of the Royal Obser
    vatory, Greenwich. 4to. 1853.
   Report of the Astronomer-Royal, June 3, 1854. 4to. 1854.
Antiquaries of London, Society of— Archaeologia, Vol. XXXV. Part 2. 4to.
    1854.
   Proceedings, Nos. 37—40. 8vo. 1853-4.
   List of Fellows. 8vo. 1854.
Asiatic Society of Bengal — Journal, No. 239. 8vo. 1854.
Astronomical Society, Royal — Monthly Notices, Vol. XIV. No. 7. 8vo. 1854.
Author — A Few words on Popery and Protestantism. By a Layman. 12mo.
    1854.
   Classical Instruction : its Use and Abuse. 12mo. 1854.
Bell, Jacob, Esq., M.R.I. — Pharmaceutical Journal, July, 1854. 8vo.
Bombay Branch of the Royal Asiatic Society — Journal, No. 19. 8vo. 1854.
Boosey, Messrs. (the Publishers) — The Musical World for June, 1854. 4to.
Blunt, John Elijah, Esq., M.A., M.R.I, (the Author) — History of the Jews in
    England. 8vo. 1830.
British Architects, Royal Institute of — Proceedings in June, 1854. 4to.
      India
Eastwith     Company,
          Notices  of thetheSurrounding
                               Hon. — Ladak,
                                         Countries.
                                               Physical,   Major Alex.
                                                       ByStatistical,      Historical ;
                                                                      andCunningham,
     (With Map and Plates.) 8vo. 1854.
   The Bhilsa Topes, or Buddhist Monuments of Central India : comprising a
    Brief Historical Sketch of Buddhism, by Major Alex. Cunningham. 8vo.
     1854.
   Physical Geography of Western Thibet, by Capt. H. Strachey. With Map,
     8vo. 1854.
   Sakuntald, a Sanskrit Drama, by Kalidasa. Edited by Monier Williams,
     M.A. 8vo. 1853.
    withPrtfkrita-Prakasa
   The                       : or theNotes,
          an English Translation,      Prakrit
                                            &c.,Grammar
                                                 by E. B. Cowell.     8vo. 1854.
                                                           of Vararuchi.    The Text ;

1854.]                         OF THE ROYAL INSTITUTION.                                    461
Editors — The Medical Circular for June, 1854. 8vo.
   The Athenaeum for June, 1854. 4to.
   The Practical Mechanic's Journal for July, 1854. 4to.
   The Mechanic's Magazine for June, 1854. 8vo.
   The Journal of Gas-Lighting, June, 1854. 4to.
   Deutsches
Faraday,        Athenäum,
            Professor,    D.C.L.,
                                June,   1854. Monatsbericht
                                     F.R.S.—    4to.               der Königl. Preuss. Aka
    demie,J.April,
French,               1 854. (the
                G. Esq.                 Berlin.— The Nature of Cholera Investigated.
                                8vo.Author)
    2nd edition.
Graham,                8vo. Registrar-General
            George, Esq.,       1854.               — Weekly Reports of the Registrar-
     General,
Holdship,       for Esq.,
            John,            1854. —8vo.
                     June, M.R.I.        More Worlds than one, the Creed of the Phi
    losopher and the Hope of the Christian. By Sir David Brewster, D.C.L.,
    F.R.S. 16mo.Gesellschaft
Jablonowskischen           1854.       zu Leipzig — Dr. J. Zech : Astronomische Unter
    suchungen über die wichtigeren Finsternisse, welche von den Schriftstellern
    des classischen
Londesborough,      Lord,Alterthums
                             K.C.H., M.R.I.
                                        erwähnt—werden.
                                                   Miscellanea         1853. a collection of
                                                               8vo.Graphica:
    Ancient, Mediaeval, and Renaissance Remains in the possession of Lord Lon
    desborough.
Lovell,                 M.R.I,
         E. B. Esq., Part          4to.Editor)—
                              1. (the     1854. The Monthly Digest for June, 1854. 8vo.
Photographic
Quaritch,
Medical
  The Common
Novello,   Mr.
            Mr.(the
          Board  Society
                  B.
                   ofLaw
                      (the
                      Publisher)
                       Bom— Publisher)
                             bay
                            and   Equity
                                  ——
                               Journal,
                                      Deaths
                                        The
                                          —
                                          Nos.
                                          Reports,
                                             A
                                             Musical
                                                Practical
                                                 Bombay
                                              in18,  Part
                                                       Times
                                                     19.    14.
                                                            8vo.
                                                             during
                                                             Grammar
                                                                for8vo.
                                                                    July
                                                                    1854.
                                                                      1852.
                                                                          1854.
                                                                          1854.
                                                                         of   8vo.Turkish
                                                                             the  4to.1853. Lan
    guage. Gesellschaft
Sächsische     By W. B. Barker.          16mo. 1854.
                               der Wissenschaften      zu Leipzig— Abhandlungen, Band
    I. II. Bande III. 6 Hefte ; Band IV. 6 Hefte. 8vo". 1850—i.
  Berichte,
Smith,         1846 —
         C. Roach,    Esq.53,—and      Faussett
                                 The1854              8vo.
                                           Heft 1.Collection    of Anglo-Saxon Antiquities.
    8vo. 1854.
Society of Arts — Journal for June, 1854. 8vo.
Taylor, Rev.College,
University                 London
                 W., F.R.S.,        — The
                                 M.R.I.  — Magazine
                                              University     the Blind,London,
                                                         for College,              Calendar
                                                                          July, 1854.   4to. for
     1853-4.
Vereins          8vo. 1854.des Gewerbfleisses in Preussen — Verhandlungen, März
          zur Beforderung
    undN.
Ward,     April,
             B. Esq.,
                  1854.      4to.F.L.S.,
                        F.R.S.,           M.R.I. — On Wardian Cases for Plants, and
                                     Berlin.
    their Applications.         By Stephen H. Ward, M.D., Lond.              16mo.    1854.


                                   INDEX.
Actonian Prize of 1851 awarded to         Brockedon, W. Esq., on Caoutchouc,
   Mr. Wharton Jones, 54.                   42.
Aggregation, Material, 254.               — on Foreign Wines and the Fungus
Airy, G. B., on the total Eclipse of        on the Grape, 303.
   1851, 62.                              Brodie, B. C., Esq., on Allotropic
— on the Eclipse of Thales, &c. 243.        Changes, 201.
Allotropic changes, 133, 201.             — on Hydrogen and its homologues,
Alps, Geology of, 31.                       325.
Anhydrous organic Acids, 239.             — on Melting points, 449.
Animal Individuality, 184; forms, 444.    Brooke, C. Esq., on the Compound
— and Vegetable Kingdoms, Limits            Achromatic Microscope, 402.
  of, 415.
Animals and Plants, structure of, 298.    Candles, Manufacture of, 21 .
Annual Meeting in 1851,61 ; in 1852,      Caoutchouc, properties and applica
   190; in 1853, 309; 1854,433.             tions of, 42.
Aphis, development of, 11, 14.            Carpenter, Dr., on the influence of
Architecture, its relations to Science,      Suggestion in modifying and direct
   124 ; constructive principles of the     ing muscular movement, indepen
   Styles of, 268.                           dently of volition, 147.
Aurora Boreales, 275.                     Carpmael, W. Esq., on the manufac
                                            ture of Candles, 21.
Babylon and Nineveh, on disco             Chemical discoveries from the great
  veries at, 84.                             Exhibition, 131.
Baily on Eclipse of Thales, 244;          — affinity, 416.
  Baily's beads, 64.                      — forces connected with polarization
Bains' Printing Telegraph, 353.             of light, 45.
Barlow, Rev. J., on Silica, 422.          — properties of compounds, 451.
Barometer, Cartesian, 426.                Chemistry, Dynamics of, 90.
Becquerel, Electrical researches of, 75,  Coal gas, manufacture of, Sec., 320.
   338,360.                               Coal, formation of, 284.
Bigsby, Dr. J., on Lake Superior, 154.    Conolly, Dr. J., on the past and pre
Blackheath Pebble-bed, 164.                  sent condition of the Insane (««
Blind, Education of the, 290 ; Rules         Abstract) , 303 ; on the characters
   for their
Brande,       management,
          Professor,       297.
                     on Peat, 4.             of Insanity, 375.
                                          Cowper, Professor, on Lighthouses,
— on Electro-magnetic clocks, 109.           24 ; on Locks, 1 63 (no Abstract) .
— Address on resigning his Professor      Cuneiform characters, early use of, 84.
   ship, 1 68 ; Report of the Managers
   respecting,
   fessor       170; elected
           of Chemistry, 171. Hon. Jt'ro- Dietaries, Table of, 316.
Boussingault's mode of procuring Oxy      Ebelmen's
                                          Earth,        mode ofof,producing
                                                     magnetism        57.        arti
   gen, 337.
Boutigny, M., Etudes sur les corps a         ficial of
                                          Eclipse      Thales,
                                                    rubies,      83. ; of Agathocles,
                                                            &c. 243
   l'etat spheroidal, 179.
British Seas, natural history of, 17.        248; of 1851, &c. 62.
                                                            LL

464                                    INDEX.
Eclipses, phenomena of, 65 ; computa        Freeman, E. Esq., on the Principal
   tion of, 243.                               Styles of Architecture, 268.
Electricity, transmission of by flame       Frog, development of, 9.
   and gases, 359 ; velocity of in dif-
   fferent kinds of wire, 352 ; heating     Ga s, comparison of various kinds of,
   effects of, 119 (see Faraday, Frank-        320-4.
   land, Grove).                            Gautier on the solar spots, 238.
Electric Currents in Plants, 75.            Geisers of Iceland, 332.
— Induction, 345.                           Geology — of the Alps, 31 ; Lake Su
— Force, 217.                                  perior, 154; London, 164; Ingle-
— Telegraph wire, Experiments on               borough, 278; Nova Scotia, 281;
   346 ; piece of exhibited, 442.              Isle of Wight, &c. 316.
Electro-biology, 147.                       Geological Time, remarks on, 287,
Electro-magnetic Clocks, 109.                  428.
Entasis, tables of, 128.                    Gerhardt's discovery of anhydrous or
Ethyl, production of, 326.                     ganic acids, 239.
 Exhibition of 1851, Remarks on, 151.       Gillett, W. S. Esq., his improvements
                                               in Microscopes, 403—405.
Faraday, Professor, on the Magnetic         Gladstone, Dr. J. H., on Chemical
   relations of Oxygen and Nitrogen, 1 .       Affinity, 416.
— on Atmospheric Magnetism, 56.              Gold, extraction of from its ores, 205 ;
 — on Electric currents in Plants, 75.         large nugget from California, 3.
— on Artificial production of the            Grape-fungus, Oidium Tucheri, de
    Ruby, &c. by M. Ebelmen, 83.               scribed, 305.
— on Schonbein's OZone, 94.                  Grove, W. R. Esq., on the Heating
— on the lines of Magnetic Force,              effects of Electricity and Magnetism,
    105, 216, 229.                              119.
 — on the researches of Boussingault        — on the transmission of Electricity
   and others on Oxygen, 337.                  by flame and gases, 359.
 — on Electric Induction — Associated        Gull, Dr., on Voluntary Movement,
    cases of current and static effects,       37.
   345.
 — on Vibrations and Tones of Heated         Heat, conduction of, 254 ; see Bou-
    bodies, 356, 358.                          tigny, Tyndall.
 — on Magnetic Hypotheses, 457.              Heat and Light, analogies of, 172.
 Food of Man under different condi          Heating effects of Electricity and Mag
    tions, 313.                                netism, 119.
 Forbes, Professor E. on the natural         Herschel on chemical rays of Light,
    history of the British Seas, 17.           259.
 — on the supposed analogy between          Hosking, W. Esq., on Ventilation by
   the life of an individual and the           the parlour fire, 76.
    duration of a species, 193.             Huxley, T. H. Esq., on Animal In
 — on some new points in British               dividuality, 184.
    Geology, 316.                           — on the identity of structure of
 — on the manifestation of Polarity            plants and animals, 298.
    in the distribution of beings in        — on the common plan of animal
    time, 428.                                 forms, 444.
 Forbes, Professor J. D., his laws on       Hydrogen and its homologues, 325.
   vibrations and tones of heated
   bodies, 356.                                329.
                                            Iceland,     eruptive    phenomena    of,
 Fossils in Nova Scotia Coal-fields, 281 .
 Foucault's Pendulum Experiment, 70.         Iguanodon, structure of, 141.
 Frankland, Dr. E., on the employment        Illumination by Chemical light, 319.
    of Chemical Light for artificial illu   Individuality, Animal, 184, 193.
    mination, 319.                          Ingleborough,      Geological Sketches
 — on the Chemical properties of               round, 278.
    compounds and the Electrical cha        Insanity, characters of, 375.
    racter of their constituents, 451.      Iron, Manufacture of, 434.

                                      INDEX.                                    465
Jones, T. Wharton, obtains Actonian        Microscopes, on the construction of,
  prize, 54.                                  402.
— elected Fullerian Professor of Phy       Mirage, 67.
  siology, 101.                            Monthly Meetings in 1851, 7, 29, 54,
Jones, Dr. H. B., on the acidity,             69, 88, 99, 101, 103; in 1852, 112,
   sweetness, and strength of wines,           139, 170, 191, 214, 222, 225, 227 ;
   381.                                       in 1853, 250, 276, 288, 310, 336,
                                              339, 341, 344; in 1854, 362, 400,
Knoblauch's researches         on Heat,       429, 442, 454, 460.
   178.                                    Movement, Voluntary, Physiology of,
                                              37, 147.
Lake Superior described, 154.              Murchison, Sir R. I., on the changes
Lamont on Magnetic variation, 238.            of the Alps, 3 1 .
Lankester, Dr. E., on the Limits of
   the Vegetable and Animal kingdoms,      Newton on Gravitation, 237.
   415.                                    Nitrogen, its Magnetic character, 2.
Lectures, Public, in 1851,29 ; in 1852,    Noad, Dr. H. M., on the Manufacture
   103, 139 ; in 1853, 227, 276 ; in          of Iron, 434.
   1854, 344, 420.
Library, time of Admission to enlarged,    Owen, Professor, on Metamorphosis
   and Assistant in provided, 89.             and Metagenesis, 9.
Light and Heat, analogies of, 172.         — on the structure and homologies of
Light, change of refrangibility of, 259.      Teeth, 365.
Lighthouses, their construction and        Oxygen, its magnetic character, 1 ;
   mode of lighting, 24.                      Boussingault's mode of preparing,
Liquids, on Motion of, 446.                   337.
Lyell, Sir. C, on Impresssions of          Ozone, its production and properties,
   Rain-drops, 50.                            94.
— on the Blackheath Pebble-bed, 164.
— on discoveries in the Coal Measures      Paraffine, 6, 7 ; 135.
   of Nova Scotia, 281.                    Peat and its products, 4.
— on Geological time, 287.                 Pendulum experiments, 70.
                                           Pepys, J., Donations from, 54, 455.
Magnetic Force, Physical Lines of,         Penrose, F. Esq., on some relations
   105, 216, 229; influence of ma             of Science to Architecture, 1 24.
   terial aggregation on, 254.             Percy, Dr., on the modes of extracting
Magnetic Characters of Oxygen and             Gold from its ores, 205.
   Nitrogen, 1.                            Phillips, J. Esq. Geological Sketches
Magnetic hypotheses, 457.                     round Ingleborough, 278.
Magnetism, heating effects of, 119.        Phosphorus, allotropic modifications
— Atmospheric, 56.                            of, 135, 203.
Magnets — Haecker's, 28; Logeman's,        Plants, Electric currents in, 75;
   37, 230.                                   growth of in cases, 407.
Magnus on Rotatory motion, 395.            Playfair, Dr. L., on Chemical Disco
Mantell, Dr. G. A., on the Iguanodon,         veries from the Exhibition of 1851,
  and on the Fauna and Flora of the           131.
  Wealden formation, 141.                  — on the Food of man under different
Material Aggregation, 254.                    conditions of age and employment,
Maskelyne, N. S., Esq., on the con            313.
   nexion of Chemical forces with the      Ploughs and ploughing, 265.
   Polarization of Light, 45.              Polarity (in Natural History and Geo
Medusa aurita, development of, 11.            logy), 428.
Melting points of Sulphur, 449.            Polarization of Light, connexion of
Memberselected, see Monthly Meetings.         Chemical forces with, 45.
Mercer's contraction of cotton by al       Powell, Prof. Baden., on Foucault's
   kalies, 134.                               Pendulum Experiment, 70.
Metamorphoses and Metageneses of           — on the analogies of Light and Heat,
   Animals, 9.                                172.

46G                                     INDEX.
Powell, Prof. Baden, on Rotatory mo           Stokes, Professor, on the Refrangibility
   tion, 393.                                    of Light, 259.
Presents in 1851 —4, see Monthly              Suggestion, its influence on Movement,
   Meetings.                                     147.
                                              Sulphur, its allotropic modifications,
Rain-drops, Impressions of, 50.                  202 ; and melting points, 449.
Rawlinson, Col., on Cuneiform In
   scriptions at Babylon and Nineveh,         Taylor, Rev. W., F.R.S., on Educa
   84.                                           ting the Blind, 290.
Richardson's Life-boat, 221.                  Teeth, structure and homologies of,
Rotation of Earth shewn by the pen               365.
   dulum, 70.                                 Time, Geological, 287, 428.
Rotatory motion, phenomena of, 393.           Tyndall, John, Esq., on the influence
Roxburgh, Dr., on the Cartesian Ba               of Material Aggregation upon the
    rometer, 426.                                manifestations of Force, 254.
Russell, John Scott, Esq., on Wave-           — on the Eruptive phenomena of Ice
   line ships and yachts, 115.                   land, 329.
— on English ships and American               — elected Professor of Natural Phi
   clippers, 210.                                losophy, 339.
                                              — on the vibration and tones pro
 Sabine, on atmospheric magnetism,               duced by the contact of bodies
    238.                                         having different temperatures, 356.
 Sap, rise of, 197.                           — on the motion of liquids, 446.
 Savart's researches, 447.
 Schonbein's. Ozone, 94.                      Ventilation by the parlour fire,
 — experiments on variations of the              76.
    colour of bodies, 400.                    Voluntary Movement, physiology of,
 Schrotter's amorphous phosphorus,               37, 147.
    135.
 Schwabe's observations of spots on the        Warp, Dr. S. H., on the growth of
    sun, 237.                                    plants in closely glazed cases, 407.
 Shepherd's Electro-magnetic Clocks,           Wave-line Ships and Yachts, 115,
    109.                                         210.
 Ships and Yachts, English and Ame             Wealden formation, fauna and flora of,
    rican, 115, 210.                              141.
 Shippard, Captain W. H., on Central           Williamson, Prof, on Etherification,
    America and the Ship-Canal, 75.               90.
 Sidney, Rev. Edwin, on the rise of            — on the Anhydrous Acids, 239.
    the Sap in the spring, 197.                Wilson, Juhn, Esq., on Ploughs and
 Silica, its use in the arts, 422.                Ploughing, 265.
 Spheroidal state of liquids, 179.             Wines, acidity, sweetness, and strength
 Solar spots, observations of, 237.               of, 381 ; treatment of, 303.
 Statham's arrangement of Electric
    Telegraph wire for experimental            Young's Paraffine, 135.
    purposes, 346 ; his fuze, 347, 355.
 Stevenson, Mr., on Aurora Boreales,
    274.
                                     End of Vol. I.
                        London : Printed by W. Nicol, 60, Pall Mall.

V

'
B^^^^^H
  UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN
3 9015 03542 6355

*Wtl
                      StoW
        WwsSh             pvmm'
     .
        n
       P          ^L*
            -
              m-.

